28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Borrow from RBI to bridge GST gap, Centre tells States||The Centre on Thursday acknowledged that States are likely to face a GST revenue gap of Rs. 3 lakh crore this year, as the economy may contract due to COVID-19, which Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman termed an unforeseen “act of God”. Compensation cess collections are only expected to bridge 22% of this gap. Of the remaining Rs. 2.35 lakh crore, the Centre said only Rs. 97,000 crore was due to GST implementation itself, rather than caused by the impact of COVID-19. At the GST Council meeting, it claimed that this Rs. 97,000 crore is the portion “hardwired” into the compensation law. The Centre then offered States two options for borrowing to meet the shortfall, Ms. Sitharaman told journalists after the meeting. The States have seven working days to decide their option, she added. “A special window could be provided, in consultation with the RBI, so that the States can get this Rs. 97,000 crore at a reasonable rate of interest, and this amount can be repaid after five years through the collection of cess,” said Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey. “Another option is that this entire gap of Rs. 2.35 lakh crore can be met by the borrowing by the States. There also, arrangement could be made with the RBI and certain facilities could be provided.” Ms. Sitharaman added that for States choosing the first option, she would be willing to remove conditions around a further 0.5% relaxation in their borrowing limits under the FRBM Act.
28 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State kept transmission rate down: CM||The State on Thursday reported 2,406 new COVID-19 cases, taking the cumulative case burden to 66,761. With a total of 43,757 patients having recovered from the disease till date, including the 2,067 recoveries reported on Thursday, the number of patients currently under treatment in hospitals is 22,673. Ten deaths were added to the official toll, taking the total number of deaths to 267. Four of these deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, three from Kannur and one each from Alappuzha, Thrissur and Kozhikode. On Thursday too, 92% of the new cases reported — 2,226 out of the 2,406 cases reported — were locally acquired infections, including that of 47 health-care workers. In 193 cases, no epidemiological link could be established for the infections. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported 352 cases, Kozhikode 238 cases, Kasaragod 231, Malappuram 230, Palakkad 195, Kottayam 189, Kollam 176, Alappuzha 172, Pathanamthitta 167, Thrissur 162, Ernakulam 140, Kannur 102, Idukki 27 and Wayanad 25 cases. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours was 37,873. The number of hotspots at present is 604. Briefing media here, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that while the State was going through a crucial phase in the pandemic, the situation was not totally unexpected. He said that adequate preparations had been made as the pandemic scaled its peak in the State and the health system was prepared to treat as many as eight-fold patients it currently had. He claimed that the State had managed to keep disease transmission as well as the case fatality rate down despite its various vulnerabilities, such as high density of population, high proportion of the elderly and nearly 25% of the population suffering from various co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension.
28 August 2020||Kolkata,||Five members of Great Andaman tribe test positive||Five members of the Great Andamanese tribe, a Particularly Vulnerable Tribal group (PVTG), have tested positive for COVID-19. The Great Andamanese are one of five PVTGs that reside in the Andamans archipelago and this is one of the first cases of COVID-19 infection among the endangered PVTGs of the region. “We have shifted all five to an isolation facility in Port Blair. Of these five persons, four are male and one female. They are all cooperating with us and are not showing any serious health complications,” nodal officer for COVID-19 and Deputy Director (Health), Directorate of Health Services, Port Blair Avijit Roy told The Hindu on Thursday. Dr. Roy said the infections were detected when the administration tested all members of the tribe last week. On the question of how the members of the tribe had contracted the infection, the health official said that some members travel between Port Blair and Strait Island and a few do odd jobs in the city. The Great Andamanese, who number just 74, speak Jeru among themselves. The five PVTGS residing in Andamans are Great Andamanese, Jarawas, Onges, Shompens and North Sentinelese. Meanwhile, the administration has also tested 35 members of the Onge tribe, who reside primarily on the Dugong Creek of the Little Andaman Island. “All the test reports are negative,” Dr. Roy said. Emphasising that the administration was taking all efforts to contain the spread of the virus among the PVTGs, he said the administration had shifted the Jarawas to the the west coast of the Jarawa Tribal Reserve. The testing of the Jarawas will start on Friday, he said. The Shompen and North Sentinelese, who live in isolation, are difficult to reach out to and contact. As per the health bulletin issued by Andaman and Nicobar Island, the total confirmed COVID-19 cases on the Islands as on August 26 was 3,000 and the number of deaths due to the viral infection was 42.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||States can have sub-groups among SC/STs, says court||A five-judge Bench of the Supreme Court on Thursday held that States can sub-classify Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the Central List to provide preferential treatment to the “weakest of the weak”. The Constitution Bench, led by Justice Arun Mishra, said reservation has created inequalities within the reserved castes itself. ‘Struggle within castes’ There is a “caste struggle” within the reserved class as the benefits of reservation are being usurped by a few, the court pointed out. “The million-dollar question is how to trickle down the benefit to the bottom rung. It is clear that caste, occupation, and poverty are interwoven. The State cannot be deprived of the power to take care of the qualitative and quantitative difference between different classes... to take ameliorative measures,” Justice Mishra wrote for the Constitution Bench. With this, the Bench took a contrary view to a 2004 judgment delivered by another Coordinate Bench of five judges in the E.V. Chinnaiah case. The Chinnaiah judgment had held that allowing the States to unilaterally “make a class within a class of members of the Scheduled Castes” would amount to tinkering with the Presidential list. Now with two numerically equal Benches of judges holding contrary viewpoints, the issue has been referred to a seven-judge Bench of the court.
28 August 2020||KOCHI,||NGT orders urgent action against Periyar pollution||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Chief Secretary and Principal Secretary, Environment, to come up with an action plan to prevent activities resulting in the pollution of the Periyar. The Bench comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta said a remedial plan should be submitted before November 5. The Chief Secretary and the committee have to consider the report on Periyar pollution submitted by A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai, Chairman of the State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on Solid Waste Management. The tribunal directed the authorities to ascertain the causes of pollution and take immediate preventive measures. The government and its departments concerned have been told to submit suggestions as to how each one can play its role effectively for preventing pollution of the river. In its report submitted before the Bench, the SLMC Chairman had observed that the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) and other departments had failed to take action in checking pollution. “They are either afraid of someone or are guided by some other considerations,” said the report. He had also suggested the formation of an independent committee having powers to inspect any industry on the banks of the river. However, the government urged the Bench to defer the formation of such a committee till it came up with suggestions for rectifying the defects pointed out by the SLMC. The KSPCB informed the tribunal that it would come up with a detailed report on the action to be taken against erring industrial units along the river stretch found responsible for polluting the waterbody.
28 August 2020||KALABURAGI,||Anti-cow slaughter Bill to be introduced in next session||Reaffirming his government’s commitment to the enactment of cow protection legislation, Animal Husbandry Ministry Prabhu Chavan said that the Bill prohibiting cow slaughter would be introduced in the coming session of the State legislature. “We are determined in enacting a law banning cow slaughter. Similar legislation are already in force in many States, including Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Experts appointed by the government are studying those laws to draft a Bill for the State. The earlier Bill passed in the State legislature was sent back by the Union government. This time, it would not be like that as the BJP is in power both in the State and at the Centre,” he told media representatives in Kalaburagi on Thursday. Animal ambulances Mr. Chavan said that the government would shortly procure 41 ambulances for attending to calls about animal taking ill and provide, at least, one for each district and 10 for Bengaluru. “We have launched Pashu Sanjeevani to give emergency animal healthcare services,” he said. BJP State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel, who was present, appreciated Mr. Chavan’s initiatives for launching ambulance services for animals as well as announcing the government’s plans for the enactment of an anti-cow slaughter Act. Legislators B.G. Patil, Rajkumar Patil Telkur, Basavaraj Mattimud, party leaders Baburao Chinhansur, Malikayya Guttedar, Doddappagouda Patil Naribol, Amarnath Patil, Ravi Biradar and others were present.
28 August 2020||MANGALURU,||Police Inspector sentenced to four years in jail under PCA||III Additional District and Sessions Judge B.B. Jakati here on Thursday sentenced Coastal Security Police Inspector Y. Gangi Reddy to four years of simple imprisonment on finding him guilty of possessing assets that was more than his known sources of income in a case filed by Lokayukta Police 11 years ago. The judge convicted Reddy of an offence punishable under Section 13 (1) (e) read with Section 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act (PCA) in the morning. Later, the judge heard the officer and passed the sentence. Apart from imprisonment, the judge imposed a fine of Rs. 5 lakh on the police official. The then Deputy Superintendent of Police, Lokayukta Police, Sadanand Vernekar, had registered a case against Reddy, who was then the Circle Inspector, Belthangady, on August 27, 2009. Mr. Vernekar and his team visited several places and collected documents related to assets possessed by the officer in the period between October 1993 and August 2009. Deputy Superintendent of Police M. Vittal Das Pai submitted a charge-sheet stating that Reddy possessed assets worth Rs. 14.71 lakh which, he said, was disproportionate to the officer’s known sources of income. In his 122-page judgment, the judge said that the portion of Reddy’s disproportionate income was Rs. 10.39 lakh (Rs. 10,39,562). After deducting Reddy’s salary for two months that had not been considered by the investigation officer, this portion came to Rs. 10.22 lakh (Rs. 10,22,630). While refusing to show any leniency to the accused, the judge, in his order on the sentence, said that in cases such as this one, society waits with patience to see that justice is done. As many as 22 witnesses were examined and 107 documents produced in the case. Advocate K.S.N. Rajesh represented the Lokayukta Police.
28 August 2020||Kochi,||GIFT city at Aluva||The National Industrial Corridor Development and Implementation Trust (NICDIT) has approved the development of Kochi Global Industrial Finance and Trade (GIFT) city as an early-bird project under the Kochi-Bengaluru industrial corridor project. It will come up in 220 ha in Aluva in the vicinity of the Kochi international airport, said a communication from the NICDIT on Thursday. The aim is to bring in investments for development of trunk infrastructure to the tune of Rs. 1,600 crore and give a boost to building PPP (public-private partnership) infrastructure worth Rs. 18,000 crore over the next ten years. This will create over 1.2 lakh direct and 3.6 lakh indirect employment opportunities and have a multiplier effect on the State economy. “GIFT city is an Onam gift to the people of Kerala. We are planning to complete land acquisition by February 2021. The master planning agency will start work from early September this year,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, Additional Chief Secretary, Industries, who is also heading the special projects in Kerala. The State government has accorded sanction for establishing and developing GIFT city.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses to pass directions to allow Muharram processions||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to pass “general directions” to allow Muharram processions across the country amid the pandemic restrictions, saying an order like that would lead to “chaos”. “It is not possible to give general directions for the whole country... It will lead to chaos. A particular community will be targeted for spreading COVID... We as a court cannot do that, cannot expose you to that risk. We cannot give general directions,” Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde addressed advocate Azim H. Laskar, appearing for prominent Shia cleric Syed Kalbe Jawad. The CJI had orally remarked a few days ago how the court found it “strange that they [authorities] are willing to allow activities involving economic interests, but if it involves religion, they cite COVID to say they cannot open”. On Thursday, Mr. Laskar pointed out that the court had allowed devotees access to places of worship and permitted the annual chariot procession of the Jagannath Puri temple. “They pertained to specific places and from one point to another. There were no general directions passed,” the CJI said. “In the Jagannath Puri case, we allowed it [rath yatra] from one point to another. In such cases, the risks and damage can be assessed. But when it comes to the whole country, these cannot be assessed. There may be chaos. How can we order for the whole country?” he asked Mr. Laskar. The Chief Justice, flanked by Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said public festivities for Ganesha festival was not allowed in Tamil Nadu.
28 August 2020||Kolkata,||Private hospitals seek clarity over advisories to revise bed charges||Private hospitals in West Bengal have decided to seek more clarity from the State’s clinical regulatory panel on its recent advisories regarding revision of bed charges and discount on medicines. A delegation of authorities from 16 private hospitals will meet Justice Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairman of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC), on Friday. The delegation, under the banner of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI), will decide on the implementation of the WBCERC’s advisories. “We will be meeting the chairman tomorrow to seek more clarity on the advisories issued by the panel as there are some technical issues involved,” a representative of the AHEI said. Most private hospitals affiliated to the AHEI have expressed reservations on the panel’s advisories, fearing “financial constraints”. Last week, the WBCERC asked private hospitals to revert to the bed charges applicable in March. It also sought 10% discount on medicines and 20% on consumables for all patients. A senior official of a super-speciality hospital said, “Providing a 10% discount on all medicines is a tough task as we manage to earn a profit of just 5%. We need clarity on this. There has to be a clear idea on the process of offering discounts to patients covered by insurance or corporate tie-ups.” The official added, “For beds, we have been asked to levy charges applicable in March, which means at the rates in effect in 2019-20 fiscal. This is difficult, going by the kind of service we are providing at the moment.”
28 August 2020||Pune,||At 14,718 cases, Maharashtra records second-highest surge||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 14,718 new COVID-19 cases, its second-highest single-day jump so far, taking its cumulative tally to 7,33,568. The State also recorded 355 more deaths, pushing its death toll to 23,444. While the number of active cases has risen to 1,78,234, the total recoveries has surged to 5,31,563, with 9,136 patients being discharged. “The State’s recovery rate now stands at 72.46%, while its case fatality rate has reduced to 3.2%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate Pune reported over 3,000 fresh cases, taking its total case tally to 1,61,945, while 47 deaths pushed its total toll to 3,916. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases is below 31,000 and the recovery rate has surpassed 77%. Mumbai reported 1,350 new cases to take its case load to 1,40,888, of which 19,463 are active. With 30 more fatalities, the city’s death toll has climbed to 7,535. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 421 new cases, taking its total case tally beyond the 44,500 mark, while 13 more fatalities saw its total death toll rise to 1,426. Navi Mumbai reported 405 fresh cases, pushing its case load to 27,155. With 11 more deaths, its cumulative death toll has risen to 613. Raigad reported 13 deaths as its death toll climbed to 459, while 305 new cases took its total case tally to 16,278. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 656 new cases and 36 deaths. The district’s tally has now reached 23,622, of which 10,315 are active, while its toll has surged to 618. Kolhapur reported 27 deaths, pushing the district’s total toll to 562. With 503 new cases, the district’s cumulative cases have reached 19,588, of which 6,200 are active. Sangli reported 17 deaths as its toll climbed to 356, while 523 new cases took the district’s case tally to 10,636, of which 4,154 are active. Solapur district reported 18 new deaths, taking its toll to 717. With 307 fresh cases, the district’s case load has touched 18,051, of which 4,383 are active. Nashik district, a major COVID-19 hotspot in north Maharashtra, reported a staggering spike of 1,005 cases as its cumulative cases reached 35,620, of which 10,524 are active. With 32 new deaths, the district’s total death toll has risen to 813. The adjoining district of Jalgaon saw a spike of 697 cases and reported 10 more deaths. The district’s total case tally has risen to 24,627, of which 7,004 are active, while the death toll has climbed to 804. Ahmednagar district reported 605 new cases as its total case tally rose to 18,501, of which 3,852 are active. Eight new deaths saw its total death toll surge to 271. “Of a total of 38,62,184 laboratory samples tested so far, 7,33,568 (18.99%) have tested positive. Over 68,000 samples were tested across the State in the last 24 hours,” said Dr. Awate. A total of 13,24,232 people across the State are in home quarantine and 33,641 are in institutional quarantine facilities, he said.  The State’s recovery rate now stands at 72.46%, while its case fatality rate has reduced to 3.2% Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: Amnesty India demands probe into claims of rights violation||Amnesty International India has demanded an independent investigation into all allegations of human rights violations by the police during the north-east Delhi riots. The world’s largest human rights NGO said it has documented several videos showing the Delhi police “pelting stones with the rioters, torturing people, dismantling protest sites and being mute bystanders” as rioters wreaked havoc in the Capital. A 20-page “investigative brief”, which was collated after the NGO interviewed more than 50 riot survivors, lawyers, activists and retired police officers, found the conduct of policemen in many incidents during the violence “a cause for concern”. ‘Hate speeches’ In the run-up to the Delhi Assembly polls on February 8, several political leaders delivered “hate speeches” against the anti-CAA protesters, portraying them as “anti-nationals” and inciting violence against them. “To date, the Delhi police have not taken any action against the perpetrators leading to a climate of widespread impunity,” Amnesty India said. The NGO interviewed several survivors who claimed they witnessed the violence break out right after BJP leader Kapil Mishra’s “ultimatum” speech. A majority of them claimed the police did not respond to multiple calls even as violence raged in the city from February 23 to 29, says the report. Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal said all cases of Delhi riots have been investigated as per law and in a professional manner. “The cases are sub judice,” he said.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Students want NEET, JEE, says Pokhriyal||Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Thursday said students wanted the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Main) to be held as over 17 lakh candidates had downloaded the admit cards in 24 hours. Mr. Pokhriyal said students had been writing to him, the Ministry and the National Testing Agency, asking for the exams to be held after they were postponed from April and May to July, and then September, according to a statement to news agency ANI. The Minister said they didn’t want one year to be wasted. The NTA Director General had informed him that 7.5 lakh of the 8.58 lakh JEE candidates and 10 lakh of the 15.97 lakh NEET candidates had downloaded their admit cards in 24 hours. The Minister said guidelines for safety during the pandemic would be followed for the exams and the students shouldn’t be worried. He said the number of exam centres had been increased from 570 to 660 for JEE Main and from 2,546 to 3,843 for NEET (UG).
28 August 2020||Kolkata,||2,997 fresh cases take State tally past 1.5 lakh||West Bengal on Thursday recorded 2,997 new COVID-19 cases, taking its total case tally to 1,50,772. The State also reported 53 deaths, pushing its total toll to 3,017. Of the latest deaths, 16 were reported from Kolkata and 10 from North 24 Parganas district. Kolkata reported a spike of 571 cases, taking its cumulative cases to 38,388. North 24 Parganas recorded 673 cases, pushing its total case load to 31,790. With 3,189 people being discharged, the State’s recovery rate has improved to 80.28%. In the past 24 hours, 42,474 samples were tested across the State. West Bengal observed another day of complete lockdown on Thursday to break the chain of COVID-19 transmission. While the lockdown was observed in Kolkata and adjoining suburbs, there were violations in Malda and Murshidabad. People were seen moving in markets without masks. 768 cases filed The Kolkata police registered 768 cases of arrests or prosecution for violation of lockdown rules. A total of 348 people were booked for not wearing masks.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. plans to sell 15% stake in HAL||In keeping with plans to divest its stake in public sector undertakings (PSUs), including defence PSUs, the Union government has published an offer for sale (OFS) of 15% of its shares in the Bengaluru-based defence aerospace firm, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL). The stake sale of 15% will fetch over Rs. 5,000 crore for the government, calculated at the current market price. The market capitalisation of HAL was Rs. 35,000 crore on Thursday’s market closure. In the last Union Budget, the government had set itself a target to mop up Rs. 1.05 lakh crore through divestment of its holdings in PSUs. HAL said the government would appoint up to three merchant bankers for managing the OFS. It has set a deadline of February 21, 2021, for submitting bids for the same. The Union government holds 89.97% of HAL which was listed on the bourses in March 2018. “The government intends to divest 15% paid-up equity capital of HAL out of its shareholding of 89.97% through OFS method of shares by promoters,” said the request for proposal floated by the Ministry of Finance for the appointment of merchant bankers. The news of the stake sale doesn’t seem to have gone down well with investors as shares of HAL closed at Rs. 811.60, down 1.69% over the previous close on the BSE. During the financial year 2018-19, HAL had clocked a profit after tax of Rs. 2,282 crore. As of March 2019, HAL net worth stood at Rs. 10,848 crore.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Spike in COVID cases continues in State||The number of COVID-19 cases continued to witness an upward trend with 2,795 persons testing positive to the virus on Wednesday. Eight people succumbed to the virus taking the total fatalities to 788. Over 60,000 tests were conducted for the second consecutive day, taking the total number to 11.42 lakh and the total number of positive cases reached 1,14,483. There are 27,600 active cases with 20,866 in home/institutional isolation. Samples tested per million population stood at 30,772 and reports of 1,075 tests were still awaited even as the officials asserted that more number of tests would be conducted for early identification, isolation and treatment of COVID cases. According to the bulletin issued by the Health department, the case fatality rate in the State was lower at 0.68 as compared to the national average of 1.84 while there was marginal dip in terms of recovery rate which was estimated at 75.2% against the national average of 76.28%. The GHMC continues to contribute highest number of cases with 449 testing positive on Wednesday. COVID-19 positive cases in 10 more districts crossed the three digit mark. Rangareddy reported 268 positive cases.The other districts where over 100 cases are reported are: Warangal Urban (132), Karimnagar (136), Medchal-Malkajgirl and Sddipet (113 each), Nizamabad (112), Mancherial (106).
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Restoration of peace on LAC key to ties: India||While China on Thursday asked India to keep in mind “the big picture” and put the border dispute in “an appropriate position”, New Delhi said only the full restoration of peace and tranquility on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) would enable the development of bilateral relations. The two separate statements underlined the difference in emphasis from both sides on the slow-moving disengagement process along the LAC. In Beijing, PLA Senior Colonel Wu Qian, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Defence, said he “expected that India could work with China towards the same goal, bearing in mind the big picture of bilateral ties and putting the border issue in an appropriate position, avoid misjudgment, keep divergences from escalating into disputes, and take concrete steps to bring the bilateral relations back to the right track.” In Delhi, the Ministry of External Affairs made clear that both sides needed to take “reciprocal actions” to restore peace. Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, “complete disengagement requires re-deployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC”, adding that “it is important to bear in mind that achieving this requires agreed actions by both sides.” “The two sides had also agreed to continue their engagements — both through diplomatic and military channels,” he added, quoting the recent remarks of External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar that “finding a solution... must be predicated on honouring all agreements and understandings… and not attempting to alter the status quo unilaterally”. In India’s view, complete disengagement and a full restoration of the status quo prior to May’s transgressions remains far off. Chinese troops still remain on India’s side of the LAC at Pangong lake and are disrupting Indian patrols in the Depsang plains, while a build-up of forces remains elsewhere along the LAC. PLA Senior Colonel Wu said, “progress has been made in disengaging the frontline troops of both sides”.
28 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||High Court extends status quo in ‘3-capital’ case till Sept.21||The High Court on Thursday extended the status quo on the implementation of the Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts till September 21 and ordered the Chief Secretary to file counter-affidavit before September 10 on the laying of foundation for a government guest house at Kapuluppada in Visakhapatnam when the status quo was in force. A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justices M. Satyanarayana Murthy and A.V. Sesha Sai expressed readiness to conduct physical hearing on a daily basis on the matter of ‘three capitals’ after September 21provided social distancing norm is followed on the court premises. They took objection to the laying of foundation for the guest house proposed to be built in Visakhapatnam while taking cognisance of a contempt petition filed by a Supreme Court advocate, who questioned how the government planned to construct a building at this juncture and alleged that it was part of shifting the Executive Capital to the port city. A senior advocate appearing for the petitioners told The Hindu that no specific arguments were advanced during the present hearing and that the court discussed the way forward in view of the voluminous material which it needs to examine.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi, Centre spar over COVID-19 testing||The Delhi government on Thursday alleged that the Union Ministry of Home Affairs was pressuring officials to not increase the number of COVID-19 tests in the city, a claim which was dismissed by the MHA as “false and baseless”. As Delhi has been witnessing an uptick in COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that the number of daily tests to detect the virus will be doubled – from 20,000 to 40,000 – in a week.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Restoration of peace on LAC key to ties’||While China on Thursday asked India to keep in mind “the big picture” and put the border dispute in “an appropriate position”, New Delhi said only the full restoration of peace and tranquility on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) would enable the development of bilateral relations. The two separate statements underlined the difference in emphasis from both sides on the slow-moving disengagement process along the LAC. In Beijing, PLA Senior Colonel Wu Qian, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Defence, said he “expected that India could work with China towards the same goal, bearing in mind the big picture of bilateral ties and putting the border issue in an appropriate position, avoid misjudgment, keep divergences from escalating into disputes, and take concrete steps to bring the bilateral relations back to the right track.” In Delhi, the Ministry of External Affairs made clear that both sides needed to take “reciprocal actions” to restore peace.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Metro trial run to Anjanapura conducted||Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) is waiting to resume Namma Metro operations. On Thursday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa told reporters that the operations would resume after all safety precautions were taken. BMRCL, which conducted trial run on the Green Line from Yelachenahalli to Anjanapura on Thursday, is hoping to open the line for commercial operations on November 1.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,||NCB busts three drug syndicates||The Narcotics Control Bureau has busted three syndicates, including one that supplied party drugs to musicians and actors in Karnataka. Six persons have been arrested. The NCB team several raids in and around the city and recovered MDMA pills, LSD blots and over Rs. 2.2 lakh. Deputy Director (Ops) K.P.S. Malhotra said preliminary investigation revealed that the accused supplied drugs to the affluent sections of society.
28 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Govt. to clear ryots’ dues||A day after farmers of the Amaravati region staged a protest demanding payment of dues, Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister Botcha Satyanarayana said that the annuity and pension would be credited in their bank accounts. In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Satyanarayana said the government released Rs. 158 crore towards payment of two months annuity and Rs. 9.73 crore towards pension.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Congress-ruled States upset||Expressing dissatisfaction over the outcome of the GST Council meeting, the Congress-ruled States on Thursday accused the Centre of thrusting “solutions on States by adopting a majoritarian approach”.Page 11
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Back to the cities||
28 August 2020||BENGALURU,||PWD proposes to build 25-floor twin towers||If things go as per plans of the Public Works Department, Bengaluru will have 25-floor twin towers near Anand Rao Circle to house various government offices that are presently working on rented premises.
28 August 2020||MYSURU,||Hampi mini-circle to be upgraded||The decision to upgrade Hampi from a mini-circle to a full-fledged circle of the ASI is set to pave way for better protection of monuments, besides release of additional funds towards conservation and maintenance.
28 August 2020||Jaipur,||Rajasthan religious places to reopen from Sept. 7||All religious places in Rajasthan that were closed during the COVID-19 lockdown will reopen for public from September 7 with precautionary measures in place. No crowding will be allowed during prayers at religious places, which will be sanitised at regular intervals.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC to resume physical hearing from Sept. 1||The Delhi High Court on Thursday said it will resume physical hearing initially with five Benches on a rotation basis from September 1. The court issued standard operating procedures for a phased reopening.
28 August 2020||Kolkata,||Building collapses in city, one dead||An elderly woman was killed when a portion of a dilapidated building in the city’s Beliaghata area collapsed in the early hours on Thursday, the police said. The 150-year-old building collapsed after heavy rains, the police said. The woman, who was in her early 70s, was trapped under the debris along with her son. The son is undergoing treatment in a hospital, the police said.PTI
28 August 2020||Kolkata,||Conducting JEE Main, NEET crucial for admission to premier institutes: IIT Kharagpur director||Amid concerns over holding JEE and NEET exams in September, IIT Kharagpur director Virendra Kumar Tewari has said conducting these exams is crucial since admissions to premier institutes like IITs and top medical colleges will not be possible otherwise. He urged students to put their faith in the organising bodies who have been working tirelessly to offer a safe environment to hold these exams.PTI
28 August 2020||Mumbai,||Bhima-Koregaon: NIA summons defence lawyers||The National Investigating Agency (NIA) on Thursday summoned the defence lawyers representing all accused in the Bhima- Koregaon case. Advocate Nihal Singh Rathod has appeared for the first batch of accused — Surendra Gadling, Sudhir Dhawale, Shoma Sen, Rona Wilson and Mahesh Raut. All of them were arrested on June 6, 2018, under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act.
28 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Uncertain future for Mahad building survivors||With nothing more than the clothes they are wearing, 87 residents of the Tarique Garden building in Mahad are still figuring out from where they can restart their lives. They are also yet to hear from the State authorities.
28 August 2020||HUBBALLI,||391 cases in Davangere||Davangere district recorded the highest single-day spike of 391 COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday, while Belagavi continued to top the districts in the Bombay-Karnataka region with 318 cases and five deaths. Dharwad district recorded 234 new cases and 130 discharged patients, Uttara Kannada 164 cases and three deaths, Vijayapura 121 cases and three deaths, Haveri 117 and five deaths, Gadag 110 and two deaths and Chitradurga registered 61 new cases .
28 August 2020||Nagapattinam,||'Decision on lockdown hinges on feedback'||A decision on lifting the lockdown next month will hinge on the feedback from District Collectors and the Health Department, CM Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Thursday. The current phase of lockdown is slated to end on August 30.
28 August 2020||Chennai,||State’s COVID-19 tally breaches four-lakh mark||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally breached the four lakh-mark on Thursday, as another 5,981 persons tested positive for the infection. The State’s death toll rose to 6,948, as another 109 persons succumbed to the infection.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Russia for concluding fighter, helicopter deals by year-end||Russia is hopeful of concluding contracts for MiG-29 and SU-30MKI fighters jets and six Ka-31 helicopters by year-end, a representative of the Federal Service for Military-Technical Cooperation (FSMTC) said at the ongoing Army 2020 expo in Russia. Deliveries of S-400 long-range air defence systems would begin by 2021-end and could not be accelerated further, she stated. “We are aware that the Indian government has allocated additional funds for procurement of additional batches of Russian MiG-29 and SU-30 MKI jets and six Ka-31 choppers. We anticipate that the respective contracts can be signed before the end of 2020, if official requests come to us in due time,” said Maria Vorobyeva, official representative of the FSMTC. Russia has already made a commercial offer to India on the MiG-29s and a response is awaited. DAC nod On July 2, the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) approved the procurement of 21 MiG-29s for the Indian Air Force (IAF) along with the upgrade of 59 MiG-29s estimated to cost Rs. 7,418 crore and 12 Su-30 MKI aircraft at an estimated Rs. 10,730 crore. On the S-400 deal, the representative said further acceleration of the delivery of the first batch of S-400s was technically impossible, as there were objective, technology-related stages of production, acceptance and transfer of equipment. “At the same time, the possibility of adjusting in the future the delivery schedules to the earlier ones, when supplying the following batches of this equipment, can be discussed,” Ms. Vorobyeva said FSMTC Director Dmitry Shugaev said there was a good order portfolio equal to about $15 billion with India under way, and the deal for the production of AK-203 assault rifles through a joint venture was on. “I hope that in the near future, an agreement will be signed for the production and supply of Igla-S (air defence systems) in the interest of India, especially since we have won the tender unconditionally,” he added. The deals could see some progress during the visit of Russian President Vladimir Putin to India later this year for the annual bilateral summit, which also coincides with the 20th year of India-Russia strategic partnership.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka case spike of 9,386 sets new record||Tamil Nadu’s overall COVID-19 tally breached the four lakh-mark on Thursday as another 5,981 persons tested positive. While 5,870 more persons were discharged after treatment, The State’s toll rose to 6,948 as another 109 persons succumbed to the infection. The State added one lakh cases to its overall count in 17 days. It touched 3,02,815 cases on August 10. The overall tally stood at 4,03,242 of which 52,364 persons were presently under treatment, while a total of 3,43,930 persons were discharged. An upward trend in cases in Telangana was confirmed, with 2,795 persons testing positive on Wednesday. Eight people succumbed to the virus, taking total fatalities to 788. Over 60,000 tests were done, taking the total to 11.42 lakh, and total cases stood at 1,14,483. Active cases were put at 27,600, with 20,866 in home/institutional isolation. Samples tested per million population stood at 30,772. The Health department said the Case Fatality Rate was lower at 0.68, compared to the national average of 1.84. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area contributed the maximum cases, with 449 testing positive on Wednesday. Rangareddy reported 268 cases, Nalgonda (164) and Khammam (152). The Andhra Pradesh tally inched closer to the four lakh-mark with 10,621 new infections on Thursday. The State also witnessed 92 fatalities. The new cases pushed the tally to 3,93,090, and active cases to 94,209. The toll climbed to 3,633, but mortality rate remained at 0.92%. A total of 34.79 lakh samples were tested so far, including 61,300 tested in the previous 24 hours. The positivity rate in the previous 24 hours stood at 17.33%. Kurnool reported 13 new deaths, the highest, Nellore 11 and East Godavari 10. Chittoor reported nine new deaths and topped with the highest toll of 369. West Godavari and Kadapa reported seven deaths each, Prakasam, Anantapur and Visakhapatnam six deaths each, Guntur five deaths and Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Krishna four new deaths each. East Godavari again reported the highest single-day spike of 1,089 infections. Prakasam district reported 1,020 cases, Nellore (934), Chittoor (928), Guntur (926), West Godavari (892), Kurnool (855), Srikakulam (846), Kadapa (844), Anantapur (815), Visakhapatnam (593), Vizianagaram (563) and Krishna (316).  Kerala reported 2,406 new cases on Thursday, the State’s cumulative case number rising to 66,761. Patients in hospitals stood at 22,673. Ten deaths were added to the State toll, and the total to 267. Four deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, three from Kannur and one each from Alapuzha, Thrissur and Kozhikode.   (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus)
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI/Thiruvananthapuram,||Centre is thrusting solutions on us, say several States||Expressing dissatisfaction over the outcome of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting, the Congress on Thursday accused the Centre of thrusting “solutions on States by adopting a majoritarian approach”. Punjab’s Finance Minister Manpreet Badal at a virtual press conference said the Congress-ruled States are not happy with the outcome of GST Council meeting as decisions were thrust upon them by the Union government. “We are not happy at the outcome. But we have no choice,” Mr. Badal said at a virtual press conference after the GST Council meeting. Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and Chhattisgarh Finance Minister T. S. Singh Deo were also a part of the joint press conference. Mr. Narayanasamy, who also holds the finance portfolio, said it was unfortunate the Centre was not honouring its commitment to pay them GST compensation at 14% and helping the States starving for revenues. ‘Producer States losing’ The Puducherry Chief Minister said there is a serious flaw in the GST Act as producer States are losing and consumer States are gaining under the present GST regime., and asked the Centre to reconsider this aspect. Mr. Singh Deo said the GST Council is increasingly adopting a majoritarianism approach instead of consensus, which was the practice earlier. In response to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s proposal that State governments should borrow to bridge the deficit created on account of non-payment of GST compensation, Congress Ministers said that it should not be “forced” on them as they would have to discuss the proposal with their respective Cabinets and legislatures. Mr. Badal, who opened the discussions from the Congress side, asked the Centre to activate the disputes resolution mechanism in the Council as provided for in Article 279 of the Constitution. “I appeal to the Centre that if some States are not agreeable to their proposals, they should not force the solutions on States. The Centre should activate the dispute resolution mechanism in the GST Council, so that States have legal recourse to what they do not agree upon,” Mr. Badal told reporters. “We saw a trust deficit. The meeting did not progress in a very cordial atmosphere. The Attorney-General’s (A-G) comments were read out to communicate that the Centre had no legal commitment in the matter. We wonder why the A-G’s views were not circulated to us,” he added. Kerala objects Kerala has reiterated that the Centre should take a loan and provide GST compensation to the States. Instead of increasing the cess or extending the cess collection for a further period, Kerala is of the view that taking loans is the best option. But, the Centre should take loans instead of asking States to take loans to provide the compensation. Addressing a press conference after the meeting, Kerala Finance Minister, T. M. Thomas Isaac said the proposals put forward will lead to financial loss for the State. The Centre is of the view that the State should be able to absorb the loss of income, Dr. Isaac said. The Centre was delaying the compensation for the last six months, he pointed out. The State can be paid Rs. 2.5 lakh crore compensation as the Centre has provided Rs. 21 lakh crore for Atmanirbhar Bharat, the Finance Minister said. Kerala will give its reply within seven days to the proposals put forward by the Centre after holding consultations with the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and other Ministers. Segregating the compensation as loss due to COVID-19 and loss due to GST is to avoid paying compensation, Dr. Isaac said.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||No sign of an inclusive vaccine policy: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the Union government’s lack of preparedness with regard to a COVID-19 vaccine distribution policy was alarming. Taking to Twitter, Mr. Gandhi also tagged his August 14 tweet in which he had asked the government to come up with an “inclusive and equitable vaccine access policy”. ‘Alarming situation’ “A fair and inclusive Covid vaccine access strategy should have been in place by now. But there are still no signs of it. GOI’s unpreparedness is alarming,” Mr. Gandhi said on Twitter. However, in his Independence Day speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made it clear that the Central government was prepared to mass-produce and distribute the vaccines, three of which are under different stages of trials, once the scientists give the go-ahead. ‘Road map’ “The road map for its production and distribution among Indians is also ready,” the Prime Minister had said. A day earlier, the former Congress president had tweeted, “India will be one of the COVID-19 vaccine-producing nations. It needs a clearly-defined, inclusive & equitable vaccine access strategy ensuring availability, affordability & fair distribution. GOI must do it now”.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||India can be weapons supplier: PM||India has the capability to become a reliable weapons supplier to friendly nations and it will consolidate its position as the net security provider in the Indian Ocean region, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday, highlighting Atmanirbharta in defence manufacturing, at a webinar. “For the first time, 74% Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in defence is allowed through the automatic route… We are going forward with the process of corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB),” he said Indigenous tech Listing a series of measures that were recently announced to boost domestic defence manufacturing, he said the aim was to develop new indigenous technologies. Several measures such as simplified licensing field, level playing field and simplifying exports have been taken. Mr. Modi pointed out that India had been a major defence importer for many years. Post-Independence, there was lot of capability for defence manufacturing but it was unfortunate that it did not get the attention it desired. “That situation is changing now,” he noted. Chief of the Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat said they had started receiving requests from various countries. For instance, radars were very much in demand as well as artillery support systems. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said the corporatisation of the OFB would be done within a year. “We have earmarked a portion of our defence budget for procurement only from the domestic industry. For this year, it will be Rs. 52,000 crore,” he added. Draft policy The government recently issued a draft Defence Production and Export Promotion Policy (DPEPP) 2020 for public feedback with the aim to achieve a manufacturing turnover of $25 bn or Rs. 1,75,000 crore, including exports of $5 bn in aerospace and defence goods and services by 2025. Mr. Modi said the government had undertaken reforms in the toughest sectors like Intellectual Property (IP), taxation, insolvency and bankruptcy and even in space and atomic energy. For foreign Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) too, producing in India would be the best option. On defence infrastructure, he said work was on in the two defence industrial corridors in Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu and a target of Rs. 20,000 crore investments had been set for the next five years. On the 101 items’ negative import list announced recently Mr. Modi stated that these items had been reserved for domestic industry and it “will be expanded in future.” On this, Gen Rawat said that by early next year, they would come out with the second list, where there would be more technologically advanced items. The number would be even more than this and the lists were also going to “If the aerospace industry can find its feet in India, putting aerospace in the negative list will be a big achievement,” he claimed.
28 August 2020||New Delhi:,||Six terrorists on the run, says NIA||Mohammad Ismail (25), Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar’s relative from Pakistan, and Sameer Ahmad Dar (22), a Master’s drop-out from south Kashmir’s Pulwama, are among the six terrorists involved in the 2019 Pulwama terror attack who are on the run, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said in a chargesheet filed in a Jammu court this week. Another absconding accused Ashaq Ahmed Nengroo (23), a truck driver from south Kashmir’s Pulwama, who helped Pakistani terrorists infiltrate into India, has moved to Pakistan, an NIA official said. The other three absconding accused are Masood Azhar, his brother Rouf Asgar, and Ammar Alvi, all Pakistani nationals. According to the NIA, Sameer Dar who was pursuing a Masters in Zoology, joined the terrorist group Jaish-e-Mohammad in 2018 and was a neighbour of suicide bomber Adil Ahmad Dar. Adil Dar rammed a car laden with 200 kilogrammekgs of explosives into a CRPF bus on the Jammu-Srinagar highway on February 14, 2019 when 40 personnel were killed. Minutes after the terror strike, Jaish had released a video of Adil Dar’s, claiming responsibility for the suicide bomb attack to several local media channels in Kashmir valley. In the video, Adil Dar, sitting against the backdrop of a black and white flag is seen saying: “by the time the video is released, he would be in heaven.” The NIA has found that Sameer Dar tutored Adil Dar on how to pose in the video. “The voice in the video is not of Adil Dar but that of Sameer Dar. Adil Dar lip-synced,” said an NIA official. The NIA said that Ismail infiltrated from the Jammu border in May 2018 and he brought around 12 kg of RDX with him to prepare the bombs for the Pulwama attack. One of the main accused, Umar Farooq, Azhar’s nephew who was killed in an encounter on March 29, 2019 had trained at an Al Qaeda-Jaish camp in 2016. “He spoke Pashto, Urdu, Dardic and Multani dialects and played a key role in motivating Adil Dar. In the Afghanistan camp, he learnt how to assemble bombs and explode buildings,” an NIA official said. The findings are part of a 13,500 page charge-sheet filed by the NIA on Tuesday. Before infiltrating India, Farooq and three other Pakistanis did firing practice at a Pakistani village across the Jammu border. The NIA says this exercise could not have been held without the knowledge of the Pakistan Rangers. The official said that the investigations have revealed several tunnels along the International Border.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||New equations in Bengal, Kerala?||Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s interaction with non-BJP Chief Ministers, including West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, on Wednesday can be a turning point in the party’s alliance strategy ahead of next year’s Assembly polls in Weset Bengal and Kerala. Though the meeting was onvened to forge a common stand on holding NEET-JEE in September and the Goods and Services Tax, it could set the stage for new political equations in the States. The Congress chief’s outreach to Ms. Banerjee may also act as a signal to 23 dissenting leaders who, in their letter, had pitched for leaders of Congress off-shoots coming on one platform to take on the Narendra Modi government. “I agree that we must work together and fight together,” Ms. Gandhi said in response to Ms. Banerjee, who said that the Opposition parties “must raise issues in one voice or else, there will no other political party left and only one party will rule”. Chowdhury’s stand In Bengal, senior Congress leaders like Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury are keen to join hands with the CPI(M) and other Left parties to take on the Mamata Banerjee government, while the Congress is the key challenger to the Pinarayi Vijayan-led CPI(M) government in Kerala. “Mamata Banerjee may be wanting to seek help from Sonia ji as she is losing ground to the BJP in Bengal and wants to consolidate the anti-BJP and ‘secular’ votes. She appealed to the CPI(M) and Congress voters to support her as she is keen to avoid a triangular contest,” Mr. Chowdhury told The Hindu on Thursday. However, relations between the Congress and the Left are frosty in Kerala. After the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) unsuccessfully moved a no-confidence motion against the government over the gold smuggling case, the virtual meet of Chief Ministers left out Mr. Vijayan.  CPI general secretary D. Raja said, “On common issues, secular democratic parties, including the Trinamool and the Congress have been together nationally. But if specific political meanings are derived from yesterday’s meet, then one has to wait and see the political implications”.
28 August 2020||Pune,||‘Vitals of Pune volunteers normal’||Vital health parameters of the two volunteers who have been administered the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine candidate at a medical college here as part of the phase 2 clinical trial, are normal, a senior official from the medical facility said on Thursday. Two men, aged 32 and 48, were given the first shot of the ‘Covishield’ vaccine, being manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), at Bharati Vidyapeeth’s Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday. The dose will be repeated after one month, an official said. ‘In touch with duo’ “Since yesterday, our medical team is in touch with the two volunteers and both are fine. They do not have any pain, fever, injection side reaction or systemic illness post-vaccination,” Jitendra Oswal, the medical college and hospital’s deputy medical director, said. After the vaccine was administered on Wednesday, both the volunteers were observed for 30 minutes and later allowed to go home, he said. “They have been given all the necessary emergency numbers [to contact in case of need] and our medical team is also conducting follow-ups with them,” he added. The vaccine dose would be repeated on both the volunteers after one month, the hospital’s medical director, Sanjay Lalwani, said on Wednesday. More candidates He said 25 candidates would be given the vaccine in the next seven days. Sonali Palkar, in charge of the medical college’s research cell, said four or five persons were screened on Wednesday and a decision to administer the vaccine to them as part of the clinical trial was subject to their COVID-19 and antibody test reports. The SII, the world’s largest vaccine maker, has signed an agreement to manufacture the potential vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University, in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Experts widen list of COVID-19 symptoms||COVID-19, which was considered a viral pneumonia when it was first detected eight months ago, is now a multi-systemic disease with many extra-pulmonary manifestations, warn experts and senior doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). The medical experts added that the involvement of other organs due to COVID-19 warrants that patients be closely followed up for any long-lasting impact including on reproductive health in young patients. Beyond the lungs “While pulmonary manifestation of COVID-19 is still dominant, we are now getting a significant number of patients who have other symptoms along with respiratory distress as well as those with no pulmonary manifestation,” AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said. This, he added, would mean that seemingly asymptomatic people could be showing symptoms not commonly associated with COVID-19. Dr. Guleria stressed that doctors need to be trained about a widening range of symptoms and use a high index of suspicion while isolating, suspecting and treating any patient. He was speaking at the national Clinical Grand Round (CGR), organised by the AIIMS with the NITI Aayog to discuss the possible range of extra-pulmonary complications from COVID-19. The National CGRs include presentation of clinical cases by physicians directly involved in their management. V.K. Paul, NITI Aayog member and key member of the Centre’s COVID-control team, said the world is learning about the virus and awareness was the key to fighting it. Speaking exclusively to The Hindu, Dr. Paul said: “We are seeing patients coming in with symptoms other than those commonly associated with COVID. The most significant and life threatening symptoms we are seeing and recording are clot formation which can affect the brain, limbs and other parts of the body, heart dysfunction and irregular heartbeat, autoimmune disorder and inflammation of the blood vessels. Physicians have been alerted to the fact that when a patient comes in with a stroke or sudden collapse, besides the regular suspects, COVID status of the patient also needs to be investigated”. He added that the virus travels through the tissue and affects various parts of the body adversely. “It is now understood that COVID-19 is not a localised disease,” said Dr. Paul.
28 August 2020||Patna,||Bihar parties plunge into poll work||With the Assembly election in Bihar round the corner, political parties have plunged into preparation with meetings, mulling over options for more seats and new alliances. While disgruntled mahagathbandhan ally Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) leader and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi on Thursday met Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J.P. Nadda invited party MPs from Bihar to New Delhi for a meeting on August 29. Mr. Manjhi refused to say anything on the meeting. Party sources told The Hindu that this was the final meeting between the two leaders before Mr. Manjhi hops over to the National Democratic Alliance. A party leader hinted that the HAM(S) may contest seven to nine seats. While the Congress formed a screening committee for the selection of candidates, Mahagathbandhan partner Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) president Upendra Kushwaha said that he was ready to “sacrifice” seats to keep the “grand alliance” intact. Meanwhile, efforts are on within the RJD to assuage the feelings of senior party leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who was upset over the likely joining of an upper caste leader with a criminal past of his Parliamentary constituency Vaishali into the party. The buzz in political circles is that Tej Pratap Yadav, son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, may change his constituency from Mahua in Vaishali district. Earlier, on Wednesday, Left leaders in Bihar met State RJD president Jagdanand Singh. A senior party leader said it was likely that this time, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav and CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar may share the stage for the poll campaign. The Congress has appointed former party general secretary, Avinash Pandey, who was also party’s in-charge of the Rajasthan poll, as chairman of the screening committee. Prospective candidates have started submitting bio-datas to the respective party headquarters and senior leaders’ residences.
28 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||GST shortfall: Kerala opposes Centre’s segregation bid||Kerala has opposed the Centre’s move to segregate the shortfall in compensation due to implementation of Goods and Service Tax (GST) as shortfall due to COVID-19 and the actual GST shortfall. “Such a segregation is not legal. Even the legal opinion provided by the Attorney General does not have any reference on this. Kerala do not accept this segregation,” Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac told a press conference after the 41st GST Council meeting chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday. The Finance Minister said the State was of the view that the Centre should take loan and provide GST compensation to the States. Instead of increasing the cess or extending the cess collection period, Dr. Isaac said taking loans by the Centre, instead of asking States to take loan, to provide the compensation was the best option. Two options On the two options for GST compensation mooted at the council, Dr. Isaac said the proposals would lead to financial loss for the State. The Centre was of the view that the State should be able to absorb the loss of income, he pointed out. The first option was providing a special window to States, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India, for borrowing Rs. 97,000 crore at a reasonable interest rate. The second option was to borrow the entire Rs. 2.35-lakh crore shortfall under the special window. The State would give its reply to the proposals put forward by the Centre within seven days after holding consultations with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and other Ministers, he said. The Centre was delaying the compensation for the past six months, he pointed out. The State could be paid Rs. 2.5 lakh crore compensation as the Centre had provided Rs. 21 lakh crore for Atmanirbhar Bharat, the Finance Minister said. The Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act, 2017 provides the States with a guarantee that they will be paid for any loss of revenue in five years of GST implementation until 2022. The Centre is legally bound to pay the States if revenues fall below 14% annual growth in GST collections, using a base year of 2015-16.
28 August 2020||Kozhikode,||Kerala government indecisive on JEE-NEET exams||The State government appears to have been caught in a bind over the conduct of the NEET-JEE examinations though it conducted the KEAM (Kerala Engineering Architecture Medical) exam in July. The Kerala government has not responded to the decision of the Union Ministry of Education to conduct the exams. However, the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) is flooded with requests seeking his intervention for the postponement of the examinations in the wake of a rise in COVID-19 cases. Incidentally, the State had stuck to the KEAM schedule ignoring the demands from the Opposition and others to postpone the offline examinations held on July 16. Over one lakh students appeared for the examination across 14 districts. CM’s response Responding to a question at a news conference in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, however, said the government did not take any decision in this regard. Already several institutions, including the IIT, Delhi, which is the organising institute for conducting JEE (Advanced), have pointed out that postponing the exams any further could have serious repercussions on the academic calendars. NTA seeks support National Testing Agency (NTA) officials have called upon the State governments to extend support for the movement of the candidates so that they reach their examination centres on time. The NTA, an autonomous institution under the Ministry of Education, will conduct the second JEE (Main) during September 1-9 and NEET on September 13. The first JEE (Main) was conducted in January and the second was scheduled in April. But COVID-19 led to its postponement to July and then to September. A total of 55,815 students appeared for the first JEE (Main) at 43 centres in January. Now 45,047 students have registered for the September exams . At the all-India level, 10,66,450 registered for the January exams and 9,54,473 for the September exams. “About 800 students from Kerala made it to the National Institutes of Technology and other institutes in the country. But fewer than 125 candidates secure admission to the Indian Institutes of Technology,” Sanjay Sharma, a dean with a coaching centre, said. NEET In the case of NEET, 1,15,959 have registered from Kerala to appear for the exams at 322 centres this year.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to deliver verdict today in UGC case||The Supreme Court is scheduled on Friday to deliver its judgment on the validity of the unilateral move by some States, including Maharashtra and Delhi, to cancel the final year University Grants Commission (UGC) exams. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan is scheduled to pronounce the verdict. The UGC, in the last hearing, had argued that though its July 6 directive to conduct final year exams by the end of September was not a “diktat,” States cannot unilaterally cancel the exams citing the pandemic. “If the State governments had an issue, they cannot change the exam schedule on their own. They should meet with the Centre and consult with the UGC about their apprehensions,” Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the UGC, had submitted. Mr. Mehta said the guidelines for conducting the exams involved multiple options for students. “They can take the exams online, offline or hybrid [partly online and partly in the physical format],” he had said. The Solicitor-General had also said if a student was unable to appear for the exams in September, he could opt for a later date. The UGC had questioned the logic of cancelling the final term exams for fear of COVID-19, but at the same time opening up varsities and educational institutions for the next academic session. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by over 30 students, represented by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, questioning the validity of the UGC’s directive.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Solar tariff in India unlikely to beat Gulf rates’||The per unit cost of solar power in India, considered among the cheapest in the world, is unlikely to cost less than what it is in Gulf countries, according to an analysis by an energy think tank. This is primarily due to the lower cost of finance in the countries in the region along with factors such as cheaper land prices. Recent record-low tariffs in Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Saudi Arabia and Qatar are the result of the lower cost of U.S. dollar-denominated, long-dated financing, with major tax concessions and other factors driving prices down in the region, according to the report’s authors Vibhuti Garg, Energy Economist at IEEFA; Jyoti Gulia, JMK Research Founder; and Shilpi Jain, JMK Research Director. “India and other countries will struggle to secure the same low tariffs discovered in the Gulf auctions,” the authors said in a statement. “It would be extremely difficult for the Indian market to replicate the combination of factors leading to low solar tariffs in the Gulf region.” The Gulf region has achieved tariffs in the range of U.S. cent 1.35-1.80/kWh, and (outside the Gulf region) Portugal was able to offer a record-low tariff discovery cost of U.S. cent 1.32/kWh at a recent bid at a 700MW solar energy auction on August 24, 2020. (1 cent = Rs. 0.7 approx.) Mathematical model India’s tariffs, some of the lowest in the world, are about twice that in the Gulf region or around U.S. cent 3.14-3.25/kWh, the report noted. To arrive at their figures, the authors used mathematical modelling and compared two kinds of projects in India that were typical of solar power installations in India and one project in Abu Dhabi as well as expert feedback from industry experts. “We note the ongoing technological development of solar combined with ever larger factories driving economies of scale means solar tariffs will continue to see 5-10% annual declines over the coming decade, driving ever-stronger competitiveness against incumbent fossil fuel alternatives,” the authors of the report underline.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Action against travellers if WiFi rules are violated: DGCA||Air travellers could face punitive action from airlines if they do not follow rules on handling portable electronic devices such as smartphones and laptops, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation has proposed in its draft rules on implementation of in-flight WiFi connectivity. The draft rules govern the use of portable electronic devices to access Internet during a flight. The proposed rules state the electronic devices can only be used when an aircraft is at a height of 3,000 feet or above. Mobile phones, tablets and laptops can only be used in flight mode, while all other gadgets such as portable voice recorders, electronic entertainment devices and electric shavers need to be stowed away. “Cabin crew, besides their other duties, during the flight shall keep a watch on the passengers to ensure compliance of the above requirements. Any violation of these requirements during the flight should be brought to the notice of the Commander by the cabin crew and recorded in the flight report book for subsequent action by the operator against the defaulting person,” according to the draft rules made public on Wednesday. The DGCA has invited comments for a period of 30 days from all stakeholders before the proposal is finalised. A senior DGCA official said that this was the first time the government has proposed detailed protocols for handling of portable electronic devices in-flight.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||Pakistan providing shelter to Azhar is regrettable, says MEA||It is “regrettable” that Masood Azhar continues to find shelter in Pakistan, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday after Pakistan rejected the charge-sheet of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) regarding the Pulwama terror attack. The Official Spokesperson of the Ministry noted that Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed had claimed responsibility for the attack that killed at least 40 personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) on 14 February, 2019. “Jaish-e-Mohammed had claimed the responsibility of Pulwama attack. The organisation and its leadership is in Pakistan. It is regrettable that Masood Azhar, the first accused in the charge-sheet continues to find shelter in Pakistan,” said Anurag Srivastava, Official Spokesperson of the MEA, reminding Pakistan that Islamabad was yet to act on the 2008 Mumbai terror accused. Pakistan had on Wednesday “categorically” rejected the charge-sheet by the NIA, calling the report as “fabrications” that were “designed to further the BJP’s anti-Pakistan rhetoric and its narrow domestic political interests. The Indian charge-sheet accused Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar and his brother Abdul Rauf Asghar and their associates of “carrying out the attack”. The Indian agency claimed explosives used in the attack came from Pakistan but Pakistan claimed the material was sourced from within the region of Jammu and Kashmir. ‘No credible action’ “Pakistan has not yet taken any credible action against perpetrators of the Mumbai terror attack of 2008, which resulted in the loss of 165 innocent lives, including 25 foreign nationals,” said the Indian Spokesperson. Pakistan’s continued denial about the presence of Dawood Ibrahim on its soil was indicative of Pakistan’s insincerity, Mr. Srivastava said.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Drug syndicates unearthed, six arrested with ecstasy pills||The Narcotics Control Bureau has unearthed three syndicates, including the one that supplied drugs to prominent musicians and actors in Karnataka. Six persons have been arrested with 4,317 MDMA pills, 180 LSD blots and over Rs. 2.20 lakh in cash. On August 21, the NCB’s Bengaluru zonal unit seized 145 MDMA pills, commonly known as ecstasy, and the cash at a hotel apartment in Kalyan Nagar. In the follow up action, the officials seized 96 more pills and 180 LSD blots from another location in the city. Following the leads, the agency intercepted a woman drug supplier and seized from her 270 MDMA pills from her house in Bengaluru’s Dodagubbi. The three accused arrested in the operation were identified as M. Anoop, R. Ravindran and Anikha. D. Deputy Director (Ops) K.P.S. Malhotra said preliminary investigations revealed that the accused supplied drugs to the affluent sections of society, including prominent musicians and actors, as well as college students and youngsters. Another case was reported on August 10, when the agency’s Mumbai zone unit seized 3,010 of MDMA pills, sourced from Brussels. Subsequent action resulted in the seizure of 46 more tablets from the Navi Mumbai residence of a couple, who were arrested. In the third case, the NCB’s Bengaluru unit on July 31 seized 750 MDMA pills, which were sourced from Germany. Further probe led to the arrest of one Rahman. K, who was to allegedly receive the parcel.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,||AR. Lakshmanan, former SC judge, dead||Justice AR. Lakshmanan, 78, a former judge of the Supreme Court and former Chairman of the Law Commission, died at a private hospital in Tiruchi on Thursday. His wife, Meenakshi Lakshmanan, had died on Tuesday. Justice Lakshmanan is survived by his sons AR.L. Arunachalam, a businessman, and AR.L. Sundaresan, a designated senior counsel in the Madras High Court, and daughters Umayal and Swarnavalli. Born at Devakottai in Sivaganga district on March 22, 1942, he obtained his degree in law from the Madras Law College in 1966 before enrolling with the Bar Council in 1968 and commencing his practice as a lawyer for 23 years. In 1990, he was appointed judge of the Madras High Court and was elevated as Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court in 1997. Thereafter, he served as the Chief Justice of Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh High Courts too till 2002. He was appointed judge of the Supreme Court in 2002 and retired from service in 2007. He was part of the Bench that banned smoking in public places. Subsequently, Justice Lakshmanan held the post of Chairman of the 18th Law Commission between 2007 and 2009 and submitted 32 reports to the government on judicial reforms. He also authored several books in both English and Tamil.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses to stay I-T criminal proceedings against Shivakumar||The Supreme Court on Thursday once again refused to stay criminal proceedings initiated by the income-tax authorities against Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar. In the last hearing on July 20, the court issued notice to the authorities but refused to stay. On Thursday, a Bench of Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde declined to agree with the pleas made by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for Mr. Shivakumar, that irreparable harm would be caused if an interim stay is not granted. The case against Mr. Shivakumar is based on an alleged recovery of undisclosed wealth in a search and seizure operation conducted on his premises in 2017. In the last hearing, Mr. Rohatgi questioned the validity of the sanction (for prosecution) granted to prosecute his client. He argued that “no complaint [of undisclosed wealth] can be filed by the income-tax authorities on the basis of a raid in which time has not been given to file the returns for the year”. In his appeal, Mr. Shivakumar has challenged a November 2019 Karnataka High Court order, which upheld a lower court’s decision to reject his plea to be discharged in the case.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||Why not go before the NBA in Tablighi Jamaat case, asks SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said the complaints against a section of the media for allegedly spreading communal hatred over the Tablighi Jamaat event here should first go to a body like the National Broadcasting Association (NBA) for “preliminary determination”. The court had earlier sought reports from the NBA and the Press Council of India on the pleas of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind and the Peace Party alleging that a section of the media was spreading communal hatred over the congregation in Delhi. A Bench comprising Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian asked the counsel for the Muslim bodies as to why they were not going before a regulatory body like the NBA. “If there is one body which is dealing with the issue, then why cannot you go there. We are not opposing the action but there should be prior verification,” the Bench observed. The court deferred the hearing on the pleas.
28 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Consider Opposition’s concerns: Governor||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Thursday forwarded a petition by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala airing the concerns of the United Democratic Front regarding Tuesday’s fire at the Secretariat to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan with a footnote for “appropriate consideration”. The government is likely to apprise Mr. Khan of the fire and its circumstances once the multiple investigations into the incident concluded. Mr. Chennithala had told Mr. Khan that the fire at the General Administration Department (GAD) was an act of sabotage. He said that the “arsonists” had aimed at destroying records relating to foreign visits by Ministers, transactions of the government with foreign entities, details of persons accorded VIP status, and information regarding duty exemption granted to foreign missions to import goods. At least three Central agencies probing the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case had sought records from the section to examine the role of the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). BJP State president K. Surendran has sought a judicial inquiry into the fire. Police probe fire Meanwhile, the police team investigating the possible arson angle in the fire incident has declared the site of the blaze an active crime scene. The police have set surveillance cameras to cover the damaged sections. They have prepared an inventory of records in the section and appeared to have a fair idea of the damaged files.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS-Genco to take up restoration work of first two units from Sept. 1||As the internal committee of Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TS-Genco) has intensified its inquiry into the August 20 fire in the Srisaialm Left Bank Hydro Electric Station to zero-in on the events that led to the mishap, the authorities of the power utility too have stepped up efforts to restore basic facilities and normalcy in the underground power plant. Restoration of basic facilities such as lighting facility all over the tunnel area in which the project is developed and automatic mechanism for pumping out seepage water at regular intervals (de-watering) are the two basic necessities to make any beginning towards restoration of the power plant. “We hope to complete de-watering of the plant area completely by tomorrow (Friday), which will allows us speed up the installation of temporary lighting network,” sources in the power utility stated on Thursday. De-watering mechanism After the restoration of lighting facility and de-watering mechanism, the authorities have plans to focus on restoration of the first two units as there was not much damage. “Since there is no need for replacement of any major equipment in the first two units, we are planning to take up work on restoring the two units from September 1, so that we will be able to resume power generation at the plant in two weeks time,” a senior official in the know of developments told The Hindu on Thursday. Other works which are required to be taken up before taking up the restoration work pertaining to the first two units of the underground power plant, according to the power utility officials, include re-installation of the air-conditioning system, attending some work of insulation at the gas insulated sub-station (GIS) and some repairs to a transformer at the sub-station. Apart from the restoration work, all the mess that is left behind by the fire too has to be cleared before putting the best foot forward towards restoration of the power plant. More probe visits Referring to the on-going inquiry by the internal committee, the officials said that the panel has to make at least three to four visits more to the underground power project to study in detail the status of different components of the power station. The internal committee could arrive at a conclusion on the incidents that led to the fire accident so that it could work out on its recommendations to prevent recurrence of such incidents in future, the officials observed.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Coronil’ name use by Patanjali: SC refuses to intervene in appeal||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to intervene in an appeal by a Chennai-based company to stop Baba Ramdev’s Patanjali Ayurved Limited and Divya Yog Mandir Trust from using brand name ‘Coronil’. “If we prevent the use of word ‘Coronil’ on the ground that there is some pesticide on its name, it will be terrible”, Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde remarked. Although Patanjali had launched ‘Coronil’ as a cure for COVID-19, the AYUSH Ministry had asked it to sell it only as an immunity booster. Arudra Engineers Private Limited, a company which sells chemicals to sanitisers, said it had several trademarks rights over name ‘Coronil’ from 1993. Some of its products include ‘Coronil-213 SPL’ and ‘Coronil-92B’. Their rights extended up to 2027. On August 6, a Single Judge Bench of the Madras High Court restrained Patanjali from using ‘Coronil’ and imposed a cost of Rs. 10 lakh on it for commercial exploitation of public apprehensions about COVID-19. In mid-August, a Division Bench of the H C suspended the implementation of the Single Bench decision for a fortnight. Arudra then moved the Supreme Court. Senior advocate C.A. Sundaram, for respondents, said the case was already listed before the High Court on September 3. The High Court had assured a detailed hearing. Arudra claims its products with the trademark have a global presence “The mark adopted by Patanjali for its drugs are clearly identical to the marks registered by the company. Though the products sold by the company are different, use of identical trademarks would still amount to infringement of our intellectual property right,” the company had argued in the High Court. “Permitting Patanjali to continue to use the mark will directly affect our reputation and the goodwill created over the mark for over 26 years in both international and domestic markets,” the petitioner said.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sonia effects changes in parliamentary team||In a sign that the power tussle in the Congress is far from over, Leader of the Opposition (LoP) in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, on Thursday, reiterated the demand they had made in a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi that members of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) and presidents of the State units should be elected. In a related development, Ms. Gandhi announced important organisational changes by announcing two committees for the smooth functioning of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. But the move can be interpreted as one to dilute the powers of Mr. Azad and party Deputy Leader in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma, both of whom are signatories to the letter that questioned the style of Congress’ functioning. Call for elections Mr. Azad, who is among the 23 dissenting leaders, toldANIthat elected presidents of the PCCs and block Congress have the support of 51% of the workers while those who are appointed do not even enjoy 1% support. His comments came on a day when the entire letter, that stated that uncertainty over leadership had weakened workers’ morale and the party, was uploaded on the NDTV website. “An election has the benefit that when you fight elections, at least your party is 51% behind you. Right now, the person who becomes president might not even have 1% support…. If CWC members are elected then they cannot be removed. So what is the problem,” Mr. Azad said. “Those office-bearers or State unit presidents or block district presidents who attack our proposal know that they will be nowhere when elections happen. Whoever is genuinely invested in the Congress will welcome the letter,” he said. As the dissenting group hardened their stand, sources said, Ms. Gandhi decided to broadbase the decision making process by creating two groups for the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha. The Rajya Sabha group will now include Ms. Gandhi’s former political secretary Ahmed Patel, senior leader Jairam Ramesh (made the Chief Whip) and general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal apart from Mr. Azad and Mr. Sharma. Apart from party’s leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the House group will include Gaurav Gogoi, who has been elevated as the Deputy Leader, Chief Whip K Suresh and whip Manickam Tagore. While Punjab MP Ravneet Singh Bittu has been made a whip, dissenters from the Lok Sabha, Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari, have been left out. In another sign that the dissenting leaders are not ready to take things lying down, Kapil Sibal lashed out against the U.P. Congress’s proposal to act against Jitin Prasada, another signatory.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||Venkaiah holds mock session of Rajya Sabha||In preparation of an unprecedented monsoon session of Parliament where members of both Houses will be sitting in multiple locations to adhere to the physical distancing norms, Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu held a 45-minute mock session on Thursday to check the facilities. To comply with the physical distancing norms amid the COVID-19 pandemic, Rajya Sabha members will be seated in the main hall and four galleries of the Upper House along with the Lok Sabha hall. This requires Mr. Naidu to keep an eye on six locations from where the members will be participating in the proceedings. Officials of the Rajya Sabha were made to sit in the chambers of both the Houses and the galleries for the mock proceedings.  Chambers of both the Houses are connected with optical fibre and audio-video cables for real-time transmission of signals to enable the members seated in both the Houses to watch the proceedings from both the places. In the practice session, various elements of the proceedings were tried, raising hands, raising Points of Order, participating in voice vote and division.
28 August 2020||MYSURU,||Tusker electrocuted on farmland on M.M. Hills||A tusker was found electrocuted on a farmland in the P.G. Palya range of M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary on Thursday. The tusker, aged around 30, was foraging for fodder and came in contact with an illegally drawn power cable connected to a fence protecting the agricultural land. Senior officials reached the spot and a case has been booked against the farm owner. This is the second elephant to be electrocuted in M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary this year. But the number of unnatural deaths of elephants in M.M. Hills-Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary area has raised concern among senior officials. As many as eight elephants had died earlier this year in the landscape, forcing the authorities to invite experts to ascertain the reason behind the deaths that did not involve electrocution. V. Yedukondalu, Deputy Conservator of Forests, M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, said the land had been registered in the name of a private company in Bengaluru, which was installing a mini-solar power plant. However, the work had come to a standstill for the past two years following objections by the Forest Department. But the local watchmen had taken up cultivation on the un-utilised portion of the land meant for solar power plant. So, a case had been registered against the owner of the company and the local watchmen as well, the official added.
28 August 2020||BENGALURU,||PWD plans 25-floor twin towers in Bengaluru||If things go as per plans of the Public Works Department, Bengaluru will have 25-floor twin towers near Anand Rao Circle to house various government offices that are presently working on rented premises. The PWD has got a proposal prepared on building the towers from a central PSU. Disclosing this to mediapersons after presiding over a meeting of PWD senior officials here on Thursday, Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol, who also holds the Public Works portfolio, said National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) had prepared the proposal. NBCC will also prepare a detailed project report (DPR), he said, while pointing out that the proposal as well as the draft MoU with the corporation needed the concurrence of the departments of Finance and Law and clearance by the Cabinet. He observed that construction of twin towers would help bring all government offices working on rented premises under a single roof. This will be convenient for the public, he said.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||Insensitive to hold JEE, NEET in Sept.: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) joined forces with the other Opposition parties and urged the Union government to defer the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) that are scheduled for next month. “What is most outrageous is the insensitivity to hold these examinations in the physical mode across the country at a time when the pandemic is surging both in the number of infections as well as the mounting counts of deaths,” the CPI(M) Polit Bureau said in a statement here. Chief Ministers of seven Opposition-ruled States, at a virtual meeting on Wednesday, decided to file a joint review petition in the Supreme Court against holding the two examinations at present. The meeting, organised by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, was attended by Chief Ministers Mamata Banerjee, Udhav Thackeray, Hemant Soren, Bhupesh Baghel, Ashok Gehlot and Captain Amarinder Singh. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was not invited for the meet on the insistence of the Congress’s Kerala unit. The Polit Bureau said the concern over starting the academic session in these institutions for the sake of the future of the students and those courses was valid and understandable. But it was “grossly premature” to hold it at the moment. “It completely undermines the health concern for almost a million of some of the brightest of our youth”.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Marijuana worth Rs. 1 crore seized near Bengaluru||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) has busted yet another inter-State drug racket and seized 204 kg of marijuana, worth Rs. 1 crore, that was being transported in a truck from a village in East Godavari, Andhra Pradesh. Three persons were also arrested in connection with it. This is the latest in a series of drug busts over the last few months and one of the biggest. Acting on a tip-off, a police team tracked down the shipment and intercepted the truck near Devanahalli on the outskirts of Bengaluru on Thursday. The arrested [Sameer, 37, and Khaiser Pasha, 41, from Mysuru, and Ismail Shariff, 38, from Chickballapur] had allegedly concealed the marijuana in the truck. At a press conference on Thursday, Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said that the accused had procured the drug from a village in East Godavari district. They were planning to supply it to their contacts in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Ramanagaram, and Chikkamagaluru, through a well-established network. “It is suspected that some of the accused in the D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli violence got drugs from the same network,” Mr. Pant said. The three allegedly confessed that a majority of their clients were college students and small-time peddlers from several towns across the State. The CCB is further investigating the case to ascertain possible links of others. “We are probing as to how Sameer and his associates were able to ferry drugs without getting caught at check-posts. We suspect that he has been running the racket for many years and has a good network in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala,” said a senior police official.  Earlier this year, the Bengaluru police busted an organised narcotics ring where DJs at two prominent pubs in the central business district were allegedly procuring narcotics through the dark web and peddled them not only in the city but to other metros as well.  It is suspected that the accused in the D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli cases got drugs from the same network. Kamal Pant, Bengaluru Police Commissioner
28 August 2020||KALABURAGI/Bengaluru,||BJP to seek explanation from MLC for Tipu remark||Taking exception to the remark made by BJP legislator A.H. Vishwanath, hailing Tipu Sultan as a son of the soil, BJP State unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel said he would seek an explanation on this. In his brief interaction with mediapersons in Kalaburagi on Thursday morning, Mr. Kateel asserted his party’s stand on the 18th century Mysuru ruler by stating that his party had been opposing Tipu and is committed to it. “I don’t know what statement Mr. Vishwanath has given, but it has appeared in the media and it is his personal opinion. The party has a clear stand on Tipu and we have been fighting for it. I will seek an explanation from him,” Mr. Kateel said. Party State spokesperson Ganesh Karnik made it clear that Mr. Vishwanath’s remarks were personal. Asserting that the BJP “cannot and will not” accept Tipu as a noble ruler, he said the party was of the unanimous view that Tipu was a “bigot”. Congress allegations On the issue of Congress leaders’ allegation of corruption against B.Y. Vijayendra, son of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Mr. Kateel said his rival party “is habituated to make baseless allegations when not in power”. He said the letters in question might have been created by the Congress leaders themselves. “The Congress has become a shelter for the elderly. Let them find a national president for their party before pointing their fingers at the BJP,” he said.
28 August 2020||Kochi,||Janam TV journalist interrogated||Customs officials on Thursday interrogated Anil Nambiar, a senior journalist of Janam TV, in connection with the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. Mr. Nambiar reached the Kochi office of the investigation agency around 10.30 a.m. The call data records of Swapna Suresh, an accused in the case, had revealed that Mr. Nambiar had reportedly contacted her on the day on which the contraband was seized. As the news of the telephone call surfaced, Mr. Nambiar had clarified through his social media page that he called Swapna seeking the version of the UAE consulate regarding the smuggling case. He also explained that Swapna had returned the call after an hour to provide the version of the consulate. He also denied media reports that he had earlier met her at a hotel.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Restoration of peace on LAC key to ties, says India||“ And putting the border issue in an appropriate position, avoid misjudgment, keep divergences from escalating into disputes, and take concrete steps to bring the bilateral relations back to the right track.” In Delhi, the Ministry of External Affairs made clear that both sides needed to take “reciprocal actions” to restore peace. Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, “complete disengagement requires re-deployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC”, adding that “it is important to bear in mind that achieving this requires agreed actions by both sides.” “The two sides had also agreed to continue their engagements — both through diplomatic and military channels,” he added, quoting the recent remarks of External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar that “finding a solution... must be predicated on honouring all agreements and understandings… and not attempting to alter the status quo unilaterally”. In India’s view, complete disengagement and a full restoration of the status quo prior to May’s transgressions remains far off. Chinese troops still remain on India’s side of the LAC at Pangong lake and are disrupting Indian patrols in the Depsang plains, while a build-up of forces remains elsewhere along the LAC.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||SC refuses to allow Muharram processions||The Chief Justice, flanked by Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said public festivities for Ganesha festival was not allowed in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Laskar then referred to how the court had given access to Jain temples for the occasion of Paryushan. The CJI replied, “That was specifically for three Jain temples in Mumbai. We only allowed five people at a time.” In its August 21 order in the Jain temples’ case, the court made it clear that its order to allow worshippers access to the specific Jain temples in Mumbai does not, by default, extend to other temples, Trusts or other faiths. It said that its permission would not act as a precedent for allowing congregations during Ganesh Chaturthi.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Five of Great Andaman tribe test positive||As per the health bulletin issued by Andaman and Nicobar Island, the total confirmed COVID-19 cases on the Islands as on August 26 was 3,000 and the number of deaths due to the viral infection was 42. Commenting on the developments Director Anthropological Survey of India (ANSI) Vinay Kumar Srivastava said it was a welcome step that administration has reached out to the members of PVTGS and tested them. “We have to take note that the PVTGs are not only vulnerable because of their limited population but the members of the communities are very close to each other. Therefore, isolation of individuals should be in a very humane manner and the other members of the communities need to be informed that isolation is a part of the treatment,” he said. Quoting from international journals, Dr. Srivastava said COVID-19 has been recorded in 44 indigenous tribes in Brazil.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Borrow from RBI to bridge GST gap: Centre||Finance Ministers from Congress-ruled States, speaking to journalists after the meeting, said they were unhappy with the outcome, as the Centre was not honouring its commitment. Alleging a “trust deficit” between the Centre and States, they asked why the former could not borrow money to compensate the States, adding that the proposed solution of borrowing by States should not be forced on them. “This year, we are facing an extraordinary situation,” said Ms. Sitharaman. “You are facing an act of God, which might even result in a contraction of the economy — to what per cent or whatever, I am not getting into.” The Minister added that the GST Compensation Act, 2017 “did not foresee an act of God.” That law guaranteed States compensation for any loss of revenue in the first five years of GST implementation, until 2022, using a cess levied on sin and luxury goods. However, the slowdown has pushed both GST and cess collections down over the last year, resulting in a 40% gap last year between the compensation paid and cess collected. As per the Centre’s estimates, the States’ GST revenue gap in 2020-21 will amount to about Rs. 3 lakh crore, while cess collections are only projected to reach Rs. 65,000 crore, leaving a shortfall of Rs. 2.35 lakh crore.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||SC: States can have sub-groups among SC/ST||Justice Mishra’s judgment is significant as it fully endorses the push to extend the creamy layer concept to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The judgment records that “once a mortgage always a mortgage” cannot be pressed into service for submitting that once a backward class of citizens, always such a backward class. “Citizens cannot be treated to be socially and educationally backward till perpetuity; those who have come up must be excluded like the creamy layer,” the judgment said. He noted that “the entire basket of fruits cannot be given to the mighty at the cost of others under the guise of forming a homogenous class”. In his 78-page judgment for the Bench, Justice Mishra said the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the Central List do not constitute a “homogenous group”. The Central List of Scheduled Castes and Tribes is notified by the President under Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution. The consent of the Parliament is required to exclude or include castes in the List. In short, States cannot unilaterally add or pull out castes from the List. However, Justice Mishra disagreed. He reasoned that sub-classifications within the Presidential/Central List does not amount to "tinkering" with it. No caste is excluded from the list.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to study if UHBL assets can be used to settle debts||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to examine whether attached assets of fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya’s United Breweries (Holding) Ltd. can be used to settle the debts owed to banks, including the State Bank of India. A Bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Vineet Saran was informed by senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan, appearing for the company, that firm’s assets are much more than its liabilities. UBHL has challenged the March 6 order of the Karnataka High Court, which upheld the decision of a single judge to wind up the company. The discussion was on whether the company’s properties attached by the Enforcement Directorate under the PMLA can be considered to pay off the debts.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Need for self-control||Sage Saunaka gives valuable advice to King Sataneeka in response to the latter’s queries. The sage’s advice finds place in the work Vishnu Dharma. It has 109 chapters. He tells the king about everyday rituals, about the power of mantras etc. Everyone needs the strength which mantras confer on them. No one knows what karmas he has done in his previous births. It is only when negative consequences hit a person, that he wonders if this is a punishment for past deeds. This is where mantras can help. While they cannot get rid of the effects of our deeds, for which we must pay, they can lessen the intensity of what we face. They are like a protective armour, which protects us from the unknown, said Velukkudi Krishnan, in a discourse. How does one learn these mantras? Mantras are to be learnt from Acharyas. He will test the suitability of a person to receive upadesa, before he teaches a mantra. He will check if the person who has come to him for mantropadesa, has sama and dama. That means the Acharya will ensure if the person has learnt to control his senses and his mind. This might seem very difficult for us to achieve. And if we cannot even reach the stage where we become fit to receive upadesa, then how can we learn mantras? But this is the sort of negative attitude which we must avoid. It is not as if we are totally incapable of self control. Do we not sit through a discourse without eating or drinking water during the lecture? Do we not go to work and concentrate on our work at the workplace? This may be for a few hours, but if we try to extend this self-control beyond a few hours, slowly but definitely we will reach a point where we can keep the mind and sense organs under control. And then we become fit to receive mantropadesa.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Going with the flow||
28 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||HC relief for journalist||The Allahabad High Court has granted interim protection from arrest to the editor of news portal Scroll.in and its journalist Supriya Sharma in connection with the case in which they are accused of misrepresenting the living condition of a Dalit woman in Varanasi during the lockdown and thereby causing her humiliation. The story featured Domari village, which has been adopted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Lok Sabha constituency. The court, however, said since the allegations against the journalists disclose commission of cognizable offence, their prayer to get the FIR against them quashed cannot be accepted. A Division Bench of Justices Manoj Misra and Anil Kumar said the petitioners shall not be arrested in the case till submission of the police report under Section 173 (2) the CrPC, provided they co-operate in the investigation. The court took into consideration the submission made by the petitioners that they possessed photographs and audio recordings of the interview with the Dalit woman and that the publication was a true representation of what was stated in the interview. The story was published in “public interest” to highlight the condition of certain persons, the counsel for the journalists added.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC reserves order on Mallya’s plea||The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its order on a review petition filed by fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya against a 2017 verdict of contempt against him. The Bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ashok Bhushan on May 9, 2017, found him guilty of contempt for wilful disobedience of its order to come clean on his assets and not disclosing a sum of $40 million (Rs. 600 crore) he received from British liquor major Diageo Plc following his resignation as Chairman of United Spirits Limited in February 2016. In 2017, Mr. Mallya informed the court that the $40 million was one among “thousands of transactions” he did and could not be counted as an asset. He said he had disbursed it among his three adult children.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pranab still on ventilator support||Former President Pranab Mukherjee is being treated for lung and renal ailments and there was no change in his medical condition, the Army’s Research and Referral (R&R) hospital said on Thursday. “Pranab Mukherjee continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support. He is being treated for lung infection and renal dysfunction. He is haemodynamically stable,” the hospital said. On August 10, Mr. Mukherjee underwent an emergency surgery for a brain clot and has since been on ventilator support. He had also tested positive for COVID-19.
28 August 2020||Srinagar,||Govt. reimposes curbs on religious events in Kashmir||The Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) administration re-imposed restrictions on religious gatherings in the Kashmir valley on Thursday, a day after a group of Shia mourners clashed with the police in central Kashmir’s Budgam. “In the wake of COVID-19, restrictions shall continue on all religious processions and gatherings in all districts,” Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, Pandurang K. Pole, said. An official spokesperson said senior Shia leaders attended a meeting organised by Mr. Pole to assess the situation.  Prominent Shia cleric Ruhullah Mehdi accused the administration of “provoking” the community. J&K Apni Party also condemned use of force on Shia mourners. Meanwhile, police arrested scores of leaders and activists of the PDP in Srinagar during a street protest, the first such demonstration since August 5, 2019 when the Centre ended J&K’s special status.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||Don’t put off exams, say academicians||Over 150 academicians from various universities in India and abroad have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying delaying the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) any further will mean compromising the future of students. Referring to the growing chorus against conducting these exams in September in view of the rising COVID-19 cases, the academicians said, “Some are trying to play with future of students to propel their own political agenda”. Like every year, this year too millions of students have passed their Class 12 exams and are now waiting at home to eagerly take the next step, the letter said. “The government has announced the dates for JEE-Mains and NEET. Any further delay in conducting them will result in waste of precious year for students... However, some are trying to play with the future of our students simply to propel their own political agenda and oppose the government,” it said. The signatories include academicians from the Delhi University, IGNOU, JNU, BHU, IIT Delhi and Indian academicians from foreign universities such as University of London, University of California and Ben Gurion University, Israel, among others. “We strongly believe that the Central government will successfully conduct the exams taking full precautions.”
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||States asked to limit COVID-19 transmission||Of the total deaths in the country in the past two weeks, 89% were reported from 10 States/UTs, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba said at a videoconference with Chief Secretaries and Health Secretaries on Thursday. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir have been advised to proactively take steps to reduce case fatality to less than 1% across all districts, focus on effective containment, contact tracing and surveillance, and ensure that all close contacts are traced and tested within 72 hours in at least 80% of the new positive cases.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,||COVID-positive prisoners escape||In a baffling incident reminiscent of cinema jailbreak, four COVID-positive prisoners escaped from Gandhi Hospital prison ward here on Thursday. The four men were learnt to have used bed sheets to hide their faces while leaving from the rear side of the hospital, having made their way out by breaking open the ventilators in the bathroom. The prisoners, who had been admitted to the hospital on different dates, fled at the same time on Thursday, around 3.30 am, when it was pitch dark. The absconding are Mohammed Javeed, Mohammed Abdul Arbaz, P. Narasimha and Sama Sunder, accused in various cases at different police stations. They had been shifted to the hospital from the Central Prison at Cherlapally after developing COVID-19 symptoms and had been admitted to prisoners ward on the second floor. Sources confirmed that the prisoners managed to escape through the rear gate, also known as Padma Rao Nagar gate. “Surveillance cameras in the area are not functioning. We are yet to ascertain how they escaped despite ‘tight’ police security in and around the hospital,” said an official. “We suspect police personnel deployed at the ward and in the hospital dozed off in the wee hours. They prisoners might have noticed movement of police personnel since their admission and chalked out plans to escape,” he said. A search was launched.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Major fire at textile shop||A major fire broke out at a textile shop at Gowliguda here on Thursday night. No casualties were reported. According to officials, the fire broke out due to electric short circuit at Lakshmi Textile Shop at around 8.45 p.m. Six fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the flames. Goshamahal MLA T Raja Singh who visited the spot told The Hindu that the shop owners hail from Rajasthan and have estimated a loss of Rs. 1 crore.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu complex will resume operations next month||The Koyambedu Wholesale Market complex will be reopened next month. The foodgrains market will be the first to open on September 18 followed by the wholesale vegetable market on September 28, while others like the fruits and flowers market and retail traders will be allowed to operate later, as a precautionary measure against COVID-19. A joint committee, comprising traders and government officials, will also be constituted to monitor the market’s functioning. This decision was taken during a meeting between Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, representatives from the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu and the Federation of Merchants Associations in Koyambedu market on Thursday. Traders’ body president A.M. Vikramaraja also submitted a petition seeking compensation for the families of traders who had lost their lives due to the pandemic. Earlier on Thursday, the Deputy Chief Minister reviewed the repairs at the Koyambedu Wholesale Market complex along with officials of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority. Sources in the Market Management Committee said he inspected the work in progress. The renovations are being done at a cost of Rs. 6 crore. According to a press release from the Deputy Chief Minister, the Koyambedu market would have a weekly holiday for maintenance. Roadside vending would not be allowed. Avoiding congestion To avoid traffic congestion, the stretch of B Road along the Koyambedu Chennai Metro station and E road would be made one-way and vehicles would be allowed in the market with restrictions. Besides police, private security personnel would also be engaged to regulate traffic and monitor the market. Work is under way to rebuild damaged portions of the compound wall for a distance of 1.5 km and repair damaged roads and the stormwater drain network. Besides painting work inside the market, additional drinking water facilities and renovation of 68 toilet blocks have also been taken up.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dressing up Madras: on textiles of yore, cloth trade and markets||There used to be a time when all unstitched running cloth was called pudavai (now denotes a saree). In the 1700s, there were varieties of cloth, including sakalath , malmal, gada and jarigai pudavai . Anandarangam Pillai, who was a dubash with the French East India Company, kept detailed accounts of life in those days and mentions different pieces of cloth as pudavai . Historian V. Sriram said that though in 1734, Governor Pitt founded a weavers’ settlement called Chinna tari pett and 230 families settled there by 1737, the East India Company was not interested in trading in cloth after the 1800s. “The industrial revolution came in the 1850-60s and they began sending mill cloth to India since it was cheaper. After 1860, mills like Binny and Mettur mills came up in India. Only the very rich and the poor, who got reject pieces, used handloom,” Mr. Sriram said. In the early 1900s, cloth merchants set up business in town. M.V. Kanniah Chetty, Bhashyakarulu Chetty and Paramanandadas Chotadas were popular stores then. One could get Assam silks, velvettes, dhavanis , fancy lace borders and conjeevarams here. Theagaraya Nagar, the go-to place for anything cloth and jewellery, was formed in 1923. Textile industrialistNalli Kuppuswamy Chetti,who has documented the growth of T. Nagar, said the city grew towards the south; the silk saree and cloth trade, too, moved from Devaraja Mudali Street and Mint Street. “Chintadripet had shops such as Kandasamy Sha and Sankar Sha. Then, around 1910, shops including Venkatrama Chetti served customers in Triplicane. The market then moved to Mylapore, where shops such as Radha Silks came to be. In 1928, my grandfather set up his shop in T. Nagar. He chose the place because it was close to a railway station,” he said. “In 1935, a saree was priced at Rs. 18 and families would pay instalments of Rs. 5 a month. We would go to the houses and collect the amount every month,” Mr. Kuppuswamy said. The city used to get its silks from Kancheepuram, Arani and Kumbakonam, and other sarees from Uraiyur in Tiruchi, Kodambakkam, Sungadi and Bumper varieties from Madurai and Chinnalampattu. After Madras became Chennai, several new textile and clothing brands ventured into the market. Ramesh Pothy, managing director of Pothys, said: “As the city grew and malls came up, people adapted to the Sunday shopping culture.” It was in the late 1990s that textile majors in Chennai embraced the concept of Aadi sales. For the city residents, the last 30 years have brought in a vast change in the way they shop for clothes.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Decision not to hold arrear exams surprises academics||The State government’s decision not to hold arrear exams for all, except final year students, has surprised academics. Universities have been grappling for several months with the issue. A senior official at one of the universities said there is the question of feasibility of conducting the exam. Even if the online mode is decided on, there is no clarity on the method of conducting the exam. “There is the also issue of connectivity. How are we going to ensure that the students access the exam paper and how are we going to evaluate the answersheets?” asked a senior official of the University of Madras. Vice-Chancellor S. Gowri said he would have to hold discussions with the officials. The government’s decision came after Anna University called for bids from companies to conduct online tests. The bids were to be opened on Wednesday. It is understood that the Vice-Chancellor had written to the government that exams should be held. When the university released the results of the odd semester a fortnight ago, the official of an affiliated college said the performance of students of his college was impressive, with some scoring a perfect 10 CGPA (Cumulative Grade Point Average), which had never happened before. He said the internal evaluation of the students had helped. Former Vice-Chancellor E. Balagurusamy said the decision would affect the credibility of the university. He said a student is declared failed and required to re-appear for an exam, with the performance in both the internal tests and the final exam taken into account. Universities do not conduct exams and declare results based on the “whims and fancies” of students and politicians. Universities are autonomous bodies and their syndicates, senates and academic councils have all powers and only they can decide on the conduct of exams and declaration of results, he said. “I understand that many students have more than 10 arrears and scored even less than 20% marks in most subjects. How can a university declare these students pass just because they have paid the exam fees? It is absolutely ridiculous,” he said. S. Krishnaswami, former convener of the Tamil Nadu Federation of University Faculty Association, said universities should pass everybody and those who have arrears should clear them in a year. Gopal G. Malavyia, formerly with the University of Madras, said, “Examination are a real and absolute criteria to assess a student.”
28 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||5,981 persons test positive for infection in State||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally breached the four lakh-mark on Thursday, as another 5,981 persons tested positive for the infection. While 5,870 more persons were discharged after treatment, the State’s toll rose to 6,948, as another 109 persons succumbed to the infection. The State added one lakh more cases to its tally, in a span of 17 days. Tamil Nadu’s tally had touched 3,02,815 on August 10. On Thursday, it stood at 4,03,242, of which 52,364 persons were under treatment. A total of 3,43,930 persons have been discharged so far. A total of 1,286 cases (including five imported ones) were reported in Chennai, taking its tally to 1,30,564 (1,14,448 persons discharged, 13,450 active cases and 2,666 deaths). The cases continued to stay above the 400-mark in both Coimbatore and Salem districts. There were 439 cases in Coimbatore and 413 in Salem. Of the 109 deaths (79 in government hospitals and 30 in private ones), 32 were reported in Chennai, 13 in Tiruvallur and 11 in Coimbatore. Among the deceased was a 37-year-old man from Chennai who did not have co-morbidities and was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on August 22. His swab returned positive for COVID-19 on August 24. He died the next day due to respiratory failure, bronchopneumonia and severe COVID-19, according to a bulletin issued by the Health Department. A 90-year-old man from Chennai died on the same day of admission to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on August 16 due to COVID-19. Tiruvallur had 323 cases and Chengalpattu 298. With 261 new cases, Cuddalore’s tally crossed 10,000. Another 256 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kancheepuram. A total of twelve districts had 100-plus cases each. This included Ranipet 162; Vellore 159; Virudhunagar 152; Pudukottai 136 and Theni 130. A total of 30 persons, who returned from abroad and other States, also tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 76,345 samples were tested in the last 24 hours in the State, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 44,98,706. Another private laboratory — he Tagore Medical College and Hospital in Chennai — was approved for COVID-19 testing.  A total of 76,345 samples were tested in the last 24 hours in the State, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 44,98,706
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A ‘capital’ debate in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu is witnessing an intense debate on a new capital after nearly 40 years. Notably, the demand has come from within the ruling AIADMK eight months ahead of the Assembly election. In December 1980, at an official event in Madurai, the then Chief Minister, M.G. Ramachandran, called upon people to think out loud whether the State must have its capital at the centre (geographically). He gave three options — Chennai, Madurai or Tiruchi — but later hinted at his preference for a place between Tiruchi and Thanjavur, citing the availability of water in the region as the major reason. However, his idea met with an immediate opposition from the then DMK president, M. Karunanidhi, who called it a “diversionary tactic”. The idea died down in course of time. In May 2002, the then Chief Minister, Jayalalithaa, announced her government’s plan to raise a 2,000-acre administrative capital near Mamallapuram — the stretch involving Thiruvidanthai and Thaiyur villages, off East Coast Road and about 40 km south of Chennai. The concept of a second capital has got a renewed life after the Andhra Pradesh government decided to develop Amaravati, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam as the legislative, judicial and executive capitals respectively. Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar says the demand arises out of the “realisation” that there has to be greater decentralisation than what prevails now with a focussed attention on economic development of the southern belt. Besides, Chennai deserves to be “de-congested”, a fact which has got highlighted again during the COVID-19 pandemic. Denying any political motive behind the demand, the Minister says the proposed second capital could come up on any of the stretches connecting Madurai with Virudhunagar or Tiruchi or Theni in view of land availability. Tiruchi’s case is being promoted by Congress MP S. Thirunavukkarasar and Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan. However, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has distanced his government from the issue, saying the Ministers’ views are made in their “personal capacity”. Concurring with the position about “over-congestion” of Chennai, M.G. Devasahayam, former administrator of the Chandigarh Capital Project, says Madurai or Tiruchi can be a “counter-magnet” to the present “magnet” of Chennai. The issue of a fresh capital should not be viewed in a limited way, but with multiple dimensions. K.P. Subramanian, Visiting Professor in the School of Planning of Anna University, wants the issue to be approached with “an open mind” and analysed scientifically. However, prominent DMK figures from the south are not impressed. Speaking in her personal capacity, Poongothai Aladi Aruna, former Minister and legislator from Alangulam, argues the government has not “made use” of the existing development projects or information technology parks. “Let the government first upgrade all the district headquarters and focus on job creation,” she says. Her party colleague and former Minister Thangam Thennarasu, who hails from Virudhunagar district, questions the timing of the demand. It is “quite strange” that Mr. Udhayakumar, who has been Minister for nearly 10 years, is talking of the need for de-congesting Chennai now and looking at Madurai as a new capital, he says, asking why the government has not done anything for the industrialisation of the southern region.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Zones with a large number of workplaces to be monitored||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started COVID-19 control measures in zones with a large number of workplaces, following a rise in the number of cases after the relaxation of the lockdown. A senior official of the Corporation said zones such as Sholinganallur, Perungudi, Teynampet, Alandur and Thiru Vi Ka Nagar had already registered a rise in the number of cases because of workplaces in the areas. A meeting with senior officials of the police and field support staff was held on Thursday to improve control measures. Civic officials have been directed to monitor all those who visit the zones from other parts of the country. The Corporation will start locking and sealing of the workplaces that violate norms pertaining to physical distancing. The civic body will also start penalising residents who violate norms pertaining to physical distancing and mask wearing. The civic body has collected Rs. 1.8 crore in fines from workplaces and individuals for violations, so far. Even after a decrease in the number of tests in the city in the past few days, the number of cases has touched 1,290 this week. The case count was around 900 a few weeks ago before the relaxation of e-pass norms for visiting the city, officials said. The positivity rate has also increased beyond 10% in the past 14 days in seven zones, including Sholinganallur, Perungudi and Teynampet, where a large number of workplaces are located. The positivity is less than 8% in Tiruvottiyur. Influx of visitors The positivity rate was around 8% a few weeks ago. The rate has increased to 9.6% in the last 14 days. Officials said they expected the rise because of the influx of work-related visitors. At least 2.5 lakh persons were expected to reach the city in the next 14 days owing to relaxation of e-pass norms, civic officials said.
28 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Bleeding Madras’, a speciality||It was handlooms that made Francis Day choose Madras as the new British settlement. He was impressed by Madras — it had paintings, longcloth, hand-printed chintz and morrees, a blue cotton cloth. The cloth was 15% cheaper than at Armagaon (Durgarayapatnam), about 35 miles north of Pulicat, said Sabita Radhakrishnan in an article in the Madras Musings.  Woven in 60 X 40 handloom, with variations in stripes or solid squares, the fabric was known by many different names — Madras checks, real Madras handkerchief, George cloth, Guinea cloth or bleeding Madras. It was called bleeding Madras as the colour would bleed each time it was washed and it would assume a new avatar. The warp was generally dyed in indigo, and turmeric was used for yellow. The indigo base combined with the yellow to produce green that ran on the weft when soaked in water. ‘Real Madras handkerchief’ was a term coined by British merchants to describe the 8 m long, 36 inch wide bolts of fabric, which could be cut into three-square kerchiefs. It helped exporters evade taxes as only bales of fabric entered London. The Madras handkerchief was exported to London, where it was auctioned to traders who used it to barter for slaves in West Africa. Another weave that Madras was and is still known for is the Adyar saree, introduced by Rukmini Devi Arundale, who founded Kalakshetra. It was in 1944 that she laid the foundation stone for the weaving section. “It was her way of helping genuine weavers as she felt that they were ignored,” said textile researcher Sreemathy Mohan.
28 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Where old-world charm has given way to development||Tiruvottiyur town, now part of the Chennai Corporation, once went by the name Aadhi puri (ancient town). Activities in the town mostly revolved around the Sri Thygarajaswamy temple, famously called Sri Vadivudaiamman temple. The town, after it was merged in 2014 with the Corporation, has seen several civic improvements like better roads, stormwater drains and a new sewer network. While the old residents welcome the civic developments, they find the old charm of the town slowly losing to increasing commercial activities. Even the ancientness of the temple, etched in its inscriptions, would have been lost, if not for the timely action of the devotees to stop its “renovation”. Ma. Ki. Ramanan, a Tamil scholar, came to and settled in Tiruvottiyur some 40 years ago because of the spiritual connections the town has had with great saints like Thirugnanasambandar, Thirunavukkarasar, Sundarar and Pattinathar. An ancient town “The town, where Samaveda was taught, is soaked in saivite history, with Ramalinga Adigalar staying in the town for more than 20 years,” said Mr. Ramanan, a recipient of the Best Teacher Award from the State government. Mr. Ramanan, speaking about the ancientness of Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram, said the place was called Thondainadu, with Tiruvottiyur finding a prominent place in it. Mr. Ramanan said: “The South Indian Inscriptions has even published a book in five volumes about Tiruvottiyur and the stone inscriptions in the temple.” Citing the presence of a number of odais (streams) in the town, he rued that commercial development had left these odais to be converted into houses with the Odai Kuppam being an example of the rampant encroachment of the waterbodies.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Grant incentive to govt. doctors, Rs. 50 lakh solatium to family||The Federation of Government Doctors’ Association (FOGDA) has demanded that the State government immediately grant the assured incentive of one-month’s special pay for government doctors during the pandemic, and a solatium of Rs. 50 lakh for families of doctors who have died due to the infection. The association, marking a year of protests that saw the participation of 15,000 doctors from the State, put forward a list of demands during a meeting with Health Department officials. The association stated that government doctors were working round-the-clock for COVID-19 prevention and treatment. During the lockdown, the doctors carried out non-COVID-19 services, including maternal and child care. Many of them acquired the infection during work, and a few of them succumbed to it. However, the doctors were not receiving appropriate pay or promotions for their work, a statement issued by FOGDA said. Apart from the solatium for families of doctors who lost their lives to COVID-19, the association demanded the immediate granting of the Central government insurance amount for the families and a government job for a family member. With COVID-19 cases on the rise, the FOGDA demanded that the government give ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh for doctors who have tested positive for the infection. The association also raised the long-pending demands of government doctors — time-scale pay and promotions (pay band- 4 at 12 years, as per government order 354), 50% service quota for postgraduate courses, conduct of counselling for PGs to fill posts and maintenance of posts of doctors as per the number of patients. The association urged the government to post the doctors who had taken part in the strike last year and were subsequently transferred, to their original places of work. The Madras High Court had quashed the 17B charge memos and transfer orders issued to more than 100 doctors for participating in the strike. However, the government filed an appeal against the order last week. The association urged the government to withdraw the appeal, keeping in mind the welfare of the doctors during the pandemic.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patient with 90% lung infection recovers||After 60 days of treatment, a 45-year-old COVID-19 patient with 90% lung involvement was discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, on August 24. A resident of Kilpauk, the patient was admitted to the hospital on June 26 with complaints of fever and breathlessness. On arrival, doctors found his oxygen saturation to be very low at 35%. A CT scan showed 90% involvement of the lungs because of COVID-19 pneumonia, a press release said. “It is very difficult to manage patients in whom the lung involvement exceeds 30% to 40%. In the case of this patient, he had 90% lung involvement on arrival at the hospital. His oxygen saturation was low and doctors had to treat him on an emergency basis,” said R. Jayanthi, dean, Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate. She said he was overweight and did not have any other co-morbidities. He had fever and breathlessness for four days before arriving at the hospital. He was immediately admitted to the intensive care unit and treated with assisted ventilation, high-flow oxygen and given protocol-based drugs. “He was put on an extended dose of remdesivir. He was also given tocilizumab and low molecular weight heparin. He came off oxygen support slowly. We downgraded the oxygen administration in a phased manner,” she said. He was on prone nursing, and later underwent physiotherapy for three days, she said. He was discharged on August 24. The dean, along with the team of doctors who treated him, S.M. Sujatha, Ranjani and Padmanabhan, and nodal officer Ramesh Mahalingam, wished him well on his discharge, the release said. Dr. Mahalingam said so far, more than 15,000 in-patients had been treated for COVID-19 at the hospital with a recovery rate of 90%. A total of 11,000 CT scans were done for patients since the inauguration of the COVID-19 facility on March 27, he added.  He came off oxygen support slowly. We downgraded the oxygen administration in a phased manner R. Jayanthi Dean, Government Medical College, Omandurar Estate
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Public libraries to open from September 1||There is good news for book lovers and those passionate about reading! The State government on Thursday granted permission for opening lending, reference and own book reading sections of public libraries (except part-time) from September 1 for certain activities. It also approved a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in this regard. Persons above 65 years of age, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 15 years shall not be allowed to use the library. According to a G.O. issued in this regard, the three sections alone shall be permitted to function in Connemara Public Library, Anna Centenary Library and district central libraries. In branch and village libraries, the lending section alone shall be permitted to function. “All libraries except branch libraries and village libraries shall function from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. on all working days,” the G.O. stated. Branch and village libraries would function in their usual working hours, said a G.O. issued by Chief Secretary K.Shanmugam. Follow norms The wearing of face masks would be compulsory and physical distancing norms were to be followed. Thermal screening of all readers and staff, including contractual staff, shall be done on their arrival, it said. “Those with temperature above 37.2 degree Celsius may be restricted from entering the library,” it said. The detailed SOP is available on The Hindu website at http://bit.ly/TNGOforLibraries
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to declare Class X private candidates as passed dismissed||The Madras High Court has dismissed a plea to declare the Class X private candidates also to have passed without forcing them to write the exams, as was done in the case of regular candidates. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha agreed with Special Government Pleader C. Munusamy that no such direction could be issued since the Class X private candidates were on a different footing compared to the regular Class X students. The petitioner claimed that Class XI admissions had begun though the written examinations for the private candidates were scheduled only next month. The judges said that could not be a reason to declare all of them to have passed the exams. The court recorded the submission of the SGP that the results for the private candidates would be declared within two weeks of the examination.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Business travellers’ exempted from norms||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday exempted “all business travellers” visiting the State for a short stay of 72 hours from quarantine norms in order to give a boost to industry and economic sentiment. A senior official told The Hindu : “Earlier, these business travellers had to spend 14 days in quarantine. From now on, they do not have to be in quarantine. This order would facilitate business and economy without travelling restrictions.” The e-pass would be issued to “all business travellers relating to the segments, including industry, hospitality, legal, IT/ITES, entertainment, etc., who are visiting Tamil Nadu for a short stay of 72 hours” and they would be exempted from quarantine, a G.O. issued stated. The State government felt the move would “encourage and facilitate business-related travel to Tamil Nadu and would give a boost to the industry and economy sentiment.” The Hindu has a copy of the G.O. The decision followed the Information Technology Department's representation to the government seeking to exempt a client who had to visit T.N. multiple times and pleaded to exempt them from quarantine norms.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM condoles death of former SC judge||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and leaders, cutting across party lines, condoled thedeath of former Supreme Court judgeA.R. Lakshmanan on Thursday. In a tweet, Mr. Palaniswami recalled that Justice Lakshmanan was best in class, and extended his deepest condolences to the family. DMK president M.K. Stalin expressed shock over the news and noted that Justice Lakshmanan had been part of various historic judgements. “He had suggested various judicial reforms and especially recommended stricter punishment for crimes against women and opposed the imposition of Hindi in the Supreme Court,” Mr. Stalin noted. He extended his condolences to the family for the demise of Justice Lakshmanan as well as that of his wife. In his condolence message, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam noted that Justice Lakshmanan was part of historic judgements like the ban on smoking in public places. “I am also pained to know that his wife Meenakshi Aachi passed away a few days back,” he said in a tweet and conveyed deepest condolences to the bereaved family. His love for Tamil While extending his condolences, MDMK chief Vaiko said Justice Lakshmanan had a special love and affection for Tamil and Tamil Nadu, and recalled the role played by him on the Mullaperiyar dam issue, as a member of the Court-appointed empowered committee and for his suggestion that there was no need for Kerala to build a new dam. PMK founder S. Ramadoss noted that Justice Lakshmanan had recommended the use of Tamil as an official language in the Madras High Court and had delivered many historic judgements. He, too, extended his condolences to the family. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said Justice Lakshmanan’s demise was a great loss, and extended his condolences to the family.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM’s stand on NEET, a betrayal: Stalin||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin on Thursday said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s stand that the NEET could be conducted after the pandemic was over, amounted to “outright betrayal” (of the demand to exempt Tamil Nadu from the NEET). In a statement, Mr. Stalin said Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar had written to the Centre only on Wednesday seeking exemption from NEET and the Chief Minister has expressed a contradictory view the very next day. Against poor students “It is the unanimous opinion of the people of Tamil Nadu that the State should be exempted from NEET as it is against the rural and poor students. It is strange that the Chief Minister has spoken in favour of NEET after adopting a resolution against the exam in the Assembly,” he charged. Resolution ignored Mr. Stalin said the Centre had thrown into the dustbin the resolution adopted by the State Assembly, seeking exemption from NEET, and the AIADMK government, which did not have the courage to question the action of the Centre, had given up on the resolution. Mr. Stalin said the State government should declare that it would not allow the NEET to be held and admit students in medical colleges based on the marks scored in the Plus Two examinations. “We are not seeking exemption for one year. We are for dispensing with it permanently,” he argued.
28 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Public libraries to open from September 1||Good news for book lovers and those passionate about reading! The State government on Thursday granted permission for opening lending, reference and own book reading sections of public libraries (except part-time) from September 1 for certain activities. It also approved a Standard Operating Procedure in this regard. Persons above 65 years of age, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 15 years shall not be allowed to use the library. A G.O. issued in this regard said the three sections alone shall be permitted to function in Connemara Public Library, Anna Centenary Library and district central libraries. In branch and village libraries, lending section alone shall be permitted to function. “All libraries except branch libraries and village libraries shall function from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. on all working days,” the G.O. stated. The branch and village libraries would function in their usual working hours, said a G.O. issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam. The wearing of face masks would be compulsory and physical distancing norms were to be followed. Thermal screening of all readers/staff including contractual staff shall be done on their arrival, it said.“Those with temperature above 37.2 degree Celsius may be restricted.”
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Career counselling webinar to be held on August 29||The Hindu Education Plus is hosting a series of free webinars through August on current and emerging career opportunities in different fields, presented by the SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai. As a part of the series, a webinar on ‘Sciences’ will be held on August 29 for students of Classes IX to XII. Dr. S.P. Thyagarajan, former Vice-Chancellor, Madras University, professor of eminence and dean (research), Sri Ramachandra University, Chennai; D. John Thiruvadigal, professor, dean (sciences), SRM Institute of Science & Technology, and Sanjay Molur, executive director, Zoo Outreach Organization, will speak and the session will be moderated by Aswathi Pacha, sub-editor, The Hindu . The webinar will be held from 11 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. To register, students can visit http://bit.ly/SRMTHEP3 or scan the QR code.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Crocodile Bank, Vandalur Zoo receive aid||To help overcome challenges owing to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, HCL has extended its support to the Arignar Anna Zoological Park and the Madras Crocodile Bank. Because of the lockdown, they have remained shut since March and this has impacted their revenues generated mainly through the sale of visitor tickets. In an official statement, HCL said it would help with animal feed and care at the facilities, while also providing salaries to caretakers involved in sanitisation and maintenance for a period of six months.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No pilgrimage for church festival’||The annual festival of Annai Vailankanni shrine at Besant Nagar, which attracts thousands of devotees, will commence with the flag hoisting on Saturday. This year, keeping in view the COVID-19 situation, all processions and pilgrimages stand cancelled and no one will be allowed to enter the shrine. The festive events will be confined to the premises, church authorities said. Vincent Chinnadurai, rector and parish priest of the Anna Vailankanni Shrine, appealed to devotees to not to come to the shrine.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SPB continues to be stable, says Charan||Singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam’s health condition continues to remain stable, his son S.P. Charan said on Thursday In a video message, Mr. Charan said that this was a good sign, and that the veteran singer underwent a session of physiotherapy as well. “Reports from the hospital have been uneventful, and as they say, no news is good news. My father continues to be healthy and on a positive path to recovery,’ he said. The singer was hospitalised at MGM Healthcare, earlier this month, after he tested positive for COVID-19. A health bulletin from the hospital on Wednesday said that he continued to remain on life support, and was conscious and responsive.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to take suo motu note of news report||Justice M.M. Sundresh of the Madras High Court on Thursday told a Special Government Pleader (SGP) that he intends to take up a suo motu public interest litigation petition on the basis of a news story that appeared in The Hindu on Wednesday under the title ‘Illegal sand quarrying in Tirukandalam lake raises concern.’ During the hearing of a PIL petition related to alleged illegal quarrying from Chinnar and South Pennaiyar river beds listed before a Division Bench comprising Justice R. Hemalatha, the judge told SGP E. Manohar that the news report had recorded the concerns of Tirukandalam villagers of mining being done in the guise of removing top soil.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Move SC on Sankar murder case’||CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan on Thursday urged the State government to file an appeal in the Supreme Court against the Madras High Court order acquitting the father of Kausalya and commutation of death sentence awarded to five persons arrested in connection with the murder of her husband Sankar. He said that Sankar’s brother Vigneswaran had approached the Supreme Court.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Report sought on sealing of man’s house||The State Human Rights Commission on Thursday called for a report from the authorities on an incident at Hasthinapuram in Chromepet, where the house of a 50-year-old bank employee, who recovered from COVID-19, was sealed with tin sheets by municipality officials. SHRC acting chairperson D. Jayachandran took suo motu cognisance of a media report in this regard. He called for reports from the Health Secretary, the Commissioner of Municipal Administration and the Commissioner of Pallavaram Municipality within two weeks.
28 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Team monitors elephants in Sirumugai range||A team of the Forest Department from the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) patrolled forest areas of Sirumugai forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division for three consecutive days to monitor wild elephants. The team documented 10 elephants, including a male calf in Pethikuttai forest beat of Sirumugai forest range. All the elephants were found to be healthy and active. Sources with the Department said that an 11-member team headed by a forester from ATR joined frontline staff of Pethikuttai beat of Sirumugai range for the special patrols done from Monday to Wednesday. They patrolled areas such as Varappallam, Moolaiyoor, Amman Pudur, Irattaikanpaalam, Sambaravalli Pudur, Karupparayan Kovil, Mayil Mokkai and Puthukkadu areas of Pethikuttai beat on the three days. They observed and documented three male elephants, one male calf and six female elephants, said sources. The initiative was taken as Sirumugai forest range witnessed eight elephant deaths so far this year, said a Forest official. Many of these deaths were reported within the limits of Pethikuttai forest beat which is separated by the water storage area of Bhavani Sagar reservoir from the Nilgiri eastern slope of Sirumugai range. The Department had recently monitored elephants in Pethikuttai beat using a camera-fitted drone .
28 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BJP to give ‘alternative path’ in 2021 election: Annamalai||The BJP will provide an “alternative path” for the people of Tamil Nadu in the 2021 Assembly election, former Karnataka IPS officer and BJP member K. Annamalai said on Thursday. He told reporters here that the State government was “overdependent on Tasmac” and criticised its alleged lack of focus on infrastructure. “No ruling party can be anti-Delhi,” he said, criticising the opposition in the State to the Union government’s initiatives such as the Environment Impact Assessment Notification, 2020, and the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020. He said the States must conduct the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) at the earliest with assistance from the Central government amid the COVID-19 pandemic. He, however, conceded that Tamil Nadu was one of the best performing States. But the performance must be improved further, he said. As for the recent controversy over the predominant use of Hindi at a nationwide virtual training programme of the Union Ministry of AYUSH, Mr. Annamalai said it was “condemnable” and clarified that the words of a government servant must not be taken as a Central government’s policy. He also demanded a “white paper” comparing the contributions of the State and Central governments to the development of Tamil. “I have never said that Hindi must be given priority,” he said, refuting allegations of imposition of Hindi through the NEP, 2020. However, he said, the people of the State must learn as many languages as possible.
28 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Trade and industry say mandatory COVID-19 testing is impractical||On Thursday, several commercial establishments in Coimbatore Corporation limits started receiving notices from the civic body saying the workers should be tested for COVID-19 within 24 hours after receiving the communication. This is practically not possible, say business owners across sectors. “No other city or State in the country has such a rule. So, why in Coimbatore ?,” asked one of them. The huge cost involved in testing the workers, problems in sending the workers and staff to laboratories, and lack of standard norms to be followed if workers test positive are some of the concerns among them. Some of the association heads plan to meet the District Collector on Friday. There are several practical challenges in testing all the workers, according to J. Ganesh Kumar, chairman of Confederation of Indian Industry, Coimbatore. The government should conduct camps in different localities. Otherwise, it will be difficult to mobilise the workers and send them to the laboratories for testing. If 500 to 1,000 people are working at an industry, how many should be tested ? There should be clarity in the order and the government should conduct testing camps at least two or three days a week at a particular locality, he said. The migrant workers are just returning to work. They will feel uncomfortable and will develop fear if they are tested every 10 days. The workers will not come to Coimbatore and the economy of the district will collapse, say textile mill owners. In the construction sector, workers who stay at the site take precautionary measures. Nearly 50 % of the workers come as daily workers and live across the city. It is not possible to test them as they will move from one work site to another depending on the job available, says Panneerselvam, head of Builders’ Association of India, Coimbatore chapter. B. Muthuvenkatraman, president of Coimbatore Jewellery Manufacturers’ Association, says if the workers in a jewellery shop are tested and they report negative for COVID-19, the next day they will be at the shop meeting customers. “How do we protect them ?” he asks. The jewellery manufacturers suggest that the district administration can instead go in for one week to two weeks complete lockdown, he says. “We are already operating just 50 % of the capacity. The MSMEs will not be able to test all the workers and that too every 10 days because of the costs involved,” says Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president R. Ramamurthy. “A micro unit that employs 10 workers will have to shell out at least Rs. 10,000 for testing the workers once a month. When business is down and there is no support from the government, this is an additional financial burden to the micro units,” says J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises. Small traders, who employ three to five workers, will just shut down their business. These workers do not stay at the accommodations arranged by the employer. They come to work every day. So there is no point in testing these workers regularly, according to C. Balasubramaniam, vice-president of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore. Some of the association heads say the officials should discuss with the trade and industry and take their suggestions before announcing such measures. So far, trade and industry have kept their premises largely safe. Making testing mandatory, giving just 24 hours time, threatening action, and shutting down the industry or shop only create fear among the workers and the employers, they say. There is no standard norm on how long a shop or industry will be closed if there are just one or two positive cases and whether the rest of the workers will be quarantined. The officials should explain these to the trade and industry, they add.
28 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district has enough beds to handle COVID-19 cases: Health Dept.||Coimbatore district is currently having adequate number of beds to take care of COVID-19 patients, according to the Health Department. As per the bed strength data shared by the Department, the district had 6,085 beds for COVID-19 patients, scattered over hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) in the government and private sectors against 2,910 active cases as on Wednesday. The total bed strength in 14 government-run hospitals, including the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (555 beds) and the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital (450 beds), was 2,039 against the 932 patients under care as on Wednesday. The 20 private hospitals that were handling COVID-19 cases had 1,570 beds against 635 patients who were under admission till Wednesday. In the government sector, 16 CCCs were currently functional in the government hospitals, schools and primary health centres. The total bed strength was 356 and 52 asymptomatic patients were in these facilities as on Wednesday. Similarly, there were 2,120 beds in CCCs in private facilities, including Codissia Trade Fair Complex till Wednesday. As many as 847 patients were under care in these facilities. Sources with the Health Department said mild cases of COVID-19 accounted for the majority of the active cases in the district, for which the district administration and the Department were planning to increase the bed strength in CCCs. As on Wednesday, 2,580 patients out of 2,910 patients, who were under treatment, were categorised as ‘mild’ cases. While the number of severe cases stood at 69, the remaining 261 cases were categorised as ‘moderate’. The categorisation was done based on symptoms of the disease and comorbidity in patients. An official, who is part of COVID-19 management in the district, said efforts were also under way to increase bed strength in CMCH and ESI Hospitals to handle more severe cases. Also, the Health Department was expecting more cases in the district in the coming days, mostly more than 400 cases per day. The official added that Collector K. Rajamani issued strict instructions to private hospitals to admit COVID-19 patients after complaints emerged that a very few of them were refusing to admit severe cases of COVID-19 and referring such cases to CMCH and ESI Hospital.
28 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for sharing child pornography||A 40-year-old man from Coimbatore was arrested on charges of circulating child pornographic videos using social media. K. Balakrishnadas aka Balaji from Ramnagar was arrested by the Kattoor police on Wednesday under vario us provisions of the Information Technology Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Man held for theft The Race Course police have arrested a 35-year-old man from Kerala on charges of stealing mobile phones from apartments and houses. The arrested has been identified as R. Naveendranadhan, a native of Kaipamangalam in Thrissur district. He was held by the police on Tuesday based on a complaint filed by a resident of an apartment on Avinashi Road, within the limits of the Race Course police station. Four held in Tiruppur The Tiruppur North police on Thursday arrested four men on charges of murdering a youth at the hostel building of Chikkanna Government Arts College. The accused – Muthukumar, 23, Sundar, 23, Tamilselvan, 20 and Bharatkumar, 21 – allegedly murdered Arunkumar, 28, on Wednesday evening on the hostel premises.  Muthukumar and Arunkumar engaged in an altercation on Monday following a bike accident. The murder was a result of the retaliation by Muthukumar and his accomplices as the deceased allegedly attempted to attack them, according to the police.
28 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Collector issues advisory to pvt. hospitals||Collector K. Rajamani on Thursday warned private hospitals against sending COVID-19 patients who are in severe condition to the government hospitals and also against charging patients beyond the government fixed rates for treatment. The Collector has appointed five co-ordinating officers headed by the Sub-Collector, who will monitor treatment, facilities, and treatment expenses at private hospitals in the district that are currently treating COVID-19 patients. Mr. Rajamani held a meeting with senior officials of the Corporation, Health and Revenue Departments on Thursday in the wake of complaints that accused certain private hospitals of denying admission to COVID-19 patients, charging of exorbitant rates and referring patients in severe condition to the government hospitals. The coordinating officers appointed for private hospitals are: Suresh (8220655666) for Kumaran Hospital and KMCH at Kovilpalayam, Muthus Hospital, SMF Hospital at Annur and KG Hospital at Sarvanampatti; Prabakaran (9952648475) for Karpagam Hospital, Abirami Hospital at Sundarapuram, Abinand Hospital and Royal Care Hospital at Gandhipuram; Duraisamy (6382793328) for PSG Hospital at Peelamedu, Royal Care Hospital at Neelambur, KMCH on Kalapatti Road; Murugan (9487132112) for Sri Ramakrishna Hospital at Avarampalayam, GKNM Hospital, Kongunadu Hospital at Gandhipuram, KG Hospital on Arts College Road, Chennai Hospital and Hindustan Hospital; Thavamani (9944483131) for Lakshmi Hospital at Thudiyalur, One Care Hospital and Ganga Hospital at Saibaba Colony. Mr. Rajamani said the private hospitals should give priority to COVID-19 patients considering the severity of the pandemic. They should not inform other patients coming to their facilities that the admission could be done only after COVID-19 test.
28 August 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Govt.’s stand on NEET is for it to be deferred, says Palaniswami||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday reiterated that his government’s stand on the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) was for it to be deferred in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Addressing a press conference in Cuddalore after a review meeting on preventive measures to check the spread of COVID-19 and the implementation of government schemes in Cuddalore district, Mr. Palaniswami said that he had already written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in July, making a strong case for the postponement of NEET. The Health Minister had also written to the Centre seeking deferment of the examination as students would be unable to appear for it during the pandemic, he said. Mr. Palaniswami said the procedure to apply for e-passes had been liberalised by the government so that one could easily get it across the counter. “But people should also bear in mind that they should apply for e-passes only out of necessity and if the purpose of the travel is urgent and inevitable,” he said. “The current COVID-19 situation is so critical that one cannot foresee when the situation will turn normal. It is the government’s responsibility to save precious human lives and we are doing it. Therefore, people should also extend their cooperation and apply for e-passes only for urgent needs,” he said. The outbreak of COVID-19 has affected various sectors, including agriculture and industries, he said. “As a result, I have been visiting all districts to hold discussions with farmers, representatives of industries and self-help groups to ensure that there is all-round cooperation to rise to the exigency,” he said. Deep-sea port Works for upgradation of a deep-sea port in Cuddalore, at an estimated cost of Rs. 135 crore, was underway, he said, adding that cargo operations from the Cuddalore port would commence shortly. The Chief Minister also distributed welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 25.54 crore and laid foundation stones for new projects worth Rs. 32.16 crore. Industries Minister M.C. Sampath and Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri were present.
28 August 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||CM defends move||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday defended his government’s decision to promote college students who had arrears in semester examinations (except in the final year). He said the students were under agony due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The students had paid the examination fees and were waiting for the exams. However, the exams were being postponed continuously. Hence, the government decided to promote all students, he said.
28 August 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Three suspended for fraud in Central scheme||District Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri has suspended three contractual employees attached to the Agricultural Technology Management Agency scheme of the Department of Agriculture for alleged irregularities in implementation of the PM-KISAN Nidhi scheme in Cuddalore. The officials — Kammapuram block technology manager Bhagyaraj, Nallur block assistant technology manager Saravanan and Keerapalayam block crop insurance scheme employee Sundararaman — were suspended following an inquiry.
28 August 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||AIDWA protests against micro finance institutions||The All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) staged a demonstration outside the Revenue Divisional Office here on Thursday condemning micro finance institutions for demanding monthly interest during the COVID-19 times. The protests, led jointly by the CPI(M) affiliated women’s organisation along with women’s livelihood federation, called upon the district administration to intervene on behalf of the women self-help groups, women labourers and others, who had taken loans from such finance institutions. According to AIDWA, the institutions had made inroads into rural areas primarily because other credit institutions including the cooperative societies had failed to provide credit to the poor. Women workers and SHGs were forced to get credit from the micro finance institutions ranging between Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 30,000. They were saddled with interest rates of 6 % to 14 % annually depending on the financiers. The protesters alleged that the women were subjected to abuse for non-payment of interest.
28 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Telecom services remain disrupted in Bargur hills||Telecom services remain cut off in Bargur Hills for the fourth consecutive day after the optic fibre cable (OFC) on ghat road was damaged at nine places as Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) wanted the cables to be replaced for restoration of service. Currently, a private company is involved in works to double lane Anthiyur – Bargur - Kollegal Road for which excavators and drillers are used to break the rocks and dig the road. BSNL is the only service provider in the hill area providing mobile and landline connectivity in over 10 remote villages. During digging, OFC laid on ghat road that leads to Thamaraikarai in the hills were damaged at nine places and efforts by the BSNL employees to restore it failed as the lines could not be repaired. A senior official said that due to damages at 50 places, four km.. length of cable were replaced earlier in the year and the service was restored. Though the contractor was asked to be cautious while digging the road, cables continue to be damaged. “Though workers carry out repair works to the snapped cables, service cannot be restored as the number of joints are more and the transmission loss exceeds the threshold”, he said and added that the issue was taken up with the District Collector.
28 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmer comes out with repellent to prevent wild animals from raiding crops||A 40-year-old farmer from a village in Gobichettipalayam claims he has come out with a repellent that not only keeps wild animals from damaging standing crops, but also helps enhance crop productivity. Farmers in Gobichettipalayam, Sathyamangalam, Talavadi and Kadambur hills have to constantly chase away elephants, wild boars, rodents, deer, porcupines, gaurs, rabbits and peacocks that destroy crops at various stages and cause a huge loss. Installation of solar-powered fence, use of firecrackers, digging of trenches and even permission to shoot wild boars have not helped the farmers much in protecting the crops. G.V. Sudarshan of Modachur village in Gobichettipalayam has come out with a repellent named “HERBOLIV” that was tested at various places for its effectiveness. He told The Hindu that the repellent consists of a bio-liquid that protected crops and enhanced yield, and was also cost-effective and environmental-friendly. The bio-liquid is produced with the combination of botanical extracts, fermented fruit extracts and panchagavya that can be applied through foliar spray, drip irrigation and also by using innovative automatic timer-controlled sprinkler units. A team led by P. Alagesan, Senior Scientist and Head, ICAR Krishi Vigyan Kendra, MYDRA at Gobichettipalayam demonstrated the bio-liquid at farm lands and said it could keep wild animals away from crops. The team also suggested further validation by a formal institution. “The bio product has been tested and certified by Tamil Nadu Agriculture University, Coimbatore and further incubated by Agri Business Development Unit”, said Mr. Alagesan.
28 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Tenements yet to be allotted to 1,072 families||Fourteen months after 1,072 tenements were constructed for slum dwellers that were ready for occupancy, beneficiaries are yet to get their allocation. In 1984, Tamil Nadu Housing Board, Erode, constructed tenements at Perumpallam Canal (464 houses), Periyar Nagar (336) and Karungalpalayam (272 houses). Since the houses were damaged and the building lost its stability, tenements were demolished in 2014 and residents moved to rented houses.Under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) Housing For All Scheme, 1,072 slum tenements were constructed at a cost of Rs. 125.89 cror at these places and works were completed on May 9, 2019. However, houses were yet to be allotted to the residents who continue to pay rent despite absence of income during the lockdown. T. Durairaj, secretary, Slum Tenements Residents’ Welfare Association, told The Hindu that most of the residents were daily earners who lost their livelihood in the past six months and were unable to pay rent. “The new houses are being damaged and pipelines were stolen by miscreants,” he added. All the people living in the tenements earlier will be allotted houses as the scheme was executed under “Reconstruction of Slum Tenements” and the tenements have to pay 10% of the project cost for a house. A senior engineer at the Tamil Nadu Housing Board said that the government is yet to decide the percentage of beneficiary contribution after which a government order will be passed. “Only after that, houses will be allotted”, he said.
28 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Common Service Centres at head post offices||Services offered at e-service centres are offered at the three Common Service Centres (CSCs) functioning at three post offices in the district and the public are asked to utilise the service. A press release from the Senior Superintendent of Posts, Erode Division, said that the services will be available at Erode, Gobichettipalayam and Bhavani head post offices where people can pay electricity bills, recharges, book train tickets and avail PAN card services. Apart from this, various other services were also offered for the benefit of the people, the release added.
28 August 2020||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||Hosur Book Fair from today||Hosur Book Fair will be back in town on Friday, albeit in a limited way. The book fair will commence at Sishya School with 12 publishers and eight stalls. The book fair is being organised under the aegis of Tamil Nadu Science Forum, and Hosur Residents’ Welfare Association jointly with PMC Tech. Ananda Vikadan, Tamil Hindu, Kizhakku Padipagam, Bharathi Puthagalaya, Vallalar Padhipagam, Pagutharivalar Padhipagam, TN Science Publications, and Kanaraga Publications will put up stalls on the school premises. This year, the Tamil Nadu Science Forum will also sponsor books or 100 students from economically weak families. The fair will accommodate 60 to 70 persons at a time.
28 August 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Special buses for JEE/NEET from Karaikal to Puducherry||The Karaikal district administration has arranged transport for candidates from the enclave appearing for Joint Entrance Examinations (Mains) and National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) at centres in Puducherry, in view of the difficulties faced by students due to the pandemic. Though e-pass system has been abolished by the Puducherry government, timings of the buses does not suit students who cannot afford to hire private vehicles. Also, the special transport arrangement will help students to directly reach the exam centres. Buses are to be operated daily from September 1 to 6 for JEE and on September 13 for NEET. Physical distancing norms will be adhered to and a maximum of 35 students would be accommodated in a bus. The Puducherry Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) was prepared to operate buses even with a minimum of 20 students. Control room The control room (ph: 04368-228801/227704) set up to answer questions about buses has so far received over 100 enquiries, according to official sources here. The number of buses will be increased accordingly. But the fare has not yet been decided, sources said. The plan is to operate buses in two slots for candidates appearing for the exam. For students in the first slot, the buses will leave Karaikal bus stand at 3 a.m. and drop the students at the examination centres by 7 a.m. Schedule Students in this slot will board the same buses from their respective examination centres for their return journey between 12.30 p.m. and 1.30 p.m. and reach Karaikal bus stand at 4 p.m. Students in the second slot will begin their journey from Karaikal at 8 a.m. to reach the examination centres between noon and 12.30 p.m. These students will begin their return journey from Puducherry centres from 6.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. to reach Karaikal Bus Stand at 10 p.m., District Collector Arjun Sharma said in a press release.
28 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen supply points at GRH toilets||Oxygen supply points have been provided in toilets of Government Rajaji Hospital’s (GRH) COVID-19 speciality wing to ensure seamless oxygen support for mild and asymptomatic patients even when they are inside the toilets. GRH Dean J. Sangumani said that patients with severe and moderate COVID-19 disease were asked to use bedpans or diapers and were barred from using the toilets. “Only mild or asymptomatic patients are allowed to use the toilets,” he said. Since, COVID-19 disease affects the oxygen saturation levels, it was highly important to ensure that the levels were constantly maintained. “There are chances that oxygen levels of mild or moderate patients might go down when they are inside the toilets. Hence, oxygen supply is being provided at the entrance and inside the toilets to support the patients in case they suffer from breathlessness,” he said. The Treatment Coordinator of the COVID-19 speciality ward K. Senthil said that COVID-19 caused ‘silent hypoxia’, where the oxygen saturation levels of a patient might be lower, even when they do not display any signs of breathlessness. “There have been instances of mild and asymptomatic patients suffering from breathlessness when they use the toilets in the early morning hours, especially between 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. Hence, the oxygen support is being provided to avoid such instances,” he said. Dr. Sangumani said that all measures are being taken to avoid deaths caused due to COVID-19. He also said that most of the patients in the hospital required oxygen support. Currently, there are 850 beds with functional oxygen supply, added the Dean.  Oxygen supply is being provided at the entrance and inside the toilets to support patients in case they suffer from breathlessness J. Sangumani GRH Dean
28 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water hyacinth removed from Vaigai||Madurai Corporation workers removed water hyacinth, an invasive aquatic weed, which thrived on the Vaigai at Obula Padithurai, here on Thursday. A Corporation official said that workers were engaged in removing around 40 trucks of water hyacinth from the Vaigai at Obula Padithurai for the past four days. This aquatic plant usually thrives only on contaminated water, which indicates discharge of sewage into the river. The official said that the growth of the water hyacinth was more visible after construction of the check dam near AV Bridge. “Since water gets stagnated at the check dam, the growth of water hyacinths is more intense at this spot,” he said. The removal of water hyacinth from the spot will continue, he added.
28 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Filing of online RTE applications begins||The filing of online application for 5,715 seats reserved under Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009, in 443 private schools in Madurai district began on Thursday. According to the RTE Act, private schools have to set aside 25% of their entry-level seats for students from economically weaker sections of the society. The School Education Department’s website shows that the majority of the 5,715 seats in Madurai district are for LKG. According to the website, the parents can file the application till September 25. Abdullah Maideen Pichai, a resident of New Meenakshi Nagar (ward 54) who applied for his twin sons, said that commencing online RTE admission process amidst the pandemic was a boon for many unprivileged parents who wanted to admit their wards in private schools. “The lockdown has financially affected many families. It is only through the RTE seats that children from underprivileged can enter the private schools,” he said. The People’s Awareness Trust, a Madurai-based non-governmental organisation, along with the support of the Students Federation of India (SFI) are helping parents to fill the online application for RTE seats. K. Hakkim, an activist from the People’s Awareness Trust, said that in the previous years, they had set up centres to assist parents in filing online RTE applications. “But, due to COVID-19 pandemic, centres cannot be set up this year. But, if parents reach out to us at 9786077999 or 8122134909, then our volunteers will reach the houses of the students to assist the parents,” he said R. Charles, a volunteer who assisted few parents in filing RTE applications on Thursday, said that many parents were anxious as they were unable to make corrections in their identity proof documents amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Hakkim said that RTE seats that are vacant in all classes must be published so that it can be ensured that children from underprivileged families fill them up. SFI’s Madurai District (Urban) Secretary S. Veldeva said that in the previous years there were irregularities in selection of students for RTE seats. “The officials must continuously monitor the admission process to avoid such a scenario this year,” he said.
28 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Teachers give mobile phones to students||Teachers of Thiagarajar Higher Secondary School at Vasantha Nagar, a government-aided school, have taken steps to ensure that their students are on par with private school students. Teaching and non-teaching staff of the school have pooled in money to distribute free mobile phones to students who get admitted for Class 6 this academic year. Headmaster S.V. Ramanathan says these mobile phones have internet facility which will help students access WhatsApp, YouTube and other applications through which classes are held. “We have decided to recharge the internet packs for students for the next three months,” he adds. S. Krishnaveni, Economics teacher at the school, says that with the closure of schools owing to the pandemic, videos were sent to students of Classes 7 to 12 through WhatsApp. “Unlike students of private schools who have smartphones, computers and seamless internet connection to access online classes, our students do not have a smartphone at their homes. When admissions for Class 6 commenced last week, it was found that many students did not even have mobile phones,” she says. Hence, as an initial step, the 13 teaching and non-teaching staff of the school decided to pool in money to buy mobile phones for Class 6 students, she adds. Mr. Ramanathan says that till date 11 students have been admitted to Class 6. The total strength of the school is 206, he adds. “There is a popular belief that private schools provide better quality of education when compared to government-run schools, which is totally unwarranted. The government-run schools have experienced teachers who are ready to help students. By this initiative of distributing free mobile phones, we also aim to improve the student strength of the school,” he adds.
28 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Cases go up again in Virudhunagar||A total of 73 new COVID-19 cases were recorded on Thursday taking the total number of cases in the district to 13,685. A total of 103 persons got discharged and active cases stood at 894. Four deaths were recorded taking the district’s toll to 345. Out of the four deaths, three were at Government Rajaji Hospital and one at a private hospital. Number of fresh cases increased in Virudhunagar as 152 more people tested positive taking the total number of positive cases to 12,281. However, after 38 patients got discharged on Wednesday (11,590 discharged till date), the number of active cases stood at 507. As one more person, 70-year-old man, died on August 25, the death toll increased to 184. Theni recorded 131 positive cases and the overall tally moved to 12,179. There were 202 discharges from the hospitals. Dindigul district has 97 new cases and the total stood at 6,124. There were 181 people who were discharged from hospitals. Ramanathapuram distrtict saw 76 fresh cases and the tally stood at 4,599. Hospitals discharged 37 patients. Sivaganga district reported 66 new cases and the total moved to 3,907. Hospitals discharged 26 persons after treatment. Southern districts Thoothukudi district’s tally crossed 11,000 on Thursday with the addition of 95 fresh cases. After seeing 95 new cases on Thursday, Thoothukudi district’s tally went up to 11,008 cases and 819 active cases after 32 patients were discharged on Thursday. Tirunelveli recorded 118 fresh cases on Thursday. The total cases stood at 9,018 and there were 1,306 active cases as 82 patients were discharged. As two patients succumbed to the viral infection, the district has so far lost 166 persons to COVID-19. Kanniyakumari’s tally moved to 9,094 and the number of active cases stood at 1,517 as 104 new cases were reported on Thursday. While 66 patients were discharged, two positive patients died in the hospital to take the total fatality to 159. Tenkasi had 55 new cases and the total number went up to 5,099 with 970 active cases after 23 patients were discharged from the hospitals. So far, the district has lost 100 persons to the viral infection.
28 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on career opportunities tomorrow||The Hindu Education Plus will host a webinar on August 29, between 11 a.m. and 12.30 p.m., on the ‘Current and Emerging Career Opportunities in the field of Sciences’ as part of its free webinar series on career counselling. The webinar series, presented by SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, will be helpful to parents and students from Classes 9 to 12 to make informed decisions on higher education. The speakers will be Dr. S. P. Thyagarajan, Professor, D.Sc. in Medical Microbiology, Ph. D, M.D Degrees, National Academy of Sciences and National Academy of Medical Sciences; Dr. D. John Thiruvadigal, Professor and Dean (Sciences) SRM Institute of Science and Technology; and Dr. Sanjay Molur, Executive Director, Zoo Outreach Organisation. Those interested can register athttp://bit.ly/SRMTHEP3or scan the QR code to attend the webinar.
28 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks govt. response on e-pass system||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State government to file a counter affidavit in a PIL petition that challenged the government’s decision to continue with the e-pass system. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notice to the State government and sought a response in the petition filed by P. Gopalakrishnan, Kanniyakumari coordinator of the Democratic Corruption Liberation Front. Under ‘Unlock 3.0’, the National Disaster Management Authority had ensured inter-State and intra-State travel without any permit and this was binding on the State government and no contrary orders can be issued by the State. The restriction of movement is unreasonable and when the National-level authority has issued guidelines, the same must be followed by the State authorities, he said and challenged the operation of the government order.
28 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks response from State govt.||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday sought a response from the State government in a petition filed by a woman from Thanjavur who alleged that the Thanjavur police had tortured and killed her husband in custody. Justice R. Pongiappan directed the State to file a counter in the petition filed by M. Malar who alleged that her husband Mani was picked up by the police for inquiry in a case of theft and tortured in custody. Found hanging He was later found hanging from a tree on June 10. The woman who belongs to a SC community said that the police had arrested her son on May 22 in connection with a theft case. The same police picked up her husband and tortured him, she said. The High Court Bench adjourned the case to September 15.
28 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Six held for three house-break-in cases||The police have arrested six persons, including two women, a minor boy and his mother, in connection with three house break-in incidents reported in July under Koodal Pudur police station limits. They recovered 34 sovereigns of gold, 1.450 kg of silver articles and Rs. 45,000 from them. One of the main accused P. Sonai of Anaiyur died in an accident. “Sonai, ‘Vattam’ Surya and V. Karuppasamy, 19, of Thathaneri, planned to strike some houses in Karur. On their way, they met with an accident in which Sonai died,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime), K. Palanikumar said. In one of the houses, they decamped with over four sovereigns of gold and Rs. 24,000. In another house, they managed to lay their hands on 31 sovereigns of gold, some silver articles and Rs. 5,000. In the third incident, they had stolen Rs. 70,000. A special team, led by Inspector of Police, Kathirvel, arrested them. “All of them were friends as they had studied in the same school,” he added. “The two women, who had knowledge about their children’s criminal activities, helped them to pledge the gold and make money,” Mr. Palanikumar said.
28 August 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown decision hinges on Collectors: CM||A decision on lifting the lockdown next month will hinge on the feedback from District Collectors and the Health Department on August 29, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Thursday. The current phase of lockdown is slated to end on August 30. “I cannot say anything about the lifting of the lockdown now,” the Chief Minister said, responding to a query from mediapersons in Nagapattinam. Asked about complaints that job opportunities were being cornered by people from other States, Mr. Palaniswami asserted that there was no dearth of jobs in Tamil Nadu. Four lakh migrant labourers had been sent to their States during the COVID-19 lockdown, and industries were keen on bringing them back, he said. To a query on the gas pipelines being laid currently in the delta region, Mr. Palaniswami said the declaration of the delta region as a Protected Agricultural Zone would have no bearing on projects already sanctioned. Only new projects would not be permitted.
28 August 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Fieldworkers in Namakkal to undergo COVID-19 test once in 10 days: Collector||District Collector K. Megraj along with Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan reviewed the COVID-19 containment measures in Kumarapalayam and Pallipalayam municipalities on Thursday and advised fieldworkers to undergo COVID-19 test once in 10 days. “As there has been a gradual increase in COVID-19 cases here, containment measures are discussed. To prevent residents from venturing out of containment zones for essential materials, the supply should be ensured. We have advised officials to collect details of migrant workers and persons travelling to Erode every day for work and random tests should be conducted for them once in 10 or 12 days,” Mr. Megraj told mediapersons. Mr. Megraj said the officials would intensify door-to-door awareness campaigns and inform the public to reach out to doctors at the earliest as and when they showed symptoms. On ensuring limited crowd in weddings and other functions, Mr. Megraj said that on giving permission, an official from the Revenue Department or civic body should visit the venue and ensure only permissible crowd was present. Nearly 167 cases had been reported owing to gatherings in weddings and other functions, he added. Mr. Sakthi Ganesan said police assistance had been ensured in the containment areas. In Salem, Collector S.A. Raman reviewed the containment measures in Attur on Thursday. According to a release, 99 cases were identified in a single day in the area recently. Mr. Raman said 1,800 persons had contracted the disease in Attur health district till date, of which 1,344 recovered and 36 persons died. As many as 420 patients were under treatment, the release said.
28 August 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||ICMR, Jipmer form joint team to help Puducherry||The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer) have formed a joint team to assist the Health Department here in combating COVID-19 in the Union Territory. In a letter to Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi on Thursday, the Director, ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), Manoj Murhekar, said doctors and scientists from both institutes would assist the government in surveillance, testing, isolation, contact tracing, quarantine, clinical care, data management and overall co-ordination on COVID-19 management. The joint team of NIE and Jipmer also called on the Lt. Governor and held discussions on the preventive strategy to be adopted to contain the spread of the virus. Thanking the Union government for the “rescue,” of the Union Territory, Ms Bedi, in a WhatsApp message to reporters, said, “The team gave us an analytical report of all key areas which need to be addressed immediately to control the spread of COVID-19 in Puducherry.” The team also met Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Wednesday.
28 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||10 deaths in Puducherry||The COVID-19 toll went up to 190 with 10 more deaths reported on Thursday while 511 new admissions took the overall tally past the 12,000 mark. The overall tally stood at 12, 434 with 4,483 active cases. A total of 7,761 COVID-19 patients have been discharged.
28 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Week-long lockdown in 32 areas of U.T.||The Puducherry government has decided to impose localised lockdown at 32 places for seven days, starting August 31. District Collector T. Arun, in an order issued on Thursday, said the government decided to impose a lockdown due to the high doubling rate in COVID-19 cases. Grocery and vegetable shops in these areas will stay open from 6 a.m to noon. All other shops and business establishments would be closed. People will not be allowed to enter the area other than to attend office duties, clinics, milk booths and pharmacies. All vehicular movement would be restricted, the Collector said. The areas are where the lockdown is being imposed are: Shanmugapuram, Thattanchavady, Gundupalayam, Thilaspet, Thendral Nagar, Iyyapan Nagar, Shakthi Nagar, Anitha Nagar, Aiyanar Koil Street in O.K. Palayam, Thiyagamudhaliyar Nagar, Mullai Nagar, Periyar Nagar, Gangaiamman Koil Street, Kurunji Nagar, Maduvupet, Pettuchettypet, from Thillai Nagar to Vasantham Nagar, Pudhunagar in Kannuvapet Road Junction, R.K. Nagar, Pitchaveerampet Vaikal 1,2, 3, 4, J.J. Nagar, Rainbow Nagar, Kumaragurupallamm, Govindalai, Senthamarai Nagar, Solai Nagar, Vaithikuppam, Muthialpet Urban (Muthiya Mudhaliyar Street, St. Rosario Street, Kattamanikuppam Street), Ulavaikal, Dharmapuri Street, Porayurpet-Pudhunagar and Pangurpet.
28 August 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Illegal sand mining issue: three injured in clash||The Karaiyur police in Pudukottai district have registered separate cases after a tiff broke out between two groups of people on Wednesday over alleged filming of suspected illegal sand mining. Three persons were injured in the assault. Police sources said there was previous emnity between Ravikumar and Durai after a temple constructed by the latter on poromboke land was removed during an encroachment drive in 2015. The move came following a petition submitted by Ravikumar. Ravikumar also reportedly took video clips of illegal sand mining allegedly taking place at Alampatti village. A couple of days ago, Ravikumar's brother Ramakrishnan had taken a video clip of a vehicle, reportedly owned by Durai, suspecting that it was involved in illegal sand mining. A quarrel is said to have ensued between Ravikumar, Ramakrishnan and the vehicle driver Veerendran leading to exchange of blows causing injuries to both sides.
28 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Intensive care facilities scaled up at Salem GH||Intensive care and testing facilities at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital have been scaled up, considering the increase in COVID-19 cases in the district over the past few days, said R. Balajinathan, Dean. According to officials, on Wednesday alone, 451 cases were reported in Salem, taking the district’s tally to 8,966. As on Wednesday, 123 patients died of COVID-19 and 6,005 people recovered from the disease. Mr. Balajinathan said the number of beds for COVID-19 patients requiring intensive care had been increased from 75 to 150 and the total bed strength from 600 to 700 beds. The number of equipment required for treating patients in intensive care had also been increased. Equipment “The number of high flow nasal cannula equipment has been increased from 14 to 34 and 25-30 new ventilators have been provided. The number of beds with oxygen supply has been increased from 300 to 450,” Dr. Balajinathan said. He added that the number of doctors involved in COVID-19 treatment had been increased with the addition of 12 doctors and 20 other staff to the team. With an increase in sample collection, the Hospital had also increased its testing capabilities to prevent delay in announcing COVID-19 results. Sample collection The officials said 4,032 swab samples were collected in the district on Wednesday alone. The Dean said lab capacity had been tripled considering the surge in sample collection. Each testing team had 28 members including lab technicians and microbiologists. Despite increase in samples, results of 70% samples were announced in 24 hours. Till date, over 1,50,000 samples had been tested, he said.
28 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Commercial spaces advised to follow safety protocols||The Salem Corporation has advised commercial establishments in its limits to strictly follow COVID-19 safety protocols and warned of stern legal action against violators. In a release, Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh said commercial spaces should follow the Standard Operating Procedures issued by the State government. The businesses should not serve customers without masks and allow customers inside business premises only after checking their temperature and ensuring hand sanitation. The firms should not employ staff with COVID-19 symptoms and should disinfect their premises once an hour, the release said.
28 August 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Free masks distributed||Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji inaugurated the distribution of free face masks through public distribution system in Virudhunagar district here on Wednesday. Considering that people need to go out for various pressing needs, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, has decided to distribute the face masks free of cost through the ration shops to ensure protection for the people, he said and appealed to the people to use masks while stepping out of houses. A total of 14 lakh beneficiaries in urban areas and 22.60 lakh people in rural areas would get the masks - two masks each. A total of 36.61 lakh face masks would be distributed through the ration shops, he added. Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan, District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Joint Registrar of Cooperatives, Dilip Kumar and others were present.
28 August 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Surveillance stepped up to monitor inter-State criminals||Inspector General, South Zone, S. Murugan, chaired a meeting here on Thursday to review the security arrangements made in Tenkasi, which shares its border with Kerala, and discuss the measures to eradicate the sale of banned tobacco products, lottery and circulation of counterfeit currency notes. Police sources said Mr. Murugan visited the district in the wake of the seizure of banned tobacco products worth Rs. 17 lakh on Wednesday and the frequent smuggling of lottery and fake currency notes from Kerala into Tenkasi. It was decided at the meeting that the police, after strengthening surveillance on Tenkasi – Kerala border along with their counterparts of the neighbouring State, should share intelligence inputs with them to curb movement of criminals and the smugglers. Additional police personnel would be deployed at the check-posts to monitor movement of inter-State criminals, who are solely responsible for smuggling contraband and counterfeit currency notes. Besides ensuring better law and order situation in the district, situated close to the Western Ghats, pending criminal cases should be solved and the criminals evading their arrest be put behind the bars, the IG instructed. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu, Superintendent of Police Suguna Singh, Deputy Superintendents of Police and the Inspectors of Police participated in the meeting. Theni In a similar exercise, officials from Theni and Idukki district held a joint meeting in view of Onam celebrations having commenced in Kerala. Officials said that surveillance in locations such as Cumbum Mettu, Mandipaarai, Moongipallam and Kumuli would be stepped up from tonight. With festivity in the neighbouring State, there were intelligence inputs that liquor and ganja may be most sought after commodity. So, vehicles would be checked thoroughly to prevent any such illegal smuggling. The Joint Commissioner (Excise) Pradeep, ADSP Sankaran, Uthamapalayam PEW Inspector Gayathri, Udumbansolai Excise Circle Inspector Santosh Kumar and officials from the forest department participated. Personnel required from each side and check post locations, among other key inputs, were shared during the meeting.
28 August 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Electrician murdered in Thanjavur||Kalyanasundaram, 31, an electrician of Vanakudi near Thiruvidaimaruthur, was stabbed to death by two persons on Wednesday. He was at his house when assailants attacked him with weapons. Inquiry revealed that Naveen approached Kalyanasundaram seeking his sister’s daughter’s hand in marriage. But his request was turned down. So, police suspect that Naveen could have committed the crime.
28 August 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Police rescue destitute woman||A destitute woman with bruises was rescued by police from Medical College Road and admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on Wednesday. All Women Police received information that an aged woman with bruises was lying uncared for near a shopping complex at Balaji Nagar on Medical College Road for more than two days. Subsequently, a AWP team went to the spot and found a senior citizen lying with injuries on her body. The woman, whose identity was yet to be established, was brought to TMC hospital and admitted for treatment, sources said.     A newborn girl was found abandoned close to a temple at Ilankudi village in Namanasamudram police station limits in Pudukottai district on Wednesday. A villager grazing cows noticed an abandoned bag lying beneath a tamarind tree and heard the cries of a baby. He alerted the villagers, who rushed there and found the newborn wrapped in a piece of cloth inside the bag. An alert was sounded to Namanasamudram police, who came to the spot. The baby was rescued and sent in an ambulance to Pudukottai Medical College Hospital. The matter was conveyed to the Childline, sources said.
28 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Verdict against Sterlite Copper will hit cargo handling at port’||The Madras High Court’s recent verdict against plea to reopen Sterlite Copper may result in loss of handling of over three million tonnes of cargo every year in VOC Port, Thoothukudi Shipping Clearing and Forwarding Agents’ Association has said. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, its office-bearers P.S.T.S. Velshankar, Karthik Prabhu and Peer Mohammed said cargo handling in VOC Port had come down considerably over the past two years and the COVID-19-induced lockdown had dealt a serious blow on the business. While exports via Thoothukudi port had come down by 40%, 15% of imports too had been affected in the past two years. Consequently, the dwindling exports and imports had serious consequences on the truck industry, which relied on cargo handling. The port had catalysed the growth of a range of businesses in southern Tamil Nadu over the years. The export-import cargo was stored on an area measuring 10 lakh square feet and this trade guaranteed employment for over 50,000 workers directly and indirectly. “Since most of us have invested heavily through borrowings from financial institutions, the slump in business has hit us hard. Financial institutions, instead of waiving interest on loans, have only postponed repayment. Since Thoothukudi is an industrial place that relied on the port, the governments should take steps to strengthen the existing industries besides paving way for heavy industrial investments in the town,” they said. Cargo handling to the tune of 3 million tonnes had been seriously hit due to the Madras High Court verdict against reopening of Sterlite Copper. The governments should take steps for exporting rare earths through VOC Port as being done through other ports, they said.
28 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Identifying hotspots, vigorous testing key to decline in cases||Identifying hotspots and aggressive testing will help bring about a gradual decline in COVID-19 cases and the positivity rate in Tiruchi district, authorities say. At present, the positivity rate — number of samples that test positive among the total figure — in the district is 6.1%, positioning it in the 33rd place in the State. “The number of patients testing positive in the district over the last week has been between 80 and 100. The numbers will see a drop by the first week of September,” Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu.  Decentralised containment zones and restriction of movement of residents will play a major role in drop in cases. While a majority of cases continue to be recorded within the city limits, the civic body has begun declaring areas as containment zones even if three residents test positive. “This ensures that the primary and secondary contacts do not travel and, therefore, transmission of the virus is slow,” a Health Department official said. Around 25 fever camps held across the district, including those conducted by the civic body, have seen at least 150 attendees each per day, allowing authorities to identify the spread of infection in specific areas. However, the number of samples lifted and sent for testing across the district will continue to remain the same, the official said. “We continue to take at least 1,800 samples a day and will continue to take as many till we record much smaller numbers. The fever camps too will continue.” With restrictions on acquiring e-passes and inter-district travel eased, tracing travellers has become more stringent. “We get a list of approved passes with the address of the applicant regularly. Fever screening continues at all check-posts and symptomatic travellers are immediately isolated and tested,” he said. Quarantine norms remain the same despite a drop in cases until further notification from State authorities. Inter-State travellers and inter-district travellers will be home quarantined for 14 days. Those arriving from Maharashtra, which is a high-risk State, will be institutionally quarantined. International travellers will be tested and placed in institutional quarantine for seven days.
28 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Minor spike in new cases as 681 test positive and 13 die in central region||The central region on Thursday saw 681 persons test positive for COVID-19, a slight increase over Wednesday’s count of 632. The districts recorded 13 deaths – four in Nagapattinam, two each in Pudukottai, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi, while one each was recorded at Ariyalur, Perambalur and Thanjavur districts. In Nagapattinam, men aged 65, 72, 58 and 55 succumbed to the viral infection. In Pudukottai, a 50-year-old woman with co-morbidities, including diabetes, died of acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID pneumonia. A 68-year-old man suffering from multi-organ dysfunction syndrome and acute respiratory distress syndrome and a 69-year-old man from Tiruvarur, who suffered from acute respiratory distress syndrome, died due infection. In Tiruchi, a 67-year-old man with no pre-existing condition and a 61-year-old woman suffering from hypothyroidism died. Meanwhile, a 70-year-old man from Ariyalur and a 63-year-old man from Perambalur died of the infection without any pre-existing condition. Pudukottai recorded the highest number of fresh positive cases among the central districts with 136 persons testing positive. Among them were local cases with no travel history, primary and secondary contacts and patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses. Thanjavur, Tiruchi In Thanjavur, two armed reserve policemen, a policeman from the Adirampattinam police station, a sanitary worker in Thaligaividuthi, two staff nurses at a private hospital, employees at various private organisations in the district and students were among the 122 who tested positive. Tiruchi recorded 112 new cases, many from within containment zones. Patients hailed from Woraiyur, Srirangam, Manachanallur, Tiruverumbur and Thuraiyur among other areas. Meanwhile, 40 COVID 19 positive patients, including 24 from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and 16 patients from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai, were discharged after recovery on Thursday. Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam Tiruvarur recorded 95 new cases of the novel coronavirus, while Nagapattinam recorded 90. In Nagapattinam, 22 local cases with contacts yet to be traced, 29 patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses, three healthcare workers- a sanitary worker at a private hospital, a doctor and a staff nurse at Nallur Primary Healthcare Centre, two policemen, two ante-natal mothers and 29 primary contacts. While 46 patients were admitted to the Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital, 34 were admitted to the Periyar Government Hospital and two to the Sirkazhi Government Hospital. Ariyalur In Ariyalur, 74 patients tested positive for the infection, taking the total number of cases so far in the district to 2452. However, 1645 of the patients had recovered and returned home. Meanwhile, 1107 new throat swabs were lifted from primary contacts, those in containment zones and patients suffering from COVID symptoms and sent to the testing facility for processing. Karur, Perambalur Karur recorded 33 fresh cases of the viral infection while Perambalur recorded 19. Among the 19 in Perambalur was a nurse, a frontline worker at the District Education Office in Ariyalur, an antenatal mother, three inter-district travellers and a few primary contacts.
28 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Historians welcome move to create new ASI circle in Tiruchi||The Centre’s decision to create a new administrative circle of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in Tiruchi has largely been welcomed by historians of the region who describe it as a long-felt need. Welcoming the decision as a boon for Tamils, Kudavayil Balasubramanian, historian, also called upon ASI to shift all estampages (impressions) of inscriptions copied from various temples in Tamil Nadu, which are currently in ASI’s Epigraphy Centre in Mysore, to the proposed Tiruchi circle office. The estampages were in Ooty during the British period due to conducive climatic conditions there. After Independence, they were moved to Mysore, he said. “The new circle in Tiruchi should also be made an epigraphy centre and the estampages brought in from Mysore should be digitised. If done, it will be a treasure house of information and of invaluable assistance to future historians,” Mr. Balasubramanian observed. Justifying the demand, he said some of the inscriptions copied during the British period from temples in Tamil Nadu were lost due to constructions over the years. “For instance, several inscriptions in the Mahalingaswamy Temple at Thiruvidaimaruthur have been lost. Besides, several other inscriptions are being lost every day.” He felt that with creation of the new circle, the ASI officials could maintain a better vigil. Observing that the demand for creating a new circle in Tiruchi was a long- pending one, R. Kalaikkovan, Director, Dr. M.Rajamanikkanar Centre for Historical Research, pointed out that the southern region had innumerable monuments and creation of the new circle would help improve their maintenance. “ASI officials could act more swiftly when being stationed here. More monuments can be brought under the ASI and it also throws up the possibilities of new excavations and discoveries,” Mr. Kalaikkovan observed. Expressing happiness over the move, Tiruchi MP Su. Thirunavukkarasar said the creation of the new circle would help in better upkeep of ASI monuments and ancient temples in southern districts. Besides, it would also help in getting more funds and launch of new projects in the region, he added.
28 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Contact-less ticket checking cabins set up||The Tiruchi Railway Division has put in place a slew of initiatives in the wake of COVID-19 and is carrying out a host of other works relating to improving infrastructure and passenger amenities all over the division, according to Divisional Railway Manager Ajay Kumar. Among the initiatives is the setting up of contact-less ticket checking cabins at select railway stations to prevent spread of infection. Nineteen cabins have been set up at railway stations including Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Ariyalur and Vriddhachalam. They will prevent physical exchange of tickets once services are resumed, Mr. Ajay Kumar said at a virtual press briefing on Thursday. Masks, face shields and hand gloves have been provided to all front-line staff of the division and an infra-red sensor based thermal gun has been kept at the divisional office to check the body temperature of staff without manual interference. Although 44 railway coaches were converted into isolation wards, none was in use at present. A liquid oxygen tank is available at the Divisional Railway Hospital here for uninterrupted and continuous supply to patients. During the lockdown, the division ensured movement of about 2.92 million metric tonnes of goods from April to July, generating Rs. 160.9 crore revenue.
28 August 2020||Tiruchuli,TAMIL NADU||Elaborate plan in place to prevent illegal sand mining in Tiruchuli||In the wake of complaints of rampant illegal sand mining reported in Tiruchuli taluk, revenue officials, in coordination with police and Public Works Department officials, have prepared an elaborate plan to prevent it. Tiruchuli Tahsildar C. Ravichandran said all the Village Administrative Officers in the taluk had been empowered to stop and inspect any vehicle suspected to be smuggling minerals. Revenue Inspectors had been instructed to keep vigil against sand mining on Gundar and Kiruthumal rivers and Kanalodai and Uppodai. The Tahsilar convened a Taluk-level Task Force committee and Sand Co-ordination meetings at his office on Tuesday in which officials from PWD, Inspectors of Police of Tiruchuli and Narikudi, Block Development Officers of Tiruchuli and Narikudi, Inspector of Mines, and all Revenue Inspectors and VAOs took part. An official, who took part in the meeting, said often lack of coordination between officials of different departments led to misunderstanding. “Many a time there were complaints that VAOs were not cooperating with the police and vice versa in preventing sand smuggling,” the official said. So it was resolved to have closer coordination between the two departments. Some of the officials complained that the sand smugglers used different strategies to divert the attention of officials and carry on with illegal mining and smuggling. Often, the earth movers were taken into riverbeds in the guise of removing trees on patta land or some other work. The earth movers pile up the collected sand and vanish. “At night, they quickly load the collected sand in trucks. The trucks do not directly go to the customer’s place. The sand is kept in a secret place. When we move towards the riverbed to check mining, the trucks move the sand through some other route,” an official said. The movement of the revenue officials are tipped off by insiders to those operating earth movers and trucks. The officials have planned to identify the stocking points and seize the sand.  ‘Bike riders’ “We have asked our men to identify ‘bike riders’ who alert the smugglers about our movement. We will seize their vehicles as a preventive step,” Mr. Ravichandran said. PWD officials have been asked to dig up trenches on routes that lead to irrigation tanks and riverbeds. BDOs have been asked to provide mining orders under kudimaramathu schemes being implemented in select tanks to prevent irregularities by miners. Night patrolling in villages identified as vulnerable to sand smuggling had been intensified, he said.
28 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Idea hatched in Africa, rakes in profits at village near Ambasamudram||As the road leads to Panaiyankurichi from Ambasamudram main road, villagers guide newcomers to ‘software engineer country chicken farm.’ Though Jenil Karthik is working in the West African republic of Liberia and his father Paulraj is running the farm, villagers call it this way. When software engineer Jenil Karthik of Agasthiyarpatti near Vickramasingapuram came across stories of technocrats running dairy or poultry farm, he started experimenting it at his workplace in Liberia. After learning the ropes by establishing a poultry farm, he planned to go for a bigger venture with the help of professors of Veterinary College and Research Institute at Ramaiyanpatti here. Though Mr. Karthik has scripted a success story, he faced many hardships in the early days. “After learning about the nuances of country chicken rearing through friends on social media, I clarified my doubts with the help of faculty members of VC and RI,” he says. When he searched for mothers and roosters, he could not find a huge stock immediately. Now, after a lot of searches, his 4.62-acre farm now has about 310 mothers, 40 roosters and 2,500 chicks – from one-day old to matured ones that are ready for laying eggs. The chicks are kept in separate sheds with separate access to grazing area to prevent fights and deaths. Since country chicken prefer to perch on tree branches at night, the sheds have been provided with casuarina poles tied across the shed and ladders so that the chicken can reach the poles to sleep at night. Safety nets around the sheds guard the birds from other animals and poisonous reptiles. Mr. Karthik has designed an incubator for hatching eggs and sells the chicks aged one day to one month. “During winter, we get 80 to 110 eggs a day while it is 50 to 65 during summer. We use 350 to 600 eggs a week for hatching and the success rate is about 75%. But only 85% of the chicks survive,” he says. While one-day-old chick is sold for Rs. 60, one-month old chick fetches Rs. 120 and 2-month-old chick Rs. 200. They are bought by poultry farmers. Six-month-old chicks, each weighing about 1.25 kg, are sold for meat and one kg of ‘live weight’ country chicken costs Rs. 350 and roosters Rs. 300. The farm generates revenue of Rs. 2.92 lakh a month which may increase or decrease by 25%. After an expenditure of Rs. 1.53 lakh towards labour, fodder, electricity, medicines, transport and others, the net profit comes to Rs. 1.38 lakh. “I’ve invested about Rs. 45 lakh for land and sheds. But I lost a lot while experimenting. It will take a few more years to break even” says Mr. Karthik. S. Senthilkumar, Associate Professor, Department of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Extension Education, VC and RI, says farmers let down by monsoon should go in for secondary business like goat rearing, poultry farming, cattle rearing, piggery and quail rearing.
28 August 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||CPI to hold road rokos on September 2||The Communist Party of India, Tiruvarur district unit, has decided to stage a road roko at Mannargudi and Koothanallur on September 2, demanding crop insurance compensation for all farmers who have insured their crop for the year 2019-20. A resolution to this effect was passed by the CPI Mannargudi Union unit at a meeting held at Mannargudi recently. The resolution said Rs. 201 crore had been released to the district for distribution as crop loss compensation. However, the names of 68 revenue villages in the district, including 31 in Mannargudi Panchayat Union, had been left out in the list of villages where compensation had to be distributed to farmers. Demanding compensation to be given to farmers in all villages in the district, the CPI cadre would stage road blockades in Mannargudi and Koothanallur Panchayat Unions and at Mannargudi and Koothanallur towns on September 2.
28 August 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers allege bias in invite to meet CM||The Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, Tiruvarur district, has alleged bias in extending invitations to farmers to meet Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami during his visit to the district on Friday. In a resolution passed at the district committee meeting held recently, the Sangam alleged that only a few farmers in the district had been invited by officials to meet the Chief Minister at the District Collectorate during his visit. Charging the officials with partiality, the Sangam crticised them for organising such a meeting without inviting office-bearers of farmers’ associations who were striving hard for the betterment of the farming community. However, official sources said that invitation had been extended to all progressive farmers and farmers’ associations in the district to attend or depute their association representatives to the meeting with a condition that such participants should comply with the standard operating procedure and undergo COVID-19 test. While some of the farmers came forward to undergo the test as mandated by the government, others preferred not to comply with the condition, the sources said.
28 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Awareness campaign||The Nilgiris District Collector, J. Innocent Divya, along with the Monitoring Officer for the district, Supriya Sahu, District Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan and Udhagamandalam Sub-Collector Monika Rana, watched a skit organised to spread awareness about COVID-19 on Thursday. The campaign was organised to create awareness among the public about the proper use of masks and also protocols to be followed.
28 August 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Man killed by wild elephant||A 64-year-old man is believed to have been killed by a wild elephant at Gandhi Nagar in the O-Valley Forest Range in Gudalur. The man’s body was discovered three days after he was killed on Thursday. Forest department officials identified the deceased as A. Palaniyandi, an area resident, who had been working in a major tea estate in the area. Forest department officials said that he was living alone in Gudalur and had ventured through the estate around three days ago, when he was attacked and killed by a wild elephant. Local residents only found the body after they went to look for the deceased on Thursday morning, and informed the forest department. The body was retrieved and sent for postmortem. During postmortem, it was found that the man had suffered injuries consistent with an elephant attack. Officials said that Palaniyandi was survived by his daughter and that interim compensation amounting to Rs. 50,000 would be given to his next of kin.
28 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Vetting before being allowed into the Nilgiris||With tourists entering the Nilgiris illegally after the approval of e-passes was automated, the district administration has got special clearance from the government to revert to the old system, whereby e-passes will be approved only for those with legitimate reasons to travel to the district. On Thursday, Collector J. Innocent Divya announced the change to the rules governing the issuance of e-passes. “The system has already been revised similar to how it functioned before the ease in travel restrictions was announced,” said the Collector. The decision comes in the wake of reports that people from other districts were travelling to the Nilgiris for tourism. The almost unrestricted entry into the district of 2,000-2,500 people a day over the last couple of weeks has partly been blamed for the increase in the number of COVID-19 infections in the district, with an average of more than 50 cases being reported every day. “From now on, only people with legitimate reasons to enter the district will be allowed into the Nilgiris,” said Ms. Divya, adding that these restrictions would curtail the entry of tourists into the district.
28 August 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Kodanad case: remand of two accused extended||Two of the accused in the Kodanad dacoity- cum-murder case were produced before the district sessions court in Udhagamandalam on Thursday. Earlier, the court had issued non-bailable warrants against eight of the ten accused in the case - Santhosh Sami, Deepu, Satheeshan, M Kutti alias Bijin, Jithin Joy, Manoj Sami, Zamsheer Ali and Udhayakumar who for failing to attend the last hearing. On Thursday, two of the accused, Santhosh Sami and Zamsheer Ali were produced before the district judge, P. Vadamalai, who extended their remand till September 9. Public Prosecutor, Bala Nandhakumar appeared on behalf of the prosecution.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||28 lakh tonnes of paddy procured in delta region this year, says CM||A record 28 lakh tonnes of paddy have been procured in the delta region this year, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said here on Thursday. In the past, only up to 23 lakh tonnes of paddy were procured through direct purchase centres in the delta, Mr. Palaniswami said, attributing the good harvest to timely release of water from Mettur Dam, good rainfall and desilting of canals. Desilting of canals had ensured flow of water to tail-end areas for cultivation, he said. Laying the foundation for several developmental projects and distributing benefits under various government schemes, the Chief Minister observed that 4.23 lakh farmers in Nagapattinam district received compensation to the tune of Rs. 1,051 crore under the Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme. Mr. Palaniswamy sought to drive home the point that the AIADMK government had established its credentials as a farmer-friendly party by legally securing the State's rightful share of Cauvery water and declaring the delta region as a Protected Special Agricultural Zone. A food park would be established in Nagapattinam at a cost of Rs. 1,000 crore on an area of 250 acres, he disclosed. The Chief Minister also announced that a ready-made garments park would also be established in the district under public-private partnership, Tamil Nadu was the only State to secure consent for 11 government medical colleges at one go, he said, making a special mention of the launch of the Rs. 367-crore project for establishment of a government medical college, a state-of-the-art hospital and quarters. The newly formed Mayiladuthurai district, which was a long-felt need of the people, would become fully functional once the district boundaries were earmarked after public hearings, Mr. Palaniswamy said. Accompanied by Textiles Minister O.S. Manian, the Chief Minister later held a meeting with Collector Praveen P. Nair and senior officials of Health and line departments to review the progress made by the district administration in preventing the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Palaniswamy also held discussions with entrepreneurs and representatives of farmers’ associations.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Action against private schools if fees demanded for RTE admissions’||The Department of School Education will initiate strict action against those private schools in Coimbatore district that demand additional fees for students admitted under the Right to Education (RTE) Act quota seats, said Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer (CEO) P. Usha on Thursday. “Parents may file complaint at the CEO’s office with evidence in such cases, based on which action will be initiated,” she said. Admissions for the 25% seats reserved as per the RTE Act for LKG and Class I in private schools began on Thursday for the academic year 2020-21. According to Section 12 (1) (c) of the RTE Act, private schools “...shall admit in Class 1, to the extent of at least 24% of the strength of that class, children belonging to the weaker section and disadvantaged group in the neighbourhood and provide free and compulsory elementary education till its completion.” However, the education officials received complaints from parents in the previous academic year (2019-20) that a few private schools in the district demanded additional fees even though the State government reimbursed the fees for the reserved seats. Eligible parents may apply through the websitehttps://rte.tnschools.gov.in/till September 25. Necessary arrangements are available at the Chief Educational Office, the four District Educational Offices (Coimbatore, Pollachi, Perur and S.S. Kulam) and the Block Educational Offices in the district for those unable to apply online from their residence, Ms. Usha said.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Western region reports over 1,200 cases, 21 deaths||The eight districts in the western region saw 1,211 new COVID-19 cases and 21 deaths on Thursday, with Coimbatore reporting 439 new cases and Salem 413. In Coimbatore district, the total number of positive cases increased to 13,398 and the death toll rose to 274. As many as 357 persons were discharged on Thursday. The district reported the deaths of 11 patients on Thursday. One of them was a 60-year-old woman who had undergone kidney transplantation. She was brought to the Coimbatore Medical College and ESI Hospital where the doctors declared her brought dead. She later tested positive. Salem district reported the deaths of eight persons aged 55, 65, 55, 65, 30, 62, 65 and 75. In Tiruppur, two persons aged 30 and 55 died of the disease. Of the 413 fresh cases in Salem district, 409 were indigenous including 225 in the Salem Corporation limits. Four patients returned from Kallakuruchi, Chennai and Dharmapuri. In Namakkal, 84 cases were reported of which 15 returned from Salem, Erode, Coimbatore, Karur and Chennai and three from Bihar and Karnataka. Erode’s 121 new cases took the districts’ tally to 2,620. Thirty-six persons were discharged on Thursday and 1,157 were under treatment. So far, 37 deaths were reported in the district. Tiruppur district reported 96 cases that include a Sub-Inspector of Kamanaickenpalayam police station, a doctor from Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital and a sanitary inspector with Tiruppur Corporation. The district’s overall tally stood at 2,337. A total of 31 patients were discharged. With 25 persons testing positive in the Nilgiris, the total number of cases in the district stood at 1,493. So far, 1,169 people recovered from the disease. In Krishnagiri, 32 persons tested positive and Dharmapuri reported one case.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||One more testing machine||The K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College has received one more RT-PCR machine for carrying out tests. The machine has been procured by Tamil Nadu Medical Supplies Corporation (TNMSC) and is all set to be installed at the medical college laboratory. The latest machine is capable of running 100 samples at a time. It takes nearly two-and-a-half hours to analyse 100 samples. Steps are being taken to install the new machine as early as possible. It will enhance the testing capacity of the laboratory. The college has sufficient number of technicians to handle the machine, K. Vanitha, Dean of the College, told The Hindu . The college set up its first RT-PCR machine in 2010, mainly to test H1N1 influenza samples. It added a second machine in April this year, soon after it was authorised by the Indian Council of Medical Research to conduct COVID-19 tests. Rotarians belonging to Tiruchi contributed the third machine to the college to scale up testing in view of a sharp rise in the number of patients. In addition to them, the laboratory has three RT-PCR machines diverted by Bharathidasan University (BDU) and the National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB) as a special gesture. Of them, two are owned by Bharathidasan University. One of the machines has a capacity to process 100 samples at a time. The other machine can process 36 samples at a time. The capacity of NRCB’s machine is 100 samples per cycle. K. Lakshmi, Head-in-Charge, Department of Microbiology of the College, says with the diversion of three machines by BDU and NRCB, the number of of RT-PCR machines at the college laboratory has gone up to seven including the new one sent by the TNMSC. The machines have to be given rest between cycles. Availability of more machines has helped resting them on rotation. With the addition of a new machine, the COVID-19 testing capacity of the laboratory will go up to 2,000 a day, Dr. Lakshmi adds.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Payment made to ineligible beneficiary to be recovered||A case of a non-agricultural landholder being sanctioned financial assistance under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) has been detected in Thanjavur district. The Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association has recently received information that a non-agricultural landholder applied for financial assistance extended to farmers through PM-KISAN scheme and availed two instalments of Rs. 2,000. When the information was pursued by the association, it came to light that R. Ashok Kumar of Melathirupoonthuruthi had applied for the PM-KISAN financial assistance by producing documents relating to his landholding in the same village. He received the first instalment of the annual assistance in May for a landholding measuring 3,240 sq ft. Demonstration held The association staged a protest demonstration recently near the Office of the Assistant Director (Agriculture) at Thiruvaiyaru and a memorandum signed by TDCFPA deputy secretary P. Sugumaran, urging recovery of the financial assistance extended to an ineligible beneficiary, was submitted to the AD. Subsequently, an inquiry was conducted by M. Sarasu, AD (Agriculture), Thiruvaiyaru, and it was ascertained that Ashok Kumar applied for the financial assistance before he sold the landholding in 2019. At present, the said survey number for which the financial assistance was extended does not stand in his name. Thus, the bank authorities have been directed to recover the second installment of Rs. 2,000 credited in Ashok Kumar’s account and remit the same in the PM-KISAN administrative expenses account. Further, Ashok Kumar’s name has been deleted from the list of PM-KISAN scheme beneficiaries, according to official sources.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Education Plus webinar on career opportunities tomorrow||The next in the series of free webinars of The Hindu Education Plus on ‘Current and emerging career opportunities’ will focus on sciences. The webinar, presented by SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, will be held from 11 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. on August 29. S.P. Thyagarajan, Professor DSc in Medical Microbiology, National Academy of Sciences and National Academy of Medical Sciences; D.John Thiruvadigal, Professor, Dean (Sciences), SRM Institute of Science & Technology, and Sanjay Molur, Executive Director, Zoo Outreach Organisation, will be the main speakers. The session will be moderated by Aswathi Pacha, Sub-Editor, The Hindu . The session is open to students of classes IX, X, XI and XII. To register, visit http://bit.ly/SRMTHEP3 or scan the QR code.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Business travellers’ exempted by State government from norms||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday exempted “all the business travellers” visiting the State for a short stay of 72 hours from the quarantine norms, in order to give a positive boost to the industry and economic sentiment. A senior officer told The Hindu: "Earlier, these business travellers had to spend 14 days of quarantine. From now on, they do not have to be in quarantine. This order would facilitate business and economy without traveling restrictions coming in their way." The e-Pass would be issued to "all 'business travellers' relating to the segments, namely industry, hospitality, legal, IT/ITES, entertainment, etc., who are visiting Tamil Nadu for a short stay of 72 hours" and they would be exempted from quarantine, a G.O. issued in this regard stated. The State government felt the move would "encourage and facilitate business-related travel to Tamil Nadu and would give a positive boost to the industry and economy sentiment." The Hindu has a copy of the G.O. The decision followed Information Technology Department's representation to the State government.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Probe on in cheating case||Avinashi police registered a case against a man, who cheated a woman of Rs. 4 lakh with fake currency notes on Wednesday. Police said that Jenifer, 32, from Chennai sought a loan of Rs. 1 crore from a private money lender based on a newspaper advertisement. The lender, who introduced himself as Acharya, said the registration fees for selling her property will cost Rs. 4 lakh. On Wednesday, Ms. Jenifer and the accused met at a restaurant in Avinashi, where he said that he will initially provide Rs. 55 lakh and settle the rest of the amount upon receiving the documents from her. After accepting Rs. 4 lakh from the woman, the accused handed over a briefcase and left the restaurant. Ms. Jenifer opened the briefcase and found that it was filled with bundles of fake currency notes, each with face value of Rs. 2,000. The sources said the briefcase did not contain the usual type of counterfeit notes. Rather, they were play currency notes available in stationery shops intended for children. Based on Ms. Jenifer's complaint, the Avinashi police registered a case under section 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code. Efforts to ascertain the identity of the accused and to arrest him are on.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three held for making and placing crude explosive that blew off cow’s mouth||The Forest Department on Thursday apprehended three persons on charges of making and placing country-made explosive, which a cow that belonged to a farmer near Mettupalayam chewed accidentally and died after its mouth was blown off earlier this month. The accused have been identified as M. Gunasekaran (22) from Dasampalayam, near Thekkampatti, and V. Sreekanth (22) and N. Krishnan (64) from Kondaiyoor. The department is on the lookout for a fourth accused K. Prakash (30) from Tank Medu on Annur Road near Mettupalayam. The four had placed the explosive to hunt wild animals. It was on August 12, a cow that belonged to Muhammed Jafar Ali from Chengal Padugai, near Kallar, accidentally chewed a country-made explosive, locally called ‘avittukai’, when the farmer had left it in a land for grazing. The cow’s mouth was blown off by the explosive which was laid as bait to hunt wild boar. The cow died five days later. The department had registered a case under provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act. The farmer had lodged a complaint with the Mettupalayam police.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||55-year-old man held for sexual assault||A 55-year-old man was arrested for sexual assault of a 17-year-old girl here on Thursday. The accused Udayannan (55) of Karukkansavadi had threatened the victim, who was residing in her grandmother’s house in the same neighbourhood and had sexually assaulted her for over a year. The victim was eight months pregnant, when her grandmother got wind of the abuse. The accused was employed in Saaparthi Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society before he was suspended for embezzlement of funds. However, later he was readmitted into a temporary job in the same cooperative society.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Worker injured in wall collapse dies||A worker involved in the construction of a railway compound wall near Mettur succumbed to the injuries caused due to its collapse on Wednesday evening. According to railway police, the workers were involved in the construction of a supporting wall next to an old compound wall near Puthuchampalli. On Wednesday evening, the wall collapsed and six workers got stuck under the debris.  According to the police, the workers were rushed to hospitals nearby. Kavitha (30), one of the workers who was referred to the Salem government hospital died on the way to the hospital during the early hours of Thursday. Railway police have registered a case and are investigating.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Desperate sale||
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Madras-Chingleput Road||The Local Government, it is understood, have approached the Government of India to place at their disposal a sum of rupees five lakhs from the Reserve in the Road Development Fund, for utilisation for experimenting road surfacing on the Great Northern Trunk Road leading out of Madras from the Corporation limits into Chingleput district.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till August 27   Persons tested +ve so far: 13,398 Indigenous cases: 13,358 Imported cases: 40 Active cases: 3,325 Persons recovered: 9,799 Deaths: 274    Persons tested +ve so far: 2,337 Persons recovered: 1,644 Active cases: 634  Deaths: 59
28 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Final decision on statue installation in Belagavi tomorrow||A final decision on installing a statue of Sangolli Rayanna will be taken on Saturday after Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa holds a meeting with community leaders in Belagavi, district in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said here on Thursday. Mr. Eshwarappa is scheduled to visit Peeranwadi village and speak to local groups that are demanding the installation of the statue at the Y Junction on the National Highway. Mr. Jarkiholi said that there was no dispute over whether the statue should be set up in the village or not. The only dispute is about the exact place. That will be decided on Saturday, he said. Before that, he will talk to all leaders in the district, including his brother and KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi, he said. Mr. Jarkiholi met some representatives of Kuruba community organisations in Belagavi on Thursday to resolve a dispute over the installation of a Sangolli Rayanna statue in Peeranwadi village. He denied that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had assured of installing the statue at a site chosen by the associations. He has not given any such assurance. At least, he has not given me any such instruction. He has only told me to find a solution that is in the interest of the community and the district, he said. He said that he would announce the statue installation after a meeting with officers. Community leader Vivek Rao Patil and others accompanied Mr. Jarkiholi. Members of Sangolli Rayanna Yuva Sene and other organisations took out a march in Belagavi on Thursday, demanding installation of statues of the 19th century freedom fighter in front of the Suvarna Soudha here and in Peeranwadi village. They walked from the Suvarna Soudha to the Deputy Commissioner’s office in the city, a distance of about nine kilometres. Mr. Hiremath, however, met them near the Suvarna Soudha and received a memorandum from their leaders.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||An average of 7.7 contacts traced for every COVID-19 patient in Bengaluru||With the number of COVID-19 cases on the rise, particularly in Bengaluru, the city civic authorities are struggling with contact tracing. However, in the last one week, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has stepped up efforts and on a average as many as 7.7 contacts are traced for every person who has tested positive. Meanwhile, across the State, over the past two weeks, 3.6 lakh primary contacts and 2.99 lakh secondary contacts have been traced.  Bommanahalli on top On an average, in Bengaluru, the BBMP has been able to trace more secondary contacts than primary contacts. The authorities have traced 3.4 primary contacts and 4.3 secondary contacts in the last seven days for every person testing positive. An analysis done by the BBMP COVID-19 War Room of contact traced in the last one week shows that on an average, the highest number of contacts for every COVID-19 positive case tested is in the Bommanahalli zone. As many as 14.2 people are traced as contacts for every person testing positive in that zone. The least number of contacts are traced in the Yelahanka zone where 5.7 people on an average are traced for every person who has tested positive. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, who is in charge of Bommanahalli zone, said information regarding the contacts is collected while residents fill a form at the time of collecting the swab instead of waiting till the person tests positive. “We collect details at the time of swab collection and verify it when the person tests positive. We have dedicated contact-tracing teams. Early tracing of contacts is helping us to contain the spread of the infection,” he said. In tracing both the primary and secondary contacts over the last one week, Bommanahalli zone tops the list of the seven zones in the BBMP limits. Seven primary contacts and 7.2 secondary contacts are traced for every positive case.The least number of primary contacts are traced in the West Zone, with 2.5 primary contacts being identified for every positive case. The least number of secondary contacts are traced in the Yelahanka zone, with 2.7 of them being identified for every positive case. Tracing is key A BBMP official pointed out that tracing contacts of a positive patient and asking them to isolate themselves was the most efficient way of containing the infection. “Initially, our field teams took contact tracing very seriously. But we slowly slacked in tracing after the cases started increasing. But in the past few weeks, the pace of tracing contacts has improved,” the official added. To step up contact-tracing efforts, the State war room has developed an app, Contact Tracing, where citizens can report contacts of those who have tested positive.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State’s five-month GST dues add up to Rs. 13,764 cr.||With the Centre on Thursday asking the States to raise shortfall in GST compensation through market borrowings, the compensation requirement of the State between April and July 2020 has been calculated to Rs. 13,764 crore. The State government now has to give its consent in the next one week if it is opting for the option given by the Centre. The overall compensation settlement for the year combines to about Rs. 28,000 crore. Finance Department sources said that the government could choose the option if it is viable for the State finances as the Centre has indicated allowing cess collection to offset the financial burden for three years after the compensation period ends in 2023. Soon after the GST Council meeting on Thursday, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who represented the State, briefed Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa, who holds the Finance portfolio, on the developments. Meanwhile, Mr. Bommai in a note has said that the State has estimated total revenue collection through tax to be about Rs. 1.8 lakh crore, which, however, is not enough to have financial progress in the midst of COVID-19 pandemic and floods. Additional finances “It has been informed to the council that the State requires additional finances to meet the expenses. Despite the COVID-19 situation, the State has reported a collection of 71.61% in the last four months,” he said. “We have urged the Centre to release the compensation to honour the Constitutional provisions. States will be in a difficult position to raise loans and repay them. However, the Centre has the powers to impose new tax beyond 2023, and for the same reason it was argued in the GST Council that it is better for the Centre to raise loan to provide compensation to the States,” Mr. Bommai said. Further, the Home Minister has said that the Centre was urged to impose additional tax on luxury goods, tobacco and pan masala items.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Namma Metro begins trial run to Anjanapura||If all goes as planned, people living on either side of Kanakapura Road will be able to use Namma Metro from November 1, which is observed as ‘Karnataka Rajyotsava' day. On Thursday, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) started a trial run on the extended Green Line from Yelechenahalli to Anjanapura. A six-coach train chugged on the track. BMRCL managing director, Ajay Seth told The Hindu that the trial run will continue for a period of one month. “Namma Metro is among the few metros in the country using the 750 volt DC third rail system that supplies power to the metro train. In the last few days, charging of the line was done in a phased manner. On Thursday, the train was run on the line for the first time,” said Mr. Seth. Initially, the train is operated at lower speed but in the coming days, its speed will be increased gradually. “During this period, various tests are done and everything gets documented. Once we are done with documentation and stations are fully ready for commercial operations, we will approach the commissioner of railway safety to conduct an inspection,” Mr. Seth added. BMRCL hopes to approach Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) for safety clearance by October. The CRS may come out with certain suggestions after inspections and BMRCL will need to implement them.” 4 stations ready This is the first line under Phase II slated for commercial operations. The 6-km extended Green Line will have stations at Konanakunte Cross, Doddakallasandra, Vajarahalli, Talaghattapura, and Anjanapura. Four stations on the extended line are ready. “There are some finishing works that need to be done in the remaining station. The pending works will be completed prior to opening of the line for commercial operation,” he added.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NCB unearths 3 syndicates; 6 arrested with ecstasy pills||Several musicians, actors and artistes from the Kannada film industry are allegedly under the scanner after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) cracked an international drug racket in a series of raids in and around Bengaluru. The accused reportedly supplied party drugs to clients. In total, the federal agency unearthed three syndicates, including the one that supplied drugs to musicians and actors in the State. Six people have been arrested with 4,317 MDMA pills, 180 LSD Blots and over Rs. 2.20 lakh in cash. Three of the accused were arrested in the city. On August 21, the NCB’s Bengaluru zonal unit conducted a raid on an apartment in Kalyan Nagar where it seized 145 ecstasy or MDMA pills and over Rs. 2.20 lakh cash. According to sources, two people were arrested during this raid: M. Anoop and Ravindran from Kerala. “In follow-up action, the team seized 96 pills of MDMA and 180 LSD blots at Nikoo Homes in Bengaluru,” Narcotics Control Bureau Deputy Director (operations) K.P.S Malhotra said in a statement. Acting on information from the arrested, NCB officials also raided an apartment in Doddaguddi on the outskirts of the city and arrested the third accused in the case, Anikha D, who is allegedly the main kingpin. “The lady drug supplier who had been the main kingpin of the case was intercepted and 270 pills of MDMA were recovered from her house at Doddagubbi, Bengaluru,” Mr. Malhotra said in the statement. In total, three persons – M. Anoop, R. Ravindran and Anikha D. – were apprehended by the agency during these raids. “Preliminary investigation has revealed that the accused used to supply drugs to affluent sections of society, including prominent musicians and actors as well as to college students and youngsters,” Mr. Malhotra said, adding that more persons are likely to be apprehended. Bitcoins as payment Sources said they had been running the racket for many years. “Anikha sourced the drugs from abroad via an international courier service,” said a police official, adding that payments were made in bitcoins. Another case was reported on August 10, when the agency’s Mumbai zone unit seized 3,010 of MDMA pills, sourced from Brussels. Subsequent action resulted in the seizure of 46 more tablets from the Navi Mumbai residence of a couple, who were arrested. In the third case, the NCB’s Bengaluru unit on July 31 seized 750 MDMA pills, which were sourced from Germany. Further probe led to the arrest of one Rahman K., who was to allegedly receive the parcel. “Rahman had been selling MDMA and other party drugs, among students of his college and the neighbouring ones,” the NCB said. The investigation also revealed that the accused had placed the order of MDMA pills online in exchange for bitcoins. MDMA (methylenedioxy- methamphetamine), commonly known as ecstasy, is a party drug that alters mood and its perception is chemically similar to stimulants and hallucinogens. It produces a feeling of increased energy and pleasure. As per officials, each ecstasy pill costs between Rs 1,500 and Rs 2,500 in the domestic market.  (With inputs from PTI)
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||9 electric crematoriums in the pipeline in addition to 11 existing ones||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is looking at establishing nine more electric crematoriums. As of now, the city has 11 electric crematoriums. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad made the announcement after inspecting a few of the crematoriums. Land in seven locations had been handed over to the civic body by the Deputy Commissioner (Bengaluru Urban). Tenders for an electric crematorium in Kumbalgodu, Kengeri hobli and another in Kurubarahalli, Tavarekere hobli have been approved by the BBMP council. According to sources in the BBMP, the civic body had been seeking land from the Deputy Commissioner (Bengaluru Urban) for quite a few years now. This issue had been raised multiple times at the coordination committee meetings chaired by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar. However, it was only recently that land had been allocated. Thinking ahead BBMP’s Engineer-in-Chief M.R. Venkatesh told The Hindu that tenders for crematoriums proposed in Bagalur, Kuduregere, Shivanapura and Avalahalli, all coming under Yelahanka taluk, are likely to be placed before the BBMP council in August for approval. “We have sought land in Bommanahalli and Mahadevapura zones. These zones are witnessing fast development and such facilities will be required in future,” he said. Mr. Venkatesh said that while land in Hullegowdanahalli, also coming under Yelahanka taluk, was yet to be handed over to the BBMP, the civic body had sought alternate land after being allocated a small parcel in Devasandra village in Bengaluru East taluk. “Most of the land parcels handed over to the BBMP are either one or two acres. In some places, the land already have compounds. In many places, there are no approach roads. While preparing the detailed project report, we take into account the distance between the land parcel and the nearest 11 kV or 66 kV transformer from where power has to be drawn,” he explained. The BBMP has sought funds for construction of another crematorium at Thalaghattapura in Uttarahalli hobli. “The DPR for the project is ready. However, we need funds before floating a tender and allocating a job code. Owing to the precarious financial condition of the civic body, we are not sure if funds will be allocated,” he added. Alternate sites Earlier, the Revenue Department had identified 35 acres and 18 guntas for burial grounds in Dasanapura in Bengaluru North taluk, Uttarahalli and Tavarekere hoblis in Bengaluru South taluk, Jigani in Anekal taluk, and Jala and Hesaraghatta hoblis in Yelahanka taluk. However, resistance by local communities forced the civic body to look for other sites. Apart from 11 acres identified earlier, the district administration has identified 12 acres in villages in Bengaluru North, Bengaluru South, Anekal and Yelahanka taluks.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Not possible to waive or relax payment of property tax, govt. tells High Court||The State government on Thursday told the High Court of Karnataka that it has rejected a representation given by a petitioner, who had sought waiver or relaxation in payment of property tax for 2020–21 for all local authorities across the State. Endorsement An endorsement given to the petitioner in this regard was submitted before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi during the hearing of a PIL petition, filed by K. Gurudhatta, a resident of Banashankari in Bengaluru. Pointing out that local authorities across the State, including the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, are required to provide various health and basic amenities to citizens during COVID-19, the government said in its response to the petitioner’s plea that any concession or relaxation in payment of property tax would further deteriorate financial conditions of the local authorities which are already facing financial crunch. The petitioner had sought a direction to the government to consider a representation, given on May 11, seeking exemption or relaxation in payment of property tax as the landowners too have lost revenue from properties owing to non-payment of rent by tenants in view of the pandemic. Following a notice issued by the court, the government on August 24 rejected the representation.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Best time to recharge borewells is when it is raining well: Expert||Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, we seem to have lost focus on water conservation which ought to have been a priority during the rains. Well-known water conservationist N.J. Devaraj Reddy says that those with borewells, especially farmers, should “drought-proof” them through rainwater harvesting now. “The best time to recharge borewells is when it is raining well. But generally people start thinking about borewells in summer when they dry up,” said Mr. Reddy, a hydrogeologist and rainwater harvesting consultant, who has lent technical support in recharging of about one lakh borewells in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Pointing out that State has been receiving good rain after several years of drought, Mr. Reddy said, “Recharging initiative should be taken up not only for the dried up borewells, but also for those still working. We need to dispel the myth that there is no need to recharge a borewell when it is functioning well. If you want the borewell to continue to function well, then you need to take up recharging.” Farmers should recharge the existing ones when they go dry rather than drill additional borewells, he added. According to him, 100 days of recharging in a year is a must to ensure that a borewell never goes dry. Creating recharging infrastructure would cost a maximum of Rs. 50,000 for a farm borewell, he said. He also suggested that farmers with large extent of land in arid zones such as Kalaburagi should try out building huge farm ponds. “A half an acre farm pond can provide water to cultivate crops on five acres of land,” he said. Mr. Reddy also suggested community rainwater harvesting where a group of farmers build and maintain such farm ponds. Interestingly, young and educated farmers are showing more interest in recharging borewells when compared with the traditional ones, he observed. In fact, there have been instances where several farming families have even invited him to deliver a talk on borewell recharging, on occasions such as weddings, he said. On its part, the government should try to promote rainwater harvesting and borewell recharging by making available bank loans, he said.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice to government on collection of school fees||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a petition filed by a group of private schools seeking direction to the government to allow them to collect 50% of fee for the academic year 2020-21 at present and to demand payment of pending fees of the previous academic year. Justice R. Devdas passed the order on a petition filed by the Karnataka Private Schools’ Committee, a group of over 100 managements running private schools. The petitioner has complained that the circulars issued on April 24 and 28 imposing restriction on collection of fees by schools in view of COVID-19 has put the managements of schools in severe financial hardship leading to difficulty even to pay salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff by unaided private schools across the State. It has been pointed out that several parents are not paying pending fees of the previous academic year of 2019-20 as the schools were closed from March 23, before completion of previous academic year. Even though the schools have continued education in digital mode – either online or other methods – to ensure that students should not suffer, majority of the parents were not paying fees interpreting government’s circular to mean that they need not pay fees till regular classes are started. Though government’s circular allows payment of current academic year’s fee in instalment, absence of any specific period to pay instalments had led to non-payment of fees as only 1 to 2% of parents have paid fees. On the one hand, the government mandates payment of regular salary to teachers and other staff by the schools and on the other the government’s circular has tied the hands of schools in asking parents to pay even portions of fee resulting in lack of fund to pay salaries, the petitioner pointed out. The petitioner has also questioned the government’s direction to the schools not to enhance fees for the current academic year.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Service delivery severely affected by COVID-19: BCIC||Travel restrictions coupled with client confidentiality clauses and work-from-home advisories due to COVID-19 has resulted in low productivity and impacted the service delivery models, according to a report of the Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce (BCIC). The report, which was submitted to the State government, said COVID-19 induced lockdown severely impacted business across industries owing to disruptions in supply chains, reduced global and domestic demand, decline in growth of investments, and stress on the banking and financial sectors. The report ‘Opportunity in the times of COVID – Positioning Karnataka as a preferred investment destination’ prepared with support from Deloitte, noted 228.2% rise in unemployment, 60.1% decline in export of goods, and 7.3% decline in export of services in India due to lockdown and restrictions in travel and movement of goods. Commenting on the report and low productivity, BCIC president T.R. Parasuraman said: “Because most of the employees operating on the shop floor in industries were from outside Bengaluru, they went back to their natives places during lockdown. Most of them did not return owing to lockdown restrictions and fear of COVID-19 and this led to problems in starting manufacturing operations.” Nearly 60 to 80% of the operators on the shop floor were hired on contract and they were from different parts of Karnataka. “When the lockdown was called off, they (operators) were not allowed to stay (accommodation) in the same place because of fear of COVID-19. This resulted in disturbing the production process in many industries and companies. When alternative manpower is deployed, they are not trained…. all these led to low production,” he said. Alternative hubs The report says that it is imperative for the State to develop alternative economic hubs beyond Bengaluru. With more than 15,000 acres industrial land available in tier-II and tier-III cities such as Vijayapura, Ballari, Dharwad, Shivamogga, Hassan, Ramanagaram, Tumakuru, Chickballapur districts, BCIC said there is a necessity of shifting labour intensive industries out of Bengaluru ensuring geographical inclusive development. The report recommended encouragement for adoption of industrial training institutes by industries as part of the corporate social responsibility initiatives for skilling initiatives and to ensure supply of industry-ready professionals in line with industry requirements. “Limited partnership between industry and skilling ecosystem (ITIs/polytechnics) is resulting in absence of industry-ready professionals,” the report said. Noting 4-13% higher energy cost for industries in Karnataka vis-à-vis competing States, it suggested to the government to reduce power purchase costs by scaling-up low-cost renewable power sources such as solar, wind. It also called for rationalisation of tariff cross-subsidisation to reduce tariff rates for industrial customers.  When lockdown was called off, they (operators) were not allowed to stay (accommodation) in the same place because of fear of COVID-19. This resulted in disturbing the production process in many industries and companies.T.R. ParasuramanBCIC president
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC asks govt. to decide on SEC plea for funds to hold GP polls||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the State government to immediately decide on the request of the State Election Commission (SEC) for releasing funds earmarked in the Budget for holding elections to 5,800 gram panchayats as well as additional funds to put in place safety measures in view of COVID-19. A Division Bench issued the direction during the hearing of a PIL petition. The SEC informed the court that the government, in the Budget, had earmarked Rs. 225 crore to the SEC for conducting elections to zilla panchayats and gram panchayats. Pointing out that Rs. 185 crore is required for elections to gram panchayats alone, the SEC told the court that it has written to the government to release entire amount of Rs. 225 crore. The SEC also told the court that it has written to the government seeking additional Rs. 65 crore for putting in place safety measures during the elections, with a request to immediately release Rs. 25 crore additional fund along with the budgetary allocation of Rs. 225 crore. The SEC told the court that a Standard Operating Procedure is being finalised in consultation with the Department of Health and Family Welfare for safe conduct of elections. The elections to gram panchayats have been planned in two to three phases within districts to contain spread of COVID-19 during the election process, the SEC said. Final electoral list While pointing out that the final voter list for gram panchayats is likely to be finalised by August 31, the SEC said calender of events will be announced 45 days after August 31 as per law.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ex-CM writes to PM on changes to land reforms Ordinance||Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 and urged him to direct Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to revoke it. “This amendment, which has a very high impact, needs to be debated in the Assembly before being implemented. I strongly urge you, in the interest of millions of farmers, to direct the Chief Minister of Karnataka to withhold the Ordinance,” he said in the letter. The BJP government has promulgated an Ordinance that allows non-agriculturists to buy agricultural landholdings. There were restrictions on buying agricultural land as per the Karnataka Land Reforms Act of 1961 and 1974. The Ordinance removes restrictions on purchasing agricultural land. Removing restrictions on purchasing agricultural land is “in tune to the interests of Bengaluru land mafia, which is waiting for more land to be made available to make enormous profits through real estate,” Mr. Siddaramaiah warned in a two-page letter. “The average landholding is about 3-4 acres per family and this attempt to double the land ceiling will further decrease the average land holding, which will have an adverse impact on the production capabilities of small and medium farmers,” he said. ‘Will affect farmers’ The farmers and their families will be adversely affected and many will be forced to be the labourers, due to economic or social vulnerabilities, in the lands of industrialists or big farmers. “There is more possibility of manifestation of the Zamindari system, which was the main reason for the backwardness in rural areas,” the Congress leader said. “The government has come up with corruption in bureaucracy and investments to the agriculture sector as the reasons for the amendment. This exposes the incapability of government to contain corrupt practice and instead weaken the farming community,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC converts bus into toilet for women||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has converted an old bus that was set to be scrapped into a toilet for women. The facility, ‘Sthree toilet’, will have three Indian toilets and two western toilets. The bus has been equipped with a sanitary napkin vending machine, a feeding room and diaper changing area. It will generate power using solar energy. Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi inaugurated the facility on Thursday. The bus is parked at terminal 1 of Majestic bus stand. Cost of project A release from the Corporation said it cost Rs. 12 lakh to covert the bus. The Bangalore International Airport Ltd. took up the initiative as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility. Officials said the idea was borrowed from the Pune Municipal Corporation. KSRTC had initially planned to provide a facility on International Women’s Day but it did not materialise due to the pandemic and other reasons.
28 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Buffer stock of urea gets exhausted in State||Karnataka has appealed to the Centre to allot an additional one lakh tonnes of urea to the State in the wake of massive amount of sowing taken up by farmers in kharif season. Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil met Union Fertilizers Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda in New Delhi on Thursday with this request.In a memorandum to the Union Minister, Mr. Patil pointed out that the State had kept a buffer stock of about one lakh tonnes of urea to make up for any exigencies such as delay in arrival of rakes carrying fertilizers etc. But the buffer stock has been exhausted as there has been an increase in sowing of land by about 20% when compared with that during the previous year, he said. He appealed to the Centre to replenish Karnataka’s buffer stock of urea by sanctioning an additional one lakh tonnes. According to an official release, the Union Minister assured the State of ensuring that it did not face shortage of urea. It may be noted that several areas of the State, especially the rain-fed areas such as Ramanagaram district, are facing shortage of urea as there is a mad rush to buy the fertilizer following good rains.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||At 9,386, State sees record single-day jump in cases||With as many as 9,386 new COVID-19 cases, Karnataka witnessed the highest increase in the number of cases reported in a single day on Thursday. The total number of cases in the State is now 3.09 lakh.As many as 3,357 positive cases and 59 deaths were reported from Bengaluru Urban.According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare’s media bulletin, 7,866 patients were discharged on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries to 2.19 lakh. Meanwhile, 141 COVID-19 related deaths were reported in the State, adding up to 5,232 fatalities. Of the 84,987 active cases in the State, 747 patients are admitted in intensive care units across different hospitals. On Thursday, as many as 68,187 tests were conducted for COVID-19. While 29,004 of them were rapid antigen tests, the remaining were RT-PCR and other tests.
28 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Bengaluru needs a good RWH model’||Hydrogeologist and rainwater consultant N.J. Devaraj Reddy feels that Bengaluru city, which is largely dependent on the Cauvery to take care of its water needs, should adopt an efficient rainwater harvesting (RWH) model and make it a people’s campaign. “Bengaluru is ideal for rainwater harvesting. But the present trend of putting up something half-hearted just to satisfy authorities does not serve the purpose. We can get good results only when people realise its importance and show interest in tapping rainwater effectively. There should be a public awareness campaign about the benefits of rainwater harvesting,” he said.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GST collection down by 24%||The already financially-hit State government is staring at a huge gap. If the compensation part for April to August totals to about Rs. 13,764 crore, the State’s share in GST collections is down by 24.53% over the corresponding period last year. The SGST collection, which is the State’s share has dropped from about Rs. 16,300 crore between April and August 2019 to about Rs. 12,300 crore in the corresponding period this financial year. If the State’s SGST collection for the period between April and August in 2019 stood at Rs. 10,115 crore, the collection for the same period in 2020 is down to Rs. 7,597 crore, owing to the COVID-19 related lockdown and subdued economic activity. Similarly, IGST settlement has seen a dip from Rs. 6,378 crore in 2019-20 to about Rs. 4,955 crore this year. However, Finance Department sources said that the last two months’ revenue collections had been 90% of the corresponding period of last year.
28 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rs. 40-cr. blueprint for development of Jog||Tourism Minister C.T. Ravi on Thursday said that his department had prepared a blueprint for developing Jog at a cost of Rs. 40 crore. He told reporters in Bengaluru that providing a ropeway was part of the blueprint. Similar plans were also afoot for development of Nandi Hills and Kodachadri, he said. With an intention to increase the pension of artists during COVID-19 times, the government had spent Rs. 58 lakh, he said. Stating that the floods and COVID-19 had come in the way of the department’s progress, he expressed confidence that it would recover slowly. Already, the State-held Jungle Lodges and Resorts had seen 50% recovery, he said.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli violence: Panel given three months to probe, submit report||G.N. Shivamurthy, Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru urban district, accompanied by a retired judge called on senior police officers on Thursday in connection with the violence in D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli. “The government has given three months’ time to probe the incident and submit a detailed report. People can provide information about the violence, which will be kept confidential,” Mr. Shivamurthy told the media. The East Division police have arrested 377 people who were allegedly involved in the violence, which left four people dead and 15 injured after the police opened fire on the mob. Around 70 FIRs have been filed to date. The police briefed the members of the magisterial committee on the events of the night. Thirty-five policemen were injured in the violence, police officials told Mr. Shivamurthy. “Police officials were asked whether they had prior information about the violence and whether there were any discrepancies in the complaints registered by those who initially approached the police,” said a police officer. They also sought information on time taken to register FIRs, and if the police at the stations informed their higher officials about the magnitude of the situation. The Deputy Commissioner also asked about the status of the investigation so far. Officials from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and the Regional Transport Office (RTO) have been asked to assess the damage to buildings and vehicles.  The police have arrested 377 people allegedly involved in the violence, which left four dead and 15 injured after the police opened fire on the mob.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Document verification||Seat allotment for admission to professional courses for 2020 will be based on documents uploaded by eligible candidates. According to a Karnataka Examinations Authority, the government will conduct document verification online. They can log intohttp://kea.kar.nic.into upload documents on the dates specified against their ranks as per schedule.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||St. Mary’s Feast to go online||The annual St. Mary’s Feast is set to go virtual this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement issued on Thursday, Archbishop Peter Machado of the Archdiocese of Bangalore said alternate arrangements had been made to celebrate the festival “spiritually and meaningfully through digital and other social media networks”. “We have decided to live stream all the spiritual programmes through various digital platforms on all nine days of the Novena (from August 29) and on the Feast Day (September 8),” the press statement read. The programmes will be telecast onwww.stmarys bangalore.com;www.bang alorearchdiocese.organd on the YouTube channel of the Bangalore Archdiocese, among other platforms.
28 August 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Govt. tells liquid oxygen manufacturers to ensure there is no delay in supply||With many hospitals struggling to get their supply of liquid oxygen, the State government has issued a circular to all manufacturers stating that delay in supply would amount to violation of legal provisions. In the circular issued on Wednesday, Gaurav Gupta, Principal Secretary of the Commerce and Industries Department, directed all manufacturers of medical oxygen to augment the production of liquid oxygen without interruptions to meet the demand irrespective of “exclusivity of the vendors” as per the memorandum of understanding entered into between a hospital and a supplier. The circular also directs hospitals, medical institutions, and refilling units to inform the assistant drugs controllers of the respective area to resolve any issue related to shortage of supply. Demand for liquid oxygen has been on the rise as many patients who have COVID-19 require hospitalisation to prevent/control complications. Cryogenic vessel Meanwhile, a cryogenic liquid oxygen tank is now being sourced for Mysuru from Maharashtra after no company took part in a tender process for establishing the facility that aims continuous oxygen supply to patients, especially the critically-ill COVID-19 cases with respiratory distress, at the State-run K.R. Hospital (KRH). With the Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute getting the State government’s nod for establishing centralised oxygen support to 950 beds by laying pipelines in its hospitals, the institute has identified the KRH premises for setting up the 13 kl oxygen tank/vessel for unceasing oxygen support to patients. Liquid oxygen has to be refilled once in two days and there is no need for changeover of the cylinders for the patients, thus improving the condition of patients, according to doctors. With the huge demand for such facilities in the wake of exponential rise in COVID-19 cases across the country, many large hospitals are establishing cryogenic tanks to overcome oxygen shortage. This has led to steep demand for such vessels and firms are unable to meet the demand.
28 August 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Schools in Dharwad told to not enhance fees||In the wake of complaints about some schools enhancing the fee structure for the current academic year, Dharwad Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil has directed all aided and private unaided schools to retain fees fixed for the previous academic year and warned them that strict action will be taken against those violating the order. Chairing a District Education Regulatory Authority (DERA) meeting here on Thursday, Mr. Patil asked all aided and private unaided pre primary, primary, secondary schools in the district not to increase fees for the year 2020–21. The State government has already issued an order prohibiting any upward revision of school fees and directing educational institutions to accept the fee structure approved for the year 2019-20. “Any school failing to abide by the Government Order will have to face legal action,” he said. Officials of the Department of Public Instruction, representatives of school management boards and parents associations took part in the meeting.  Notice The Deputy Commissioner noticed that the heads of two private schools were not present and asked the Deputy Director of Public Instruction to issue notice to those school managements and cancel their recognition for the academic year. The Deputy Commissioner also directed private school managements to ensure that they provided job security to the staff and paid minimum basic salary to them.
28 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||40 beggars rescued in Hassan||The Hassan police, with the cooperation of the Hassan City Municipal Council (CMC) and the Department of Women and Child Development, on Thursday, conducted a drive and rescued 40 beggars in the city. The drive was conducted in the wake of a recent incident in which a beggar woman was murdered here. The team of officials visited the bus stand, traffic joints, and other busy areas, where beggars are normally found. They were all taken in vehicles for a COVID-19 test. Many of them were reluctant to go with the police. However, senior officers convinced them after assuring them safety and essential facilities. Additional Superintendent of Police B.N. Nandini said the drive was conducted in the wake of recent crimes involving women with no caretakers. “We will provide temporary shelter for the rescued people and later send them to designated homes. Right now, we have a designated place for men in the city. Women would be sent to homes located in other cities,” she said. The officers have a plan to conduct similar drives in other parts of the district as well. Commissioner of the CMC R. Krishnamurthy said the CMC had arranged a night shelter facility in the city. However, there was no facility for the rehabilitation of woman beggars. “We have a facility only for men. We have sent a proposal to the State government for the construction of a facility for women as well,” he said. Deputy Director of Women and Child Development K.G. Dileep and others took part in the drive.
28 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Development works hit by vindictive politics’||Hassan Zilla Panchayat vice-president H.P. Swaroop has alleged that development works were affected in the district owing to vindictive politics of panchayat president Shwetha Devaraj. The panchayat president did not take the members into confidence while taking up development works, he said at a press conference here on Thursday. The panchayat president is from the Congress, while the panchayat vice-president belongs to the JD(S). Mr. Swaroop said the panchayat president had not convened meetings regularly. She had convened the next meeting on September 5, but none of the important issues had been included on the meeting agenda. Whenever members raised the issue of corruption in the panchayat, she retorted saying that she was being targeted because of her caste, he said. While utilising Rs. 1 crore out of her discretionary quota, she had ignored the constituencies represented by JD(S) members. A major chunk of the amount was spent in Bageshpura constituency from where she has been elected, he alleged. Mr. Swaroop hoped that the panchayat president would take up works in the interest of the people of the district.
28 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||325 more test positive||As many as 325 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Hassan on Thursday taking the total number of confirmed cases to 6,856. Three patients — one from Arsikere and two from Channarayaptna — died taking the toll to 175. As many as 233 people were discharged and 2,066 are undergoing treatment.
28 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Constable dies in hospital after falling off motorcycle||A police head constable attached to the Dharwad Traffic Police Station, who suffered injuries in a road accident on Wednesday, died in hospital on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Rajesh Katagi (47). According to the police, Rajesh Katagi’s motorcycle skidded off the road near Pruthvi Garden in Dharwad while he was returning home after duty. After falling from the motorcycle, Rajesh Katagi became unconscious and was immediately rushed to KIMS Hospital in Hubballi. However, doctors said that he did not respond to medical treatment and breathed his last on Thursday.
28 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Two youths killed in group clash||In a late night scuffle that turned fatal, two youths were killed on Wednesday. The incident happened at around midnight at Gopanskoppa in Hubballi. Two groups reportedly attacked each other with lethal weapons leaving two among them bleeding. Although the youths were shifted to hospital, they died of injuries. The deceased have been identified as Manjunath Kabbin and Niyaz Jorammanavar, both residents of the same locality. The Keshwapur Police have registered a case. They have taken three persons into custody for questioning. Police Commissioner R. Dileep visited the spot on Thursday.  Two groups reportedly attacked each other with lethal weapons leaving the two bleeding
28 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Upgrading Hampi mini-circle to bring in additional funds||The Ministry of Culture’s decision to upgrade Hampi from a mini-circle to a full-fledged circle of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) is set to pave way for better protection of monuments, besides release of additional funds towards their conservation and maintenance. The exercise to upgrade the Hampi mini-circle is part of a larger move that has led to the creation of seven new circles of ASI across the country so as to strength the process of preservation of archaeological monuments along with registration of artefacts. The other new circles are Trichy, Raiganj, Rajkot, Jabalpur, Jhansi, and Meerut. The Hampi mini-circle will be upgraded to a full-fledged circle because of its international significance as a place of archaeological heritage and religious significance, according to a communiqué from the Ministry. The group of monuments at Hampi was inscribed by the UNESCO as World Heritage Site in 1986. Meanwhile, sources in the ASI said the upgrade plan was a welcome development as it not only results in release of more funds and deployment of additional staff but will help in focussed approach towards conservation and maintenance. At present, there are nearly 85 monuments under ASI Hampi mini-circle and plans are afoot to reorganise the jurisdictional area so as to bring in more monuments in the Kalyana Karnataka region under Hampi circle, the sources added. If the jurisdiction of Hampi circle is also expanded as planned, it will bring within its ambit monuments in Koppal, Yadgir, Bidar, Raichur, and Kalaburagi. However, upgrading Hampi into a full-fledged circle has only been announced and not yet notified, according to sources. N.S. Rangaraju, former Head of the Department of Ancient History and Archaeology, University of Mysore, and convener of INTACH, Mysuru, said upgrading Hampi will expedite conservation plans which are otherwise held up as they have to be cleared by higher-ups. “Decision-making will be swift which is imperative in view of Hampi’s importance as a tourist destination of global importance,” he added. There are conflicting views on whether expanding the jurisdiction of the Hampi circle will fetch more dividends or neutralise the gains of such an exercise. Hampi receives around Rs. 6 crore for maintenance of its monuments which is inadequate and the adjoining Dharwad circle with almost 300 monuments within its ambit receives roughly the same amount. “If more monuments are brought under the jurisdiction of Hampi circle, additional funds accruing to it have to be allotted to other monuments outside the world heritage site region as well. More budgetary outlay per monument rather than redrawing the jurisdictional boundaries of the existing circles is what matters,” said Prof. Rangaraju.
28 August 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Amid rising cases, pulmonologists are too few in State||Though the relevance of pulmonology in the efforts to treat critical COVID-19 patients cannot be understated, there is a severe shortage of qualified pulmonologists in several districts of Karnataka. While the rate of mortality stood at 1.7% and the deaths per million went up from 36 to 68 between August 1 and 22 in Karnataka, most of the severely affected COVID-19 districts in the State had a very small number of pulmonologists, according to Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of Proxima, a management consulting firm, which conducted the study. Validating the number of pulmonologists from Indian Medical Association (IMA), Jeevan Raksha pointed out that Karnataka had a total of 137 pulmonologists, who are medical experts dealing with diseases involving the respiratory tract. High ratio Except for Bengaluru, which has 66 pulmonologists, and Mysuru with 13 pulmonologists, no other district in the State has pulmonologists in double digits. As many as six districts in Karnataka — Ballari, Hassan, Mandya, Yadgir, Haveri, and Chamarajanagar — do not have even a single pulmonologist, the study stated, citing the IMA data. It highlighted the possible gaps in the treatment on account of the high ratio of critical COVID-19 patients to pulmonologist. The study has put the critical patient to pulmonologist ratio in Karnataka at 52:1 “We noticed that the existing number of pulmonologists in the districts is grossly inadequate to treat the expected number of critical COVID-19 cases. In fact, some of the districts do not have a single qualified pulmonologist,” said Mysore Sanjeev, convenor of the Jeevan Raksha project, which is engaged in providing analytical insights on emerging pattern of COVID-19 in India to the Centre, State governments, and the general public. “We are of the strong view that the local district administration should closely examine the availability of appropriate skills and competencies to treat the critical COVID-19 patients and develop suitable strategy to bridge the critical skill and competence gap,” Mr. Sanjeev said.
28 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||One arrested in tiger poaching case||One person has been taken into custody in the tiger poaching case at Kalahalla range of Nagarahole National Park. The authorities are looking for three more persons suspected to be involved in the case. The tiger, aged around six, was found dead on Tuesday evening and post-mortem indicated the presence of gunshot wounds on the carcass. Deputy Conservator of Forests, Nagarahole, D. Mahesh Kumar said they had recovered claws from the accused and investigation would now focus on whether the gang was operating independently or was connected to a wider network dealing with wildlife derivatives. The carcass was found close to Tattekere haadi. Samples of the viscera had been sent to the laboratory for analysis to ascertain the cause of death. Mr. Mahesh Kumar said interrogation of the accused led to recovery of venison. “The lead obtained while investigating the deer-hunting case led us to suspect that the same gang was involved in both the cases,” he added.
28 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||From Mumbai to Yadgir comes a helping hand||Actor Sonu Sood has extended a helping hand sending ration for three months to a poor family in Yadgir. Workers Nagaraj and Padma, natives of Ramsamudra village in Yadgir district, returned from Bengaluru after the lockdown was relaxed. On August 22, Padma gave birth to three male babies at the district hospital here. But, as there was no job after the lockdown, Nagaraj was worrying about his immediate expenditure and also the education of his five-year-old daughter. “After coming to know of this, I, on August 24, rushed to the hospital and made a video and sent it to the Bollywood actor. Immediately, his assistant called me and assured me of help,” Mallikarjuna Reddy Hattikuni, a journalist who took the plight of the poor family to Mr. Sood, said. The actor, who is known to help those in distress and also workers, sent a parcel to the residential address of Nagaraj containing rice, dal, salt, chilli powder, edible oil and other household material that can last three months. It reached the family on Thursday. “I am happy to see ration that is now priceless for a poor family like ours,” Nagaraj said. Mr. Sood recently sent a tractor to a farmer in Andhra Pradesh to plough his field as the latter was using the help of his daughters in tilling due to financial difficulties to engage workers. “Mr. Sood who has been helping underprivileged people across the country has addressed the problem of a poor family in Yadgir and this is a kind-of-a-first here by an actor,” Mr. Hattikuni said. Mr. Sood, who has released a video clip, said that he was happy to help needy people and appealed to others to help such families. Calling Padma Bhabhi, the Dabangg actor said that he would further help the family, while wishing good health for the mother and her children.
28 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||363 new cases in two dists.||As many as 363 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were registered in Yadgir and Raichur districts on Thursday. Of these, 251 are from Raichur and 112 in Yadgir. One patient died in Raichur taking the toll to 81. With 251 new cases, the total number of such cases reached 6,511 in Raichur. With 112 new cases, there are 5,041 such cases in Yadgir. As many as 1,595 patients are getting treatment.
28 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Ragapriya takes charge as Deputy Commissioner||R. Ragapriya, IAS, has taken charge as Deputy Commissioner of Yadgir on Thursday as M. Kurma Rao has been transferred. Ms. Ragapriya, a 2011 batch IAS officer, was working as Managing Director of Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company before she was transferred to Yadgir as Deputy Commissioner.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BMRCL loss nearly Rs. 600 cr. in 2019-20||The financial year 2019-20 has not been good for Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL), which has incurred a net loss of Rs. 598.58 crore. This is a Rs. 100 crore increase when compared to FY 2018-19 when the net loss was Rs. 498.41 crore. However, its fare box revenue has increased to Rs. 376.88 crore from Rs. 355.02 crore in FY 2018-19. It registered a growth of 6.16% in operational revenue. “This has helped BMRCL achieve an operational cash surplus of Rs. 54.20 crore despite the adverse impact on ridership in March. and suspension of operations from March 22 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. After adjusting the interest on loans of Rs. 108.97 crore, BMRCL registered a net cash loss of Rs. 54.77 crore as against Rs. 29 crore in the previous year (2018-19),” stated the release. In the current financial year, the non-operation of Namma Metro for over five months will badly hit the finances of the company. BMRCL recorded a fall in non-fare box (renting out space, advertisements and others) due to the ban on outdoor advertisement by the BBMP and reduction in rental income from property development on account of the lockdown. Non-fare box revenue dropped to Rs. 41.91 crore from Rs. 47.33 crore in 2018-19. BMRCL maintains that expenditure had increased by Rs. 39.49 due to revision in salary, increase in energy charges after introducing six-car trains and towards maintenance due to completion of defect liability period of various Phase I contracts. In the last financial year (2019-20), Namma Metro recorded higher boarding of 6.01 lakh passengers on October 25 and highest revenue of Rs. 1.67 crore on March 2. During the period, the punctuality was 99.8%.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Kempegowda Jayanthi on September 2: Mayor||The BBMP will be celebrating Kempegowda Jayanthi on September 2. However, it will be a low-key affair. Awards will be given to 20 people who have helped the State and BBMP in the fight against COVID-19. Mayor M. Goutham Kumar said the decision had been taken after a meeting with BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad and senior councillors on Wednesday. Kempegowda Jayanthi usually coincides with the Bengaluru Karaga, but this year, it was put off following the outbreak of COVID-19. Mr. Kumar said another meeting will be held later this month to finalise names of the awardees. Given the restrictions in place, a maximum of 50 persons will be part of the main event, which will take place around 10 a.m. on September 2 at the Dr. Rajkumar Glass House in the BBMP headquarters. Officials were directed to offer special prayers at the eight Kempegowda towers.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Former AIR director dead||Former All India Radio (AIR) station director Indu Bai Ramesh, 83, succumbed to COVID-19 on Wednesday in Bengaluru. Under her directorship AIR, Bengaluru, won the Best Station Award twice in a row. She worked for more than 30 years with AIR, retiring as Station Director Commercial Broadcasting Station, Vividh Bharathi. Indu Bai was a media consultant who worked extensively on community radio and mass communications till her last days. She published four books: an English novel Four Tales and a Lifetime , Mrutyorma Amrutangamaya about her battle with Guillain-Barre Syndrome, From the Kitchens of Mysuru on traditional food of Mysuru,  and a book on the life of Lakshmiji, founder of Swami Vivekananda Yoga Samsthana.
28 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||172 cases, one death in Alappuzha||The district logged 172 COVID-19 cases and 130 recoveries on Thursday. The fresh cases include 145 persons who acquired the disease through local transmission, 17 who came from other States, six who returned from abroad, three health workers and a person from Nooranad whose source of infection is unknown. The district reported another COVID-19-related death. The deceased was identified as a 40-year-old woman who succumbed to the disease on August 23. The district so far registered 15 COVID-19 deaths. 23 from Cherthala Of the 145 locally transmitted cases, 23 are from Cherthala South, 19 from Aryad, 18 from Alappuzha and 12 from Pallippuram. Rest of the contact cases are from Kayamkulam (9), Arookutty (7), six each from Thuravoor, Aroor and Mavelikara, five each from Chembupuram and Kadakkarappally, four from Poochakkal, three from Pattanakkad, two each from Ambalappuzha, Kareelakulangara and Cherthala and one case each from Punnapra, Pathiyoor, Thiruvanvandoor, Chennithala, Mannancherry, Devikulangara, Muhamma, Puliyoor, Kanjikuzhy, Thaikkattussery, Ezhupunna, Kanichukulangara, Haripad, Chingoli, Edathua and Purakkad. Containment zones The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 2,174. Parts of ward 16 in Haripad and ward 36 in Alappuzha municipality, ward 14 in Thrikkunnapuzha and wards 5 and 9 in Ala grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
28 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Chengannur water project in 2 years: CM||The Chengannur comprehensive drinking water project to distribute potable water to residents of Chengannur municipality and nearby grama panchayats will be completed in two years, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was inaugurating the work on the project at Mulakuzha through videoconferencing on Thursday. Apart from Chengannur municipality, the scheme will cover Ala, Puliyoor, Budhanoor, Pandanad, Mulakuzha, Venmony and Cheriyanad grama panchayats. Once completed, it is expected to provide water to 1.6-lakh people through 34,379 connections. A total of 910-km pipeline will be laid as part of the project.
28 August 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad district lifts travel curbs on inter-State highways||The Wayanad district administration is preparing to ease restrictions imposed on the entry and exit of travellers through the inter-State highways passing through the district from Friday. The administration had taken the decision in the wake of the recent directive of the Central government not to impose any restrictions for inter-State travellers, Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla said. Registration However, directions were given to the police to ensure the registration of the travellers through the COVID-19 Jagratha portal prior to their entry, Ms. Abdulla, who is also the chairman of the District Disaster management Authority, said. If those travellers were to be quarantined, officials should be informed, she said. Ms. Abdulla directed officials of the facilitation centre at Muthanga on the Kerala-Karnataka border not to obstruct the entry of vehicles and passengers from other States or ask for any passes to enter the district. Facilitation centres would be set up on the Kerala-Karnataka borders at Kutta and Bavali and travellers with the symptoms of COVID-19 would be tested there.
28 August 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Harsham project on fast track: Minister||Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan has said that the Harsham project, a rehabilitation scheme for the victims of the Puthumala landslip in Wayanad district, will be fast-tracked and completed by the end of March. The Minister was speaking after inaugurating “Susmitham” a flat complex constructed by the Wayanad district administration for the people who had lost their houses and property in flood-related calamities last year at Chitramoola near Kaniyampetta in the district on Thursday. The flat complex was constructed on 14 cents.
28 August 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Over 100 pregnant women seek treatment for COVID-19||The number of COVID-19 positive pregnant women seeking treatment at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital has crossed 100. So far, 107 pregnant women have sought treatment. Thirty-nine patients have already given birth, and nine of them had caesarean section. That the hospital has been able to successfully treat pregnant women has garnered attention, despite several doctors and other staff getting infected. The treatment for pregnant women is offered by a team led by Dr. S. Ajith, head of obstetrics and gynaecology department, and Dr. M.T.P. Mohammad, head of paediatric department.
28 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||RAY project: Opposition files complaint with Vigilance||A day after the civic administration passed the file for returning the advance, paid by the contractor of the Rajeev Awas Yojana housing project at West Kochi, through late night-voting, the opposition Left Democratic Front (LDF) filed a complaint with the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau seeking a probe into the deal. Drawing a comparison between the housing project and the alleged corruption in the construction of Palarivattom flyover, LDF councillors said the civic body’s decision to return the security deposit before the completion of the construction amounted to corruption. Though the proposed project was for the construction of a 12-storey building, the contractor could compete only one storey. The firm, which was selected for the project, had failed to qualify during the initial rounds of selection process. However, the agency was picked up for the job after bypassing rules and procedures. The firm was unduly favoured with the help and support of some of the senior officials of the Local Self-Government Department, according to LDF councillors K.J. Antony, V.P. Chandran and Benedict Fernandez, who filed the complaint. Mayor’s stance Mayor Soumini Jain said the decision to return the security deposit was taken in good faith for ensuring that the work would not be stopped half way. The decision was taken on the recommendation given by finance and engineering departments of the civic body and the then secretary of the corporation. “The Mayor can exercise the discretion for salvaging such projects. The housing project, once completed, will provide shelter for around 350 families,” she said. While the cost of the first tower in the project, which was being constructed by the civic body, was Rs. 39 crore, the second tower, which would be constructed by Cochin Smart Mission Limited, would require Rs. 47 crore, she said. Incidentally, the agenda of the project was passed on Thursday after 23 councillors, including Ms. Jain, of the United Democratic Front voted in favour of it. The 21 councillors of the LDF voted against the proposal.
28 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Veggie sales for Onam remain subdued||The Onam market for vegetables has remained largely subdued despite the Ernakulam main market reopening for business about a fortnight ago after nearly a month-long shutdown following fears of the spread of COVID-19. There is no dearth of supplies but people do not feel safe to come out and shop these days, said N. H. Shameed of the Stall Owners’ Association on Thursday as he expressed the hope that the extension of the shopping time would help improve the situation in the coming days. Several organisations have come out with the sale of vegetables they have been producing in keeping with the government programmes under various projects such as “Subiksha Keralam”. One of the significant developments this season has been the Kerala Vegetables and Fruit Promotion Keralam coming out with its own brand of vegetables. Fruits and vegetables branded “Thalir” are now available in the market. The produce is directly sourced from farmers and sold under the brand name both as an assurance to the buyers and to support the farmers. The “Thalir Green Outlets” have also been opened to ensure the sale of the branded vegetables and fruits, said a communication. While the branded vegetables and fruits will now be available through Milma outlets, major supermarkets will also have the produce, said the communication.
28 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Metro rolls out new protocol||With Unlock-4 around the corner and metro rail systems expected to be exempted from COVID curbs, Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has rolled out a new protocol to ensure safety of passengers. Kochi metro trains would operate air-conditioning at between 25 and 26 degree Celsius, while they will halt at each station for 20-seconds longer for fresh air to circulate within the compartments, said Alkesh Kumar Sarma, managing director of the metro agency. “They will also be stationed at the terminal stations — Aluva and Pettah — for five minutes with doors open. All this is apart from measures to disinfect trains after each trip. The trains will initially operate every 20 minutes. Their frequency can be increased if need be. A spare train will be kept ready in case there is a sudden increase in demand for the metro,” he said. Strict measures The KMRL has taken strict measures with regard to sanitisation, physical distancing of passengers and for cashless transactions once the metro resumes operations. Passengers will be encouraged to use Kochi1 prepaid card, rather than cash transactions. Measures have been taken to adopt contact-less ticketing and digital payment at all stations in the 25-km corridor. Cash boxes and contact-less ticket machines will be available at each station to prevent the spread of the pandemic through currency notes. The new system will ensure that a commuter without Kochi-1 prepaid card will not touch anything except the ticket. Personnel at ticket counters and passenger information counter will communicate to passengers through the mic and speaker only. All the staff dealing with cash will wear hand gloves. Passengers must wear mask and use hand sanitiser kept at entry points of stations. Foot pedal operated sanitisers will be available for this. Physical distancing of passengers at stations will be monitored by respective station controllers through CCTV. All passengers will be screened for body temperature using an infrared thermometer by security staff. In addition, thermal cameras will be placed at stations which have high footfall. All public contact points like AFC gates, ticket counters, handrails of staircase, escalators, lift buttons and platform chairs will be cleaned with disinfectant every four hours.
28 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Public urged to be cautious in view of Onam season||The district administration has urged the public to be cautious and abide by all COVID safety protocol in view of the Onam season. The next two weeks remain key as people may come out in good numbers for Onam purchase and celebrations. “Traders have been asked to strictly comply with the COVID-19 protocol,” said S. Suhas, District Collector. The timings of shops in non-containment zones have been revised from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. up to September 2 in view of the festival season. “But care should be taken to avoid overcrowding. The use of masks and sanitisers is compulsory. Token system has to be introduced to avoid rush at outlets,” he said. Mr. Suhas said that traders should ensure physical distancing and break-the-chain protocol. “We have also requested them to offer uniform discount rates to customers. Otherwise, there will be a rush inside an outlet offering discounts higher than others. Specific guidelines have been issued to shopping malls and textile outlets in view of the spike in number of visitors,” he said.  New cases The number of persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday was 140. Of this, 135 were infected through contact. Chengamanad was among the areas that had the highest number of positive cases, with 16 persons testing positive. The number of positive cases in Palluruthy, Fort Kochi and Mattancherry also remained steady compared to the past one week. Ten cases each were reported in Palluruthy and Fort Kochi. The number of positive cases in Mattancherry was eight. Six of the infected were health and Asha workers.
28 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC: ensure quota for those with disabilities||The Kerala High Court has directed the State government to ensure job reservation for persons with disabilities in all appointments in aided educational institutions. Justice P.V. Asha issued the directive while disposing of a petition filed by the Nair Service Society (NSS) and others challenging the government order requiring all aided educational institutions to implement reservations for persons with disabilities in appointments. The government has ordered that 3% reservation be provided for vacancies during the period from 1995 to 2016 and 4% from 2016 onwards. The court directed the management to conduct the selection in tune with the government order. V. Manu, Senior Government Pleader, submitted that the entire expense towards salary, allowances, and pension of teaching and non-teaching staff of aided schools and colleges was borne by the government. Aided schools got maintenance grants. Therefore, the aided schools and colleges came under the definition of ‘government establishment' within the purview of Section 2(k) of the Act. The court observed that the right of managers of aided schools to appoint teachers was not absolute. It could only be in accordance with the rules and conditions laid down by the government, that too, only from among candidates possessing qualification as prescribed by the government. The management contended that the right of appointment conferred on the management of aided colleges could not be interfered with or diluted in view of the direct payment agreement entered into between the petitioner managements and the State government. The court observed that minority right or direct payment agreement entered into between the government would not stand in the way of implementation of the provisions of the Act.  SC directions The State government had only directed the colleges to implement the provisions in the Act, that too, when the Supreme Court had been consistently issuing various directions for its implementation of reservation for the last several years. It was the duty of the management of aided educational institutions to see that the differently abled were given appointment.  Govt. ordered that 3% reservation be provided for vacancies during 1995-2016 and 4% from 2016
28 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Culverts to be rebuilt||Two low-lying culverts that cause flooding in Kareethodu canal located on the eastern side of Palarivattom-Vyttila NH Bypass will be rebuilt at a cost of Rs. 1.84 crore allotted from the constituency fund of P.T. Thomas, MLA. They are located at Pulluparambu and Kadupath.
28 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC stays Kerala Bank director board elections||The Kerala High Court has stayed for three weeks all further proceedings pursuant to the notification issued by the Kerala State Cooperative Election Commission scheduling election to the director board of the Kerala State Cooperative Bank (Kerala Bank) on September 25. Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan passed the stay order on Thursday on a petition filed by N. Subramanian, chairman, Kuruvattoor Service Cooperative Bank, Kozhikode. He contended that the process of election to the Board of Directors of the bank could be initiated only after getting the final approval of amalgamation of various district banks by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The court, while issuing the order, pointed out that the government had found it necessary to postpone all further steps in the election process in cooperatives societies where the date of polling fell due in one month from August 23, 2020, considering the impact of the pandemic and practical difficulty in holding the elections. The State was facing the highest spike in COVID-19 cases. If the election process was permitted to continue ignoring the directives issued by the government, it may lead to even greater community transmission, which had to be avoided. Besides, the government's application seeking time to comply with the RBI's various directives issued in connection with the amalgamation of the banks was pending before the RBI.
28 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Permission given to build breakwaters at Chellanam||The State government has approved a project to build breakwaters off the coast of Chellanam as the village faced serious sea erosion and flooding problems. A communication from the district administration said here on Thursday that Minister for Irrigation K. Krishnankutty had issued instructions to officials to submit a report on building breakwaters off the Chellanam coast. A project to erect seawalls using geotextile tubes had not made much progress so far, the communication said. It said the coast of Chellanam faced serious sea erosion after Cyclone Ockhi hit the coast in December 2017. Residents doubtful However, a section of residents said that the government promise could not be trusted as elections to local bodies were around the corner. “It is a long-pending demand to save lives and property of people here. However, nobody had come forward to help so far in recent years,” said a resident. “The move by the government is welcome,” said T.J. Dapline of Pachima Kochi Coast Protection Samithi as well as Chellanam Janakiya Vedhi spokesman Joseph Arakkal. However, they expressed concern that the promise might not be fulfilled in the long run.
28 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Lorry rams bridge||A lorry carrying ammunition meant for Army Ordinance Depot, Jabalpur, crashed into the barrier wall of the 2-km-long Kundannoor bridge on Wednesday midnight, following collision with a car. The police informed the Fire and Rescue Services personnel, since the consignment was ammunition and a little beyond the lorry’s driver cabin was protruding above the waterbody, beyond the bridge’s barrier wall. The accident disrupted movement of vehicles for about an hour, police sources said. The Maradu police have registered a case for rash and negligent driving, under Section 279 of IPC against the driver. The ammunition arrived in Kochi and was being transported to Jabalpur, Naval sources said. The PWD (NH wing) is expected to restore the broken portion of the barrier.
28 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||College removes head of faculty from post||The management of Union Christian College, Aluva, has removed the Head of the Department of English from the post and other duties based on a complaint of alleged sexual harassment filed against him by a former student. The inquiry into the complaint is being conducted by the institution’s internal grievance redressal committee. The college will take impartial and legal steps based on the report submitted by the committee, said David Saj Mathew P., Principal, in a communication on Thursday.
28 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Support price for rubber: HC seeks Centre’s response||The Kerala High Court has asked the Union government to inform the court the status of the Union Commerce Ministry proposal regarding fixing a minimum support price for rubber that has been sent to the Ministry of Agriculture. Justice N. Nagaresh passed the order on Thursday on a petition filed by K.A. Joseph, president, Indian Rubber Dealers Federation, and others seeking to classify natural rubber as an agricultural produce and provide minimum support price for it. Rubber price has crashed in the past few years. This has made the production of rubber unviable and uneconomic, the petitioners added. Due to import They said that the growers had stopped tapping because of the price fall and increase in the cost of production. The price crash was due to the massive import of rubber. Dealers had also incurred heavy losses. In fact, the rubber growers had long been demanding minimum support prices for rubber.
28 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Alappuzha fishers air complaint||Thousands of fishers from Alappuzha’s coastal segment, between Aruthunkal in the north and Thumpoli in the south, have raised complaints against their not being allowed to use the fishing harbours in Ernakulam while hundreds of fishers from Tamil Nadu operate freely out of the harbours and fish-landing centres. Around 200 fishing boats and ten inboard vessels, which employ around 6,000 fishers, are not able to land at any harbours in the State now as the Arthunkal fishing harbour is incomplete and operations are held up. Boats that operate between Thumboli and Pallithode and its workers use the harbours in Ernakulam between the months of May and September. The Vypeen Kalamukku harbour and the Chellanam harbours had been their normal locations of work during these months in the previous years, said Kerala Swatantra Matsya Thozhilali Federation general secretary Jackson Pollayil and Raju Ashrayam, a fisherman from Arthunkal. They said with the outbreak of COVID-19, these workers are not being allowed to work in Kochi harbours while hundreds of their counterparts from neighbouring States operate at these harbours.
28 August 2020||Kollam,KERALA||Orphanages, shelter homes stare at a desolate Onam||It is that time of the year when they will be busy sorting Onakkodis and making arrangements for a grand Onam feast. But the staff of the Ashraya Charitable Society, Kottarakara, say they are bracing for bleak days ahead. Depleted resources, dip in contributions during the last few months, and visitor restrictions — the residents of orphanages and shelter homes in the State are staring at a desolate Onam. 1,000 residents “We have over 1,000 residents and every year they wait for new clothes and the feast on Thiruvonam day. This year also they are keeping their fingers crossed, but we hardly have any sponsors. The children and elderly people will be really disappointed as they always look forward to the festivities. Owing to the COVID-19 restrictions, we cannot go for any door-to-door campaign to collect money,” says Shantakumar, chief social worker. No profits to share Among the residents of destitute homes across the State are a good percentage of senior citizens and several others who need psychiatric rehabilitation. “We are struggling to meet even the medical expenses as donations have significantly dried up during the last few months. There are many people who used to visit the home on birthdays, wedding anniversaries, or such other occasion distributing clothes and sweets. But for the past five months, there have been no such visits,” says Sr. Archana, Assisi Home, Kottayam. Many businessmen who have been regular contributors took a hit during the pandemic, eventually leading to a resource crunch. “Every year, I used to donate a certain percentage of the profit from Onam sales, but now I do not even have funds to pay my staff or keep the business afloat. I will be able make only a very meagre contribution this year,” says a Thrissur-based entrepreneur. Health advisory After institutional clusters developed in various parts, the Health Department had instructed the authorities to restrict visitors in all shelter homes to ensure that the residents have no contact with outsiders. “We have been asked not to entertain personal visits even if it's close family members. Elderly persons belong to high-risk category and we cannot take any chances with them, so only live-in staff members and caretakers are now allowed. For many, Onam means a break from their year-long routine and a time for meeting their dear ones. This year will be very hard on them,” adds Mr. Shantakumar.
28 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||At 176, Kollam sees highest one-day spike||The district reported the highest single-day spike with 176 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. It includes 164 contact cases, four persons from abroad, and eight others who had travelled from other States. While the number of recoveries is 59, Alappad and Kollam Corporation reported maximum number of contact cases. So far, 133 was the maximum number of cases reported on a single day and the tally was repeated on four days in July and August. At present, the district has 15,220 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 43,483. While 927 persons completed home quarantine on Thursday, the Health Department has traced 15,063 primary and 4,830 secondary contacts of the cases. 1,184 active cases Kollam has 1,184 active cases and nine COVID-19 first-line treatment centres at Valakom, Sasthamcotta, Chavara, Asramam, Vilakudy, Veliyam, Chandanathope and Kottarrakara are functioning in the district.
28 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Caseload high in Kottayam||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 189 more persons from the district testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. As many as 182 persons, including a couple of health workers, contracted the virus through local contact while the remaining seven cases came from outside the State. As many as 31 cases emerged from the Kottayam municipality, closely followed by Vijayapuram with 30 cases. Pambady and Thiruvarpp panchayats reported nine cases each while Aymanom and Erattupetta reported eight cases each. 76 recover With 76 recoveries during the day, the number of active cases in the district currently stands at 1,266.
28 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU publishes probable UG allotment list||Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) on Thursday released the probable allotment list for admission to undergraduate (UG) courses in its affiliated colleges. The university said applicants could make the necessary corrections and modify the digital testimonials before submitting the final application. Certificates The applicant should ensure that all certificates mentioned in the prospectus have been uploaded for availing themselves of the reservation benefit. Those from the SC/ST category need to submit their caste certificates, while those who belong to the SEBC and OEC category are required to upload the caste and income certificates or non-creamy layer certificate. The candidates from economically weaker sections (EWS) must upload an income and asset certificate. Backward classes who have not applied for reservation can either select the general category or opt for the non-reservation section. Meanwhile, the applicant’s name, mobile number, e-mail ID and register number cannot be edited. The candidates do not require to approach the university helpline as the college authorities will be given the option to rectify minor mistakes post the admission.
28 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode sees huge surge in cases as 238 more test positive||As many as 238 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Thursday. With this, the total number of patients undergoing treatment for the viral infection reached 1,747. Of the newly confirmed cases, five were Non-Resident Keralites. Thirteen persons, including four migrant labourers, who came from other States too figured in the updated list. According to the Health Department, 206 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The source of infection in 14 newly reported cases remained obscure, they said. Within the Kozhikode Corporation limits alone, there were 63 persons who contracted the virus through local transmission. Chorod village reported 49 cases, the highest in Kozhikode rural. In the district, 622 more were added to the revised list of infected persons in quarantine. With this, the number of persons in home quarantine stands at 15,304. At the same time, 90 persons tested negative on Thursday. Health officials said they had sent 5,543 new samples for tests on Thursday. To avert all possibilities of community spread, there will be stringent regulations in place during the Onam season. No outdoor festivals or celebrations violating the physical distancing protocol will be permitted in the district. Containment areas and critical containment zones will remain under the close surveillance of the Health Department and police squads. In his latest order, District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao asked merchants to step up vigil to prevent the spread of the virus. They should ensure that customers comply with the physical distancing protocol. Till September 2, shops in unrestricted areas will be allowed to function from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m, he said.
28 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||A unique tribute to a maestro, from across the globe||Last month, Pandit Jasraj conducted online classes for his disciples for 10 days from his New Jersey home, belying his 90 years. Five weeks later he died of cardiac arrest. The disciples, most of them based in India, could not pay their last respects to him due to the COVID-19 pandemic. They have, therefore, decided to pay an online musical homage.  To be streamed live Fourteen of them will sing at a 12-hour concert on Friday. The performances, from their homes, will be streamed live on YouTube and Facebook.  Ramesh Narayan, Thiruvananthapuram-based and singer and composer, is the man behind this unusual musical homage. He is one of the seniormost disciples of Jasraj. “My association with him goes back to 1982 when I started learning music from him and I was very much looking forward to singing along with him in Thiruvananthapuram later this year,” Ramesh told The Hindu over phone. “The Kerala government was planning to honour him at a function.” Ramesh said he had decided to do an online concert in memory of his guru because the pandemic ruled out the possibility of a stage show. “He was one of our greatest classical musicians and deserved a big musical tribute, but unfortunately we cannot conduct any show because of the pandemic,” said Ramesh. “We don't know when music and other performing arts would return to the stage, so we felt we should at least have an online concert.”  The disciples would sing from different places, including the U.S. and Dubai. Among the singers are Rattan Mohan Sharma, Saptarshi Chakraborty, Goutam Kale, Madhushree Narayan and Madhuvanti Narayan.  Favourite ragas “Though all of us will be singing from our homes, the concerts will be proper ones, with accompanying musicians and all,” he said. “We will be performing some of his favourite ragas, such as Darbari Kanada, Jaijaivanti and Natanarayani, compositions, as well as devotional songs.” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the programme – online, of course.
28 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||UDF seeks change in alignment of rail project||Warning the State government of serious repercussions, the United Democratic Front (UDF) Kozhikode district committee has said that it will oppose tooth and nail the proposed Thiruvananthapuram–Kasaragod Semi-High Speed Rail Corridor. Briefing the media here on Thursday, M.K. Raghavan, MP, of the Congress and M.K. Muneer, MLA, of the Indian Union Muslim League, said the proposed alignment of the Rs. 64,000-crore project to be implemented by Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd (K-Rail) would not only displace thousands of families but also severely impact environment in the district. They urged the government to call an all-party meeting to discuss modification of the alignment. The survey for the project, also known as the Silver Line, was carried out in an unscientific manner in Kozhikode district. The process itself had created a fear psychosis in the minds of the people. Around 3,000 houses will have to be either demolished completely or partially for the project. The proposed alignment passes through a densely populated region of Elathur in the district.
28 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Minister asks bus operators to resume services||Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran on Thursday said that private bus operators were showing interest in resuming cancelled services on all routes after the government granted them tax exemption for July, August, and September in a decision taken on Wednesday. The total exempted tax amount would come to Rs. 90 crore. “Any non-cooperation on their part again to disrupt the services will be dealt with seriously with the appropriate legal measures, including the cancellation of permits,” he warned at a press conference here. The bus operators, who had earlier launched an indefinite strike demanding tax waiver and other supportive measures, were happy with the government’s relief measure, he said. Mr. Saseendran said the benefit of the decision would be available to educational institution vehicles too. “They will be exempted from paying the vehicle tax for six months from April 1,” he said.
28 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Chemicals kept on top floor fuelled fire in building||A district-level Fire and Rescue Services team and forensic experts on Thursday conducted separate inspections in a building which was gutted in a late-night fire near Francis Road in Kozhikode on Tuesday. Officials said the highly combustible materials kept on the top floor of the building had fuelled the fire to an unexpected scale. A senior Fire and Rescue Services officer on Thursday said huge stocks of lubricants and car washing chemicals had been kept inside the building. Though a minor short circuit was suspected, the chemicals doubled the impact of the fire, he added. The officer also said that details of the findings during the site inspection and observations made by those who participated in the rescue operation would be submitted to the higher-ups, to support the police investigation. It was the second large-scale fire outbreak in the city in the last three months. The first was in a jewellery outlet. The owner of the building claimed a loss of around Rs. 1 crore.
28 August 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||538 recover in Malappuram||While 230 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, 538 recovered from the disease in Malappuram district on Thursday. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said the large number of recoveries could be attributed to the concerted efforts of officials and the public. As many as 192 cases were through local contact. However, the source of infection could not be traced in 25 cases. They include five health workers too. While six cases came from abroad, two came from other States. As many as 2,932 persons are being treated at various hospitals in the district. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, the highest number of COVID-19 cases were reported on Thursday. For the first time, the number of confirmed cases exceeded 200 in a day in the district. As many as 219 persons contracted the disease through contact, while six people arrived from other States and six from abroad. Eighty-five persons turned negative. The number of people under observation in the district is 5,532. In Palakkad As many as 195 persons tested positive for the virus in Palakkad district on Thursday. District Collector D. Balamurali said 118 of them contracted the virus through local transmission. While 27 cases came from other States, 19 came from abroad. The source of infection in 29 cases could not be traced. Mr. Balamurali said 55 infected persons recovered from the disease on Thursday. There are 806 persons under treatment. In Thrissur As many as 162 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. While there are 1,249 active patients in the district, 95 recovered from the disease on Thursday. There are 46 persons from Thrissur undergoing treatment at various hospitals in other districts. Of the total number of cases confirmed on Thursday, 155 were through contact. The source of infection in 15 persons is not known. Eight health workers and a police officer also tested positive for the virus. In all, 8,608 people are under observation. In Kannur A total of 102 persons tested positive for the virus in Kannur on Thursday. While 86 persons contracted the infection through contact, one came from abroad and 12 from other States. Three of the infected persons are health workers. With this, the number of positive cases in the district rose to 3,174. Of them, 2,138 were discharged. As many as 116 persons recovered on Thursday. In Wayanad Twenty-five persons tested positive for the virus and 43 recovered in Wayanad district on Thursday. Twenty-three persons contracted the disease through contact. There are 235 active cases in the district, and nine persons from Wayanad are undergoing treatment in other districts. As many as 3,862 persons are under observation.  (With inputs from Kasaragod, Palakkad, Thrissur, Kannur and Wayanad bureaus)
28 August 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Migrant duck, ducklings rescued||A Lesser Whistling Duck and its eight ducklings were rescued from attacking crows and dogs by a group of nature lovers at Thathamangalam near Chittur on Wednesday. The bird was suspected to have landed in the region during local migration. Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI) coordinator S. Guruvayurappan said the bird from the South-East Asian region could have landed at Thathamangalam sometime ago. People alerted WPSI officials about the bird on finding it being attacked. With the support of Forest officials, Mr. Guruvayurappan and his associates released the bird and its ducklings in a wetland pond near Perumkulam.
28 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Camera traps go missing||It seems that missing camera traps continue to pose headaches to the Ranni forest division. Having been at the receiving end of an alleged custodial death case, which began as a camera-trap theft case, the forest officials here have now unearthed more such incidents in the division. As many as six out of 312 cameras installed in the division, which spreads over an area of 1,059 sq km, have gone missing from the forests over the past one month alone. The unusual rise in the number of thefts came to light as the authorities recently began analysing the operation of the camera network here against the backdrop of the Chittar episode, which led to the death of P.P. Mathai. The 41-year-old farmer had been taken into custody by the forest officials for allegedly damaging a camera trap on the forest fringes. Taking a serious note of the situation, P.K. Jayakumar Sharma, divisional forest officer, Ranni, has now chalked out a plan to intensify patrolling inside the forests. He attributes the rising thefts to a strategy by unauthorised entrants to keep themselves out of the picture that may prove their involvement in a forest crime. “The thefts came to light while inspecting the camera traps under the Gurunathanmannu forest station the other day. Similar cases were also reported from the Murthimannu forests a couple of weeks ago,” the official said. The installation of camera traps in the forest division here followed a similar project in the Periyar Tiger Reserve (PTR). “The Ranni forest division is an an extension of the PTR belt and cameras were installed here to monitor wildlife. Overtime, it has also evolved as an essential go-to item for checking any possible wrongdoings, including poaching,” the official added. Meanwhile, a senior forest official said retrieving the lost cameras were indeed a challenge. “Since we have to account for the loss, we always file police complaints, but they are reluctant to act,” the official added.
28 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||167 contract infection in Pathanamthitta||As many as 167 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday, taking the COVID-19 caseload in the district to 914. Of the fresh cases, 144 contracted the virus through local contact while nine returned from abroad. The remaining 14 patients came from other States. The Kadakkad cluster continued to lead the tally with about 55 cases while the COVID-19 clusters at Nellad, Kannamkodu and Kadambanadu too remained active during the day. A few health-care workers, including two employees of the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, are among those who tested positive. The contact sources of some patients are yet to be traced. Meanwhile, 49 persons recovered from the disease during the day.
28 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital reports 352 new cases||The capital district reported 352 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. The day also witnessed 623 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 5,502. The official death toll rose to 80 with four more recent deaths attributed to the disease. The death of a 50-year-old Valiyathura native on August 20 and that of a 67-year-old Malayam native, a 76-year-old Venpakkal native, and an 83-year-old Venganoor native, all on August 24, has been attributed to the disease. Among the new cases, as many as 347 people, including 13 health workers, contracted the infection through local transmission. There were 64 cases with unknown sources of infection reported from Vallakadavu, Anayara, Valiyathura, Karyavattom, Peringammala, Beemapally, Poovachal, Pettah, Kadinamkulam, Vilappil, Kattakada, Kunnathukal, Chala, Varkala, Maruthankuzhy, Thirumala, Perunkadavila, Kowdiar, Kudappanakunnu, Aryanad, Pulluvila, Kadakkavoor, Vellayani, Karamana, and Vithura. Five imported cases were also recorded. The pandemic continued to affect the functioning of the police with eight more officers contracting the infection. Five officers attached to the Kovalam police station tested positive. Earlier, nine officers at the station had tested positive. With all other officers, including the Circle Inspector, going in quarantine, 15 officers from stations in the Fort police subdivision have been deployed at Kovalam station. A junior SI attached to the Fort police has been given charge of the Kovalam police station. Ten people, including four members of a family, were diagnosed with COVID-19 in Venjaramoodu. Local transmission continued in the cluster region of Kallikkad, where 14 people tested positive when 62 people were subjected to testing. Meanwhile, the district administration relaxed curbs in the critical containment zones in view of Onam. Shops have been permitted to function till 7 p.m.
28 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No crucial files lost in fire: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said no crucial files were lost in the fire in a section of the Secretariat on Tuesday. “No files were lost. A few unimportant records were damaged partially,” he said. The police were investigating whether the fire was an accident or an act of arson as alleged by the Opposition. The government would soon have a full inventory of the damaged files. A technical committee comprising experts from various departments would look into the fire safety of the Secretariat building. It would suggest measures to prevent such incidents in the future, he said. Security lapse Mr. Vijayan said the fire had resulted in a grave security lapse at the Secretariat. Initially, BJP workers trespassed on the premises. Soon, Congress workers followed suit. The government has taken a severe view of the security failure. It has ordered Additional Chief Secretary, Home, T.K. Jose to investigate the security failure and fix responsibility. Mr. Vijayan also slammed the Opposition parties for having unleashed violence in the State based on extreme intrigue. The Congress and the BJP propagated unfounded theories about the Secretariat fire. The parties brazenly violated the High Court ban on demonstrations during the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. LIFE Mission row He reiterated that the government had no role in the kickback scandal that had enveloped the LIFE Mission project in Wadakkanchery in Thrissur. The UAE Red Crescent had agreed to build and hand over 140 dwellings to the mission. The State had no role in it. Mr. Vijayan said the prior permission of the Centre was not required to receive such assistance from recognised international charities. “The Centre should be kept in the loop and the State has done it,” he said. When pressed that his media adviser John Brittas had propounded the kickback theory, Mr. Vijayan said he could not respond to media reports. “My office limits my response until I have proof on hand. Several agencies are looking into the allegations,” he said.
28 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Curbs on public festivities, fairs during Onam||Given the COVID-19 situation in the State, the Disaster Management Department has issued stringent guidelines for the conduct of Onam celebrations in non-containment zones. Public festivities, melas and exhibitions will not be allowed during the festival period. Crowding will not be allowed in the name of Onasadya as well. Limited entry Shops can remain open from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. till September 2 in the non-containment zones. The number of staff and customers allowed entry would be based on the free floor space available in each shop. District Collectors have been asked to convene meetings of merchant associations/organisations regarding the enforcement of the COVID-19 prevention protocols. In hotels and restaurants, dining will be allowed subject to strict physical-distancing norms. These establishments should close by 9 p.m. Hotel rooms should be disinfected properly before allowing guests to stay. Temporary markets For avoiding crowds in public markets, the department has recommended that more numbers of temporary markets be opened for Onam. Entry of customers to markets, shopping malls and textile shops should be controlled. Shops and establishments should use ground markings and deploy trained volunteers/security staff to maintain proper distance among customers. These general directions will be uniformly applicable in all non-containment zones across the State. ‘No’ to Pookkalams The guidelines require institutions to avoid flower arrangements. Flower vendors from outside the State will not be allowed during the Onam period. “The Health Department shall assess the risk of COVID-19 spread, if any, associated with the marketing and use of fresh flowers for Onam Pookkalam and issue a specific advisory in this regard,” the department has said.  Shops can remain open from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. till September 2 in non-containment zones.
28 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Syllabus overhaul at Kerala varsity||Undertaking a comprehensive overhaul of its syllabus and regulations after nearly a decade, the University of Kerala incorporated an outcome-based education curriculum framework. The academic council which met on Thursday revised the syllabus of 55 programmes across all 44 study departments. Theses online Reforming the existing regulations, the council gave approval to submit PhD theses, MPhil dissertations and postgraduate (PG) projects online. It also granted nod to evolve the syllabus and framework for 17 new PG and 19 undergraduate (UG) courses. Following the recommendations of an expert panel chaired by Pro Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar, the university also decided to introduce a mechanism to undertake pre-research training for research scholars. The council approved the new regulations proposed for the credit and semester system (CSS) under the study departments. Ethics committees Besides granting equivalency for 23 degrees issued by other universities, the academic council decided to constitute human research ethics and biosafety ethics committees in addition to the existing animal ethics committee for research approval. The statutory body incorporated the recommendations of a Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) expert panel to enable credit and academic mobility. The move will pave way to collaborate with other universities to conduct interdisciplinary PG courses that will enable institutions to pool their expertise and infrastructure. Credits gained in other universities can also be transferred by way of the decision.
28 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SHRC seeks report from police||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has asked the Kerala Police to submit a detailed report on their investigation into complaints of kidnapping of children by itinerant wanderers, traders, and labourers. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic directed the State Police Chief to submit the report before September 30. The exact details of such persons and of their surveillance should be included in the report, the commission said. The commission had sought the details of itinerant wanderers after the body of six-year-old Devananda was found in the Ithikara lake in Kollam. However, the police had produced details only related to the child’s death. Human rights activist P.K. Raju had approached the commission seeking that itinerant wanderers be monitored.
28 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||PSC accused of neglecting Malayalam in its exams||Lower and upper primary teachers in State schools need not have knowledge of Malayalam going by the State Public Service Commission’s syllabus for the lower and upper primary school teacher examination. The PSC examinations to appoint lower and upper primary teachers to State Malayalam medium schools will be held on November 7 and 24. The notification says that the question paper for the written test will be in Malayalam. However, while the candidates for the lower primary teacher post will be tested in areas such as social science, general knowledge, arithmetic, education, and child psychology, and so on, they will not be asked about Malayalam though they will be required to teach students in their mother tongue. Malayalam is not included in the syllabus for the upper primary school teacher examination either, though English is mentioned. The Aikya Malayala Prasthanam alleged that the PSC was continuing its neglect of Malayalam in employment examinations despite the Chief Minister’s assurances that question papers would be prepared in Malayalam for tests with graduation being the minimum qualification. ‘Stance misleading’ The PSC’s stance that the TTC syllabus was being followed by it in the examinations was misleading for the TTC course had given way to D.Ed. (Diploma in Education) initially and now D.El.Ed. (Diploma in Elementary Education), and Malayalam was part of the syllabus throughout, it said in a statement. The organisation alleged that earlier, the qualification for obtaining admission to these courses was limited to those who had studied Malayalam. However, that stipulation was removed two years ago. Now even if a candidate had not studied the language at the secondary or higher secondary level but had done so at the undergraduate, postgraduate, or teacher training course level, they were eligible for appointment as lower primary school teacher. However, this could be managed with perfunctory knowledge of Malayalam, it alleged. The PSC notification was to protect those who had completed the D.El.Ed. course recently. Significantly, the PSC was not even testing the command of Malayalam of candidates who would be appointed to teach students in Malayalam through these examinations, it pointed out. The new National Education Policy also emphasised teaching in mother tongue till Class V. However, the PSC’s negation of Malayalam in primary teacher postings was discriminatory and contravention of its assurances, Aikya Malayala Prasthanam convener R. Nandakumar said.  PSC’s negation of Malayalam in primary teacher postings is discriminatory and contravention of its assurances R. Nandakumar Conveneer, Aikya Malayala Prasthanam
28 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Secure fire site, says high-level panel||A high-level panel headed by Disaster Management Commissioner A. Kowsigan, which is probing the technical aspects of the August 25 fire at the Secretariat, has sought urgent measures to appropriately secure the incident site. The room where the fire broke out and its immediate environs should be placed under round-the-clock CCTV surveillance with immediate effect, the multi-departmental committee is learnt to have requested the State government. The number of cameras and their positions should be finalised in consultation with it. Further, the section should be put under tight police guard until the investigation is completed. No file should be extracted from the site or brought into it until the investigation is completed, according to the committee.  List of files sought It has sought a list of all files that were present there on the date of the fire. Partly burnt documents have to be scanned and placed in the treasury strong room. The committee is also learnt to have requested the State government to ensure back-ups for all e-files linked to the General Administration Department (Political) at the Secretariat. The committee is expected to submit its report in a week’s time. The fire has kicked up a major political storm in the State with the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party calling it an act of sabotage.
28 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State to get Rs. 4,500 cr. for farm infra sector||The Central government has sanctioned Rs. 4,500 crore for infrastructure development in the State’s agriculture sector, Agriculture Minister V. S. Sunil Kumar said on Thursday. The assistance is being provided on the basis of a detailed project report submitted by the State, Mr. Sunil Kumar said after a videoconference with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. The State plans to develop the infrastructure under the aegis of primary cooperatives and agriculture production companies. A State-level monitoring committee headed by the Chief Secretary and district-level committees headed by the Collectors will be formed to oversee the implementation. One-time grants Since small and nominal farmers constitute a majority of its farmer population, the State has requested the Centre to issue one-time grants to farmer groups. Farmers and agriculture production companies also should be issued the grants via Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana and the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund. During the 2020-21 fiscal, 100 to 250 agriculture production companies, 50 to 100 agri start-ups, 1,000 organic clusters and 100 export-oriented groups will be established in the State. Pack houses will be established in all 140 constituencies. The State also plans to start custom hiring centres to strengthen mechanisation and the workforce in the sector.  The State has requested the Union Ministry to declare support price specially for raw coconut via the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP). The State has sought a special support price for pepper. Further, Mr. Sunil Kumar urged the Centre to include Alappuzha and Thrissur, the hubs of paddy cultivation in Kerala, in the National Food Security Mission. Both regions are important ecologically and in terms of food security of the State, he said.
28 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chiri project call centre receives 2,500 calls||Over 2,500 calls have been received at the call centre set up by the State police as part of its Chiri project to reduce mental stress among children. The project was launched on July 12 to help relieve the stress and anxieties faced by children who are homebound since the pandemic broke out. Not only children, parents and teachers too call up on the Chiri helpline (phone 9497900200). The problems discussed by children include those related to online learning; inability to meet, talk, and play with friends; family disagreements; lack of equipment for online studies, and so on. Parents, on the other hand, called up seeking solutions to excessive mobile phone use by children and their suicide threats, a statement here recently said. A Class 6 student from Njaraneeli called up complaining about someone chopping down the gooseberry tree he had planted. The boy complained that he had lost interest in everything after the tree, the sapling of which he had received from school and had nurtured with great care, was cut down. The volunteers spoke to him and assured him of a solution. Soon, police personnel from the Njaraneeli police station were at his house with two saplings of gooseberry for the student. Another call was from a grandmother who was fed up with the antics of her grandson. The mental health experts then counselled her about providing opportunities for the child to play and laugh inside the house. Chiri has children providing telecounselling to children facing various issues. Nearly 300 select children are volunteers of the Chiri project. They are guided by an expert team of psychiatrists, psychologists, and teachers.
28 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bevco liquor sale time extended by two hours||The public can buy liquor from State government-run outlets from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Excise officials said here on Thursday that the two-hour increase in sales time would help Bevco, Consumerfed and KTDC-run outlets handle the spike in demand for liquor during Onam. Norms waived Furthermore, the government has waived the precondition that consumers can apply for Bev-Q token to purchase liquor only two days after their last buy. They can now use the application to buy legal alcohol daily. The new order is not applicable to bar hotels, beer and wine parlours and private member’s clubs. The takeaway hours for such establishments will continue to be from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Excise officials said the worrying dip in the sale of legal liquor had made the government relax the regulations imposed on the sale of alcohol during the COVID-19 lockdown period. Toddy shops can sell palm liquor as takeaways from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.
28 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Status of ICT equipment to be ascertained||The Director of General Education has directed education officers to ascertain the status of information and communications technology (ICT) equipment provided by the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) to schools. Education officers have been asked to conduct audio/ videoconferences with school head teachers in the presence of KITE representatives for the same. Steps have been made for the head teachers to log in to online applications(schoolsurvey.in) where details of the equipment such as their number and other information have to be entered and for officials to visit schools for inspecting them, KITE chief executive officer K. Anvar Sadath said.
28 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||FASTag must for discounts at 4 toll plazas||Daily and monthly discounts in toll at the Pampampallam, Ponnarimangalam, Paliyekkara, and Kumbalam toll plazas in the State under the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will be available only to motor vehicles having FASTag. Those returning via the same toll plaza in 24 hours and frequent travellers opting for the monthly concession trips are those hit by the move. Those returning via the same toll plaza in 24 hours need pay only 1.5 times of the toll charge. In the case of monthly discounts being offered at the toll plaza, those paying Rs. 3,000 will get unlimited trips.
28 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Yusuff Ali backs airport privatisation||Supporting the Central governent’s move to privatise the operation and management of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport, Lulu group chairman M.A. Yusuff Ali has said private participation is essential for the development and renovation of airports. “Many of the airports in the country, including Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, were developed through private participation. I wish that Thiruvananthapuram airport should grow in a similar way,” a press note quoting him said.
28 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mullappally blames NIA||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran has slammed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for the delay in seizing incriminating records from the Secretariat. He said the “waste of time” had opened the door for saboteurs to destroy the evidence that would have thrown light on the role of the Chief Minister’s Office in the gold-smuggling scandal.
28 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||157th birth anniversary of Ayyankali today||The 157th birth anniversary celebrations of social reformer Ayyankali will be held on Friday. Flowers will be offered at the statue of Ayyankali at Vellayambalam here at 9 a.m. under the aegis of the Scheduled Castes Development Department. Ministers A.K. Balan and Kadakampally Surendran, Deputy Speaker V. Sasi, Mayor K. Sreekumar, and V.K. Prasanth, MLA, will be present.
28 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Revaluation results out||The results of revaluation and scrutiny of answer scripts of the Plus Two higher secondary examinations held earlier this year have been published. The results can be accessed on the portalwww.dhsekerala.gov.in, a statement here on Thursday said.
28 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rs. 56.97-crore assistance for traditional sector||The Labour Department has sanctioned an amount of Rs. 56,97,97,500 under the income support scheme for workers in the traditional sector, including those in the coir, khadi, handloom, reed, beedi, and cigar industries. The assistance will be released to coincide with the Onam festival season, an official press note issued here said.
28 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Applications invited||Applications are invited for admission to Diploma in Elementary Education (DElEd) course in government, aided, and self-financing teacher-training centres for the 2020-2022 academic years. The last date is September 18. For details, visit www.education.kerala.gov.in
28 August 2020||Thiruvannathapuram,KERALA||BSNL launches IPTV service in select areas||The Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) has officially launched its IPTV (Internet Protocol Television) service, for the delivery of television content through the Internet, as an add-on feature for optical fibre Internet customers. BSNL Kerala Circle Chief General Manager C.V. Vinod formally inaugurated the service through videoconference on Thursday. First phase  The service will be made available to BSNL FTTH (fibre Internet) customers in selected areas of Ernakulam, Thrissur and Alappuzha districts in the first phase and will be rolled out across the State by October 2020. The BSNL provides IPTV services in Kerala in collaboration with Cinesoft in Kochi. Customers having Android TV can access the IPTV service directly without a set top box by installing an application. BSNL IPTV is available on various tariff plans. Free to Air channels will be available for free for one month to all customers who register by September 10. Registration for the IPTV service can be done through the websitehttp:// www.kerala.bsnl.co.in. Customers can also contact the toll-free number 1800 425 2892.
28 August 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||LIFE flats: UDF leaders stage satyagraha at Wadakkanchery||Alleging that the quality of construction of the LIFE Mission flats at Charalparambu, Wadakkanchery, is poor, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said people who are going to live in those flats should be given insurance protection. He was speaking after inaugurating a satyagraha of United Democratic Front (UDF) leaders at Wadakkanchery on Thursday. The UDF leaders also visited the controversial flats under the LIFE Mission. “The flats will not withstand even a mild wind. A disaster may happen at any time,” Mr. Chennithala said. He said the fire accident at the Secretariat was pre-planned. “The attempt to torpedo the gold smuggling case is led by the Chief Minister himself. The files related to foreign trips were destroyed at the protocol office in the accident,” he said. The Speaker was showing partiality, he said. “The Speaker who did not intervene during the CM’s speech that went on for more than three-and-a-half hours [during the recent discussion on a non-confidence motion in the Assembly] interrupted my speech which lasted just 20 minutes,” he said. “The Left Democratic Front (LDF) rule is engulfed by corruption. The Chief Minister is the epicentre of corruption,” he added. MPs Benny Behanan, T.N. Prathapan, and Ramya Haridas; former MP P.C. Chacko; Anil Akkara, MLA, and Padmaja Venugopal and O. Abdurahiman Kutty, UDF leaders, participated in the agitation, among others.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Big B in mask||
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Surprise on screen||
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festival cheer||
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Mighty loss||
28 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur corporation staff shine in crisis||At a time when people, including blood relatives, shudder to even go anywhere near a COVID-9 positive person, Anantapur Municipal Corporation employees have been doing a yeoman service by bidding a respectful adieu to the victims by performing last rites respecting the religious beliefs of their families. The total number of fatalities in Anantapur district crossed 300-mark on Thursday, taking the tally to 305 with six new deaths recorded till 9 a.m. Of the total deaths, close to one-third have been from Anantapur city and it was no mean task for Municipal Health Officer Ramprasad and Environmental Engineer Surendra to get to the ground and coordinate with the family members, dedicated municipal employees for this purpose and the people at the burial grounds. The problem begins from the hospital bed, where the patient dies, with none prepared to even shift the body to the mortuary or touch it there. There are touts operating all over the hospital and up to the burial ground at every step trying to fleece the family members. “We have tried our best to give support to the family members by operating one dedicated Vanaprastha vehicle and taking care of the dead from the mortuary to the burial ground, not ruffling the sentiments of the near and dear ones, though in most cases even they shy away from coming anywhere near,” Municipal Commissioner P.V.V.S. Murthy told The Hindu .  Risky job It is no mean job to handle between 4 and 11 bodies a day wearing full PPE kit dresses with the psychological fear of contracting the virus, on Thursday too the team laid to rest a couple of them. Mr. Murthy said the government gives Rs. 15,000 for the last rites, but “we hand over the entire amount to the family members as and when they approach.” To ensure fleecing is stopped, justifiable rates have been worked out at every step and its impelentation is being ensured. Meanwhile, an LPG-based crematorium is getting ready to be operational by month-end or first week of September in the Sixth Road burial ground being put up by the Arya Vysya Association investing over Rs. 1 crore. This can handle one body every half-an-hour. The AMC also proposes to set up one on its own very soon for which government approval has been received.
28 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmer’s prank on money creates flutter in Rayadurg||A farmer created a flutter in Rayadurg mandal on Thursday afternoon by claiming that he had found Rs. 500 currency notes worth Rs. 10 lakh on the highway between Bommakapalli and 74 Udegolam villages. As the news spread, people from the surrounding areas thronged the stretch to try their luck. Police bust the myth Busting the myth, Rayadurg Sub-Inspector Raghavendrappa clarified that a joke cracked by the farmer, identified as Obulesu from Bommakapalli village, to those travelling on the road led to the chaos. “Obulesu withdrew Rs. 1.94 lakh from a bank after his application seeking an agricultural loan sanctioned. Having tucked the money in his lungi, he was returning to his village. Accidentally, a few bundles of currency notes fell on the road. Some people saw the farmer gathering the currency notes from the ground and inquired about it. Obulesu thought of pulling a prank and replied that he found the money on the road. That is how it all started,” said the SI. Soon, the news spread on WhatsApp groups and other social media platforms that Obulesu had found the money on the road. Many people, especially youth, started scanning the area and some of them rushed to Bommakapalli too. “Obulesu also narrated the same story in the village. People believed it as he cleared all the credit at the village shop wit the money he withdrew from the bank. We rushed to the village and crosschecked the fact with Obulesu and the bank employees,” Mr. Raghavendrappa said. Within a a few hours, reality dawned on people, he added.
28 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agri advisory board to meet today||The Agriculture Advisory Board meeting, slated for Friday, will discuss the causes of pest problems of of groundnut in Anantapur district , apart from the alternative crops that can be promoted in different soil types in the 2020 rabi season. During the current season, though groundnut has been sown in 5.60 lakh hectares, the Agriculture Department has identified lack of proper pod formation in more than 60,000 hectares sown in June. The crop sown in July and early August can withstand the vagaries of nature to some extent, says the officials. The meeting at the Revenue Bhavan at 11 a.m. will be attended by Roads and Buildings Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana, MLAs, MPs and officials.
28 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cooperative banks improving access to farm credit: Minister||Minister for Panchayat Raj, Mines and Geology Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy has said that cooperative banks are playing a vital role in giving rural economy boost, by improving the access to farm credit. ‘Services at doorstep’ Inaugurating a new branch of the District Cooperative Central Bank (DCCB) in the Sadum mandal headquarters, the Minister said that gone were the days when farmers from the rural areas were travelling to the towns to avail of banking services. “Cooperative banks have brought a paradigm shift in the agriculture sector by providing services at the doorsteps of farmers. More cooperative bank branches in rural areas have made it easy for farmers to avail of loans. Farmers in rural areas are increasingly adopting digital transaction methods,” said the Minister. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said that the government was committed to transforming agriculture into a viable and profitable industry. Chittoor MP M. Reddappa, DCCB chairperson K. Reddamma, MLAs Dwarakanath Reddy, N. Venkate Gowda and senior DCCB officials from Chittoor and Madanapalle divisions were also present on the occasion.
28 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Drunk’ youth goes on a ramming spree||A person was injured and half a dozen vehicles were damaged when a youth ploughed his car into the crowd on a narrow road, at Madanapalle on Thursday. The youth, identified as Satyanarayana (25), was reportedly under the influence of alcohol and driving the car at a high speed on the stretch between Ramarao Nagar and Gollapalle cross. He rammed the car into a person, identified as Salim. When people tried to stop the car, Satyanarayana sped up and hit at least a half a dozen of vehicles. The police shifted Salim to a hospital and launched a search for the accused.  Three held for ‘smuggling’ liquor Meanwhile, II-Town police arrested three youth on charge of smuggling liquor from Karnataka, at the Iruvaram Cross on Thursday. Liquor bottles worth Rs. 1 lakh were seized from their possession. The police said, the accused— Rajesh, Sudhakar and Venkatesh, all residents of Chittoor district—were carrying the liquor bottles in an autorickshaw. A case has been registered.
28 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM promises support to aqua sector||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has promised all support to aquaculture and animal husbandry sectors in the State. At a review meeting held on Thursday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the government would ensure that aqua exports receive a fillip and added that all the necessary support would be given in the pre-processing stage. Later, the government would link the aqua processing units and cold storages to Janata Bazaars. Price stabilisation Stating that the welfare of farmers has always been his top priority, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the State government had spent close to Rs. 3,200 crore as part of the Price Stabilisation Fund and saved farmers from the clutches of middlemen. Similar scheme would be implemented for aqua farmers too. Aqua, dairy and milch farmers would be given support and ensure that they were offered good prices. The government had also set up e-platforms to support the farmers. “During my padayatra, farmers have shared their plight over the role of middlemen in deciding the prices. I am determined to change that and ensure farmers are offered better price. I want to start Janata Bazaars next year and set up cold storages across mandals and villages,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Chief Minister also asked the officials to take suggestions from Amul Dairy over the procurement of milch cattle. As part of YSR Aasara, 90 lakh women were getting benefited and asked the officials to tie up with banks.
28 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSPHC staff get COVID insurance cover||Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang on Thursday handed over COVID insurance policies to the employees of AP State Police Housing Corporation. At a programme organised in Mangalagiri, Mr. Sawang said that insurance policies would take care of the financial burden during the pandemic. While lauding the initiative of P.V. Sunil Kumar, Additional DG, AP CID, and MD of APSPHC, Mr. Sawang said that the insurance by Star Health would give coverage upto Rs. 5 lakh that includes 14 days of hospitalisation. Mr. Sunil Kumar said that the welfare of the employees of the Police Housing Corporation has always been a top priority ever since he took charge in 2018. The corporation paid the top-up of the various insurance policies, extended all social security benefits even to the outsourcing staff. Earlier, the DGP launched an ambulance donated by State Bank of India. Deputy General Manager, SBI, Ravi Mohan Saxena said the ambulance that costs Rs. 20 lakh was fitted with all emergency equipment.
28 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will develop State on all fronts’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that a far-sighted vision, a clear thinking and an ability to foresee bigger things will pave way for an all-round development of the State. Addressing a review meeting on the aqua sector and the Animal Husbandry Department at his camp office here on Thursday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that long-term vision drives growth and ensures equitable development. "I have seen the travails of people and also the deficiencies in the system and hence, I have decided to bring in revolutionary changes in the governance. Whether it is the establishment of Rythu Bharosa Kendras, implementing Naadu-Needu which are going to change the shape of schools, and improving infrastructure in public health units, I am doing it all with dedication. There is no dearth of funds to implement these projects in education, health and agriculture sectors,’’ said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Explaining the 'Naadu-Needu,' scheme, the Chief Minister said that it was unfortunate that quality education remained out of the reach of people and said that his government would change Gross Enrollment Ratio. In the health sector, the government sanctioned 16 new teaching hospitals, which would take the total number of teaching hospitals to 25 in the State. "We are going to bring in changes in all departments. I believe that if we go ahead with our plans with a noble intention, God will help us,’’ said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. On the agriculture front, the government established 10,000 RBKs and ensured that all supplies (seeds, fertilizers, and pesticides) were delivered at the doorstep of the farmers. E-cropping system The government brought in an e-cropping system to help farmers in accessing insurance and loans. The government also gave wide publicity on the MInimum Support Price for each crop by putting up posters at the RBKs. An e-marketing platform was established to advise farmers on alternative crops. Soon, the government would build cold storages and ensure value addition and processing of all commercial crops. All these revolutionary changes would result in overall welfare of the people of the State, said the Chief Minister.
28 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. pushes ahead with BC welfare agenda||The ruling YSR Congress Party, which has made a head start in nurturing and empowering the coalition of various social groups, is set to consolidate it by setting up 54 BC corporations, an unprecedented move in the history of the State. Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is expected to finalise the names of chairpersons and directors of the corporations in the next few days. The exercise to appoint the chairpersons began a month ago with senior leaders holding many meetings and screening the names of aspirants. With this move, the party is set to lay the foundation for a social base that could benefit the party in the long run. The constitution of the Cabinet in June 2019, gave a fair indication of the early moves of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy to weave around a social coalition that has not only helped the party storm into power but also decimate the Telugu Desam Party. Distinct identity Mr. Jagan’s choice of a Dalit woman leader — M. Sucharita — as Home Minister, and choosing leaders from the BC, minority and ST communities as Deputy CMs and filling of two vacancies, arising out of two Ministers being elected to the Rajya Sabha, with two BC leaders, is an indication of the ideological thread with which could string its political fortunes. “Our party has always believed in social, political and economical empowerment of BCs, SCs and STs. Many communities do not know their names and we want to give a distinct identity to each community. The corporations will be given funds with which they can offer loans to entrepreneurs, grants to students,” said Adviser S. Ramakrishna Reddy.
28 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu has no right to speak about welfare of Dalits, says MLA||YSR Congress Party MLA from Vemuru M. Nagarjuna has said that TDP national president and Leader of the Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu has been shedding crocodile tears on the welfare of Dalits and other weaker sections. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Nagarjuna said, “The sincerity of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy can be seen from the fact that he has appointed a Dalit woman as Home Minister and five others from the weaker sections as Ministers.” Mr. Naidu had no right to speak about the welfare of Dalits, he said, and alleged that atrocities against them had been committed during his term in Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam, Nellore and Chittoor districts. “Mr. Naidu had once wondered whether anyone would be willing to be born in a Dalit family. Doesn’t the statement show Mr. Naidu’s attitude towards Dalits?” he questioned, and added that as per the National Crime Records Bureau, the State stood in the fourth place in the atrocities committed against the weaker sections during the TDP term. Mr. Nagarjuna said that social boycott of Dalits was witnessed during Mr. Naidu’s term. The Chief Minister proposed to give pattas to 54,000 Dalits in the Amaravati region, but Mr. Naidu and his benamis had opposed it, the MLA alleged. He said 1,40,000 youth belonging to the weaker sections got jobs with the establishment of village and ward secretariats.
28 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu confusing the capital issue’||YSR Congress Party MLA Gudivada Amaranath accused TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu and some sections of the media of stooping to the level of distorting judicial verdicts. Speaking to the media here on Thursday, Mr. Amarnath Reddy alleged that a section of media has been distorting the apex court ruling on a Special Leave Petition filed by the State government with regard to ‘three capitals.’ Mr. Naidu had been conspiring to oppose the decentralisation of administration ever since Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy made an announcement it in the Assembly, he alleged.
28 August 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gambling den raided, 32 arrested||Sleuths of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) raided at a gambling den at Gummanur in Kurnool district and confiscated 35 cars, six motorcycles, Rs. 5,34,154 cash, 38 cellphones and arrested 32 persons for their alleged involvement in the activity on Thursday afternoon. While 32 persons have been arrested, three main accused are absconding and action would be initiated against them when they are arrested, the police said. Acting on a tip-off about the gambling activity, SEB Additional SP Gowthami Sali sent three teams in plainclothes in autorickshaws, but the henchmen of the organisers identified them and allegedly broke the glass panes of the vehicles and forcibly sent them back. One of the three organisers of the gambling den Gummanur Narayana (or Narayanaswamy) is reportedly said to be a relative of State Labour Minister Gummanur Jayaram, and the other two are identified as Ajay and Sridhar. Ms. Gowthami Sali said action would be initiated against all the accused.When the members of the three advance parties of the raid were stopped, additional forces were sent and those hiding in the village apprehended.
28 August 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Infection count touches a new high in Nellore, Prakasam||The COVID-19 death toll continues to rise in the south coastal Andhra region with 17 more patients -- 11 in SPSR Nellore district and six in Prakasam district -- losing the battle against the virus in the last 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The number of fresh cases reached a record high as 2,254 persons -- 1,234 in SPSR Nellore district and 1,020 in Prakasam district contracted the disease during the period, according to a health bulletin released by the Medical and Health Department. With this, the number of confirmed cases shot up to 46,704, including 26,893 in SPSR Nellore district. The health authorities had a tough time in treating the patients as the fresh cases overshot the number of discharges in both districts. The combined death toll in the two districts increased to 507 with 249 patients in SPSR Nellore district and 258 in Prakasam district succumbing to the dreaded disease so far. As many as 57 patients died in a week in Prakasam district, where 63 patients were being treated in intensive care unit. Active cases As many as 1,629 patients, including 1,230 in SPSR Nellore district, were discharged from hospitals during the period. With this, the number of active cases stood at 14,699 in the two districts, including 8,380 in Prakasam district. Over 6,000 patients were treated from their homes, while another 1,000 patients were put in COVID-19 Care Centres.
28 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam ryots hope for full quota of Krishna water||Farmers in Prakasam district under the Nagarjunasagar Right Bank Canal (NRBC) are hoping that they would be able to realise their full quota of Krishna water at least this year, now that the major reservoirs across the river in the State have attained their full capacity. The farmers at a meeting here on Wednesday urged the State Government to ensure at least 60 tmcft of water for them, after accounting for evaporation losses, at least this year as the storage in the major reservoirs, including Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar, stands at over 520 cusecs. It may be noted that the release of water to this section in the tail-end of the NRBS ayacut, as per the Bachawat Tribunal Board award, has remained elusive all these years. Prakasam district has an ayacut of 4.42 lakh acres under NRBC and are entitled to grow paddy in 1.86 lakh acres and irrigated dry crop in another 2.56 lakh acres. But every year, they forgo growing crops in 30,000 to 40,000 acre for want of water. But this time around, floods in River Krishna this year have raised hopes among them to get their share of water. Cause for worry While good rainfall has brought cheer among them, the State Government’s decision to increase the capacity of the Pothireddypadu Head Regulator from existing 44,000 cusecs to 80,000 cusecs to carry more floodwater to Rayalaseema region has left them worried. The decision should not come at the cost of the ayacuts downstream, including NRBC and Krishna Western Delta in the district, which are entitled to assured water, said All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee(AIKSCC) Prakasam district Convenor Ch.Ranga Rao. “The existing ayacuts have a riparian right to use it in the first place.” The projects planned in Rayalaseema region, including the high-cost Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme, should not be taken up before stabilising the existing ayacuts under NRBC and Krishna delta, felt Andhra Pradesh Federation of Farmers Association president Y. Nagendranath. Meetings are planned in Addanki, Chimakurthy and Darsi in the district to mobilise support from farmers in their fight for rightful share of water.
28 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD board to discuss only key issues||Only subjects relatively of high importance will be tabled for discussions before the TTD (Tirumala Tirupati Davasthanams), board of trustees who are scheduled to meet on Friday. Highly placed sources said a little over 50 subjects are likely to come up before the board in addition to the table agenda, if any. Several of the trustees have already reached the town while others are expected to arrive by Thursday night. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy will chair the meeting at Tirumala in strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols. Those unable to attend the meeting in person can take part in the proceedings through video-conferencing. The meeting assumes significance as it comes amid expectations that the board will arrive at a decision with regard to the conduct of the Brahmotsavams, probability of increasing the number of pilgrims allowed for darshan at the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala besides exploring options to tide over the impending financial exertions with no immediate remedy in sight for the coronavirus pandemic. The feasibility of restoring dharma darshan (for common pilgrims) at the temple which has been temporarily discontinued with the steep increase of positive cases at Tirupati is also likely to be discussed. Meanwhile, TTD on Thursday passed a circular directing the temple and Vaikuntam staff to attend to their duties on a regular basis from Friday. In view of the pandemic, the staff working at Tirumala were hitherto allocated duties either for one week or two weeks without any break in between.
28 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Institutions urged to help implement NEP-2020||National Assessment and Accreditation Council of India (NAAC) advisor Shyam Sunder has exhorted all the stakeholders in the academic domain to facilitate the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP-2020). Participating in a webinar on ‘NAAC assessment and accreditation process and awareness about NEP 2020’ conducted by Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) on Thursday, he said the government, which is trying hard to mop up resources to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, might not be able to allocate the mandatory 6% of the GDP to the education sector. “It is time the academic fraternity bridged the gap. Mandatory internship Expressing concern over the institutions lagging behind in honing the skill sets of students, APSCHE Chairman P. Hemachandra Reddy said the state government is planning to introduce a ten-month mandatory internship programme for students. SPMVV Vice-Chancellor D. Jamuna said the university was making a steady progress in making women as partners in social, economic and political development. She appreciated IQAC director Uma Maheswari and deputy director B.N. Neelima for organising the webinar.
28 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister reviews arrangements for CETs||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Thursday instructed officials to be prepared to make last-minute changes in the arrangements made for the conduct of the Common Entrance Tests (CETs) 2020 in view of the pandemic situation. The Minister reviewed the arrangements being made for the CETs with conveners of the examinations and other officials and enquired them about the test centers and the safety measures that need to be taken at the examination centers. "If a newly-declared containment zone happens to be in close proximity to an examination centre, necessitating a last minute change, do not hesitate to do so. Ensure that I am immediately informed about it and be ready to make any such last minute changes," he said. Pointing to the fact that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy wanted all examinations be held and colleges reopened by October, he said the officials would have to work in tandem to ensure that the conduct of these examinations went off smoothly. When asked about the preparedness of the AP State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE), its Chairman Hemachandra Reddy informed the Minister about the revised schedule given by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) which allows States to complete the admissions by November 15 and said: "We will be ahead of it and can complete the process in time." Revised schedule The Minister asked the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) also to stick to the given schedule.  According to the revised schedule given by the APSCHE for CETs, the EAMCET which was earlier scheduled to be held from April 20 to 24 will now be held from September 17 to 25, the date for ECET has been revised from April 30 to September 14, ICET from April 27 to September 10 and 11, PGECET from May 2 and 3 to September 28-30, LAWCET from May 8 to October 1, EdCET from May 9 to October 1 and PECET has been revised from May 5-8 to October 2-5.
28 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tally inches closer to the four lakh-mark in State||The State’s COVID-19 tally inched closer to the four lakh-mark with the registering of 10,621 new infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The State also witnessed 92 fatalities during the period. The new cases have pushed the tally to 3,93,090. The number of active cases is 94,209, or 23.96% of the total cases. The recovery rate has, for the first time, crossed 75% and stands at 75.11% with 2,95,248 recoveries so far. The toll has climbed to 3,633, but the mortality rate remains at 0.92%. In the last 10 days, the State has seen 901 deaths and 96,481 new infections. More than 86,000 patients have recovered during the period. Samples tested A total of 34.79 lakh samples had been tested so far, which included 61,300 tested in the last 24 hours. The overall positivity rate increased to 11.30%, and the rate in the last 24 hours stood at 17.33%. The tests per million ratio was put at 65,168. Kurnool reported 13 new deaths. It was followed by Nellore (11), East Godavari (10), Chittoor (9), West Godavari and Kadapa (7 each), Prakasam, Anantapur and Visakhapatnam (6 each), Guntur (5), and Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Krishna (4 each). East Godavari once again reported the highest single-day spike of 1,089 infections. It was followed by Prakasam (1,020), Nellore (934), Chittoor (928), Guntur (926), West Godavari (892), Kurnool (855), Srikakulam (846), Kadapa (844), Anantapur (815), Visakhapatnam (593), Vizianagaram (563) and Krishna (316). Krishna district remains the only district with less than 15,000 cases while Vizianagaram and Prakasam are the only districts with less than 20,000 cases. The district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (54,656), Kurnool (41,700), Anantapur (37,763), Visakhapatnam (33,310), Guntur (33,234), West Godavari (33,136), Chittoor (33,133), Nellore (26,377), Kadapa (23,255), Srikakulam (20,950), Prakasam (19,681), Vizianagaram (18,034), and Krishna (14,966).
28 August 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||State guest house to come up on 30 acres in Vizag||The State government issued a G.O. (RT No.1353) on Thursday, instructing the officials concerned to transfer the 30-acre land parcel — on which a new State guest house was proposed to be constructed at Kapuluppada village of Bheemunipatnam mandal in Visakhapatnam district, to the district Collector and treat the matter as urgent. Greyhounds site The G.O., issued by Principal Secretary (General Administration) Praveen Prakash, said that the above land was a part of the 300 acres currently under the possession of the Greyhounds, and its transfer had been approved by the competent authority as per the recommendations of the district-level committee chaired by the Collector. The transfer of the land parcel for the aforementioned purpose was in pursuance of G.O. RT No.1087 (dated July 2, 2020), through which the government gave its in-principle approval for the construction of new/additional guest houses / circuit guest houses in Kakinada, Tirupati, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam to provide accommodation to the VVIPs. This was to avoid incurring enormous expenditure on securing accommodation for the State guests in suitable hotels, where sufficient accommodation of appropriate standards was not available in the existing facilities. HC directive The hearing on the Decentralisation and CRDA Repeal Acts in the High Court began on Thursday. On the issue of the construction of a government guest house in the above chunk of land, the court directed the Chief Secretary to explain before September 10 the government’s position on the allegation that it could not undertake any such construction when the status quo was in force.
28 August 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||A flash of humour lifts the mood in ‘virtual’ courtroom||The courtroom was ‘virtual’, and so too was the presence of the Bench and the Bar in it. The agenda was weighty and the mood serious. But, the jury and the parties to the dispute over the three capitals had some lighter moments on Thursday. One such thing that brought giggles into the otherwise drab proceedings was a jocular comment by noted advocate Kapil Sibal, who said: “My Lords, while the Advocate-General (S. Sriram), me and others are haggling about virtual and physical hearings, I hope the petitioners’ arguments are not virtual but real.” Mr. Sibal, a familiar face in the courts, was arguing on behalf of the government, along with Rakesh Dwivedi and Shekhar Naphade, both senior advocates of the Supreme Court. Logged in from his office were Mr. Sriram and his team. When some petitioners said the government was in a hurry (to shift from Amaravati) and was in the process of constructing a guest house in 30 acres (in Visakhapatnam) while Rashtrapati Bhavan was situated in just five acres, Mr. Sriram said: “That is meant for all of us to stay when we go to Vizag. The petitioners’ assumptions are wrong.” The hearing was brief, but there was no dearth of courtroom humour as advocates make arguments on the matter that engaged the country’s top legal brains.  My Lords, while the Advocate-General, me and others are haggling about virtual and physical hearings, I hope the petitioners’ arguments are not virtual but real Kapil Sibal Noted advocate
28 August 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Focus is on exporting products with GI tag’||Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy said the government was focusing on the export of unique items that have Geographical Indication (GI) tag, while looking to realising the market potential of other products. Participating in a video-conference on ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat - Vocal for Local’ campaign and One District One Product (ODOP) movement with Union Minister for Industries Piyush Goyal on Thursday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said Andhra Pradesh had got close to 30 district-specific GI-tagged products. On the other hand, the government was working out ways to boost exports in general by taking advantage of its long coastline and the presence of a string of vibrant ports and four new ones coming up. Mr. Goyal said the time had come to realise the true economic potential of rural India and align it with the Prime Minister’s call for Atmanirbhar Bharat. He stated that the Union Ministry of Industries and Commerce was putting in place an institutional mechanism for promoting ODOP as a movement with the help of States. The objective was to make products that were of top quality and had scalability too.
28 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID test charges at private labs reduced to Rs. 1,900 in State||COVID testing price at private laboratories has been reduced in the state by the government following increased availability of the test kits. The rate of RT-PCR testing has been reduced to Rs. 1,900 from Rs. 2,900 for the common public for walk-in tests at Indian Council of Medical Research approved National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) recognised labs. The rate fixed for government labs at Rs. 2,400 earlier has been reduced to Rs. 1,600. A GO to this effect was issued by Health, Medical and Family Welfare Special Chief Secretary K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Thursday. The order stated that the cost of RNA extraction and RT-PCR kits have come down and more companies are manufacturing them. The price of rapid antigen tests had been fixed at Rs. 750 earlier.
28 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traffic diversions for load testing on Kanakadurga flyover||Vehicular traffic towards Kanakadurga Flyover from Prakasam Barrage, Kanakadurga Varadhi and Eluru Road will be diverted through alternative routes towards Hyderabad from Friday to September 2. The traffic diversion is imposed by the city police in view of load testing of the newly built Kanakadurga Flyover. Vehicles coming to the city via Prakasam Barrage have to take Canal Road, BRP Road (KR Market), Chittinagar Centre, Tunnel Road and Sitara junction to reach national highway at Gollapudi. Vehicles coming via Varadhi have to reach BRP Road via Krishnalanka and Police Control Room Junction. Similarly, vehicles on their way to NH at Gollapudi from Eluru have to reach it via IRR from Ramavarappadu Ring. However, traffic coming into the city from Hyderabad and Gollapudi will not be diverted.
28 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Mahanati’ gives this budding Telugu film-maker a big break||Creating an impression in Tollywood has never been easy, but a chance encounter with some big names such as C. Ashwini Dutt and Tammareddy Bharadwaja has given this budding film-maker hailing from Tadepalligudem in West Godavari district just the kind of break he needs to carve a niche for himself. This talented youngster was looking for good opportunities after passing out of a cinematography course at the prestigious L.V. Prasad Film Institute in Trivandrum in 2015. Luck finally smiled on him in the form of an offer to work as an assistant to director Nag Ashwin in the making of ‘Mahanati’, the historic biopic on prominent south Indian actress Savitri. He is Vipparthi Vishnu Kumar, whose passion for film-making began at a very young age and soon prompted him to first showcase his unrecognised directorial skills to the world through short films. One of his works on the Godavari Maha Pushkaralu won critical acclaim from Mr. Ashwini Dutt and his daughter Swapna, whose ‘Swapna Cinema’ was his initial platform. That was when he was picked up by Nag Ashwin for the ‘Mahanati’ movie. Thought-provoking Mr. Kumar went on to take a short film titled ‘Birds’, which is a thought-provoking one on the menace of child abuse and society’s responsibility to curb it. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Kumar said he made quite a few short films with shoestring budgets, but the quality of the output was to be watched out. He felt happy to have met veteran director Singeetam Srinivasa Rao, and actors Allu Arjun, Keerthi Suresh, Samantha and Kollywood star Suresh Gopi during his students days in Trivandrum. He is planning to do more films while scouting for better opportunities in the big league.
28 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. has lost its pride of place, says Yanamala||Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council and TDP leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Thursday termed “unfortunate” Andhra Pradesh slipping to the 20th place in the exports preparedness index for 2020 released by the NITI-Aayog. In a statement, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said the neighbouring Telugu State of Telangana stood in the 6th position in overall exports rankings even though it has no coastline benefits. It was indeed deplorable that AP standing in the 7th position among the eight coastal States in the country reflected the utter failure of the Jagan mohan Reddy government’s policies. The NITI-Aayog has also pulled up the AP government for lagging behind. The State has 11 minor ports and one major port, but it has fared poorly. Among the southern States, AP slipped to the bottom of the pyramid in terms of performance. All this was due to the neglect of the industrial sector by the government, he said. ‘Flight of investors’ Mr. Ramakrishnudu said no worthwhile industrial policy had been brought forward in the past 15 months. No growth was achieved in exports. The industrial policy framed by the TDP regime was scrapped out of “political vendetta” which eventually led to the present state of affairs. No industrialist was coming forward to make investments in the State, he said. He asserted that the TDP worked hard to attract Rs. 2 lakh crore investments every year. In contrast, the YCP regime had driven away investors, he added.
28 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Campaign starts on right behaviour to check COVID-19 spread||With COVID-19 infections increasing unabated, the Health Department has launched a month-long campaign titled ‘Maske Kavacham’ (mask is the shield) to contain the spread of novel coronavirus by creating awareness of COVID-appropriate behaviour. Minister for Health, Medical and Family Welfare Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas along with Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy, Heath Department Commissioner K. Bhaskar and others launched the campaign publicity material at the COVID Control Centre in the city on Thursday. Mr. Srinivas said that many studies have suggested that wearing the right kind of face masks in the right manner could contain the spread of the virus effectively. He said it is the responsibility of the younger ones in the family to protect senior citizens by following COVID-appropriate behaviour. The campaign would focus on creating awareness on the use of masks and the right way of using it among the public at the village level. All the government departments, NGOs and religious institutions would be engaged in the campaign for maximum reach, he said.
28 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP writes to SC panel||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has urged the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) that it is essential to initiate immediate and stringent action against the persons who “abetted” Om Prathap to commit suicide in Andhra Pradesh. In a letter to NCSC, the TDP general secretary Varla Ramaiah said that there had been an increase in attacks on Dalits in Andhra Pradesh ever since the Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) assumed power in 2019. “The latest in the long list of attacks on Dalits is the case of suicide of Om Prathap, a Dalit youth from Chittoor district. It appears that the ruling YSRCP is trying to cover up this suicide case, as it conveniently did in the case of earlier attacks on Dalits in the State,” he alleged. Charges on police It was appalling to note that a section of police were conniving with the YSRCP leaders in attacking, harassing and threatening Dalits across the State as a result of which they were now living in constant fear, he alleged. “It is important to inquire into the suicide of Om Prathap as it is a clear case of suicide due to abetment by the YSRCP henchmen,” he said, adding, “the NCSC is also requested to appoint a special high-level committee to probe into increased and unprecedented number of attacks on Dalits in Andhra Pradesh under YSRCP rule.” Video clip The TDP leader explained that Prathap was earning his livelihood by driving an autorickshaw in Madanapalle town of Chittoor district. Prathap recorded his anger and frustration against the ruling YSRCP and shared the same on various social media platforms. The video went viral within no time across the Telugu States and it appears that the ruling party leaders plunged into immediate action. Accordingly, it was reported that leaders and supporters of the ruling YSRCP made calls to Prathap threatening him with dire consequences. “Unable to bear the immense pressure put on him by the YSRCP henchmen, the Dalit boy committed suicide,” he alleged. Prathap belonged to Bandakadapalli hamlet of Kanduru village in Somala mandal of Chittoor district, he said.
28 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC declares selected candidates’ list||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has declared the lists of candidates provisionally selected to the posts of Deputy Surveyor in AP Survey and Land Records Sub-Service and also to the post of Town Planning and Building Overseer in AP Town and Country Planning Subordinate Service. The lists are also available on the Commission's websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.inand on its notice board. In adherence to the instruction of the High Court, the commission has also made available on its website and on its notice board the list of provisionally selected candidates for recruitment to the post of Food Safety Officer in AP Institute of Preventive Medicine, Public Health Laboratories and Food (Health) Administration Subordinate Service.
28 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||133 persons fined for not wearing mask||The city police have imposed fine on people moving in public places without wearing masks mandated as COVID appropriate behaviour in the city on Thursday. Police conducted special drives at different locations in the city and booked 133 persons for not wearing masks. A fine of Rs. 11,550 was collected from them.
28 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police recover Rs. 33 lakh stolen by hackers||The city police recovered Rs. 33 lakh stolen by hackers from a private company’s account. In a release, Cyber Crime police station inspector K. Shivaji said that Bhimavaram-based private company called Community Network Centre complained that amount sent by U.S.-based partners to their back account was allegedly transferred to another bank account by hackers without their knowledge. After a complaint was lodged by the local complainant’s partner Harmonics International at with Yorkshire police, the money was transferred back to the company’s account.
28 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC union seeks payment for COVID bills||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation Employees’ Union (APSRTC EU) met Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah on Thursday and appealed to him that the bills incurred by RTC (now Public Transport Department) employees who had contracted COVID-19 virus and were undergoing treatment in private hospitals, be reimbursed by the management.
28 August 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||City sees 593 new cases; 705 discharges||Visakhapatnam district reported 593 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 33,722. Six more persons succumbed to the virus on Thursday, taking the death toll to 237. Of the total death toll, 146 were reported in August alone. According to officials, 705 persons were discharged from hospitals after recovering from the virus in the last 24 hours. As per the COVID-19 bulletin, the total number of active cases in the district stands at 5,466 while discharges stood at 28,019. Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar said there are 738 clusters in the district, of which 54 are very active and 109 are active clusters, with 575 clusters being declared dormant. The Collector had de-notified 171 clusters after no cases were reported from there in the last 28 days. According to the officials from the Health Department, a few more clusters are likely to be de-notified in the coming days. The 3 Ts  According to Dr. Sudhakar, hotspots such as Jodugullapalem, Appughar, Jalaripeta, Anakapalle and Dandu Bazaar have been brought under control by rigorously implementing the ‘3Ts’ programme (Trace-Test-Treat).
28 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals start laying road on their own as pleas go unheard||Tribals living deep inside the Agency have taken it upon themselves to lay a motorable road to their remote village after repeated pleas to authorities fell on deaf ears. Residents of Egamalapadu village under Kotanapalle panchayat limits in Hukumpeta mandal said they began work on laying a 4-km road to the nearest all-weather road around 10 days ago. Around 45 families, all from the Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs), reside in Egamalapadu village, an interior tribal hamlet where farming is the only source of sustenance. According to the locals, officials have failed to take any action despite several representations being made over the years. “Having a road to our village has remained a dream for us for years. We have longed for a road as it would make it easier for us to avail medical care quickly. In the absence of a road, we have to walk for miles through forests as no ambulance can reach our village,” the villagers said. A group of 30 locals, mostly youth from Egamalapadu. are toiling throughout the day to lay the road for the last 10 days. A two-km stretch of road has been laid till now, and the entire stretch is expected to be over in another 10 days. This is not for the first time in the Agency area that villagers have joined hands to lay road to their hamlets. Earlier, several villagers in Ananthagiri mandal laid a road to their village all by themselves. CPI(M) leader and member of A.P. Girijan Sangham, Killo Surendra, said that the tribals from this village are forced to walk for 4 km through forests to reach the nearest road point, from where they can get an ambulance or any vehicle for transportation. MGNREGS wages sought “A medical emergency becomes a nightmare in such circumstances. Even bringing supplies from the mandal headquarters is an uphill task. Though many governments have changed over the years, none have bothered to pay heed to their woes,” Mr. Surendra said. “We urge the Integrated Tribal Development Agency to give NREGS wages to tribals who have been working on the road,” he said.
28 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HSL poised for bigger league, eyeing submarine making||The Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL), the oldest public sector shipyard in the country, which has been suffering perennial losses till 2016, is now poised to leapfrog to a new platform to become a leading ship and submarine building PSU, said its Chairman and Managing Director Rear Admiral L.V. Sarat Babu. He will be superannuating this month-end. In an interview with The Hindu , he said that in the next couple of years, the turnover that is currently around Rs. 560 crore is set to rise over Rs. 1,000 crore. “This has been our target since long and it will now be possible by bagging the Rs. 10,000 crore contract for building five naval fleet support ships. The contract has been finalised and given to us and we have already signed the agreement with our Turkish strategic partners. The work is likely to begin by mid next year. Each ship will be have a displacement of about 45,000 tonnes. This apart, we have already bagged the contract for medium refit and life certification for one Sindhughosh class submarine, valued at around Rs. 1,,000 crore,” said the outgoing CMD. According to him, the HSL is now self-sufficient, has built assets, has a state-of-the-art design department, adequate skilled workforce, and is poised to take up orders for more complex ships and submarines. “We are already building a very complex ship under project VC 11184. It is a state-of-the-art surveillance ship with all forms of complexity and it gives us the reputation and capability to go for building stealth vessels. And days are not far, when we will compete to build submarines and aircraft carriers in collaboration with strategic partners. We are already under consideration for Project 75I submarine project, as building submarines is no longer a competency issue for us after the successful MRLC of subs,” said the Rear Admiral. Mission accomplished The growth of HSL has not been easy. In 2016, when Sarat Babu took over, the accumulated losses were around Rs. 1,350 crore and negative net worth was over Rs. 1,000 crore. “We were making losses, our properties were attached and there were huge legacy liabilities of pending orders. Our goal for 2016 was to make at least Rs. 1 profit, but we ended up with a profit of Rs. 19 crore. And from there we never looked back. The mindset of the manpower was changed and the team was motivated to do better and since then we have not only been recording profits each year, but also cleared all our legacy liabilities and sticking to delivery schedules. “This has brought us ranking, reputation and revenue, our three pillars of success. We delivered over 15 vessels and now poised for a higher trajectory,” he said. On the recent crane mishap in the unit in which 10 persons died, he said that an inquiry was on and appropriate action would be initiated.
28 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indigenous system to monitor air quality with precision||Over 7.5 million people worldwide, including 2.5 million in India, are dying every year due to poor air quality, according to the findings of the World Health Organisation (WHO). This highlights the importance of accurate monitoring of air quality parameters by developing indigenous systems at a lower cost. Rao Tatavarti, Director of GVP-SIRC(Scientific and Industrial Research Centre) and GVP College of Engineering, Visakhapatnam, has developed an ‘Indigenous Photonic System for Real Time Remote Monitoring of Air Quality’ in association with P. Arulmozhivarman, School of Electrical Engineering, VIT University, Vellore. The technologies in use for air quality monitoring have many constraints, in addition to being prohibitively expensive . The indigenous system was developed with sponsorship by DST, and M/s CATS Eco Systems Private Limited, Nashik, which is the technology partner for commercialisation, according to Prof. Rao. Equipped with the application of laser back scattering, statistical mechanics, optoelectronics, AI, machine/deep learning, and IoT, the AUM (Air Unique-quality Monitoring)is a unique system capable of identification, classification and quantification of various pollutants simultaneously with and meteorological parameters, with very high precision, sensitivity and accuracy. Salient features “AUM was successfully evaluated during lab trials with gold standards (in collaboration with M/S EffecTech, UK), and also compared in the field with the imported systems from France and Australia, operated by Karnataka State Pollution Control Board. It was demonstrated to be very highly accurate and capable of simultaneous detection and quantification of all air quality parameters,” Prof. Rao said. The salient features include: portable, compact, low-powered and economical. It provides information on all gases, and meteorological parameters simultaneously. Non-intrusive remote, real- time monitoring system with very high sensitivities and accuracies. Single system capable of monitoring in both spatial and temporal domains, with high sampling rates. Data from sensors seamlessly streamed to a cloud server, from where encrypted real time dashboard information is pushed to users. “The indigenously developed system can provide a big boost to the nation’s efforts to achieve self-reliance in high-end technologies, and can be instrumental in supporting endeavoursof the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan,” he adds.
28 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Filmmaker throws light on migration during pandemic||In some of the old documentaries and news reports, one can see how millions of people migrated from Lahore to Delhi and from Delhi to Lahore. The sepia tone images give an insight about migration during a crisis. But, those were the days after partition and probably none in the present generation would have expected to see such an exodus of people, but COVID-19 pandemic made it possible and people were witness to it, says filmmaker Sunil Kumar Reddy, a Nandi awardee. He was speaking to The Hindu on his latest and 21st feature film 'Valasa' (migration), which he just completed and is ready for release. Once the cinema halls and multiplexes open, I shall release the film. Otherwise, the option of OTT is always there, says Mr. Sunil. Based on the contemporary issue of exodus of migrant labourers during the pandemic, he depicts the journey of people, both men and women, from one State to another, who walked miles carrying their children without food and water. "The film has relevance with time and it is a visual documentation of the era. It deals with real life stories and is emotionally connected to human values. It talks about resilience of the people, the response of the civil society and how clueless the government or the authorities concerned are," says Mr. Sunil, explaining the storyline. Every character in the little over two-hour film talks about the sense of betrayal and exploitation, he says. On why he took up the theme, he says,"Before becoming a filmmaker, I was a journalist. I published and edited a magazine called 'Kokila' and a daily newspaper by the name 'City Round-up'. So as a journalist, I thought that I should respond, and cinema is a strong medium and that is why I have named it as 'Valasa' with the tagline -- A nation on road.” Mr. Sunil has always dealt with contemporary issues -- be it rehabilitation of the project displaced or youth getting trapped in the world of crime. His earlier film ‘Welcome to Tihar College’ deals with corporate college culture and how students are facing problems in the rat race to become doctors or engineers, is ready and he plans to release it once the colleges reopen after the pandemic situation eases.  Awards He has received five Nandi awards so far, which include the best children film for ‘Hero’ and ‘Chance,’ best film for ‘Sontha Vooru’ and best director and best dialogue writer for ‘Gangaputurlu’.
28 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister visits family of deceased doctor||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Thursday paid tributes to professor of General Medicine at Andhra Medical College, Dr. B. Purushottam, who died of COVID-19 on August 25. The Minister, along with AMC Principal and Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar, visited the family and expressed their condolences. Speaking to the family members, the Minister said that it was very unfortunate to lose a COVID-19 warrior. He recalled the services of doctors during the pandemic and termed Dr. Purushottam’s death a great loss to society. The Minister said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had instructed him to give Rs. 50 lakh financial aid to Dr. Purushottam’s family members. The Chief Minister has also instructed officials to provide all support to doctors, the Minister said.
28 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||1.50 lakh to attend Secretariat exams||Collector V. Vinay Chand said that around 1.50 lakh candidates are expected to attend the Grama/Ward Sachivalayam recruitment examinations which are scheduled to be held from September 20 to 26. Eight clusters have been formed and 330 centres identified in the district for the conduct of the examinations, he said at a review meeting with officials to discuss preparedness for the examinations. He asked officials to arrange trunk boxes and other required material for the examinations from September 1. He called for proper planning and identifying route maps to bring material from strong rooms to examination centres on September 18. “In the Agency areas, officials should make note of the weather and make necessary arrangements to shift materials. Officials should also arrange vehicles during that period,” the Collector said. On August 26, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana asked staff to take precautionary measures due to COVID-19. “Adequate amount of hand sanitisers, masks should be stocked. Social distancing should be ensured at the centres. If any candidate is found to be having symptoms of COVID-19, their examination should be conducted in a separate room,” she said.
28 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||38 kg ganja seized from four train passengers||Officials of the Government Railway Police (GRP) and Railway Protection Force (RPF) in a joint operation arrested four persons who were allegedly transporting 38 kg of ganja at Visakhapatnam Railway Station, on Wednesday. The arrested persons were identified as Thakur Sunan (21) of Odisha, Ram Narayan (55) of Uttar Pradesh, and Santan Das (27) and Vindeeshwar Kumar (21), both from Bihar. Senior Divisional Security Commissioner Jitendra Srivastava said that based on credible information on illegal transportation of ganja, the RPF and GRP teams conducted checks, and arrested four persons transporting ganja while they were trying to board AP express with confirmed reservation tickets to Jhansi and New Delhi. The seized ganja is estimated to be worth Rs. 3.80 lakh. The accused were remanded to judicial custody.
28 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC sets its sights on Swachh Survekshan 2021||Bouncing back into the top 10 cleanest cities in the country in the Swacch Survekshan 2020 rankings, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has set its sights on the Swacch Survekshan 2021 rankings. A review meeting was organised on Swacch Survekshan 2021 to get an overview of areas that need improvement in order to improve the civic body’s performance. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that employees must strive hard to improve the city’s rankings in the next survey. She said that the civic body must aim for 100% door-to-door garbage collection and urged staff to create awareness on the need for segregation of waste among citizens. Citizens must also be informed about how to make use of household wastes and preparing compost, she said. The civic chief instructed officials to submit a report to her on the number of houses and commercial establishments in Secretariat limits, and the waste generated and waste segregated on a daily basis. She said that the public health department officials must counsel sanitary staff and improve their functioning. The Commissioner added that there should be a sanitisation meeting every Tuesday and discussed steps to eliminate spitting on roads and usage of plastic, apart from instructing officials concerned to take measures on vector-borne diseases. Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao gave a powerpoint presentation on SS 2021. Chief Medical and Health Officer K.S.L.G. Sastry was present.
28 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panchakarla likely to join YSRCP today||Former TDP district president and former MLA Panchakarla Ramesh Babu is likely to join the YSRCP in the presence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in Tadepalli on Friday. Mr. Ramesh Babu quit the TDP a few months ago protesting the party’s stand on Amravati. Since then, he has stayed away from active politics.
28 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Simhachalam trust board to appoint OSD||The Simhachalam temple trust board, at a meeting here on Thursday, discussed the provision of an office for the Chairperson and appointment of an Officer on Special Duty (OSD) with a salary of Rs. 50,000 a month, apart from food and accommodation, for a period of three years. The Board also discussed the need to appoint two committees to suggest ways to increase the Hundi revenue and improvement of sanitation at the temple, appointment of full-fledged audit and law teams, design and development of the temple website, appointment of a photographer and videographer for the temple for a period of three years, through a newspaper notification in a fair and transparent manner. The Board decided to defer the following items on the agenda: proposal to give the temple lands on an 11-year-lease, increase in the toll gate charges at Simhachalam, selling the surplus sandalwood at the temple to raise revenue and to operate the Devasthanam petrol bunks at Gopalapatnam and Gosala through HPCL and to write a letter to seek the approval of the Endowments Commissioner for auction of shops at the temple to the highest bidder in the open auction held on August 18. The Board approved the appointment of OSD, appointment of two committees, photographer and vidoegrapher for three years, setting up of an audit department among other things. Trust Board Chairperson Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju participated in the meeting through video-conference. Arrangements were made for online participation of other members, who could not attend in person in view of COVID-19 protocols, for participation in the meeting.
28 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 50 lakh insurance cover sought for govt. employees||Expressing concern over government employees increasingly testing positive for coronavirus, the Andhra Pradesh Government Employees’ Association on Thursday urged the government to announce an insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh for those on COVID-19 duty. Association State president K.R. Suryanarayana said many employees of police, revenue, health and other departments are being tested positive for the virus. Many employees including Assistant SI Ramana, head constable Ch. Ramakrishna in Vizianagaram district and Gara Mandal Educational Officer Mamidi Bhaskara Rao in Srikakulam district died of the virus. Special leave Mr. Suryanarayana also sought that the employees aged over 50 years be exempted from COVID-19 duty. “Thermal screening, sanitisation and other facilities should be provided at all government offices and the Finance Department should allocate the budget for the purpose. Special leave should be given for home quarantine period to employees who have been tested positive,” said Mr. Suryanarayana. Association secretary Y.Vinay Mohan said 1,000 employees have been tested positive in North Andhra.
28 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ITDA undertakes survey for patta distribution||Parvatipuram Integrated Tribal Development Agency Project Officer R. Kurmanath has asked the officials to complete the land survey undertaken in tribal areas at the earliest and speed up the distribution of Recognition of Forest Rights (ROFR) pattas to tribal people. “The identification of suitable land and finalisation of boundaries should be completed by September 4. Top priority will be given to the landless poor while distributing pattas,” said Kurmanath who visited several remote areas in Parvatipuram, Kurupam and Saluru to take stock of the survey on Thursday. Beneficiaries’ details The tribals with meagre land would be given priority during the second phase. “The land distribution will be completed by October 2. We are collecting details of beneficiaries during door-to-door survey,” he said.
28 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kodama tribals urge actor to visit them soon||Tribal people of Kodama on Thursday thanked actor Sonu Sood for lauding their efforts to lay a 4-km road by pooling own resources, and requested him to visit the village soon. Public Awareness Forum president K. Appala Naidu told the media that Mr. Sood enquired about the air and road connectivity to the village, and promised to visit them. Mr. Naidu handed over a cheque for Rs. 25,000 to the villagers. With aid expected from several quarters, he helped the villagers open a bank account through which they could meet the expenses towards creating common civic amenities. “The report published in The Hindu with headline, ‘Self-reliant tribals get a pat from Sonu Sood’, on August 25 has turned viral. Many are coming forward to help the tribal people,” said Mr. Appala Naidu.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety first||
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fresh for class||
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC seeks data on COVID tests in prisons||The Telangana High Court on Thursday sought to know the status of inmates of different prisons in the State vis-a-vis COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy wanted to know how many coronavirus diagnostic tests were conducted in the prisons. The Bench was hearing a PIL plea seeking release of prisoners on interim bails in the backdrop of the pandemic spreading its tentacles across the State. It directed Advocate General B.S. Prasad to furnish details of total number of persons lodged in different jails in the State. The Bench wanted to know how many inmates tested positive in the tests conducted by the authorities. What measures, like creation of isolation wards, were taken by the government if any prisoner contracted the virus, the Bench asked the Advocate General. Presenting his contentions, the petitioner’s counsel V. Raghunath said that Chanchalguda prison officer Raghu already tested positive for COVID-19. Four other staff members of that prison too contracted the virus. The CJ, however, asked the lawyer if any specific instances of prisoners contracting the virus were reported. “Unless tests are conducted by the government on inmates, it will be difficult to know how many of them contracted it,” Mr. Raghunath said. Mr. B.S. Prasad told the court that a high power committee constituted by the government had already recommended release of inmates serving seven or more years of jail term on bail or parole. The petitioner’s counsel, differing with the committee’s recommendation, argued that all persons (convicted and undertrial prisoners) lodged in prisons for more than five years should be set free on interim bails. “There is no serious effort by the government to keep prisoners safe and protect them from falling prey to the pandemic,” Mr. Raghunath contended. The petition was then posted to September 10 for next hearing.  Unless tests are conducted by the government on inmates, it will be difficult to know how many of them contracted it. There is no serious effort by the government to keep all the prisoners safe. V. Raghunath Petitioner’s counsel
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Registration rules get tougher||The Registration and Stamps department has decided to prohibit registration of unauthorised plots and buildings, making it mandatory to register plots in authorised layouts and buildings/structures approved by the competent authority. Registration and Stamps Inspector General T. Chiranjeevulu has issued a detailed memo to officials, outlining the procedure that should be followed in registering the properties. The instructions draw strength from provisions incorporated in the Telangana Municipalities Act, 2019, the Telangana Panchayat Raj Act, 2018, and orders issued by the GHMC from time to time. The latest instructions, according to senior officials, came in the light of the fact that there are no provisions in the legislations governing the Registration department to stop registration of unauthorised layouts. The new Municipalities Act had provisions relating to new plots which could be registered provided they are part of authorised layouts. Officials said the new instructions ought to have contained remedial measures rather than stopping registration altogether. Issues like the ambiguity in the definition of a “new plot” should have been addressed first. The instructions provide for safeguards against registration of unapproved plot, sub-divisions, buildings and structures. According to the new instructions, which come into immediate effect, plots in approved/authorised layouts and those regularised under layout regularisation schemes only should be registered. Resale of plots in unauthorised layouts should not be registered even though the same plot was registered earlier. “But there is no clarity on how a new plot is defined. What about registration of plots in the layouts approved in the past? Shall the buyers lose for no fault of theirs?” a senior official wondered. There has to be a way out for buyers and all roads should not be closed altogether. One such remedy could be the option for regularisation of the plots under government schemes on a continuous basis as it will go a long way in saving buyers.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State for release of GST compensation and IGST dues||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has demanded that the Central government take steps to release the State’s share of GST compensation of Rs. 5,420 crore and IGST dues amounting to Rs. 2,700 crore with immediate effect. He recalled that the States agreed to join the GST regime after the Central government’s assurance that they would not suffer any losses on account of the new tax regime. It is therefore the responsibility of the Centre to pay GST compensation to the States, he said. Mr. Rao was participating in the GST council meeting chaired by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman through video conference on Thursday. The Minister was accompanied by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and senior officials during the video conference. He said States lost around 60% to 70% of their revenues by joining the GST regime while the Centre is losing 31%. In view of this, it is incumbent on the Centre to compensate the States, he said. The Centre had assured to compensate the States in the event of their incurring losses during the previous meetings of the GST council mobilising money either from the Consolidated Fund or through raising loans. The Centre is crediting the balance of cess into the Consolidated Fund and is leaving the States to fend for themselves when the quantum of cess is lower, he said. Given the procedural aspects like interest rates, tenure of the loan, FRBM limits and others involved in the loans mobilised by the States, the Centre should take the initiative to raise loans for releasing GST compensation to the States. This would, in turn, reduce the interest burden on the loans too, Mr. Rao said. He expressed concern over the uncertainty in the fiscal front on account of COVID-19 because of which States are unable to calculate their revenue deficit and assess other related aspects. In view of this, the Centre should take the responsibility in paying GST compensation to the States once in two months as assured in the past. Steps should be taken to release Rs. 2,700 crore to Telangana towards IGST dues and the committee headed by Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi should meet soon to finalise operational guidelines in this direction. He recalled that Telangana was among the top five States in payment of GST cess while it was ranked among the lowest in terms of compensation. The State had so far contributed Rs. 18,082 crore towards the cess while it was given back Rs. 3,223 crore, he said. The Centre, according to an official release, calculated that the compensation required by the States in the current financial year would be Rs. 3 lakh crore of which, Rs. 65,000 crore was expected to be met from the cess levied in the GST regime, taking the total estimated shortfall to Rs. 2.35 lakh crore. Of this, Rs. 97,000 crore was on account of GST shortfall while the rest due to the impact of COVID-19 on the economy. Accordingly, a special window could be provided to the States in consultation with the RBI at a reasonable interest rate for borrowing Rs. 97,000 crore. The amount could be repaid after five years (of GST implementation) ending 2022. The other option before the States is to borrow the entire Rs. 2.35 lakh crore under the special window. The Centre had given a week’s time to the States to think over the proposal.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Donate plasma to save lives: Home Minister||Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali on Thursday urged ‘COVID-19 warriors’ to donate plasma to save lives. “Service to people is real service”, the Minister said after felicitating the ‘Plasma Yodhas’ at Cyberabad Commissionerate. “I am overwhelmed to see Cyberabad police going out of their way to help people out,” the Minister said. So far, 761 COVID-19 recovered patients donated plasma and saved more than 1,300 lives in critical and emergency conditions. In the beginning everyone was hesitant, but now it has become a movement, said Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar. “Our Madhapur traffic inspector Srinivas, who was first infected with COVID-19, after recovering was the first person who came forward and donated plasma, and then everyone else joined,” he said. He added that Traffic DCP S.M. Vijay Kumar and his team played a crucial role in coordinating with all stakeholders. The Cyberabad police also started a call centre for plasma donation. Mr. Sajjanar said that plasma donation was a social responsibility and donors were equal to God as they were saving lives. He requested people to come forward and donate plasma.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Will expose govt. failures on health in Assembly’||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka has said that the party would expose the deficiencies in government hospitals on the floor of the Assembly as he blamed Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for failing to take adequate measures to tackle coronavirus. Mr. Vikramarka, who is on a 11-day visit to government hospitals in all the districts, visited the Karimnagar district hospital on Thursday. MLC T. Jeevan Reddy and other party leaders were present with him. The CLP leader accused the Chief Minister of confining himself to his farm house when people were suffering with want of facilities at hospitals and there was lack of men and material to treat corona patients. “The CM has failed to instil confidence both among patients and medical professionals,” he said. He added that Mr. KCR should take the blame for the corona deaths, as adequate measures were not taken to deal with the pandemic despite the time and resources. “Despite the demands and requests, the Chief Minister has failed to include COVID under Aarogyasri or fill up the vacancies to strengthen the hands of the warriors,” he said. Mr. Vikramarka also said that corona patients with white ration cards should be given free treatment in all hospitals and the government should bear the expenses for those who don’t have the cards. He said government should ensure that private hospitals strictly followed the guidelines with regard to treatment charges. He also suggested that 50% of rooms in all hotels should be taken over by the government to convert them into quarantine centres. To monitor private hospitals and quarantine centres, a committee should be constituted with senior officials, he said.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad as Defence production hub||Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) Chairman G. Satheesh Reddy on Thursday sought to highlight how Hyderabad is well poised to consolidate its position as a defence research and production hub in the backdrop of Centre’s emphasis on boosting indigenous defence manufacturing. Addressing the inaugural session of a virtual, two-day Make in Telangana conference organised by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), he said the recent decision to ban import of 101 defence items is an important step towards self-reliance as well as for the Defence institutions and Defence manufacturers in Hyderabad. Another decision bound to boost Defence production is that to design, develop and produce 108 items only in the private sector. More items will be added to the list, the Secretary to Department of Defence R&D said, adding free access to its patents, handholding, transfer of technology, shortening trials and creation of technology development fund are some other facilitating measures. “Out of 2,000 tier I and II industries [into Defence manufacturing in the country], 1,000 [units] are in Telangana.” Recalling that three years ago he had told Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao that Hyderabad would get Defence orders worth over Rs. 1 lakh crore over the next 4-5 years, Mr. Reddy said about 50% of the orders had been issued to Defence laboratories and units like Bharat Dynamics. Inaugurating the conference, Mr. Rama Rao said the State government was focused on all round, inclusive development. Make in Telangana will go a long way towards a self-reliant India, he said, referring to how the State was focused on bringing economies of scale with facilities such as the Hyderabad Pharma City and Warangal Textile Park and reducing the cost of doing business for industries. . British Deputy High Commissioner for Western India and Her majesty’s Trade Commissioner for South Asia Alan Gemmell, Director General of Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency Keunhyung Park, Chairman and CEO of ALPLA Group Guenther Lehner, Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan and CII leaders Satish Reddy and Krishna Bodanapu spoke.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Treatment to all Health staff: govt.||The State government has assured treatment to Health department personnel and their families affected by COVID-19 at NIMS and TIMS. Health Minister Eatala Rajender said that steps would be taken to set up 50 beds in NIMS exclusively for the Health department personnel enabling timely treatment in emergency cases. The Minister assured that the demands of health workers in tackling COVID would be taken to the notice of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and efforts would be made to resolve them at the earliest. Mr. Rajender held discussions with representatives of healthcare professionals including paramedical staff on their demands on Thursday. The associations were demanding that the government pay ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore to COVID warriors who died discharging their duties and treatment of workers and their families at facilities like NIMS. The Health department officials assured them that the government was actively considering on providing Rs. 50 lakh insurance coverage for those who succumbed but the compensation would be based on the condition of the persons concerned. The Minister who held detailed discussions with the representatives of the unions assured them that the government would evolve solutions to the issues raised by them. He said that he would represent the issues pertaining to ex gratia to families of patients who succumbed to the virus with the CM. The issue of promotions of the staff would also be resolved soon after consultation with Mr. KCR. The government would seek proposals from the heads of respective departments to avoid delay in processing them. “We are firm on evolving a permanent solution to the issue,” the Minister said. He said the initiatives launched by the government had ensured that there was significant decline in fatality rate in the State and steps had been taken to provide necessary treatment including medicines to the affected patients free of cost.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID fails to deter BITS placements||Despite the despondent atmosphere due to COVID-19, the Birla Institute of Technology and Sciences (BITS), Hyderabad, registered higher placement offers compared to previous years. Chief placement officer of BITS Pilani Balasubramanian Gurumurthy said that 121 students of the batch of 2020-21 were offered placements, compared to 102 the previous year. More than 20 companies participated in the drive out of which 16 companies gave placement offers. There is an increase of 31.2% over last year. He said that Microsoft led the list with 26 offers at Rs. 43 lakh per annum while Walmart Labs and Adobe were other notable companies that offered more than Rs. 20 lakh and hired 14 and 12 students respectively. The median salary is around Rs. 20 lakh while the average salary for internship offers is Rs. 28 lakh. He said 94% of the offers are by IT and software companies and among those are in the emerging technology space like Cloud Computing, Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Chatbots and Application Programming Interface. Mr. Balasubramanian said the combined figure of the four BITS campuses – Pilani, Goa, Hyderabad and Dubai has seen 28% increase with 259 offers made so far while it was 211 last year. Global biggies like Microsoft, Walmart, Amazon, Goldman Sachs, Oracle, Adobe and large Indian corporates like Hindustan Unilever, and Flipkart, among others, have grabbed students with packages as high as Rs. 45 lakh per annum. The average package offered was approximately Rs. 26 lakh. While salaries have largely remained in the range of Rs. 20 lakh to Rs. 45 lakh, some key marquee names like Microsoft (47 offers at Rs. 43 lakh per annum), Walmart Labs (29 offers at Rs. 21 lakh per annum), Adobe ( 22 offers at Rs. 21 lakh per annum), Oracle (18 offers at Rs. 28 lakh per annum) and Amazon (14 offers at Rs. 27 lakh per annum) have been aggressive with their hiring.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Utsava Samiti team visits idol immersion sites||A delegation of Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsava Samiti on Thursday visited ‘Vinayak Sagar’ (Tank Bund and Necklace Road) to review arrangements for Ganesh immersion. They said officials concerned should make arrangements on a war footing for the convenience of devotees. Utsava Samiti general secretary Bhagawanth Rao, Vishva Hindu Parishad State president M. Rama Raju, BGUS secretary Ravinuthala Shashidhar, Bajrang Dal State unit president Subhash Chander, Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsava Samiti central committee members Ale Bhaskar, and Dr. Jayaram, among others, were part of the delegation that made the inspection. The delegation leaders also inspected immersion sites that were situated at Kukatpally, Hasmatpeta, Safilguda and Saroor Nagar ponds. BJP plea Special Correspondent writes: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) appealed to the city police to remove “restrictions” on the immersion of Ganesha idols since the pandal organisers and people in general were following all COVID-19 safety guidelines and conducting the festivities in a “responsible manner”. City president and MLC N. Ramchander Rao on Thursday met Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar and charged that the police in some areas were, contrary to government claims, putting pressure on pandal organisers in taking out processions for immersion.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Virtual run for cause of cancer||‘Beat Cancer, Beyond COVID-19’, a virtual run by city-based Grace Cancer Foundation, will be held on October 10. The run is being hosted to beat the unprecedented times the world is witnessing because of the all-pervading COVID fear. “In these special circumstances, virtual is the buzzword and therefore this year’s run is being hosted virtually. Cancer has been there for ages, being a big threat to humanity. Many patients and their families suffered enormously because of cancer,” Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar said. He said that focus on cancer should in no way be reduced despite COVID conditions. “We have to gear up to combat both, and the best way to do that is to keep ourselves fit which in turn boosts our immunity.” Mr. Sajjanar said runs that keep us fit and help us to conquer cancer and COVID, also help build the much-needed awareness about the disease. Fashion designer Shilpa Reddy said COVID had compelled and reminded the world of the paramount importance of well-being. “No matter who you are, and what you own, no matter what you will be tomorrow, is all irrelevant if your health is not in good condition. You cannot do anything in your personal or professional life without a fit body, and that happens only when you invest time and energy in health,” she said.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Will all involved in statehood stir get land cheap, asks HC||Will the government allocate land to thousands of individuals who played pivotal role in creation of separate Telangana state at throwaway prices? The Telangana High Court raised this question on Thursday, while hearing a PIL petition challenging State government’s allotment of five acres of land to film producer and director N. Shankar. Presenting government contentions on the matter, Advocate General B. S. Prasad said Mr. Shankar had actively participated in the agitation for separate Telangana state. Considering his role, the State Cabinet had allotted him the land. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said the entire Telangana region had battled for separate state. “Will the government provide land to everyone who fought for Telangana at throwaway prices,” the bench asked. It sought to know the justification of giving away an acre of land having market value of Rs. 2.5 crore at the rate of Rs. 5 lakh an acre. The AG told the court that during the 80s the then government of undivided Andhra Pradesh had allotted lands to film industry persons in Banjara Hills to construct film studios. In the case of director Shankar, the Film Development Corporation had recommended allocation of land to him, the AG said. The bench, however, noted that already film industry was well established in Hyderabad. Entities like Ramoji Film City, with sound technical facilities, were available in the State. In this backdrop, what was the need to build new studios, the bench said. Instead of allotting land to private individuals, the government could generate income source if it buildt such studios, the bench observed. Citing the example of Rajasthan, the Chief Justice said the government had built film studios there and got income from them. Even nearly 200 elephants were made available there. Prestigious films were shot in such studios there. Will the government allocate land to persons producing low-budget films, documentaries and wildlife films, the bench sought to know. It was not correct to allow allocation of government lands in the name of building studios, the bench said. It directed the government to file a detailed counter affidavit by September 16 on the matter.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Abandoned part of school crashes||The ceiling of the main hall of the abandoned portion of Government Boys School, Sultan Bazaar, collapsed on Thursday. Nobody was injured as the incident happened early in the morning, according to eye-witnesses. The school building was built in 1866 in what used to be called Chudderghat area, using private donations. The classrooms built on either side of the hall were abandoned some time ago after classrooms were built in the open area of the school complex which also houses the Sultan Bazar Clock Tower. The long high ceiling had asbestos ceiling held up by wooden rafters and beams and a gaping hole opened up after Thursday’s collapse. Among the alumni of the school are former President Zakir Hussain, former Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh T. Anjaiah, Rajya Sabha member K. Kesava Rao and a host of other well-known people. Promises of maintenance and repair were made frequently but nothing had happened. Poet Sarojini Naidu’s father Aghornath Chattopadhyay was briefly associated with the school. While working as headmaster of the school, Marmaduke Pickhtall translated the Koran into English. The school with the clock tower forms an important stop in heritage walks conducted in the area.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Postpone JEE and NEET: Congress||Telangana Congress has demanded that the Joint Entrance Examinations (JEE) and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) be postponed given the fear due to the pandemic and save students from exposure to the virus. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy reiterated the demand at Gandhi Bhavan after visiting Telangana NSUI president Venkat Balamur, who is sittiing on ‘fast-unto-death’ at Gandhi Bhavan demanding postponement of national and State entrance tests. The TPCC chief said Chief Ministers of different States also made the same demand during a meeting with AICC president Sonia Gandhi and they have decided to approach the Supreme Court in the interests of students’ safety. He said as per AICC directions, the party will also hold protests on Friday in the city and in all district headquarters against the government’s decision to hold the exams at the peak of COVID-19. ‘CM non-responsive’ In a separate statement, TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is non-responsive to the demand for postponement, and he is behaving as a BJP Chief Minister. The Congress leader said that it is highly regrettable that the Chief Minister did not hold a single review meeting to discuss JEE and NEET which involves nearly 1.25 lakh students and their parents. He said that as many as 67,319 students from Telangana have registered for JEE while 55,800 have registered for NEET exams. He pointed out that more than one lakh students in the United States got infected with Covid-19 within two weeks after re-opening of schools. Former MP V. Hanmanth Rao in a statement welcomed the decision of Congress president Sonia Gandhi in support of lakhs of students and parents for postponing the exams.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Uber comes out with ‘Auto Rentals’ service||Ride-hailing app firm Uber has launched Auto Rentals service in Hyderabad. The on-demand round-the-clock service, allowing users to book an autorickshaw and its driver for several hours with the liberty to make multiple stops along the journey, is now live in the city. Prices start at Rs. 159 for a one-hour/10-km package. The vehicle can be booked up to a maximum of eight hours, a release by Uber said on Wednesday. “This is an India-first innovation and an example of how we leverage technology to benefit both riders and drivers. All rides will conform to all health guidelines, along with providing the highest possible safety standards,” said Nitish Bhushan, who is head of the Marketplace and Categories, Uber India and South Asia.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman held on charge of cheating SBI||A 44-year-old city-based businesswoman was arrested by the Hyderabad Central Crime police on the charge of duping the State Bank of India. The accused, Ravula Srilatha, wife of Ravula Venkatesh, is a resident of Attapur. Earlier this month, Assistant General Manager of SME branch, SBI, approached CCS police, stating that in 2010, the accused and her husband had submitted fake documents of properties in Uppal Bhagayath village and obtained loan of Rs. 3.02 crore through equitable mortgage. They had represented themselves as partners in Croma Automotive and failed to pay the amount in time. During the process, the bank officials found that the collateral properties furnished by the firm were fictitious. They also found that, additionally, between 2004 and 2012, the couple had cheated the same bank to the tune of 3 crore by submitting fake properties, including agriculture land admeasuring five acres and 37 guntas in Maheshwaram and six plots at Sarswathi Nagar colony, Uppal. Based on the bank officials’ complaint, a case was registered and the accused was arrested. She was produced before a local court, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Universities yet to receive orders on promotion of students||Though the government has directed the colleges and the universities to kick off the academic activities through online and other digital platforms from next month, universities are facing a dilemma in the absence of government orders promoting the students to the next semester without exams. The decision to promote students was taken at a meeting on June 18 after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao discussed with officials the possibility of examinations in view of the lockdown and the spread of the virus. But so far no order has been given and universities are in a dilemma on how to move forward. A senior professor said, “officially students have not been promoted to next semester and if classes have to begin from next month where we do we start and for whom do we start?” Even Registrars of some universities agreed that no official confirmation had come for automatic promotion. However, a Registrar, seeking anonymity, said JNTU Hyderabad had already issued orders promoting students of all semesters except final semester. Other universities can issue similar orders but failed to do so in the absence of directions from government. A senior official told The Hindu that the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) had called for a meeting of the University Registrars on Friday to discuss the modalities and the shortcomings in reaching out to all students. Except for the final year students of degree and PG courses, the government decided to promote all others to the next semester as there was no possibility to conduct the exams. However, students have to clear the subjects of the present semester sometime in future.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Don’t politicise deaths||The electricity employees and engineers associations appealed to political parties making allegations against them for not holding even condolence meeting for five engineers and two employees of TS-Genco and two employees of a private company in the Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station fire on August 20 night - not to politicise the sacrifice of their colleagues. Reacting to the statements of leaders of some political parties, president of Telangana State Power Engineers Association P. Rathnakar Rao said on Thursday that they held a condolence meeting for their colleagues who died in the Srisailam mishap on August 24 on the premises of Vidyut Soudha - since August 22 and 23 were holidays. The bodies of their colleagues were brought out of the underground power station only on August 21 and the last rites were held by their families on the same day. Mr. Rathnakar Rao said condolence meetings were held in all power generation stations of Genco too. Emotional moments Several colleagues of those killed in the mishap, including Chairman and Managing Director of TS-Genco D. Prabhakar Rao, became emotional during the condolence meeting held at Vidyut Soudha on August 24, he stated. Stating that technical inquiry by the internal committee of the power utility would bring out facts and reasons for the fire mishap, Mr. Rathnakar Rao requested the political parties not to politicise the death of their colleagues and not to harm the morale of employees who are already disturbed.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM wants NABARD to prepare schemes||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has urged the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development to prepare schemes and programmes to financially assist setting up of special economic zones exclusively for food processing units. The Telangana government has decided to set up such SEZs in a big way and this policy should be replicated all over the country, he said when a team of NABARD led by its chairman G.R. Chintala called on him here on Thursday. A release said Mr. Rao spoke to the team about the need for a major shift in the negative attitude of govt. that agriculture was not profitable. In reality, agriculture sector is an essential part of livelihood of the people of the country and its economy. The country should be self-reliant in production of foodgrains and attain a stage where it is in a position to export food grains abroad. "Institutions like NABARD should implement schemes that encourage agriculture and agri-based industries". Along with self-reliance in food grains production, Mr. Rao called for identification of food needs of people of other countries and evolve a policy to export the same. NABARD should undertake a study on this. He wanted the division of the country into crop colonies and implementation of a shift in cropping pattern to suit market needs. Otherwise, the country will face adverse market conditions. Farmers should be encouraged to go for regulated farming so as to reduce input costs and increase their income. The govts. should play the role of facilitator. Agriculture produce should be turned into consumer goods by value addition to reap more profits. He favoured mechanisation in agriculture sector to overcome the shortage of labour. Sowing and reaping machines should be made available to farmers in a big way.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Access to technology helping ryots’||Technological advances are helping the farming community to overcome many of their problems nowadays although the agriculture sector is still facing many challenges, Chairman of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) Govinda Rajulu Chintala said at the fourth convocation of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University here on Thursday. The convocation was held on the university campus with its Chancellor and Governor Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan participating virtually through video-linkage from Raj Bhavan. University authorities and students — only those who secured gold medals — led by Vice-Chancellor V. Praveen Rao, however, participated by maintaining the social distancing norm in the wake of COVID-19 spread. The V-C presented a report on the academic, research and extension activities and accomplishments of the university. In his convocation address at the university auditorium, he observed that problems in the agriculture sector were persisting with varied magnitudes and complexities but at the same time the farming community’s access to technology was on the rise. The NABARD Chairman stated that the agriculture sector was the silver lining in the strategy to regain economic growth momentum in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, which he said had disrupted the world economy in unimaginable way. Later, he presented degrees and medals to several students including Outstanding Student gold medal to Medishetty Anuhya and five other gold medals to Komatireddy Bhargavi and Pravallika. The PJTSAU management later honoured the NABARD chief with an honorary degree of Doctor of Science.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RFCL to commence production soon||Urea production from Ramagundam Fertilisers and Chemicals Limited (RFCL) is expected to commence from October this year while the scheduled date of commercial operations is mid-November. The anticipated mechanical completion of the plant is by September 20, officials concerned informed Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Thursday. The commissioning activities will take five to six weeks for urea production after the machinery is ready. The plant was supposed to start operations from June 30 but due to lockdown and COVID-19, it got put off for four to five months, he was told during a virtual review meeting held with the project officials and other representatives. RFCL, a joint venture of Engineers India Limited, National Fertilizers Limited and Fertilizers Corporation of India is being taken up with the revised project cost of Rs. 6,175 crore (Rs. 1,721 crore equity and Rs. 4,454 crore debts). Original estimated cost was Rs. 5,254 crore and the gas-based plant has the capacity to produce 1.27 million tonnes of urea per annum. NFL and EIL will have 26% equity, GAIL has 14.3%, FCIL, Telangana government 11% while the rest is with others. The plant has capacity to produce 2,200 tonnes per day of ammonia also. The Minister discussed various aspects related to the commissioning date of the project, urea production, distribution and local employment. He made it clear that the fertilizers about to be produced at the facility need to be supplied to the Telangana farmers on priority and local youth should get employment opportunities through the plant. Mr. Kishan Reddy is expected to visit the plant in September last week. Executive director Rajan Thapar, General Manager (Mech) V.K.Bangar and other officials were present during the virtual meeting.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||How can students clarify doubts in online classes: HC||Raising issues of practicality and affordability of online classes to school students, Telangana High Court on Thursday wondered if students can clarify their doubts by asking TV sets. Hearing PIL petitions on online classes and mid-day meals to school students, the HC said the government had to clarify several aspects over conducting online classes to school students. How would students learning geometry, trigonometry and other mathematical concepts would get their doubts clarified if they attend online classes, the bench said. Special Government Pleader Sanjeev Kumar, stating that government had decided to hold online classes from September 1, the teachers would gear up for the mission from Thursday. T-SAT would telecast the classes. Students can attend these classes using smart phones or laptops. They can avail online classes through YouTube as well. However, there would be no interaction between the teachers and students, the SGP said. In that case, how would the students benefit from such lessons and what are the options available for them to clear their doubts, the bench asked. What would be the fate of students living in remote tribal hamlets of districts like Adilabad and Mulugu where adequate internet facility is not available, the CJ asked. The SGP informed the court that Andhra Pradesh government had started online classes from April 1 and it was yielding positive results. Lawyer Chaya Devi, appearing for CBSE, said it is better for students to attend online classes instead of sitting idle at home. The CBSE is taking decisions according to the needs of the respective States. The bench asked the counsel if the government consulted parents associations before taking a call on online classes. The burden of students concentrating the classes would be on the parents. If there are three children in a family, how would the parents ensure all of them attend the classes simultaneously, the bench said. The CJ said that American government went ahead with classes for students despite COVID-19 prevalence. The government there eventually backtracked on that decision after nearly 70,000 students contracted the virus. Justice Vijaysen Reddy noted that poor, lower and middle class families depend on government schools. It would be difficult for students of these sections to attend online classes, he said. The petitioner’s counsel told the court that private schools are insisting for payment of school fee in violation of government guidelines on the matter. The bench directed the AG to furnish details as to how many private schools are put on notice violating fee related issues and what action was initiated against them. The hearing was posted to September 18.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Railways to open up vacant lands for solar plants||Indian Railways, which is expected to achieve 100% electrification by 2023, is all set to meet its energy needs of more than 33 billion units by 2030. The current annual requirement is 21 billion units, informed Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday. The public sector giant has also made plans to install solar plants of 20 GW capacity by utilising the vast tracts of vacant land by 2030, he told solar power developers at a meeting and assured necessary support to them for installing solar power plants on railway’s vacant unencroached land. Innovative solutions for setting up solar projects along the railway track, possible power procurement routes for achieving 20 GW renewable energy target, and challenges in large scale deployment of solar energy projects were among the issues which came for discussion during the meeting.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||2 held for ‘organising’ online betting||An online betting racket was busted and two organisers were apprehended by Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (North zone) team on Thursday. Acting on a tip-off, a team led by inspector K Nageswar Rao raided a gaming house at Begumpet and nabbed the accused, Ankith Kumar Goyal (35) of Begumpet and Pavan Kumar Lohiya (33) from Sultan Bazar. They were organising online betting, accepting betting amounts from punters to make a quick buck, the inspector said. He said they recovered Rs. 1.2 lakh, two mobile phones and an iPad from their possession. “For transactions they used PhonePe, Google Pay and PayTM,” he said. The organisers were encouraging the punters for online betting to get more profits, which was a game of chance, Mr. Rao said, and added that the accused had about 40 punters in and around Hyderabad.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rain forecast today||South west monsoon is active over Telangana with very heavy rains at isolated places in the districts of Mahabubabad, Warangal, and B. Kothagudem on Thursday. It rained heavily in Bayyaram (Mahabubabad) 12 cm., and Mahabubabad (Mahabubabad) 11 cm. Heavy rain is forecast for Friday in several places of the State. For the capital too, one or two spells of rain has been forecast.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Workshop for constable trainees||Doctors, nurses and para-medical staff of Military Hospital, Secunderabad, organised a two-day workshop for police constable trainees on basic first-aid procedures like cardio-pulmonary resuscitation, application of various types of bandages and drills involved in evacuation of casualties. The training was taken up on the request of principal, Police City Training College, Goshamahal, and has both theory and practical classes for 233 stipendiary cadet trainee police constables (civil). All COVID precautionary measures were followed.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSEWIDC engineer suspended, memo to three officials||An assistant executive engineer with Telangana State Education Welfare Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSEWIDC), Nizamabad division, was placed under suspension by the District Collector Narayana Reddy. Mr. Reddy on Thursday inspected construction works of Minority Residential School for Girls at Panduparam village in Bodhan and found disparities between work on ground and work recorded in the accounts book, following which he suspended AEE N. Nageshwar Rao and issued memos to AEE Chakrapani, Deputy EE Anji Reddy and District Minority Welfare Officer R Ratna. Mr. Reddy also found that AEE Rao had misguided senior officials.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TUWJ condemns threat calls to editor||The Telangana State Union of Working Journalists (TUWJ) has demanded action against people threatening the Prajatantra daily editor, Ajoy Devulapalli, over a cartoon published in the newspaper recently. In a statement here, TUWJ president N. Shekar and general secretary Virahat Ali, IJU secretary Y. Narender Reddy and HUJ secretary Shankar Goud said a cartoon was published in the newspaper on August 22 based on the Ganesh festival season. But some persons took objection to it and were making threat calls to the editor. They said a complaint was lodged at the LB Nagar police station and the issue was also brought to the notice of Director-General of Police (DGP) M. Mahender Reddy.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Missing man found dead||A 32-year-old man, who was missing for the last one week, was found dead in a water sump at a construction site in Yapral here on Wednesday. Police suspect that K. Chandran (32), a painter from Yapral, suffered epilepsy and accidentally fell into the sump and drowned. Chandran had been ill and was addicted to liquor. On Friday he left home to work and did not return, following which family lodged a complaint with the police.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Constable deployed at Gandhi Hospital dies of cardiac arrest||Ampoli Kranthi Kumar (27), a constable with the Bowenpally police station of Hyderabad Commissionerate, died after he suffered a cardiac arrest while on duty at Gandhi Hospital, a COVID-19 isolation centre in the State capital. He reported for duty at Gandhi Hospital at 8 p.m. on Wednesday, Bowenpally police said
28 August 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Update contact details on RTA website’||Cyberabad Traffic DCP S. M. Vijay Kumar on Thursday asked motorists to update their contact number on the Road Transport Authority database online. He said the police department adopted an integrated e-challan application to streamline enforcement of traffic rules in the State. The initiative was a less-interference, cashless process to promote self-discipline.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fish seeds released (For briefly with pic)||Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav on Thursday released 51,000 fish seed into Kothacheruvu in Gundumal village of Kosgi mandal in Narayanpet district. On the occasion, he appealed to fishermen to step up production of fishes and make profits by selling them at best prices.
28 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ex-MP Kavitha calls on family of deceased sports body member||Former Member of Parliament and ex-president of Telangana Body Building Association, K. Kavitha, called on the family members of Mohan Rao, secretary of the association, who passed away recently. Ms. Kavitha recalled the services rendered by the late official for promoting the sport in a big way not only in Telangana and also across India. She also assured the family members of complete support. TBA president K. Vijay was also present.
28 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||480 new COVID cases in Khammam||The rise in COVID-19 cases continued unabated in the district with the detection of 480 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday. A staggering number of 3,004 COVID-19 cases were reported through the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) in the past one week, sources said. On Thursday, as many as 2,270 samples were tested through RAT. Of these, a total of 480 samples tested positive. Meanwhile, Transport Minister P. Ajay Kumar flagged off two mobile COVID-19 testing vehicles in the town on Thursday. A new ambulance was also pressed into service on the occasion. Zilla Parishad chairperson L. Kamal Raj, Mayor G. Papalal, and Collector R.V. Karnan, were present.
28 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Projects continue discharges||With reservoirs already filled to the brim, projects on the Krishna course in the dist. continue to discharge excess downstream. Nagarjunasagar dam gates, which were closed earlier this week, after accumulating inflows from Srisailam for 4 days, were lifted again on Wednesday evening, ahead of an earlier scheduled operation on Thursday. From lifting eight crest gates at around 8.15 p.m., discharge of nearly 1.10 lakh cusecs water had started. And by Thursday morning, two more gates were lifted to flow out 2.20 lakh cusecs, same as the intensified inflow.
28 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||IIT-H start-up launches N95 equivalent respirator mask||U Safe Healthcare, a start-up promoted by the Centre for Healthcare Entrepreneurship (CfHE) at the Indian Institute Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H), virtually launched an N95 equivalent respirator mask, ‘US9’, here this week. These masks were used and tested by doctors at Gandhi, Osmania and Fever hospitals. The cost is one tenth of other respirators available in the market. The mask filtration rate is 98%, bacterial filtration rate 99.7% and it has passed the tests of breathability, splash resistance and flammability. It has a dual model of reusable and disposable replaceable filter. It was tested for leaks with thermal image analysis at IIT-H. The filtration for cartridges in the respirator has been certified by South India Textile Research Association (SITRA). Launching the product, IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said, “This product is reusable, flexible and affordable. I wore the mask and it has no pressure in nose.” He congratulated team ‘U Safe’ and CfHE for their success. “This is the third product from CfHE in the past three months of pandemic. The research activities are continuing though students are not there and this reflects the environment that has been prevailing on campus,” said IIT-H director D.S. Murty, adding that the product was designed within three months.
28 August 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Road adjacent to Mallannasagar tunnel caves in||The road near the tunnel that carries Godavari water from Ranganaiaksagar to Mallannasagar caved in, creating a 12-metre gorge of two-metre width. The incident created tension among locals as they feared it to be of the tunnel. The incident took place on Wednesday evening at Yellareddypet in Toguta mandal. On coming to know of the incident, officials rushed to the spot and erected barricades. On Thursday morning too, irrigation officials reached the spot and examined it. Ranganaiksagar Superintendent Engineer P. Anand said that for the past one week water is being pumped to Mallannasagar canal from Ranganaiksagar. Huge machinery has been pressed into service. Cement, sand and gravel mix is being poured into the pit as a permanent solution for the problem.
28 August 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Over 100 sheep killed in accident||In a ghastly accident, more than 100 sheep were killed on the spot while another 17 were injured. The incident took place at Dharmareddypet village in Gajwel mandal on Thursday. According to sources, a speeding lorry hit the herd of sheep. The animals belong to G Bhikhapati, his brother Suman and some other villagers. The lorry driver ran away from the spot.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||All eyes||
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Cop among cockfight organisers||Bhongir DCP K. Narayana Reddy said that five cockfight organisers, who fled the scene when police teams raided Chinnapalugu Thanda and arrested 19 persons earlier this week, were arrested on Thursday. The five accused include a constable of the Railway Protection Force, Mamillapally Sridhar, attached to the Secunderabad Railway Station, and four others Y. Madhusudan Reddy, Banothu Pandu, Bijili Rambabu and Marri Mahesh, were locals of Bhongir town.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC to resume physical hearing on rotation basis||After a hiatus of over five months, Delhi High Court on Thursday said it will resume physical hearing of court proceedings initially with five of its Benches on a rotation basis from September 1. The High Court, which has been conducting hearings through videoconferencing since March 24 to contain the spread of the ongoing pandemic, issued standard operating procedure (SOP) for a phased reopening for physical hearings. It said five of its Benches will start holding physical courts on a rotation basis from September 1, and the remaining Benches will continue taking up matters through videoconferencing. Only cases which are of urgent matters, or non-urgent matters filed during the lockdown, and regular matters, where the consent for the final hearing has been received from all parties involved in the cases, will be taken up either at the physical or videoconferening hearing. SOPs issued As a precaution, entry into the High Court block for attending physical hearing shall be restricted to only one advocate per party whose case is listed that day and party-in-person who is pursuing his/her case without any legal assistance. Also, senior counsel engaged by any advocate, registered clerks for delivering bulky case files, and standing or nominated counsel for any of the party or entity whose cases are listed for physical hearing that day will be allowed to attend the physical hearing. However, junior advocates, interns or law students will not be allowed to enter the court rooms. Even litigants who is represented by an advocate will not be permitted inside the court room unless specific direction is passed by the High Court. The court has urged advocates, party-in-person, registered clerk above the age of 65 and suffering from co-morbidities to refrain from appearing in courts. “Persons displaying symptoms of flu, fever, cough etc. shall not be permitted entry inside the court complex,” the court stated. QR code For entry into the court blocks, the Information Technology branch of the High Court is developing e-solution of sending QR code to the advocate concerned through SMS or email so that they are permitted physical access on the given day through scanning of the code. Also, the entry time to any court block will be regulated as per the time slots mentioned in the cause list for different batches of cases. In order to ensure strict adherence to the norm of social distancing, seats in each court room have been limited to bare minimum. While dry snacks, coffee, tea, water bottle etc. will be available for sale from the kiosk and canteen, no sitting or consumption of it will be permitted inside the canteen.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Why did police fail to prevent Delhi riots?’||Amnesty International India, which has prepared a 20-page “investigative brief” on the north-east Delhi riots that broke out in February this year, has called for a fully independent and public inquiry to review the Delhi police’s role in “failing to prevent and aiding the north-east Delhi riots”.  ‘Police complicity’ In a video that went viral on social media, Delhi police officers can be seen kicking and hitting a group of five wounded men, poking them with rifles and asking them to sing the National Anthem on February 24. “The video, however, does not reveal any such threat that may authorise the ill treatment meted out to the men by the police officers,” the ogranisation said. One of the men in the video, Faizan, 26, was allegedly detained by the police for close to 36 hours without any charge. He was handed over to his mother at 1 a.m. on February 26 after his condition deteriorated. The police allegedly refused to give any paperwork to the family to show that he had been detained. His family members later admitted him to the Lok Nayak Hospital where he died on the same night. Amnesty International India said, “Despite multiple video evidence, the Delhi police have denied that they tortured Faizan or unlawfully detained him.” In a second video that was shot on the Khajuri Khas-Wazirabad road, policemen can be seen standing shoulder to shoulder with the rioters and allegedly pelting stones and tear gas shells as smoke emerges from a building that is under attack. ‘Harassment’ after riots “The riot survivors have also maintained that the Delhi police intimidated and harassed many by unlawfully detaining them and forcing them to sign on blank papers,” the report said. Lawyers representing the detainees have told Amnesty International India that the Delhi police blatantly violated the fair trial procedures by arresting people without producing arrest warrants and restricting their access to legal aid, including during interrogation. The NGO has also documented a “disturbing pattern of torture and other ill treatment meted out to the riot survivors and detainees in police custody”. Most of them were Muslims, the NGO said. “This ongoing state-sponsored impunity that the Delhi police enjoy sends across the message that the police can commit grave human rights violations and evade accountability,” said Avinash Kumar, executive director of Amnesty International India.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Out on bail, riot accused try to start life anew||It’s been a month since Junaid Khan* — who was arrested for his alleged role in the communal riots that broke out here in February — was released on bail. According to him, his future looks dark as he wanted to join the police force but won’t be able to do so at the moment due to his criminal record. The 22-year-old Delhi University graduate from Mustafabad was arrested on April 19. His father, Ameen*, told The Hindu that Junaid had lodged a complaint with the police about being attacked inside Farooqia Masjid in Brijpuri on February 25 and was called to the police station on the pretext of identifying the accused in the case but was arrested instead. On July 26, he returned home after being released on bail. He said his life has been impacted in ways he had never imagined. “I have just completed my graduation. I wanted to take examinations for government jobs. I wanted to join Delhi Police and had also done my research for the same. But my lawyer told me that I can’t proceed with it till I have this criminal record,” he said. Remains undeterred However, his resolve to join the force is undeterred despite his experience. “I still want to join the police force. I will work hard once the case is resolved as I don’t want something like this to happen to anyone else,” he said. Junaid draws inspiration from his brother, who works as an engineer with Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. “My brother always pushed me to study so that I can land up with a government job,” he said. He said the time spent in jail was difficult as he had never stayed without his family. “I didn’t even have a change of clothes. I washed my clothes daily. I used to do the cleaning also. The inmates used to abuse a lot. The food too was terrible,” he said. Back to work Another youth, 22-year-old Amaan* from Old Mustafabad, who was arrested on charges of rioting and mischief by fire, is also out on bail. He said he has now finally gathered the courage to return to work. Amaan repairs refrigerators for a living. His father Imtiaz* said: “For a month, we did not let him go out because we were scared. About 10-15 days ago, he started working again.” Mr. Imtiaz, a tailor in north Delhi, also said: “ Doodh ka jala paani bhi phook phook ke peeta hai [Once bitten, twice shy].” Mr. Imtiaz said, his son was at work in a shop in Dilshad Garden on February 24 and he called him back as riots had broken out in the city. However, in April, the police allegedly called him for questioning, promising his father that he would be released in 10 minutes. However, he was arrested. Mr. Imtiaz said he did not ask Amaan about his time in jail. “He is moving on. He only told me that he was eating the kind of food that he never ate at home and that was enough for us to know what he could have gone through,” he said. However, Amaan’s family said his friends and neighbours are treating him well. “We were really worried when he wasn’t home. We didn’t like to eat or sleep. His mother would spend innumerable sleepless nights. We knew that he did not do anything wrong and have faith in the judiciary,” the father said.  (*All names have been changed on request)
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police rescue woman after she e-mails U.K. PM||A 43-year-old woman was rescued after she sent an email to the Prime Minister of United Kingdom stating that if she does not receive help within two hours, she would end her life, the police said on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) P.K. Mishra said the matter was reported at Aman Vihar police station on Wednesday night. The woman was upset due to her failed marriage and financial burden, he said, adding that she had mental health issues. When the Rohini resident sent the email, the matter was flagged by the Indian Embassy in London to the Ministry of External Affairs officials in India. “Later, the information reached to Aman Vihar police station. The woman did not write her full address in the mail but the police managed to locate her,” Mr. Mishra said, adding that she refused to open the door. The door had to be broke open following which the officials rescued her.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||EDMC moves to terminate Hussain’s membership||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday passed a resolution to terminate the membership of suspended Aam Aadmi Party Councillor Tahir Hussain, accused of involvement in the Delhi riots. A senior EDMC official informed that according to Section 33 (2) of the Delhi Municipal Corporations Act, if a councillor is absent for all meetings of the corporation for three successive months without permission, the seat may be declared vacant. Officials also said that reason for his absence had not been informed to the corporation. Mr. Hussain has been lodged in Tihar Jail for his alleged involvement in the riots, during which petrol bombs had reportedly been thrown from the roof of his house. AAP had suspended the councillor from Nehru Vihar from the party when allegations against him had emerged. The move comes after a demand for his removal by the BJP recently.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||Man shot dead at brithday party||A 35-year-old man was shot dead at a birthday party in north Delhi, the police said on Thursday. The incident took place when a fight broke out between two groups at the party on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. Mohammad Tuwarak tried to pacify the groups when the accused, Shanu, allegedly shot him. Manhunt is on, police said.
28 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘ Maa chose to serve her people. Is that anti-national?’||Noted human rights lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj was arrested by the Pune police from her residence in Faridabad in August 2018 in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon violence case. With the activist completing two years in prison, her 23-year-old daughter Maaysha has penned a letter reflecting on life spent away from her. In her letter, Ms. Bharadwaj says, “Today, two years ago, maa got arrested. Things were different when she was under house arrest, I could see her, touch her, talk to her. But after she was taken to jail, I feel like my heart has been torn apart and ripped out. I am having an enormously difficult time handling myself. I cried for months after her arrest.” Ms. Bharadwaj, who lives alone in Faridabad, writes, “When the COVID-19 pandemic broke out and prisoners were allowed to call their families, I would wait every day for her call but to no avail. Finally, on June 9, I heard her voice after four months, it made me very happy and emotional,” Ms. Bharadwaj writes. She says, “My mother gave up her American citizenship to live in India and serve people here. But the government is saying she gave up her citizenship to use poor people and manipulate them against the government. So, I would like to ask, ‘Is there any person who has given up luxury and a good life in America just to serve the people of their country? And then to be labelled an anti-national? My grandmother [Krishna Bharadwaj], who was a well-known economist, wanted my mother to be like her. But my mother chose her own path; she chose to serve her people. Is that anti-national?”
28 August 2020||Mumbai,||Ajit Pawar urges Centre to clear State’s GST dues worth Rs. 22,534 cr.||Deputy Chief Minister and State Finance Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday said the Centre cannot shrug off its responsibility of paying the State a sum of Rs. 22,534 crore as compensation for the loss of revenue arising on account of the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). “If there are further delays, the dues will go up to Rs. 1 lakh crore in two years,” Mr. Pawar said at the GST Council meeting, which was chaired by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. When the GST was implemented in 2017, the Centre had promised to compensate States for any revenue loss for five years until 2022. “The Centre had taken the responsibility of ensuring that the State’s revenue share and compensation would be paid in a timely manner. Therefore, the Centre must make funds available to pull States out of their financial distress by taking loans at lower interest rates,” said Mr. Pawar. Mr. Pawar said all States are facing financial trouble as they have not yet received adequate GST compensation from the Centre. “This is directly impacting development works. Every State in the country is fighting the novel coronavirus and therefore the Centre must provide more funds.” The State Finance Minister said the States cannot borrow money due to financial constraints. “If States borrow at high interest rates, it will directly impact the cess and the burden will fall on consumers.” Mr. Pawar said the Centre must instead borrow money at lower interest rates and pay States their dues. He also said the compensation period should be increased from 2022.
28 August 2020||Mumbai,||Sena MP offers to resign over differences with NCP||In what is seen as a fallout of a rivalry between the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), both part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, Sena’s Parbhani MP Sanjay Jadhav on Wednesday offered his resignation from the Lok Sabha to party president and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. While the NCP refuted charges levelled by Mr. Jadhav of neglecting the Sena in the district, miscreants attacked the NCP office on late Wednesday night. Parbhani Guardian Minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Thursday held a meeting with Mr. Thackeray, and later with Mr. Jadhav. He is likely to withdraw his resignation. In his letter to Mr. Thackeray, the Lok Sabha MP said that the NCP purposely neglected the Sena nominations on the Jintur Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) and instead appointed only NCP members. “If, despite being in power, I cannot give justice to my workers, then what is the use of being an MP from Parbhani? Therefore, I am submitting my resignation and request you to accept it. I will continue working as a Sena worker,” the letter said. Reacting to Mr. Jadhav’s letter, NCP MLA Babajani Durrani released a video asking him to decide on whether he wants to counter the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) or help it? “Instead of making allegations, party leaders must discuss these issues on the table,” he said. Another NCP leader from Parbhani, Vijay Bhambale, claimed that it was mutually decided with Mr. Jadhav to give Jintur APMC to the NCP and the Bori APMC to the Sena.
28 August 2020||Mumbai,||Part of toilet collapses in Grant Road, 2 killed||Two people died after part of a toilet collapsed at Mishra building in Grant Road of south Mumbai on Thursday evening. Aliya Riayasat Qureshi (12) and Noor Qureshi (70) were taken to JJ Hospital where there were declared brought dead. Mumbai City Guardian Minister Aslam Shaikh has announced Rs. 5 lakh to the family of the deceased. According to civic officials, the Mishra and Abdul Rahman buildings are adjacent to each other and fall in the cessed building category. The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) had approved the redevelopment of both the buildings, but it has been pending for more than three years. A total of 111 tenants are living in these two buildings. Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad said that the MHADA had given the redevelopment work to Shirsiwala builder. “The builder did not work for three years. This is the very reason that we have brought an amendment to the Act where if a builder does not work for three years, then the MHADA will take over,” he said.
28 August 2020||Mumbai,||Bhima-Koregaon case: NIA summons defence lawyers||The National Investigating Agency (NIA) on Thursday summoned the defence lawyers representing all accused in the Bhima- Koregaon case. Advocate Nihal Singh Rathod has appeared for the first batch of accused — Surendra Gadling, Sudhir Dhawale, Shoma Sen, Rona Wilson and Mahesh Raut. All of them were arrested on June 6, 2018, under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. He has represented them before the trial court, the Bombay High Court, and the Supreme Court. Mr. Rathod told The Hindu , “I received summons from the NIA to appear before it on August 28, but I replied saying I cannot as my grandmother is on the deathbed. So I will now go to the NIA’s Mumbai office on September 7.” He added, “It is very unusual for an investigating agency to summon a defence lawyer in a case as they enjoy a client-attorney privilege.” Advocate Viplav Teltumbde is the nephew of Prof. Anand Teltumbde, also an accused lodged at Taloja Central Jail. He said, “I received the summons on Thursday and I have been asked to be present on September 3.” According to Mr. Rathod, the NIA is relying upon a letter allegedly written by another accused, Sudha Bharadwaj, to comrade Prakash, which has named him and other lawyers who have been summoned in the case. On September 28, 2018, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud of the Supreme Court had a dissenting opinion with respect to refusing the formation of a special investigation team to probe the case.
28 August 2020||Mumbai,||HC dismisses plea seeking funds under PM CARES||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday dismissed a plea seeking declaration of funds received by the PM CARES (Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations) Fund set up by the Central government to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. A Division Bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor was hearing a PIL filed by advocate Arvind Waghmare. The PIL highlighted the non-transparency in the operation and functioning of the PM CARES Fund, which is registered as a charitable trust.
28 August 2020||Mumbai,||Fire in Mumbai building doused after six hours||A fire which broke out in a four-storey building in Fort area of south Mumbai was doused in the early hours of Thursday after hectic efforts for about six hours, a civic official said. A 22-year-old man received burn injuries in the fire which erupted in Bahubali building on Kawasji Patel Road around 7.15 p.m. on Wednesday. It was initially tagged as a ‘level-2’ , but escalated to ‘level-3’ (major) around 10.30 p.m.. Fire engines were rushed to the spot and firefighters doused the flames around 1.30 a.m. on Thursday.
28 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Mahad building survivors stare at uncertain future||With nothing more than the clothes they are wearing, 87 residents of the Tarique Garden building in Mahad are still figuring out from where they can start their lives again. While they are hopeful that the Maharashtra government will extend a helping hand, they are yet to hear from authorities. “We had approached the local MLA when he visited us at the collapse site and requested him that the survivors needed help. He had assured full support but we are yet to hear from him,” said Avesh Yakub Chichkar, a resident of fifth floor in B wing of the building. The five-storey building collapsed on Monday evening, killing 16 people and leaving nine injured. State Minister for Relief and Rehabilitation Vijay Wadettiwar told The Hindu that at a Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, the issue of compensation for the survivors was discussed with Chief Minister Udhav Thackeray. “The CM was positive about it and a decision is expected within a few days.” He also said that at the meeting, it was decided to give a financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh each to the families of the deceased and Rs. 50,000 each for the injured. The minister further said that this particular building was legal. “It was constructed with all the permissions needed and was not an illegal one. Hence, compensation for the survivors is being considered.” Basheer Chichkar, a Shiv Sena leader from Mahad, said, “All the earnings of the residents were invested in their flats. Those who were tenants too had spent a considerable amount of money to purchase goods and furniture. Now they are left with nothing. It’s the need of the hour to do something for the survivors.” Meanwhile, the tenants and flat owners who have survived the collapse held a meeting on Thursday afternoon and decided to hold a protest at the same place where the building stood. “First thing we want is punishment for the wrong doers because of whom we are in this situation. Also, we want the government to hear us out,” Avesh Chichkar, who had been staying in a rented flat since 2016 with his parents and two brothers, said. Raigad Collector Nidhi Choudhary has made temporary staying arrangements for the survivors at Babasaheb Ambedkar Smarak Bhavan in Mahesh. “We have provided two big halls but most of them are still staying with their friends and relatives. Some of them have said that they will start shifting to the bhavan on Thursday evening,” Ms. Choudhary said.
28 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Three more held in gloves reselling case||The Navi Mumbai Crime Branch Unit I has earlier this week arrested three more people in the used hand gloves reselling case. The accused are Vipul Shah (52), Nazeem Khan (30) and Afroz Shaikh (36). Mr. Shah and Mr. Khan had rented out a godown in Bhiwandi during the lockdown where they stored used gloves which they had purchased for around Rs. 150 per kg. Mr. Shaikh had rented out a godown at Aurangabad. Crime Branch officials have found a trail of the used gloves to Bengaluru and Hyderabad. “The origin of these gloves seems to be from a hospital,” a police officer privy to the investigation said.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Furnish report on desealing of illegal scrap units: NGT||Following a plea against desealing of illegal scrapping units operating in the Mayapuri Industrial Area, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to furnish a report on the same. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “Let the DPCC look into the allegations and take remedial action in accordance with law and file a report.” Authorities were directed to submit the report to the green panel by January 6.
28 August 2020||Pune,||Chavan’s supporters criticise Saamana edit, Sanjay Raut||A section of the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) leaders in Pune and Satara on Thursday slammed an editorial in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, Saamana , which flayed 23 Congress leaders, including former CM Prithviraj Chavan, for allegedly “demoralising” Congress MP Rahul Gandhi more than the BJP leadership had ever done. The Congress is in alliance with the Sena and Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition in Maharashtra. Recently, a section of senior Congress leaders had written to party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking a “full-time and effective leadership” of the party. They included Ghulam Nabi Azad, Kabil Sibal, Shashi Tharoor, Mr. Chavan and Mukul Wasnik. While casting aspersions on the political capabilities of these leaders, the Saamana editorial had singled out Mr. Chavan for censure, claiming that the veteran Congressman needed Mr. Pawar’s help to win the election from Satara.While Mr. Chavan refused to speak on the matter, a number of senior leaders in Karad and Pune came out strongly in his support and hit out at Sanjay Raut, the associate editor. “The Sena ought to know that Mr. Chavan won extremely tough electoral contests from Karad South in the 2014 and the 2019 Assembly elections. Like Mr. Pawar, he is the only leader to have been elected in all four Houses,” MPCC secretary Sanjay Balgude said.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||China fires missiles into South China Sea||China on Wednesday fired at least two missiles into the South China Sea in what Chinese media described as a warning to the U.S., amid escalating tensions between the countries over Chinese maritime claims and the military exercises being conducted in disputed waters by China. The missiles were fired into waters between Hainan province and the Paracel Islands in an area that China had previously notified would be off-limits because of planned drills, also expected to include missile tests. Chinese media reported the missiles were fired a day after the U.S. flew spy-planes through at least two areas where drills were being held. Aircraft carrier-killer The Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post said a DF-26B missile was launched from the northwestern Qinghai province, while the DF-21, an anti-ship ballistic missile dubbed an “aircraft carrier-killer”, was launched from the eastern coastal Zhejiang province. China has been conducting military exercises simultaneously in four seas — the Bohai Sea in the north, the Yellow Sea, East China Sea, and the South China Sea. Beijing said an American Lockheed U-2 aircraft had flown through what it had notified as a northern no-fly zone as part of a live-fire drill on Tuesday, while a Boeing RC-135S reconnaissance aircraft had flown over the South China Sea drills the following day. The aircraft “approached near an ongoing PLA [People’s Liberation Army] exercise in waters off Hainan Island’s southeast coast”, said the South China Sea Strategic Situation Probing Initiative (SCSPI), a Chinese think-tank. “It is possible that the U.S. believes the PLA would launch anti-ship ballistic missiles like the DF-21D or the DF-26 in the drills, so it sent the RC-135S to gather intelligence, a Chinese military expert who wasn’t named told the Communist Party-run Global Times . China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian hit out at the “incursion” by American aircraft as “a blatant, provocative act that could have easily caused misunderstanding and misjudgment, and even triggered an air and maritime accident”. Sanctions slammed He also slammed U.S. moves announced on Wednesday to sanction 24 Chinese companies, which the Department of Commerce said had been added to the entity list “for their role in helping the Chinese military construct and militarise the internationally condemned artificial islands in the South China Sea.” The companies included the China Communications Construction Company and China Electronics Technology Group Corporation (CETC), both prominent State-run companies that are involved in many overseas projects under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). “China’s construction activities on its own territory are entirely within its sovereignty and have nothing to do with militarisation,” Mr. Zhao said. “The participation of Chinese companies and individuals in domestic construction activities is legitimate, lawful and beyond reproach. It is unjustified for the U.S. to impose sanctions on Chinese companies and individuals for their involvement in relevant construction activities in their own country. The move by the U.S. side grossly interferes in China’s internal affairs and violates international law and basic norms governing international relations. It is hegemonistic logic and power politics that are at play here.”
28 August 2020||Baltimore,||Pence warns against Biden win||U.S. Vice-President Mike Pence took center stage at the Republican convention on Wednesday to warn voters they “won’t be safe in Joe Biden’s America” — casting President Donald Trump as their protector against the “radical” left. Speakers at the convention spoke of dark forces intent on ending the American dream, and said losing to their Democratic rivals is not an option. “Law and order is on the ballot,” Mr. Pence stressed on the third night of a convention overshadowed by violent unrest in Wisconsin and the approach of Hurricane Laura to the southern U.S. coast. He addressed the event from Fort McHenry in Baltimore, the site of an 1814 British bombardment that inspired the poem later turned into the U.S. national anthem, “The Star-Spangled Banner.” With that backdrop, Mr. Pence made the patriotic case for Mr. Trump getting a second term instead of allowing the nation to be “fundamentally transformed” by a Biden administration he warned would take an uncharted path towards socialism and mob rule. “The hard truth is, you won’t be safe in Joe Biden’s America,” said the 61-year-old Republican. Mr. Pence’s address came amid a new flare-up of racial tensions in the U.S., with protests spreading over the latest police shooting of an African-American man, Jacob Blake, in Kenosha. ‘Violence must stop’ Mr. Trump announced he is sending in additional federal forces to quell unrest in the Midwestern city, where two people were shot dead during anti-police protests Tuesday. A 17-year-old has been arrested on murder charges. Addressing the latest unrest, Mr. Pence struck a tough tone. “Let me be clear. The violence must stop whether in Minneapolis, Portland or Kenosha,” he said. “We will have law and order on the streets of this country for every American.” Touting Mr. Trump’s strong economic record before the COVID-19 epidemic struck and his ongoing efforts to revive it — Mr. Pence urged voters to ask themselves “who do you trust to rebuild this economy?” A former Governor of Indiana, the evangelical Christian Pence has taken on the role of calm counterweight to Mr. Trump’s constant drama. Mr. Pence seeks to reassure old-school Republicans, while also praising the new generation of Trump loyalists — a balancing act.
28 August 2020||WASHINGTON,||American, Russian vehicles collide in Syria||A small number of U.S. troops were injured this week during a skirmish with Russian forces in northeastern Syria, American officials said on Wednesday, underscoring the risk of simmering tensions between the two rival powers in a hotly contested part of the country. Two U.S. officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss operational details, said the injuries were a result of a collision between Russian and American vehicles, and not any exchange of fire. The officials said four troops were showing mild concussion-like symptoms and were receiving medical attention at their base in Syria. Videos of the encounter that emerged on Twitter on Wednesday appeared to show Russian and American vehicles speeding in an open field, with a Russian vehicle ramming an American vehicle, and a Russian helicopter flying low over U.S. forces. The altercation, which happened on Tuesday, is the latest clash between Russian and American ground patrols in northeastern Syria after the United States withdrew from much of that area before a Turkish cross-border offensive last fall. Russian military personnel have increasingly had run-ins with U.S. troops on highways in the region, breaking agreements between the two countries to steer clear of each other, American officials say. The clash with the Russians comes just a week after a U.S.-led convoy returned fire after it came under attack near a checkpoint manned by forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, who are backed by Russia. A day later, on August 18, three small Katyusha rockets landed near the American military’s Conoco base in northeastern Syria. The rockets, which American officials said were fired from areas controlled by the Syrian government, did not cause any casualties or damage. Constant challenges American officials say these actions by Russian personnel and their Syrian allies are devised to present a constant set of challenges, probes and encroachments, and apparently designed to slowly create new facts on the ground and make the U.S. military presence there more tenuous. Last October, President Donald Trump abruptly ordered a complete withdrawal of the 1,000 American troops helping Syrian Kurdish forces combat pockets of Islamic State fighters, opening the way to a bloody Turkish cross-border offensive.
28 August 2020||Christchurch,||New Zealand mosque gunman jailed for life||New Zealand mosque gunman Brenton Tarrant was sentenced to life in prison without parole Thursday for the massacre of 51 Muslim worshippers, with a judge calling his actions “wicked” and “inhuman”. As the sentence was read out, there was jubilation outside the courtroom, with crowds cheering and singing the national anthem —“God Defend New Zealand”. Judge Cameron Mander said Tarrant’s “warped” ideology and “base hatred” led the Australian white supremacist to murder defenceless men, women and children last year in New Zealand’s worst terror attack. “Your crimes are so wicked, that even if you are detained until you die it will not exhaust the requirements of punishment and denunciation,” Judge Mander said as he announced a sentence that is a New Zealand legal first. The judge solemnly read out the names of those murdered in a livestreamed rampage and recounted in forensic detail how Tarrant executed the wounded as they pleaded for help on March 15 last year. “It was brutal and beyond callous. Your actions were inhuman,” the judge said, pointing out that Tarrant deliberately attacked Friday prayers to maximise casualties. Tarrant, 29, retained the same impassive demeanour through the four-day hearing as survivors and bereaved family members gave heart-wrenching testimony of their incalculable loss. Gamal Fouda, the imam of Al Noor mosque — one of those targeted by Tarrant — said the sentence was what the Muslim community had hoped for. “But no punishment is going to bring our loved ones back and our sadness will continue for the rest of our lives,” he said. PM welcomes sentence Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, who was praised for her decisive response to the shootings, also welcomed the sentence. “The trauma of March 15 is not easily healed but today I hope is the last where we have any cause to hear or utter the name of the terrorist behind it,” she said. “His deserves to be a lifetime of complete and utter silence.” As New Zealand reeled from the shootings, Ms. Ardern immediately moved to tighten gun laws and pressure social media giants to curb online extremism. Ms. Ardern's Australian counterpart Scott Morrison echoed the sentiment, condemning Tarrant's “cowardly and horrific” crimes. Tarrant sparked global revulsion when he rampaged through two Christchurch mosques for 20 minutes during Friday prayers. He had admitted 51 charges of murder, 40 of attempted murder and one of terrorism over the attacks.
28 August 2020||KENOSHA,||Teen held after 2 killed during unrest in Kenosha||A white, 17-year-old police admirer was arrested on Wednesday after two people were shot to death during a third straight night of protests in Kenosha over the police shooting of a Black man, Jacob Blake. Kyle Rittenhouse, of Antioch, Illinois, was taken into custody in Illinois on suspicion of first-degree intentional homicide in the attack on Tuesday that was largely captured on cellphone video. The shooting left a third person wounded. “I just killed somebody,” the gunman, carrying a semi-automatic rifle, could be heard saying at one point. In the wake of the killings, Wisconsin Governor Tony Evers authorised the deployment of 500 members of the National Guard to Kenosha, doubling the number of troops in the city of 1,00,000 midway between Milwaukee and Chicago. The Governor’s office said he is working with other States to bring in additional National Guard members and law officers. Authorities also announced a 7 p.m. curfew, though protesters ignored it again on Wednesday.  As of early Thursday, the protests were mostly peaceful, in contrast to the violent clashes that marked earlier nights of protests. According to witness accounts and video footage, police apparently let the gunman leave the scene with a rifle over his shoulder and his hands in the air as members of the crowd were yelling for him to be arrested because he had shot people. Sheriff David Beth said it was a chaotic, high-stress scene — conditions he said can cause “tunnel vision” among law officers.
28 August 2020||MOSCOW,||Russia opens preliminary probe into Navalny’s illness||Russian police on Thursday announced a preliminary probe into the circumstances of the sudden illness of opposition leader Alexei Navalny, who fell into a coma last week following a suspected poisoning and amid growing pressure from Western officials to investigate. According to a statement released on Thursday by a Siberian branch of Russia’s Interior Ministry, investigators have been working on “establishing all the circumstances of the incident,” conducting forensic studies and collecting items “that may have probative value.” Mr. Navalny, an opposition politician and corruption investigator who is one of President Vladimir Putin’s fiercest critics, fell ill on a flight back to Moscow from Siberia last Thursday and was taken to a hospital in the Siberian city of Omsk after the plane made an emergency landing. Over the weekend, he was transferred to the Charitş hospital in Berlin, where doctors found indications of “cholinesterase inhibitors” in his system. But the hospital in the German capital hasn’t yet identified a specific substance. Found in some drugs, pesticides and chemical nerve agents, cholinesterase inhibitors act by blocking the breakdown of a key chemical in the body, acetycholine, which transmits signals between nerve cells. ‘No criminal probe’ Mr. Navalny’s team submitted a request to Russia’s Investigative Committee, demanding authorities launch a criminal probe on charges of an attempt on the life of a public figure, last week, but officials appeared reluctant to start an investigation. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Monday he saw no grounds for a criminal case until the cause of the politician’s condition was fully established. The Interior Ministry’s statement on Thursday didn’t clarify when the preliminary probe — an inquiry to determine whether a criminal investigation should be launched — had started. Mr. Navalny’s ally Ivan Zhdanov said that the probe should have been launched August 20, right after the politician’s team submitted a request. “Open a criminal case,” Mr. Zhdanov said in a tweet on Thursday. International pressure The announcement about the inquiry comes after multiple Western and European officials — including German Chancellor Angela Merkel, U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson and U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo — called upon Russia to start a full and transparent investigation into Navalny’s condition. On Wednesday night, the politician’s illness was discussed in a phone conversation between Putin and Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte. According to the Kremlin’s readout of the call, Mr. Putin pointed out that “premature and unfounded accusations” were unacceptable and underscored Russia’s “interest in a thorough and objective investigation of all the circumstances of the incident.”
28 August 2020||Moscow,||Putin vows military aid for Lukashenko||Russian President Vladimir Putin vowed military support for embattled Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko on Thursday, while urging a peaceful resolution to unrest and demonstrations that erupted after a disputed election. European Union Ambassadors in Minsk on Thursday denounced a crackdown on the opposition. Mr. Putin on Thursday promised military backing for Belarus and said Russia had set up a reserve group of law enforcement officers to deploy if the post-vote situation deteriorated. “It won't be used unless the situation starts to get out of control,” Mr. Putin said.
28 August 2020||Los Angeles,||TikTok CEO resigns amid US pressure to sell video app||TikTok CEO Kevin Mayer said on Wednesday he has quit the company as tensions soar between Washington and Beijing over the Chinese-owned video platform. Mr. Mayer’s resignation comes days after TikTok filed a suit challenging a crackdown by the U.S. government over claims that the app can be used to spy on Americans. TikTok argued that the order was a misuse of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act.AFP
28 August 2020||London,||UK's Liberal Democrat party elects Ed Davey as new leader||Britain’s Liberal Democrats announced former Cabinet Minister Ed Davey as the party’s new leader on Thursday, in hopes that he could turn its fortunes around after a series of poor election results. Mr. Davey, the party’s acting leader, said in a brief speech that he wanted to rebuild the party “to national relevance”. The Liberal Democrats won just 11 seats in Parliament in last year’s election. “We have to wake up and smell the coffee,” he said.AP
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The participants we need in Phase 3 trials||While everyone else can avoid exposure to COVID-19, healthcare workers have to work in high-risk environments with repeated exposure to infection. Vulnerable groups such as the elderly and those with co-morbidities have five-fold to 15-fold greater mortality when they get COVID-19 than others. Therefore, healthcare workers and vulnerable groups need to be treated as priority categories for vaccination when the COVID-19 vaccine is available. Protecting against COVID-19 Two COVID-19 vaccines have been accepted for Phase 3 trials after passing the Phase 1 trial for safety and the Phase 2 trial for both safety and the vaccine’s ability to induce a virus-neutralising antibody with or without T-cell-mediated immunity. Vaccine-induced immunity has not yet been proven to protect against COVID-19, but the likelihood of protection is quite high for the following reasons. Natural infection induces both a virus-neutralising antibody and T-cell-mediated immunity. Convincing reports of reinfection by the novel coronavirus in previously infected individuals are extremely rare, suggesting that natural infection is indeed protective in the vast majority. When a vaccine candidate produces similar immune responses, the probability of it being protective against the disease is high. A vaccine that has passed Phase 2 should therefore be assumed to be protective, unless proved otherwise in a Phase 3 trial which will provide additional evidence of freedom from rare side-effects. Once cleared in Phase 3, the vaccine is registered by the drug regulatory agency and vaccination of the general public carried out as per national policy. Interim reports on Phase 1 and Phase 2 vaccine trials from China, with an inactivated whole virus vaccine (using mercapto-ethanol instead of formalin to minimise immunological lung injury), have demonstrated immunogenicity and short-term safety. A Phase 3 trial is in progress. India is embarking on a Phase 3 trial with a similar vaccine. The objective of vaccination is three-fold: in the short term, to protect vulnerable individuals from serious disease and death; to protect occupationally exposed individuals from acquiring and unwittingly transmitting infection to their patients and family; and, eventually, to eradicate the viral infection. The measure of effectiveness of a vaccine is how many infections and how many deaths it can prevent rather than how high the antibody titre will be, because antibodies are only surrogate markers of protection. To demonstrate that the vaccine achieves the short-term objectives, it is important that the vaccine trials include a good proportion of special groups of individuals. The twin clinical outcomes of reduced mortality in vaccinated vulnerable individuals and reduced infection rates among healthcare workers will quickly provide unequivocal clinical measures of vaccine efficacy. Under normal circumstances, Phase 3 vaccination trials include only healthy adult volunteers and once the vaccine is found to be safe and effective, small bridging studies are conducted among vulnerable subjects. However, in the pandemic situation, if vulnerable groups are deliberately included from the beginning in Phase 3 trials, using a special study design, when the trial is over we can proceed straightaway to immunising these subgroups. The drug regulatory agency should recognise this risk-based categorisation of the public and help design the Phase 3 trial in which vulnerable people and healthcare workers are preferentially given an opportunity to register themselves as volunteers. Obtaining information on vaccine efficacy and safety from these subgroups is of paramount importance to facilitate prioritised vaccination of those who did not have an opportunity to enrol as volunteers for the trial and those who got placebo injection. Why healthcare workers? There are several reasons why healthcare workers, particularly those above age 55, should volunteer for and be included in Phase 3 trials. Historically, healthcare workers have often been the first to volunteer to participate in several physiological and pharmacological studies of an experimental nature. This attitude is more appropriate now than ever before in the context of COVID-19 vaccination trials. Participation of healthcare workers will motivate and enthuse members of the general public to participate in the trial and make recruitment easier. The loss of many colleagues, mandatory quarantine of increasing numbers of infected healthcare workers, the struggle to cope with the escalating number of cases in the face of workforce depletion, and the worries about risk to their immediate family have eroded the morale of all healthcare workers in India. Inclusion of healthcare workers in the Phase 3 vaccine trial may prove to be the silver lining and boost the sagging morale of healthcare workers. Healthcare workers, in particular doctors and nurses, understand controlled clinical trials and the safety features in vaccine production and would be better able to provide informed consent. Further, they will clearly understand that half the enrolled subjects receive only a placebo and therefore no one will flout personal protection norms even after receiving the vaccine trial injection. Information on side-effects, a vital deciding factor in vaccine acceptability, is easy to collect and document if healthcare workers are part of the trial. Self-reported adverse events with relevant details can be obtained on a mobile phone platform and maintained in a computerised database. How do we mobilise healthcare workers to participate in the Phase 3 trial? In an astute move, the Duke Research Institute started HERO (Healthcare Worker Exposure Response and Outcomes) which encourages healthcare workers to participate in all COVID-19 clinical trials including vaccine trials. The Indian Medical Association and nursing and paramedical professional organisations, who have enrolled all members of the healthcare work force, should come together on a similar platform and encourage healthcare workers to enrol for the Phase 3 COVID-19 vaccination trials. If the vaccine is efficacious, at least half the trial participants will be protected (the other half will be in the placebo arm). Conditions apply Conditions apply for inclusion of healthcare workers in the trial. Those healthcare workers who have already contracted COVID-19 and who do not need the vaccine will be listed in the National Registry. Of those who have so far not been infected, IgG antibody testing will identify antibody positive subjects who do not need vaccination. Sero-prevalence of IgG antibody in healthcare workers is likely to be 30-40% as is the case currently in our metros; only the remaining proportion of healthcare workers will still be susceptible. It should be possible to accommodate these eligible subjects into the Phase 3 trial protocol without much difficulty. All round it would be a good idea for healthcare workers and vulnerable subjects to enrol in the COVID-19 vaccine Phase 3 trials in India. If this is to be done quickly, professional organisations, civil society, regulatory agency, the Indian Council of Medical Research and vaccine manufacturers should act immediately and allow and encourage enrolment of healthcare workers and vulnerable people in Phase 3 trials. M.S. Seshadri is former Professor and Head, Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Christian Medical College and Hospital, Vellore, and currently Medical Director, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet; T. Jacob John is former Head of the Departments of Clinical Virology and Microbiology at Christian Medical College, Vellore
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Can a digital ID aid India’s primary health ecosystem?||Following a recent announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the creation of a digital health ID for every Indian, there has been a renewed debate on the need for a new digital identifier that centralises a citizen’s health records. Two public health experts, Dr. Abhay Shukla and Dr. Suresh Munuswamy, discuss the issue in a conversation moderated by G. Ananthakrishnan . Edited excerpts:  What can a digital health ID do for people? Dr. Abhay Shukla (AS):A digital health system can be built only on the basis of a well-functioning health system and integration of data. Integrated management of health data must be based on a larger reorganisation and integration of the health system. Otherwise, it is like putting the cart before the horse. We need to regulate the private healthcare sector, strengthen basic data collection from the primary healthcare level in the public health system, and ensure that this data is used in a manner that is respectful of the citizens’ privacy. Having something like the Data Protection Act in place is essential. In the absence of these preconditions, a digital health ID will be of limited use. And, it definitely cannot substitute for the much wider health system changes required urgently. What does our experience with digital systems tell about this ID plan? Dr. Suresh Munuswamy (SM):As an idea it is great. All the issues are in the execution. You already have an ID, Aadhaar, and several other IDs — PAN card, bank cards, etc. Do they actually serve the purpose? Only with real-time authentication can that be achieved. That is a challenge with Aadhaar also. So, if I take this ID and go to a pharmacy, will it be authenticating me in real time? Is that even a possibility? So, we are just adding another ID. There is also an ecosystem. If I again go to a pharmacy, buy medicines, is there a barcode on the medicine? How am I going to even connect the medicine that I’m getting to the centralised database; am I going to manually enter all the data? If I go to a doctor, is the doctor’s data present? Imagine all the prescriptions going to the database. Is the prescription digitally readable or machine-readable? Do we have an e-prescription? These are the challenges. We want to move towards universal health coverage. With a digital ID as a tool, what is the sequence to achieve that?  AS:We need at least two or three important elements for building both a robust health system and an effective digital e-health system. The first is certain foundational policies which relate to the larger health system. The second is enabling strategies, which support an integrated information-based system. And then there are the actual e-health applications. So, a foundational change is on the public health Management Information System. We already have an MIS, but it is not functioning adequately. And there is a limited variety of data being received, but a lot of data, especially from the primary healthcare level, is inadequate. The second is reporting by the private healthcare sector. There is gross under-reporting of any kind of notifiable disease. In areas like malaria, cases are something like 20 times higher than what is reported by the official system. If you want to have a robust digital e-health system, then we need private practitioners, smaller hospitals, larger private hospitals regularly reporting about their cases. And that is linked to the regulation of the private sector. Information is not going to come in isolation. It has to be part of the Clinical Establishments Act and a regulatory framework. Without these, there is no meaning to the e-health platform. Perhaps it will just be limited to secondary and tertiary care and insurance companies. That is the sense that we are getting, that this digital e-health platform is mainly pushed by the providers rather than being pulled by the system. What potential is there to use the idea for preventive services in primary care? SM:If you really want to even pinpoint a specific area where the challenge is, it is in data collection or in writing and reporting. India has a population 10 times or 20 times that of a developed country. We have a shortage of healthcare facilities, shortage of staff. Something as simple as identifying a house does not exist on the ground. If you ask the government, there are varying reports on how many houses are there even within a village without very clear data. We don’t have a clear database on nutritional status. Every time I want to dispense medicine or give nutritional advice, I have to weigh a person, measure their height, and arrive at the BMI. These skills are not even existent on the ground. You need to have radical new technologies for nutrition, come up with a solution where you could make a simple image to give your height, weight and BMI automatically. Now, that way, you will be able to identify if a person is undernourished or normal. But these are experimental solutions. Do we have any pilots conducted so far? SM:In certain cases, small pilots are fairly successful. But the challenge is in interoperability or integration. Simply because I have one digital thermometer, I cannot transform healthcare. I need to have dozens of devices working in a rural environment, all trying to generate data in a meaningful, rapid way. And then I need to have a back-end platform to collect all the data, make sense of it. I need a digital dentistry platform, digital blood screening platform, a digital stethoscope. If this ID is going to be used to profile health status and the commercial risk that individuals carry and that is used to discriminate, would you say legal changes must precede anything else? AS:Yes, that is a big concern, because health data is very sensitive. And you see that the Aadhaar data has been hacked into. The NITI Aayog said that they will be making available some of the data, and even to private players. That is the front door, and the back door can be hacked into. So, imagine if this data becomes available to employers. That the following person has diabetes, they will not employ her. Or to insurers. They will either charge a much higher premium or on some pretext they will not insure. If a person has HIV, which is confidential, and that data becomes available to colleagues or people in the immediate environment, he may be stigmatised. We don’t have a Data Protection Act yet in this country. The other issue is about regulation. Today, we don’t even know how many private hospitals are there in a particular city. There is no reliable source of information on how many beds are available. The government is actually struggling in the COVID-19 epidemic to find out. We don’t even have a comprehensive list of private practitioners. From that level, we’re saying that we will digitise all the data. Regulation includes mandatory information, which needs to be accessed from private providers. Many States still don’t have an effective Clinical Establishment Act. Will the private tertiary care segment be happy with the idea of a digital ID?  AS:Definitely. It is my hunch that it is the insurance industry, along with segments of the IT industry, which are pushing this whole idea. The insurance industry wants to know the background, the previous illnesses and previous procedures, to improve its own business. And, of course, private hospitals will also benefit to some extent. But, for patients, it has to be linked with an assurance that the care being provided through such an integrated system is more rational, more standardised, and rate-regulated. Similarly, rates. You’ve seen in the COVID-19 epidemic how patients have been grossly overcharged in certain private hospitals. So, you know, if it leads to standardisation, of quality of care or rationality of care, and regulation of rates, then that kind of digital health platform will be of some use to the patient. Whatever I have read about the digital health stack, which is a kind of precursor to this digital [move], these aspects do not seem to be very much fore-fronted. With a public health expenditure of 1.2% of the GDP, there is no way you can have a robust universal health system. So, just thinking about a digital platform is not really going to help.  Can some elements of personal identity be masked and health advice given to individuals using an ID? AS:Anonymised data for public health surveillance may be of some use for certain kinds of illnesses, especially non-communicable diseases. Especially blood glucose levels and lipid profiles for population-based public health decision-making. But a large proportion of illnesses are communicable diseases, perinatal and maternal health conditions, where laboratory investigations are of limited value and a lot of clinical interaction is still required. What we need to do is strengthen front-line and primary health care workers. A report on universal health coverage by the erstwhile Planning Commission said a small percentage of GDP can provide all citizens with free essential medicines. Can that be a demand with the digital ID? AS:We already have the technology, we don’t need a new ID for that. The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation model, which has been replicated in Kerala and Rajasthan, has shown that essential medicines can be made available across the State in each healthcare facility, provided there is a demand-driven supply and a willingness to make the procurement and distribution system transparent, accountable and free of corruption. Of course, some more technology will help. Should not a digital ID confer a right to medicines for all? AS:It is not going to make a big difference. What we need first is an expansion of primary health services in the public sector through health centres. Then we need to engage local private practitioners and bring them into the system. Then, digital health will help strengthen it, make information available, and deliver medicines. In chronic illnesses like diabetes, high blood pressure, arthritis and cardiac ailments, digital health platforms could make available regular, low cost, quality medicines, especially for elderly patients who cannot go to a health centre, in a regulated system. SM:What the T.N. model said was, when you centralise purchases a lot of things can be taken care of. You have this efficient way of delivering medicines up to the primary health centre level. Again, the challenge is, you are only tracking the secondary packages. You don’t know if the person is getting the medicines. You need to have the real time authentication of the person.  Health data is very sensitive. And we don’t yet have a Data Protection Act in India Dr. Abhay Shukla
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Impartial, aloof and sober as a judge||As I read media accounts about the Supreme Court decision convicting Prashant Bhushan of contempt of court, I was reminded of another case of alleged contempt which my father Brahma Nath Katju always recalled with a chuckle. It took place in the early 1950s when he was a junior lawyer in the Allahabad High Court. A villager from Uttar Pradesh had written postcards making allegations against a magistrate. The magistrate complained to the High Court. The court sent a number of notices to the villager to appear in court but he ignored them. Finally, non-bailable warrants were issued and the police produced the villager in court. The Bench asked the villager why he had not responded to the notices. He said he could not afford the railway fare and as the police had brought him to court, he did not have to pay a paisa for the journey. The judges conferred with each other and decided that his allegations would not shake the administration of justice in the State; a warning would be sufficient. So, they warned him to not make such allegations and told him that he could go back home. “How will I go home? I have no money,” the villager told the judges. That flummoxed them but they quickly recovered and decided to personally pay the fare! A senior advocate who was there to assist the court offered to ensure that the villager was given a meal and dropped to the railway station. Qualities of a judge Now, the times are very different. A magistrate is a lowly cog in the great judicial machine and not a judge of a superior court. But the personal qualities that were then required of judges and shown by those two Allahabad High Court judges are no different from those expected of present-day judges. Apart from integrity, in all its aspects including intellectual, and impartiality, the one word which comes readily to mind on the qualities of judges is sobriety. Indeed, sobriety in a judge is so significant that it is part of the simile ‘as sober as a judge’. Sobriety is not greyness or humourless grimness but a characteristic that denotes balance and connotes a desire to shun the limelight. It is the opposite of flamboyance which is in itself not a negative personal attribute and perhaps even appropriate for some callings, but is it so in judges? Judges in the past and most now too avoid being flamboyant. Sobriety and flamboyance are relevant in the Prashant Bhushan case but have not received any focus. This is because the Supreme Court has avoided any comment on the Chief Justice of India (CJI)’s photograph which has been, in a manner, the origin of the present action. In paragraph 62, the court in the Bhushan judgment notes: “The first part of the first tweet states, that ‘CJI rides a 50 lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur without a mask or helmet’. This part of the tweet can be said to be a criticism of the CJI as an individual and not against the CJI as CJI”. It thereafter proceeds to mention the second part of the tweet where Mr. Bhushan says, “at a time when he keeps the SC in a lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental rights to access justice”. The court holds that the second part of the tweet was critical of the CJI as CJI and was contemptuous. As the court has itself categorically opined that any comment on the photograph of the CJI cannot attract contempt, citizens are safe from being hauled up for contempt if they draw inferences as long as they do not make that a basis for making adverse comments about the the CJI’s role in the administration of justice in the country. This fortifies citizens to make observations on the photograph as well as the changing nature of conventions regarding the personal conduct of the judges of the superior courts so long as they do not imply any criticism of the judges’ functioning as judges. There too the court has discussed at great length how fair and constructive criticism of judicial functioning and of court judgments without attribution of motives is healthy for the functioning of Indian democracy. A reputed wire service reported that people who were knowledgeable about the incident said that the CJI did not know who owned the motorcycle and that he merely wanted to get a feel of it. It also claimed that he wants to buy a motorcycle after his retirement. The fact is that the photograph was unique for never has a superior court judge, leave alone a CJI, been seen astride a motorcycle. The question is whether the CJI was wise to do so while occupying the august office he does or whether he should have curbed his enthusiasm till he had retired. What would he feel if many judges and magistrates follow his example, and photographs of them getting a feel of objects of their enthusiasm — for example, sports cars — appear? This is a question only he can answer after giving it the thought it deserves. I will only add that he himself knows that many lawyers on elevation to the bench have to curb their enthusiasm, change some habits and become sober in their conduct. Shunning the limelight In the immediate aftermath of independence, judges also maintained a tradition of aloofness. They did not seek public attention; indeed, they avoided it. For instance, unlike politicians and officers of the executive branch, they moved without pilots and escorts or sirens and red lights on their cars. It may now come as a surprise but it was only in the 1980s that High Court judges were provided with official cars. Till then, at least in the Allahabad High Court, many judges drove to the court themselves. At some stage judges began to seek to be equated with executive officers and politicians in terms of some perks and privileges. This does not imply that the standards of judicial work were compromised but it did mean that they came more in the public eye. This led to a weakening of the strong norms of aloofness. The limelight was shunned. Official cars with sirens and red lights were symptomatic of the changing mores. There was yet another tradition that most judges strictly adhered to. They mainly confined themselves to their judicial work and only spoke through their judgments. This does not mean that they did not pursue their hobbies and write on non-judicial subjects in which they had expertise but they avoided issues of public policy which may come before the courts. Certainly, they did not give their views on controversial political and social issues. Largely this tradition continues to be pursued. All in all, judges of the superior courts must, even in these changing times, ponder deeply the old norms that earned them respect and public confidence, and pursue them. There is no surer foundation for the judicial branch of the state. Vivek Katju is a former diplomat
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Categorising activities in the context of the pandemic||In the initial days of COVID-19, towards the end of March 2020, India went into a lockdown. The number of daily new cases at that time was 87. But the fear of contracting the virus was very high. Now after five months, the number of daily new cases has crossed 75,000, but the fear of contracting the virus has reduced. Why do people misunderstand risk? One reason is that the SARS-CoV-2 virus is not novel anymore. But more importantly, behavioural science studies show that numbers don’t move people. When we read that three million people in India have contracted COVID-19, most people can’t make much sense of it. But when someone close to us in proximity or relationship contracts COVID-19 or succumbs to it, the fear becomes tangible. People suddenly feel vulnerable. Otherwise, people feel invincible, even though the risk of contracting COVID-19 actually keeps increasing with daily cases increasing. Guided by emotions Emotions cause us to misunderstand risk. For example, flying is something that many people get scared of even though flying has become an extremely safe mode of transport. Zero people died in a plane crash last year in India, while over 1,50,000 people died in road accidents. Yet, people feel scared of flying, not of driving on Indian roads. Flying evokes a powerful emotional response. You are literally up in the air, in the hands of a machine and two pilots. If something happens up there, there is nothing you can do about it. This makes flying feel unsafe even though it is among the safest modes of transport. Likewise, some people believe that they should not step out of their homes because going out means that they will catch COVID-19. In reality, going for a walk in an uncrowded area with a mask on is relatively safe. Some of the same people believe that staying at home is far safer than stepping out. So, they have started keeping their househelps at home. This is relatively risky, because distancing may not be possible within a typical home in urban India and droplets exhaled, sneezed or coughed out tend to stay in the air indoors for longer. The risk of contracting COVID-19 in any given situation can be categorised as ‘very high’, ‘high’, ‘medium’, ‘low’ or ‘very low’. Visiting a gym generally would fall under ‘very high’ risk, while playing tennis would generally fall under ‘very low’ risk, even though both activities are related to fitness. However, since each situation demands assessing the risk of contracting COVID-19, it complicates people’s decision-making. Colour-coding different tasks To simplify decisions, people rely on short-cuts. For example, if you stay at home, you are safe. If you believe in god, you are safe. If you are healthy, you are safe. If you have a particular deity at home, you are safe. Such simplifications, using which people assess the risk, make COVID-19 a dangerous pandemic. To help people get a better understanding of risk, the government needs to devise a simple behavioural design. Just like a traffic signal communicates ‘stop’, ‘ready’ and ‘go’ with ‘red’, ‘yellow’ and ‘green’ colours respectively, our daily activities need to be categorised as ‘red’, ‘orange’ and ‘green’. Having outsiders visit your home would be ‘red’, visiting retail stores would be ‘orange’ and meeting a friend at an uncrowded park while keeping a safe distance and wearing a mask would be ‘green’. If people can’t judge risks accurately, COVID-19 is likely to continue to spread like a raging fire in a forest. Anand Damani is a behavioural scientist
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||A no-win situation||A pandemic and the resultant delay in commencing admission to professional courses have put the Union Education Ministry in an unenviable position. It is under compulsion to strike a balance between ensuring physical and emotional well-being of aspirants and sustaining a merit-based admission process, while seeking to limit the academic disruption. The NEET is the only gateway for MBBS/BDS admissions in the country. In respect of engineering admissions, the JEE is not mandatory for State government-run and private institutions. Citing the Supreme Court’s recent order declining to interfere with the conduct of the two common entrance tests, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank has contended that the issue is being politicised. His argument is that a “silent majority” favours the exams as an overwhelming number of registered candidates have downloaded their admit cards. From an academic perspective, the Supreme Court has rightly observed that the career of students “cannot be put in peril for long”. Mr. Pokhriyal is apprehensive that further delay could lead to a “zero academic year”, a concern shared by many academics. Ground realities reflect the concerns from the other side. More than the fear of contracting COVID-19 from examination centres, aspirants face practical limitations. The NEET will be conducted in 3,843 centres across 155 cities, whereas the number of applicants is about 15.97 lakh. For an estimated 8.58 lakh aspirants, the JEE will be held in 660 centres in 12 shifts. With many States not resuming public transport services and hotels remaining closed, travel and accommodation for candidates from interior regions is a major challenge. Social and cultural pressures are such that girls from villages and tier-3 towns are likely to face hurdles as travelling alone would not be encouraged under these unusual circumstances. Even if hotels are opened at short notice, the fear of the pandemic might deter a section of aspirants from staying there. Delay in admission to the IITs and medical colleges would also have an adverse bearing on BE/BTech seats in leading institutions including deemed universities as eventually they may go vacant when students opt out. Given this background, the government must explore alternatives such as allowing States to conduct medical admissions based on Class XII Board marks using standard normalisation. NEET could be limited to central institutions. Likewise, instead of the JEE, a nationwide marks normalisation could be examined but IIT Directors have argued that doing away with JEE would dilute the quality of education. Extraordinary circumstances may require extraordinary solutions. Perhaps the examination slots could be staggered and the number of centres increased drastically. Pragmatic compromises are inevitable.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||An air-tight case||A year and a half after the dastardly terror attack on a Central Reserve Police Force convoy in Pulwama that killed 40 personnel, the National Investigation Agency has filed a chargesheet against 19 people including Maulana Masood Azhar, the leader of the terrorist group Jaish-e-Mohammed, for planning the attack. Considering the difficulties in piecing together the minutiae in the case, the agency’s painstaking effort must be acknowledged. The identity of the key perpetrators was never in doubt after the JeM claimed responsibility immediately after the attack in February 2019. The chargesheet details the role of the JeM’s handlers and its local associates in Kashmir and how the attack was in the works since 2016. The JeM’s role was in reconnaissance, training and indoctrination, but the group could not have procured and transported the high-intensity explosives without the involvement of the Pakistani security establishment. The chargesheet’s investigation, based on forensic evidence — DNA analysis of the remains of the suicide bomber, IP address tracking of the video released by the JeM claiming responsibility, examination of the battered vehicle that carried the explosives, among others — therefore makes a thorough claim on JeM’s and Pakistan’s role in the attack. The Pulwama attack was followed by the bombing of a “terror training centre” in Balakot in Pakistan by the Indian Air Force and retaliatory air strikes by Pakistan. These have resulted in a breakdown of diplomatic ties and deterioration of every aspect of relations between the countries. But the Pulwama investigation could present an opportunity for Pakistan to initiate meaningful changes in its approach towards cross-border terror, if indeed the Imran Khan-led government is keen on reforming its deep State. For the Indian government, the chargesheet presents a case not just for detailing the role of Pakistan and its proxy actors in Kashmir, but to re-evaluate its strategy. The involvement of a local Kashmiri youth in the attack as a suicide bomber, years after militancy had waned in the Valley, was also a warning about the alienation setting into the Valley. The hollowing out of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, the bifurcation of the State and the demotion of J&K as a Union Territory; the detention of scores of political leaders including mainstream actors; and the continuing restrictions on access to broadband Internet have deepened the alienation. The prevention of terror attacks will entail not only security and diplomatic measures to isolate and destroy terror outfits such as the JeM, but also addressing the roots of alienation that contribute recruits to the cause of terrorism.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||May humour prevail||A court hall must be the last place where a layman can expect any humour but judges who crack jokes, take criticism sportively and keep the judicial proceedings lively are rare but not extinct. Ever since the Madras High Court began hearing cases only through video conference facility, thanks to COVID-19, humour in court has gone to a different level. Recently, when an Additional Public Prosecutor (APP) asked a judge if she was audible enough, he replied: “Yes, yes. You are very much audible like Ceylon Radio.” The APP, in turn, said: “I am unable to hear Your Lordship properly.” And pat came the reply: “That is because I am sitting in my residence... Howsoever high a person may be, he must maintain silence when his wife is around.” The judge had another witty repartee just a day earlier. When a lawyer wanted to know if he was visible on screen, the judge said: “Yes, of course. You are visible in Eastman Colour.” Suffering from technical issues, the advocate said: “Your Lordship is not visible to me,” and the judge quipped: “That’s because of my complexion. This is the maximum you can see of me.” Matrimonial disputes Humour that extends beyond technical issues is also not uncommon as judges come across peculiar matrimonial disputes. Recently, there was one such dispute between an aged couple. The husband was living on the first floor of their house and the wife on the ground floor. When a judge tried persuading the old man to reside with his wife, he refused saying she irritates him. “What’s wrong in it? Wives and husbands will feel content only if they irritate each other. That’s part of married life,” the judge remarked. While hearing another marital dispute between a young couple, the judge patiently heard a person who complained that his wife was harassing him by lodging false police complaints and picking up fights. “Shall I show something to Your Lordship? So far, I have not shown this to anyone,” the husband asked. The judge was not sure if the litigant should be permitted to show it on video, since it could turn out to be some objectionable material. Even before the judge could say anything, the husband pulled out a suicide note. “Look at this Lordship. I even wanted to commit suicide,” he cried to the judge, who advised him to avoid such thoughts and instead live happily with his wife and child. In an attempt to ease the grim atmosphere, the judge said: “You are already married. You cannot commit suicide twice.” During the hearing of a bail petition before another judge, the petitioner’s counsel said his clients had been arrested for being in possession of pumpkins. Surprised, the judge asked the APP for the other side of the story. The APP said that the women were actually into distillation of illicit liquor using pumpkins and yeast. “So, you were trying to hide an entire pumpkin?” the judge asked the petitioner’s counsel. In yet another case seeking parole for a prisoner, his counsel told the court that the petitioner required just one day’s leave to attend his son’s birthday. Considering the request to be prima facie reasonable, the judge asked: “PP, what do you say?” In reply, the APP informed the court that the petitioner was facing as many as 21 criminal cases booked for serious charges such as attempt to murder and house breaking. Shocked to hear the antecedents of the petitioner, the judge told his counsel: “Sorry, no parole for birthday parties!”
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Cauvery: Mysore Inflexible||The Mysore Chief Minister, Mr. Veerendra Patil declared here [Bangalore] today [August 27] that he had his own reservations about the 1924 (Mysore-Madras) Cauvery agreement and he had at no time said that he had accepted the agreement. Talking to pressmen here today, Mr. Veerendra Patil declined to elaborate when asked whether in that event, Mysore would repudiate the 1924 agreement. The Chief Minister’s attention was drawn by pressmen to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s reported insistence on Mysore’s acceptance of the agreement in the context of the forthcoming Inter-State Cauvery Conference of Chief Ministers in Ooty. Mr .Patil said it was not the first time that he was attending a conference on the Cauvery waters. The views of the Mysore Government had been made known to the Chief Ministers of Tamil Nadu and Kerala and also the Union Irrigation and Power Minister every time there was a\ conference on the Cauvery waters. It has been said on behalf of Mysore that the 1924 agreement has been heavily weighted in favour of Tamil Nadu and that Tamil Nadu had itself violated the agreement by constructing reservoirs across the Cauvery utilising the water far in excess of its entitlement.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rahane ready to bat down the order||Ajinkya Rahane is already in the process of making ‘adjustments’. Out of the comfort zone of Rajasthan Royals, for whom he played 100 matches (24 as captain), Rahane finds himself in new surroundings. Now with Delhi Capitals in Dubai, where the team ends its period of quarantine on August 28, Rahane is awaiting the training sessions ahead of Indian Premier League. Given the presence of Shikhar Dhawan and Prithvi Shaw, there hangs a question mark over Rahane’s role as an opener. “What role I’m going to play, I don’t know. When we start our practice session, then only we will have that communication. We are still in quarantine. We are still stuck in our rooms as of now,” said Rahane in a virtual press conference. “I’m always open to whatever the team asks me to do. Having said that, I always opened throughout my career. It is completely up to the team management what role they want me to play. If they want me to bat 5 or 6, I will definitely accept it. It will be an opportunity for me to explore something new about my game.” Elaborating on why the top-order batsmen contribute more to the aggregate in T20, Rahane said, “When opening, you know there are just two fielders outside the ring and you have the freedom to express yourself. Whereas in the middle order — 4, 5, 6 — you have to grind. You know the field is spread. The boundary options are fewer.” When asked about what he thought during the 2019 World Cup when India was desperately looking for a No. 4 batsman, Rahane admitted, “I was actually thinking I will be there in the World Cup batting at No. 4, but it is gone now. I was playing county cricket when the World Cup was happening. Everyone wants to be a part of the World Cup team, especially when you have worked really hard and your record was really good.” Sams replaces Roy Meanwhile, England opener Jason Roy has pulled out of the IPL with a side strain and will be replaced by Australian left-arm pacer Daniel Sams. In the last Big Bash League, Sydney Thunder’s Sams was the highest wicket-taker with 30 scalps.
28 August 2020||New York,||Osaka changes her mind||Naomi Osaka has decided to play her semifinal at the Western & Southern Open in New York after previously saying she would withdraw from the match to protest the killing of a Black man in Wisconsin. The 22-year-old Japanese was scheduled to play her semifinal on Thursday, but the organisers decided to postpone all the last-four matches to Friday. “As you know, I pulled out of the tournament yesterday [Wednesday] in support of racial injustice and continued police violence. “ I was (and am) ready and prepared to concede the match to my opponent,” Osaka said. “However, after my announcement and lengthy consultation with the WTA and USTA, I agreed to play on Friday after their request. “They offered to postpone all matches until Friday and, in my mind, that brings more attention to the movement.”  The results (quarterfinals):   Men: Novak Djokovic bt Jan-Lennard Struff 6-3, 6-1; Roberto Bautista Agut bt Daniil Medvedev 1-6, 6-4, 6-3; Stefanos Tsitsipas bt Reilly Opelka 5-6 (retd.).   Women: Elise Mertens bt Jessica Pegula 6-1, 6-3; Naomi Osaka bt Anett Kontaveit 4-6, 6-2, 7-5; Victoria Azarenka bt Ons Jabeur 7-6(9), 6-2; Johanna Konta bt Maria Sakkari 6-4, 6-3.
28 August 2020||MANCHESTER,||Roy ruled out of T20I series||England will be without explosive opener Jason Roy for the T20I series against Pakistan after he was ruled out with a side strain. Roy was hurt during practice at Old Trafford this week, and had a scan on Wednesday which revealed the injury. He has also pulled out of the IPL and his place in the Delhi Capitals squad has gone to Australian left-arm pacer Daniel Sams. A decade earlier When Mohammad Amir marks his run-up in the first T20I on Friday, he may cast his mind back to the spot-fixing scandal. Exactly a decade earlier — on August 28, 2010 — the 18-year-old’s exciting, young career came to an abrupt halt when he was caught bowling no-balls. Amir received widespread sympathy and returned to international cricket in 2016. But he had lost vital time to develop, leaving many to wonder what his career might have been.   T20I series schedule  Aug. 28, 10.30 p.m. Aug. 30, 6.45 p.m. Sept. 1, 10.30 p.m.  (all times IST)
28 August 2020||Chennai,||Dhoni never panicked: Bravo||Eulogising the charismatic M.S. Dhoni, West Indies all-rounder Dwayne Bravo says the former India skipper had the quality to absorb pressure and handle tough match situations without panicking. Bravo, who has spent considerable time with Dhoni at Chennai Super Kings, said “as a player he absorbed pressure, he never panicked. He always gave the players belief and confidence to do whatever they had to do.” Inevitable Talking about Dhoni’s retirement, Bravo, who on Wednesday became the first bowler to take 500 wickets in T20s, said it had to come one day. “I am sure he had his own plan. As his fans and cricket lovers, we would all wish he would continue for as long as possible. But the reality is, you know, we all have to stop playing at some point in time,” said Bravo. The former West Indies skipper, currently playing in the Caribbean Premier League for Trinbago Knight Riders, said game time was crucial to be in best physical shape. “I’m feeling good physically, being ready, and taking part in the CPL. Nothing can compare to game time. Yes playing in the CPL will obviously mean I am being match fit,” added the all-rounder. The 36-year old Bravo said it was great to be back on the park playing again after the coronavirus-enforced break. “As cricketers we have to just adapt to all the new regulations quickly.”
28 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Banton excited to play for KKR||Tom Banton may have left hockey to be a professional cricketer a few years ago, but the 21-year-old England player will be eager to showcase his hockey-inspired strokes in the IPL. Banton, who will don the Kolkata Knight Riders colours, credited his hockey background for his reverse-scoop which he famously used against Sam Curran in the Vitality Blast. “I guess it probably comes from playing hockey. I was a drag-flicker and used to play reverse quite often. My dad used to play hockey and I have played the game from the age of three. I was 16 years old, when things were getting more serious and I had to pick one sport and that’s when I chose cricket. “Talking about the six, it was actually quite funny because Sam (Curran) came up to me and said something,” Banton told www.kkr.in . Banton looked forward to playing alongside former under-19 World Cup rival Shubman Gill. “I remember the Indians were a lot better than all of us in the (2018 under-19) World Cup. I look up to those guys even now...Playing alongside Shubman for KKR will be pretty nice.” The opener and wicketkeeper-batsman, who never got carried away because of the comparisons with his idol Kevin Pietersen, was happy at the prospect of working with coach Brendon McCullum. “I went out on dinner with him during the Big Bash League (BBL), and also with Chris Lynn just the day after the (IPL) auction. McCullum was someone I looked up to. Having him as a coach is going to be really cool.” After playing in various T20 leagues across the world, Banton was eager to ply his trade for KKR. “I am excited to play alongside Andre Russell and Pat Cummins…Learning from someone like him (Andre) will be really cool. “There are a few guys of my age — (Shivam) Mavi, (Kamlesh) Nagarkoti and Shubman (Gill) — whom I have played against. It would be great to see them again,” said Banton.
28 August 2020||oRLANDO,||NBA players to continue playoff season after Wednesday’s protest||NBA players, on Thursday, voted to resume the post-season, a day after a boycott by the Milwaukee Bucks forced the league to halt the playoffs and left the campaign hanging in the balance, reports said. ESPN and The Athletic website said players attending a meeting here had agreed to resume the playoffs, although games scheduled for Thursday were postponed. The decision followed a day of tumult in the NBA on Wednesday, when the Bucks refused to play their first round game against the Orlando Magic in protest at the police shooting of Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wisconsin on Sunday. The NBA later postponed the entire slate of Wednesday fixtures following the Bucks’ no-show. At a players meeting late on Wednesday, the powerhouse Los Angeles Lakers and Los Angeles Clippers voted to abandon the season. The Lakers’ LeBron James and Clippers star Kawhi Leonard both spoke in favour of ending the playoffs. James had on Wednesday tweeted angrily over the shooting of Blake, who was shot seven times in the back by police as he got into a car containing his three children. “WE DEMAND CHANGE. SICK OF IT,” James wrote on Twitter. On Thursday, James renewed calls for action against racial inequality and social injustice.
28 August 2020||NEW YORK,||Bryan twins hang up their racquets||Top seed Novak Djokovic will open against Bosnian Damir Dzumhur in the opening round of the US Open starting on Monday. In the draws unveiled on Thursday, it also emerged that women’s top seed Karolina Pliskova will meet Anhelina Kalinina. World No. 1 Djokovic is in the same quarter as seventh seed David Goffin, with No. 4 Stefanos Tsitsipas a potential semifinal opponent. Alexander Zverev, the fifth seed, is also in the top half, and will clash with 2017 finalist Kevin Anderson first up. Serena Williams, who is going for a record-equalling 24th Major, will take on United States’ Kristie Ahn in the first round. Pliskova’s potential last-four opponent in the top half is 2018 champion Naomi Osaka. Nagal meets Klahn Meanwhile, India’s Sumit Nagal will take on American World No. 128 Bradley Klahn, and is drawn to meet Thiem in the second round. Prajnesh Gunneswaran misses out on the main draw by two places despite travelling all the way to New York.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||BWF reschedules events||The Badminton World Federation (BWF) has decided to scrap the already-announced events on the World Tour and hold just two events each on the yet-to-be-finalised dates in Europe and Asia. As per a BWF announcement on Thursday, the Thomas and Uber Cup team events will go on as scheduled from October 3 to 11 in Aarhus, Denmark. In the following two weeks, the players will play Denmark Open 1 and Denmark Open 2 in Odense. After a two-week break, Asia Open 1 and Asia Open 2 will be held in successive weeks followed by the season-ending BWF World Tour Finals.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||Three award winners have tested positive: SAI||Three winners of this year’s National Sports Awards, including badminton player R. Satwiksairaj, have tested positive for COVID-19 and will not attend the virtual ceremony on August 29, the Sports Authority of India (SAI) said on Thursday. The SAI said that 65 of the 74 awardees will attend the first-ever virtual National Sports Awards from its centres across the country due to the pandemic. “There are 74 awards in seven categories. Total 65 award winners will be attending the function from various locations. Nine award winners will not attend due to several reasons like being quarantined, tested positive, ill health or not in the country etc,” the SAI said in a statement. “Three award winners after having tested positive will not attend the function,” it added without giving any names. President Ram Nath Kovind will present the awards and the programme will be telecast live on Doordarshan.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Morgan wary of ‘dangerous’ Pakistan||England captain Eoin Morgan feels Pakistan could pose a strong threat in the three-match T20I series that begins in Manchester on Friday. “Pakistan is a very dangerous T20 team. If anyone watched the PSL (Pakistan Super League) this year, the strength and depth of Pakistan cricket is surprising in one way. I haven’t played there in a couple of years and you forget the depth they have across their domestic cricket. It is no surprise they are producing excellent cricketers at the top level. They have all bases covered,” said Morgan on Thursday. The England skipper also had words of praise for his Pakistan counterpart Babar Azam, saying, “He is a fantastic player. I played with him at Karachi Kings. He is a guy very early in his cricketing career but has achieved quite a lot doing the simple things extremely well.” Despite losing Jason Roy, who was ruled out of the series because of a side strain, England starts as the favourite, having won in New Zealand and South Africa in its two most recent engagements. The return of Chris Jordan and Dawid Malan, who had missed the one-day series against Ireland, has given the home side a further boost.   Watch the first England-Pakistan T20I live on Sony Six and Sony Ten 3 (Hindi) channels on Aug. 28, 10.30 p.m. onwards
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Djokovic begins campaign against Dzumhur||Top seed Novak Djokovic will open against Bosnian Damir Dzumhur in the opening round of the US Open starting on Monday (August 31). In the draws unveiled on Thursday, it also emerged that women’s top seed Karolina Pliskova will meet Anhelina Kalinina. World No. 1 Djokovic is in the same quarter as seventh seed David Goffin, with No. 4 Stefanos Tsitsipas a potential semifinal opponent. Alexander Zverev, the fifth seed, is also in the top half, and will clash with 2017 finalist Kevin Anderson first up. The lower half is headlined by 2019 finalist and third seed Daniil Medvedev, who is in the same quarter as Matteo Berrettini. Second seed Dominic Thiem is drawn to meet Medvedev in the last four. Among women, the bottom half appears loaded, with Serena Williams (third seed), Madison Keys (seventh), Garbine Muguruza (10) and 2017 champion Sloane Stephens (26) in the third quarter. In the same half are second seed Sofia Kenin and Venus Williams. Serena, who is going for a record-equalling 24th Major, will take on United States’ Kristie Ahn in the first round. Pliskova’s potential last-four opponent in the top half is 2018 champion Naomi Osaka. Nagal meets Klahn Meanwhile, India’s Sumit Nagal will take on American World No. 128 Bradley Klahn, and is drawn to meet Thiem in the second round. Prajnesh Gunneswaran misses out on the main draw by two places despite having travelled all the way to New York.
28 August 2020||CHENNAI,||CFC signs three youngsters on long-term deals||Chennaiyin FC (CFC) on Wednesday announced the multi-year signing of defender Reamsochung ‘Remi’ Aimol (20), goalkeeper Samik Mitra (19) and forward Aman Chetri (19). The club said the trio would be included in the 25-man CFC squad for the 2020-21 Indian Super League season. While Mitra and Chetri are being promoted from the CFC-B team, Aimol has appeared twice for senior CFC — in the ISL and AFC Cup. Elite Academy graduates All three graduated from the AIFF Elite Academy in 2017 and signed for Chennaiyin shortly after.
28 August 2020||Kolkata,||JFC signs Ricky||Jamshedpur FC has drafted in defender Ricky Lallawmawma on a two-year contract. The 28-year-old left-back from Mizoram was part of the ATK squad that lifted the ISL crown last season. Ricky, who began his career with former I-League champion Aizawl FC in 2014, played for DSK Shivajians and Mohun Bagan before joining ATK in 2018. He will bolster a back-line currently consisting of Lourenco, Gahlot, Mandi and Jitendra Singh.
28 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Satwiksairaj tests positive for COVID-19||India’s top doubles badminton player R. Satwiksairaj has tested positive for COVID-19, according to a family member. Satwik, who has been at his native town Amalapuram in Andhra Pradesh for the last five months due to the lockdown, was to join the National camp for the Olympic probables at the SAI-Gopichand Academy. “Satwik has undergone the rapid antigen test. Though he has not shown any symptoms, he has been advised by the doctors to be in isolation,” the family member informed The Hindu . Satwik and his partner Chirag Shetty, ranked No. 10 in the world, had been recommended for the Arjuna Award last week.
28 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,||India to meet Armenia||India will take on Armenia in the quarterfinals of the online Chess Olympiad on Friday. Armenia defeated Greece in the playoff, winning both matches. Ukraine’s stunning victory over China, the second seed, was the biggest news of the day. After the teams were tied 1-1, Kirill Shevchenko won the Armageddon (tie-breaker) game for Ukraine against Liu Yan. Ukraine meets United States in the last eight while Russia plays Hungary, which beat Germany. Azerbaijan will face the winner of the match between Bulgaria and Poland.
28 August 2020||Dubai,||Ponting lands in Dubai||Delhi Capitals head coach and former Australia captain Ricky Ponting landed here on Thursday and went into the mandatory six-day quarantine at his hotel. “My view for the next 6 days, hotel quarantine is officially underway,” Ponting tweeted from his hotel room after landing here. Delhi Capitals’ Indian players and support staff had already reached here on August 23.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 07:42 IST,||Sudoku - August 28, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||that lifts the meal||The leaf has been laid out, with its tip pointing left (this is the prescribed format in southern India) and steaming hot rice is served on it. A colourful procession of dishes follows — sambar, aviyal, thoran, koottu curry , upperi , pickles, pappadam and then , payasam . A standard sadya such as this begins and ends on a banana leaf. The waxy green leaves are at the foundation of any southern Indian celebration worth its salt. Be it offerings to God, weddings, or a feast, banan leaves are brought in, washed and laid out first. In Kerala, this is the season when they are most in demand. “An Onasadya isn’t really a sadya if you are not having it on the leaf,” says homemaker Sandhya Gopinath, who ensures she gets hers ready a day ahead. “For those who can just cut them off the plantain trees in their backyards, it is simple. We, who live in apartments, have to buy it from the market,” she says. Though urban Kerala owes a lot of its greenery to plantain trees, the leaves for the sadya come from neighbouring Tamil Nadu and a few from Karnataka. “We have the best climatic conditions for farming plantain here in Kerala. But, we don’t have space and labour is expensive. It is not easy to be a farmer in Kerala,” says Akhilesh T Palunkens, who assists his father M R Thankachan in his banana leaf business. Thankachan has been running Elakkada (leaf shop) in Kottayam for over 35 years and sells to Mumbai, Mysore, Ootty and Kodaikkanal apart from Kerala. He has a 50-acre farm in Cumbum, Tamil Nadu, where he farms the njali poovan plantain (a small, sweet popular variety of banana). “People in Kerala love the njali poovan’s leaves as they are slightly smaller, softer, sturdier and have a particularly lovely shade of green, as opposed to the leaves of say, Robusta, which are dark green, thick and tears easily,” says Akhilesh. The njali poovan’s leaves are also the most preferred leaf for wedding sadyas , he adds. Last Onam season, they sold at least 10 lakh banana leaves in Kerala alone, Akhilesh says. Though experts claim the banana is a low maintenance tree, one has to take care of a banana tree as one’s own child, says Kaja Hussain, who runs a banana leaf shop in Palakkad. “The reason why people eat out of banana leaves here in southern India mainly, is because it is soul-satisfying. It gives a special flavour to the food too,” he adds. He sells a thooshan ela (the portion of the leaf from the tip up to the centre, big enough to be had a meal on) for Rs. 4. The squarish pieces from the centre are sold between Rs. 2 and Rs. 4, Kaja says. “People are very particular about the specifications of their leaves,” says Manoj Ganeshan, who works as a supervisor at MKS Manjari Traders in Cumbum, Tamil Nadu, which has been doing business in banana leaves for over 40 years. “Hotels and food establishments form a major part of our customer base and we customise the leaves according to their demands.” Depending on the variety of the trees, the leaves could vary in colour, shape, size and even taste, he says. “Some prefer tender leaves, because of their light green colour,” says Manoj. “We source leaves directly from banana farmers in Cumbum area and our customers are spread out all over Kerala, Tamil Nadu and a few countries in the Gulf region,” he adds. Full of flavour  The leaf is a great flavour enhancer, says civil engineer Deepa Ganesh based in Kochi, who has started Deepa G’s Tasty Treats, which retails pothichor and erachi chor. She lines containers with banana leaf before sealing it as it keeps the food fresh longer and imparts an aroma. She even creates little sachets using the leaf for pickles and salad. “This makes it healthy and eco-friendly,” she says. “It also adds a hint of nostalgia.”
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||A tradition and a feast||When 60-year-old Raveendran Babu embarks on his journey from his home in Kumaranellur in Kottayam to the Aranmula Sree Parthasarthy temple three days before Thiruvonam, he will carry forward a sacred family tradition. After the death of his older brother Narayana Bhattathiri last year, Raveendran is now the eldest of the Mangattu family. To him falls the duty of carrying the lamp that initiates the temple rituals for Thiruvonam and for the famous Aranmula valla sadya, one of the largest vegetarian mass feasts in India. Scholar Kottarathil Sankunni (1855- 1937) dates the event to three centuries ago in the Aithihyamala , a collection of stories of Kerala. This year Raveendran’s journey will be undertaken in a pandemic, and thus will be drastically curtailed and shorn of festive paraphernalia. “This year the entire custom will be performed in accordance with COVID-19 protocol. As tradition goes the eldest family member departs for the temple three days prior to Thiruvonam and stays overnight at Kattoor, our family home. But this year the travel will be a day affair. Also the number of people accompanying my father on the Thiruvonathoni (Garuda-faced special boat ) will be only 20,” says Sagar, son of Raveendran. (Kattoor is eight kilometres east of Aranmula on the banks of the Pampa.) Mangattu family’s association with the Aranmula temple and vallasadya is based on the legend that every Onam the family would feed a young boy in devotion to Lord Krishna. One Onam the youngster failed to appear leaving the family troubled. The eldest family member prayed deeply to find a young boy at the doorstep asking for food.   Next year in a dream, before Thiruvonam, he was directed by Lord Krishna who revealed himself to be the young boy at his doorstep the previous year and asked him to come to the temple to feed him. “That’s the beginning of a long tradition our family has followed,” says Anoop, son of Narayana Bhattathiri. He adds, “this time the Thiruvonathoni may not be a row boat but a mechanised one so to complete the overnight journey in daytime itself.” Centuries ago the family moved from Kattoor in Pathanamthitta to Kumaranellur and the tradition continued from their new home in Kottayam. The distance from Kumaranellor to Kattoor by road is roughly 60 kilometers but the journey by boat takes two days rowing over Meenachil, Manimala, Vembanad to reach Aranmula. After performing rituals at Kattoor Maha Vishnu temple, the Mangattu Bhattathiri is accompanied by 36 representatives of 18 families from Kattoor who carry rice and vegetables, grown in their fields, for the grand feast. According to tradition the Thiruvonathoni (a special boat) is sent by the Aranmula temple to bring the devotees. Others join in Palliyodam (snake boats, which are considered a divine vessel). A flotilla of 52 boats from neighbouring hamlets proceed in an overnight journey to Aranmula. Radhakrishnana P R, Secretary Palliyodam Seva Sangh (PSS), one of the organisations responsible for the Thiruvonathoni procession says that only one Palliyodam will accompany the Thiruvonathoni this time. Only 24 persons, from the eighteen families connected with the rituals, will be permitted to accompany but no devotee will partake in the valla sadya. The most important ritual at Kattoor is carrying of a lit keda vilakku (traditional lamp) to Aranmula temple. The lamp is used to light the temple lamps, after which prayers and the preparations of the vallasadya begin. Recalling the event in its former grandeur Radhakrishnan says that the 70 km stretch between Edakulam in Vadassserikara panchayath, Pathanamthitta District, to Chennithala in Alappuzha would host the 52 palliyodams that accompany and protect the Thiruvonathoni, from any disturbance, from Kattoor to Aranmula. In lore it is believed to have been attacked by thieves. “This year only 10 para (1 para is approximately 10 kgs) of rice harvested from paddy will be permitted as against 48 para that is generally ferried in the palliyodam as offering,” informs Radhakrishnan. The two-month long vallasadya begins during the month of Karakidakam and hosts almost 450 to 500 sadyas during the time period. The highlight is the Thiruvonam valla sadya, a communal feast of 1000. Anoop recalls the earlier times when certain rituals began at his house at Kumaranellur on Moolam, four days before Thiruvonam. This time all related customs have been shelved, except the ritualistic journey to the temple. “All 20 persons accompanying my uncle on the journey will undergo a Rapid Test for COVID -19,” he says. Radhakrishnan adds that this year the vallasadyawill be prepared only for Lord Parthasarthy. In 2020, no devotee will be allowed to eat along with the God.  A grand spread  It is believed that Lord Krishna is present at the vallasadya in the from of a young boy   The mass feast consists of rice with 48 side dishes served on a banana leaf. In addition 16 items are prepared on demand by devotees through local songs, sung in a ‘vanchipattu’ (boat song ) style   There are 15 approved caterers who prepare the valla sadya   The Uthrittathi Vallamkali (boat race) scheduled for September 4 and the Ashtami rohini vallasadya on September 10 will be held as a ritual.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Lydian’s starry turn||After shooting to prominence by winning The World’s Best show, musical prodigy Lydian Nadhaswaram is now all set to debut as an actor in a Hindi film, Atkan Chatkan , directed by Saumyy Shiv Hare. Also starring child actors Sachin Chaudhary, Yash Rane and Tamanna Dipak, the film will be presented by Lydian’s mentor AR Rahman. Says Rahman, “It is a story that is enriched with so much heart and hope. The rhythm of these kids’ dreams will beat with such passion; it is a perfect example of hope.” The film will have its international digital premiere on Zee5.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Mahabali l o g s o n||Ranjith Pillai, project manager at UVJ Technologies in Kochi will be making pachadi for Onam this year. As part of his office celebrations, he is participating in an online contest for traditional sadya dishes. He plans to record the process and post it online. COVID 19 has moved Onam celebrations for both families and corporates to the virtual space. Onam is the highlight of the festive calendars of many Kerala-based companies, which are now rethinking ways of celebrating to keep morale high and impart a sense of normalcy. “Our employee engagement team has orchestrated a series of virtual events and competitions. While the safety of our people during COVID-19 times is paramount, it is equally important that we strengthen the feeling of harmony and fraternity during these festive times,” says Sunil Balakrishnan, Chief Values Officer and Global Head for Development Center Operations, UST Global. NATANA, the cultural community of Kerala’s IT parks comprising a few thousand employees, is calling its Onam celebrations ‘Aarppo Irro Online 2020’. Eustine Thomas, president NATANA says, “Technopark in Thiruvananthapuram, with 60,000 - 80,000 plus employees, has a history of celebrating Onam with competitions such as pookkalam. This year our celebrations will be online, with competitions. The present mindset is sad: that everybody is missing out on Onam fun. It doesn’t have to be, most of us are with our families and we want to celebrate time spent with them,” The contests which include interesting themes such as Thaadi Onam (for those who have beards and wearing it in interesting ways) and Mask Onam (masks designed using Onam themes and motifs). Results will be declared on August 31, with a half-hour online finale. “Onam in the time of COVID-19 is not going to be a dull affair. We are set to connect Malayalis from across the globe to celebrate the festival virtually under one Maveli Umbrella,” says Martin Emmanuel, MD, Razzmataazz Events which is organising a 10-day virtual ‘Ente Onam’ kicked off on Atham day, August 22. Over 80 Malayali associations from around the world are part of the event. “This is the time to engage virtually since we don’t get to meet each other,” says Ranjith who is a regular at Onam celebrations at office, where he gets involved with making the pookalam. Meera Abraham, human resource manager of the same company adds, “Last year for instance, there was sadya, dance and singing. This year we decided to go online, opening up a ‘virtual floor’ for the celebrations – so we are going to have all that and more. Since most of our staff is working from home, families are also invited to be part of the programmes.” The response has been enthusiastic.The winners will be announced in the first week of September, after the Onam break. For Vazhakkulam-based designer Jebin Johny a virtual Onam is nothing new. Like every year, this time too the pookkalam and sadya will be ‘with’ his sister and family based in Christchurch (New Zealand). The designer says, “This is how it is for us — Onam, Christmas or Vishu. This way the family gets to celebrate together albeit on a video call.” The focus this year, as always, has not shifted: it is about celebrating.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Tap once to buy||Onakodi at the click of a mouse, window shopping on Instagram, picking out ensembles via video call – COVID 19 has changed how we shop. Just last year shopping was one of the highlights of Onam – even trips to the store felt celebratory. Nandu VS, managing partner of Kasavukada, the iconic Kerala clothing store, says he recently sent an Onakodi to an Oman-based Malayali client’s parents in Thrissur. “The customer called us on a Friday evening, after picking the items online, saying she wanted these to be couriered to her parents. By Monday the delivery was done,” he says. This is just one of the many ways that Onam will be different. Kasavukada was one of the first Kerala-origin handloom stores to go online, in 2004. At the time the inventory was limited, but since February this year they have been adding more. “We intend to push our online store more; until the pandemic there was no need for it but COVID-19 has shown us that we need to change our ways,” says Nandu. Other options are WhatsApp and video calls, “Depends on which the client prefers. I will not say the numbers are huge in terms of quantity sold but then something is better than nothing,” he says. Plans include add their 12 stores across Kerala into the website, so that the merchandise available in the stores is accessible to all. Aiswarya Das, public relations in-charge of Kochi-based boutique Aanya agrees. “Online traffic increased manifold, post-lockdown and even now, after easing. We are upgrading our website to facilitate easy shopping experience and also the video option,” she says. Walk-ins have been fewer post-lockdown, and store owners, including retails chains feel digital is the way to go. Brands are also working on their social media handles, says designer Sreejith Jeevan. “It is personalised and even for us it is easier — suggesting what works for a person or what doesn’t.”
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||When payasam meet lal maas||How about some squid pepper masala in the sadya for Onam? Wait, there is more. Crab peralan, neymeen tawa , roast kakka thoran and prawn curry. The Onam feast does not have to be vegetarian all the time, according to Nawras, which is laying out a seafood spread. For those who wish to dine in, the restaurant offers private spaces for families following COVID-19 protocols. The sadya (Kadalonam) and a pure veg sadya can be ordered online from www.dailyfarmfresh.in. Nawras also offers takeaway options.    Call 9496526889.    Taj Mahal is offering a Biryani Onasadya. The meal includes Taj Mahal chicken biryani, which is also the restaurant’s signature dish, as well as paneer-e-veg biryani from Hyderabad, served with mirchi-ka-salan and the Malabar style fish biryani. The executive chefs have picked 21 different dishes from different States of India for the feast, such as Amritsari fish fry from Punjab, mutton lal maas from Rajastan. In keeping with tradition, the sadya ends with payasam. They offer home delivery services, too.    Call 9072664004    Arabian al fahm would make for a different Onam feast. A non-vegetarian Onam platter will be served by Zaatar, containing everything from al faham to barbecue wings, mandi rice, French fries, salad, kuboos, fish and beef dishes.    Call 9745270222.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||How about palada as cake?||Since the colours of Onam are white, cream and gold, homebaker Akhila S (sweetstories_kochi on Instagram) came up with the idea of a palada cake jar - layered with vanilla sponge cake soaked in palada syrup, palada and fresh cream. “I wanted to do something for Onam with a contemporary twist and came up with this. This has palada too, so it is like eating cake and palada,” she says. Bookings close on August 29; these are priced at Rs. 200 per jar.    (Contact 8086070005)
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||A dash of kasavu on your mask||How would you like your mask for Onam? A slim gold border with a tiny, gold embroidered elephant; a red strip or a black one with a heat print of a Kathakali actor; Theyyam motif or a simple off-white and gold one. With the festive season, mask manufacturers have turned to manufacturing the ‘season’s specials’ referred to as Onam masks. “We have had several enquiries for Onam masks — off-white and gold and festive looking ones, which is why we got into making these. Individuals and companies too. People want the masks to match with their Onam outfits,” says Reshmi Praveen, a manufacturer of masks. These masks are two-ply. She and her husband, Praveen Symphony, run a unit in Tripunithura, which has been manufacturing masks since lockdown. Not only have they been manufacturing for wholesale stockists, they retail as well. For those looking to match their masks with the Onam Kerala sari or set-mundu, the off-white and gold ones are perfect. Black and ivory masks with Kerala motifs — Kathakali, Theyyam, mural paintings — printed on them are unisex. The designs are heat printed on the masks, the effect of the motifs is dramatic. Kottayam-based designer Dona Ann Kurian has kept her Onam masks simple — sticking to off-white and gold with a contrast border: red, maroon, blue and green. “I wanted to keep to these basic colours as they are likely to go with most Kerala sari-blouse combinations,” Dona says. Her three-ply masks, with adjustable ear loops, come in two sizes (kids and adults) like Reshmi’s and two shapes — regular and curved at the nose. The fashion design student retails her masks via Instagram (@crafted_donut). While Dona has no minimum order stipulation for shipping, Reshmi has a minimum five masks policy. Dona’s masks are priced Rs. 70-80 depending on the pattern and Reshmi Rs. 200 for five. (Reshmi 74033110044/Dona 9819973967)
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Land a fruit punch on payasam||For those nurturing a sweet tooth, tradition is taking a fruity turn this Onam. Of course, your all-season payasam favourites such as ada, semiya (vermicelli), paal (milk), ari (rice) and gothamb (wheat) varieties still hold pride of place on the sadhya line-up in many households, but make way for some trendy saccharine delights with a fruity twist. The classic long-established ingredients aside, an assortment of fruits are in vogue to lend novel notes to payasams . Govind P., who runs the Instagram page, Kerala Foodie, with 2,32,000 followers, says payasam  can be prepared from most things available in our backyard. “One variety that has been trending is karikku (tender coconut) payasam , which can be prepared with both jaggery-coconut milk and milk. Karikku paal payasam is more commonly seen in the Malabar region,” he says. Govind adds that this trend is an extension of the tender coconut juices and shakes that have become popular over the last few years. A more surprising backyard trend is the treacly papaya pradhaman , he points out. With the pandemic keeping many indoors, there’s been ample time for home cooks to experiment as well. Food blogger at Thank God I’m Fat, Anjana Gopakumar is all set for a special carrot payasam this Thiruvonam. “Usually, my grandma takes charge. But she is stuck in Delhi and, hence, I will be playing a larger role in the kitchen. We typically make semiya or ada pradhaman ,” says Anjana. She was toying with the idea of making gajar (carrot) ka halwa recently, “then I wondered why not go for carrot payasam . The ingredients — chiefly milk, ghee and sugar — for both are similar anyway.” Home chef Swapna Rakesh does not let the pandemic curb her enthusiasm in making available her payasam specialities. Like in the past few years, on offer are her raw papaya-pineapple payasam and dates- cheriya ulli (shallot) payasam . “Another variety I’m bringing is caramel egg payasam , which in effect tastes like caramel custard pudding,” she says. Onam is a time when the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) organises its popular annual Payasam Mela (fest), bringing a mix of both traditional and not-so-regular varieties of payasam . It is no different this year and the pick of the bunch is the navarasa payasam , essentially condensing nine rasas (flavours) into one. It incorporates a mix of fresh and dry fruits. “Apart from four grains, our navarasa payasam has jackfruit, two varieties of banana, dates, pineapple and pomegranate as garnish,” says K.P. Ramesh, operations manager, KTDC. Catering to payasam lovers’ hunt for novel varieties of the dessert is Villa Maya, with dates pradhaman and unniyappam pradhaman . “Over the years, people have been looking at innovative varieties, which why we came up with some new ones this year,” says Sashi Jacob of the Food & Beverages team of The Muthoot Skychef and Villa Maya, adding that new variants, though fun, will not really “kill the culture of traditional payasams”. Date pradhaman ’s key ingredients include ghee and a proportionate mixture of common jaggery and palm jaggery “to lend a slight caramelised flavour but at the same time not make it overly sweet”, adds Sashi. Spice of life Suresh Pillai, culinary director of Raviz groups of hotels, says traditionally, Malayalis’s love for the sweet treat can be categorised into two geographical groups. “In the southern parts of the State, roughly till Alappuzha, ada pradhaman (made with ada rice and palm jaggery)  rules the roost, while upwards it is paalada (a creamy milk and ada -based payasam ). However, there may be variations in the preparation method,” he says. The chef adds that when he had worked in London at the Michelin-starred restaurants — Gymkhana, Trishna, and Veeraswamy — he made a variety of unusual payasams . “One is green chilli payasam , where the chillies are blanched and de-seeded before being made into a purée. This can be prepared in both milk-sugar and jaggery-coconut styles. Then there is garlic payasam ,  where garlic purée is used,” he explains. He has even made a macaroni paal payasam , which he says was a hit on Instagram. Another off-centre experience he recounts is tasting mullappoo (jasmine) payasam during a food festival in Kerala. During Onam cooking competitions heat up, according to cookery show host Raj Kalesh. “The most exotic payasams I have had are perhaps pavakka (bitter gourd) payasam and cheriya ulli (shallot) payasam . This was during an Onam festival in Dubai a few years ago,” he says. The shallots were mixed with sugar and mashed before jaggery and rice were added, with a bit of coconut milk. “Despite the exotic feel, it is pretty easy to make. The predominant after-taste is that of shallot,” he says.      Sweet and sour In the U.K. and some of the Commonwealth countries, the word pudding can be used to describe both sweet and savoury dishes.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The dry wine for durian||Even those who know nothing about the durian, know about its smell. The fruit, an inherent part of many Southeast Asian cuisines, is synonymous with a strong pungency that has notoriously been mistaken for gas leaks and caused evacuation of buildings. So how do you conduct a masterclass about the famous fruit over the Internet, where its signature scent would be missing? For Chef Chung Deming’s online masterclass this past weekend, it was barely an issue — he had much more to share with the audience. Colours and flavours “They can be sweet, bitter or bittersweet. Their meat comes in different colours: it can be red, yellow-ish or very white-ish. There are many characteristics you can tell from their colour — something on the orange side tends to be sweeter, something white tends to be more bitter. Over the long and complex cycle in which they are harvested, different flavour profiles are also developed. You get stronger flavours the longer the fruit stays after harvest; some varieties can also be slightly alcoholic, and others can have a milky texture.” All this weighs into how the fruit can be eaten and — more interestingly — what wine to pair it with. “Dry whites like a Riesling go best. Avoid the reds; anything with tannins will not go well with a durian,” says the chef. Chef Deming’s online masterclass, which covered the intriguing fruit’s journey from farm to plate “and everything people might not have known while shipping the fruit to their part of the world”, was one of dozens of sessions focusing on the food of Singapore over two consecutive weekends. The festival also includes — and will include in the coming weekend — virtual food tours of streetfood hubs and uspcale dining destinations, sessions with bartenders and pastry chefs from many of Singapore’s Michelin-starred restaurants like Burnt Ends and the speakeasy bar Nutmeg & Clove, and a deep look at Singapore’s long-lasting culinary influences, including Indian expatriate food cultures and the rich natural ingredients of the Straits. Lim Si Ting, area director of Singapore Tourism Board India, says, “This remains the only food festival in Singapore that focuses on local cuisine. Being on ground was an important part of the festival, with visitors trying out the different cusines and interacting with experts. But the virtual edition has given us the opportunity to reach out to people we would otherwise not have access to; like working adults around the world who do not travel overseas very often.” Imagine, for instance, virtually following a guide into Tan Hock Seng, an 89-year-old iconic bakery known for its Hokkien pastries. Or strolling through Chinatown and its typical cultural blend, taking in the sights and sounds (if not the smell), without having to pay for a plane ticket. Chip Guan Heng, one of Singapore's oldest ice cream distributors, also features in one of the tours, as do quaint old restaurants harking back to the 1960s. There are sessions that focus on the Indian spice route; on bite-sized, brightly coloured desserts called kuehs; comfort foods of the Peranakan ethnic group. The scope for culinary discoveries is not just restricted to curious minds abroad. “We tend to focus on international tourists, to showcase Singapore as a culinary destination. Now we are focussing on local visitors, too. Internal travel will pick up before international, and there is a lot for Singaporeans to explore about their own land and food,” adds Ting. Push for tourism There is no denying that the festival is a key push for tourism, even in a year when actual, physical visits are dificult. “It is a part of our ‘Singaporediscover’ campaign, under which we have categorised our visitors based on their interests. This festival, of course, caters to the foodie category,” says Ting, adding, “the schedule is much more packed this year than before. We are excited.”  The final sessions are spread over August 28, 29 and 30. For details, visit singaporefoodfestival.sg   Imagine virtually following a guide into Tan Hock Seng, an 89-year-old iconic bakery
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Make your own ada||Anoop Chand and family from Kerala love to have a DIY ada pradhaman . So this Onam too, they will be making their own ada for their favourite payasam . “We plan to make traditional varieties of payasam and often make the ingredients from scratch, especially ada ,” says Anoop, an admin of the Facebook group, Chef’s Table. “Making ada at home is perhaps an art that’s dying,” says Anoop. “This is ideally done on the eve of the day you want to prepare ada payasam , so that it’s fresh,” adds Anoop, who made payasam out of nonkku (palm fruit) and mulayari (bamboo rice) during lockdown. Chef K. Latha, known as the first woman chef of Kerala, explains why ada pradhaman endears itself to the Malayali tastebud. “It is not for nothing that we often say ada is pradhamanil pradhaman (the numero uno in pradhaman ). It always accompanies sadhya during special occasions in the southern parts of Kerala,” says Latha, Chef de cuisine of Malabar Café at Grand Hyatt Kochi Bolgatty. According to the chef, ada pradhaman is a sweet legacy from the erstwhile Travancore where, she says, the dessert held a high status among payasams . “Back then, ada was made at home, which was an elaborate but engaging process. Fresh raw rice, typically unakkalari harvested in the beginning of chinga maasam, was used. With no mixers and grinders, grinding the raw rice for the ada batter was laborious, one reason perhaps why it was not so commonly prepared,” says Latha. Another special ingredient was Marayoor jaggery, which is now a GI-tagged product. “This jaggery was predominantly used for its purity and minimal salt content,” she points out. Latha observes that ada payasams became more regular when “instant ada ” entered the market. Undoubtedly, it is ada pradhaman ’s unique jaggery-saturated flavour that wins it many admirers, like Suresh Ambi Swami of the famous Thrissur-based caterers known for their payasams . “ Ada pradhaman is a personal favourite of mine as well. Its flavour is quite pleasant, especially due to the way it is prepared now with the addition of spices such as cardamom, which was not the case in old times,” he explains.  Do It Yourself  Anoop explains the process: Soak raw rice (ideally pachari , which has not been cooked or unakkalari , that is parboiled rice) well and grind to a consistency thinner than dosa batter. Add a bit of ghee. Using your five fingers, scoop and drip the batter in long stripes/lines on tempered plantain leaves. Fold and tightly wrap, preferably with a thread. Boil water in a large vessel and drop the plantain wraps in them. After the water cools, unwrap and (the batter would have become more solid) cut to strips of required size. Dip the thin ada strips in water in room temperature for a wash. Strain the ada  and roast with a bit of ghee and jaggery.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Party for harmony||My holiday season always begins in August…in the last weekend, to be precise. It begins with a huge party — the Notting Hill Carnival. Off I go to England and land bang in the centre of excitement and revelry. So, as per my usual custom, I was packed and ready to take off. Imagine my shock when I heard the carnival had been cancelled this year. It’s because of this nasty virus that is doing the rounds. Anyway, after I got over my initial shock and disappointment, I decided that the next best thing to do would be to watch a series of free live-streamed events shown on the carnival website. The Notting Hill Carnival is an annual event in London. It is celebrated over two days (they call it the August Bank holiday) — Sunday and Monday. This is no ordinary carnival. It is led by members of the British West Indian community and almost two and a half million people attend. Imagine the scale of fun! Notting Hill Carnival is the second biggest festival in the world, after Brazil’s Rio Carnival, and it highlights the Caribbean and black diasporic cultures. Celebrations Though it is scheduled to begin on a Sunday, it usually kicks off on Saturday night with a tropical band competition and warm-up parties. The whole place resounds to the sound of African beats and, even without realising it, you are up and dancing. The next day, Sunday, caters to families. There’s a whole pile of entertainment for children and also child-friendly floats and activities. Monday is the Grand Finale parade. There is live music, street performance and more than 50,000 colourful dancers in costumes. Over 60 bands parade the streets in spectacular costumes bringing together over 30 different Jamaican-style and West Indian sound systems with a blend of drum and bass. At the heart and soul of this festival is a community project that traces its origin to the Notting Hill race riots that took place between August 29 and September 5, 1958. As a response to the riots, the Caribbean Carnival was launched on January 30, 1959. As years went by, the carnival garnered more support, sponsorships and popularity. More bands from the various islands took part in the street parade. By the mid-1970s the event was truly Caribbean.  It is the second biggest festival in the world, after Brazil’s Rio Carnival!
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Survival of the fittest||A spider monkey lives 30 meters above the ground level and travels in a family group. It finds everything needed for survival at the top storey of the jungle. But did you know that one-third of the spider monkeys never make it to adulthood? To survive, they need to have the ability to climb and the skills to swing and land through trees. As they climb higher, branches get thinner; young spider monkeys certainly need to be careful, as a fall from up above the treetops would mean certain death. Tune in to ‘Stories Behind Stories’ to know what went behind the making of ‘Planet Earth II’ on Sony BBC Earth.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Reaching into the dark||When Tanvi heard Amma call, she wondered if she should pretend deafness. But disobeying Amma was never a good idea. Grown-ups, Tanvi thought, not only had power; they used it too. Like Amma saying, “Let’s clean some cupboards!” Who cleaned in the first week of summer vacation? After all, this was the time to relax! But Amma wasn’t asking; she was telling Tanvi, “You clean that cupboard, I’ll do this!” It was always the same, Tanvi thought angrily. If you were a child, you simply obeyed the adults. At school, it was the teachers and, at home, parents. Tanvi worked in silent rage till she suddenly found the first watch she had owned. “It still works!” she said, excitedly. She had loved this watch, Tanvi remembered, and even wore it to bed. She strapped it on immediately and went back to cleaning, feeling as if she had found something precious. Exciting finds She found other treasures: an old pencil case, socks she’d given up for lost, hair clips... “Amma,” she said happily. Then she saw that Amma was stretched out on the sofa, eyes shut. “You rest,” Tanvi said softly, feeling considerate and noble. Amma travelled across the city to teach and usually came home exhausted. “No, no,” Amma insisted with stubborn grown-up logic. “We have lots to do!” she said, getting up. Tanvi explained that she could clean the remaining cupboards but there was no arguing with Amma. The next cupboard was in the veranda; long and low and stuffed with shoes and junk. Tanvi sorted through old shoes, mismatched sandals and abandoned socks but left the last cupboard for Amma. She didn’t like that it was in the corner, with the old bookcase close to it. She hated leaning over to open the door. But, most of all, she hated plunging her hand into the dark cupboard. A lizard had once darted out of that moist cave and Tanvi remembered that, as she watched Amma open the door. The suspense was too much and Tanvi shuffled backwards, as if the lizard was a tiger that might suddenly burst out. How brave Amma was! Look at her putting her hand into the cupboard. What if it was full of lizards? The thought sent Tanvi scuttling to the safety of the living room, where she waited, heart thumping hurriedly. What’s inside? When she peered out, Amma was still crouched there. Tanvi circled around the bookshelf, intent on telling Amma it was okay to leave the cupboard, quite okay to accept that the dark and whatever it held scared you. Amma’s eyes were shut tight against any horror she might find, her hand questing blindly. Amma had to do it, Tanvi understood, had to go even where she didn’t want to. This, Tanvi realised with a sudden flash, along with the deciding and disciplining, this was part of being an adult. She hoped that, when it was her turn, she would stay certain and brave about everything, including reaching into the dark.  Tanvi worked in silent rage till she suddenly found the first watch she had owned
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||An unexpected change||So, remember last week I was telling you about how when a grownup says, “be the change you want to see in the world”, they don’t mention all attached the invisible terms and conditions? Anyway, after my friend P and I got busted for feeding the indie pups outside our building, we, of course, decided the next best step was to foster them. We managed to sneak them inside the building in two bags — they were that small, peeps! I’m not going to say how we managed to sneak in and out of the building without getting caught. Let’s just say we learnt from our past mistakes. Of course once they were inside, we realised we hadn’t thought of one thing: Where would we keep them? Careful calculations I tried to casually bring up getting another pup at home as a sis for W, but that was met with a flat-out no. It didn’t help that W was peeing on the rug when I brought the topic up. All our friends tried to get their parents to agree to a pup at home too, but had zero luck. We didn’t know what to do, we couldn’t just go back and leave them on the streets, could we? So, we found an empty apartment on the same floor as P’s place, which we decided was the perfect home for the pups. No, we didn’t break in; the door wasn’t locked. If anything, it was some form of illegal squatting but who’s asking? So, we got a giant cardboard box, lined it with old blankets and set the pups up there till we could find a home for them. We brought food and milk and water for them from our homes, and we all took turns watching over and taking care of them. I’m not going to lie, it was HARD work. Well, we managed to get away with it for about three days, before my folks caught the Pesky Brother sneaking W’s dog biscuits into his pocket. They didn’t buy his explanation that he was feeling hungry and wanted a snack. The truth came out and, yep, we got busted again. But, at least this time, all our parents were supportive and we only got a mini-lecture. They told us that we should have come to them earlier. That the puppies were too young to be left like that in an apartment by themselves, that they probably needed vaccinations and could have gotten sick. It was kind of cool how the grownups reached out to their friends and got the pups fostered in less than a day! So, moral of the story is: if you want to be the change you want to see in the world, sometimes you need a little help! But not from pesky brothers, okay? They always get busted!  ...we couldn’t just go back and leave them on the streets, could we?
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Peek into the past||Movie: Christopher Robin (2018)  Genre: Fantasy, comedy-drama  Goodbyes are always hard, and it is no different for Christopher Robin when he has to bid farewell to his friends — Winnie the Pooh, Tigger, Eeyore, Piglet, Owl, Kanga, Roo and Rabbit — as he leaves for boarding school, where he is reprimanded for drawing pictures of Pooh in class. Gone are the carefree days of Hundred Acre Wood; his experiences at boarding school and his father’s death force him to mature quickly. In no time, Christopher grows up, gets married and has a little daughter, Madeline. He neglects his family due to his demanding job and plans to send Madeline to boarding school. With his company hitting hard times, Christopher’s superior tells him to reduce expenditure, largely by choosing to lay off employees, and present a plan on Monday. Due to this, Christopher misses joining his family on a weekend holiday. He is at his wit’s end with a seemingly insurmountable business problems to solve, but things take a surprising turn, as he bumps into a beloved friend from his past — Pooh. Will Christopher be able to re-discover his childhood again? Will everything magically set itself right, after all?   Trivia  The scenes of the Hundred Acre Wood were filmed at Ashdown Forest, which was the original inspiration for the setting, as well as Windsor Great Park.  The opening segment where the animals bid Christopher Robin farewell, and he promises not to forget Pooh, is loosely adapted from A.A. Milne’s last Pooh story.  This is the longest Pooh film to run at 104 minutes.  Christopher Robin was not released in China because the images and the name Winnie the Pooh is banned on Chinese social media. Bloggers have tied images of President Jinping Xi to Winnie the Pooh in humorous mashups.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Gentle marine giants||1 The whale shark is the largest fish in the world, growing to about 40 feet in length — around the length of a school bus.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Ms. Tears and Ms. Smiles When the hearts disagree||The story so far: Reva has been transported to the annual meeting of the Emotions Factory, where all the hearts are shareholders.  A surprised Reva entered the large hall, which was brightly lit by a huge chandelier. A slim lady, with Stella Sorry pinned to her dress, ushered the hearts to their seats. She led Reva to a seat in the first row. The wait was soon over. Sandra Smiles and Tracy Tears — the managing director and the chairman of the Emotions Factory — entered the hall. The two young girls were slim, dressed in light grey skirts and matching jackets, their feet encased in matching high-heeled shoes. Sandra Smiles and Tracy Tears were identical twins but coud be distinguished by the cheerful smile on one face and the tearful expression on the other. They were also called the Queens of Hearts. They had started the Emotions Factory, which manufactured several products that helped them rule over peoples’ hearts. “Good evening, Hearts, welcome to the annual meeting of the shareholders of The Emotions Factory,” said Sandra Smiles. “Last year wasn’t good for us. There were no buyers for our products, Apology and Gratitude. They are lying in the factory gathering dust. Why are they so slow moving?” Differing opinions “Because people have forgotten about Apology and Gratitude,” said one old heart. “They are so busy with their lives and careers, they have no time for Apology and Gratitude,” said another. While the older hearts spoke, the younger ones looked around disinterestedly and the baby hearts slept peacefully. “This can’t go on. At this rate our Emotions Factory will close down,” Tracy Tears sobbed. “Stop crying,” Sandra Smiles ordered. Tracy Tears wiped her eyes with her handkerchief. “Does anyone have any ideas on how to boost the sales?” Sandra Smiles asked. “Why don’t we stop manufacturing these fuddy-duddy products. Apology and Gratitude! Who has the time for them?” said a young heart rudely. “Yes, yes,” chorused the others while the older hearts glared at them. “Why don’t we stop the manufacture of Regret and Guilt too? They are a sheer waste of time,” said another young heart loudly. One of the older hearts jabbed the younger one with his walking stick and the younger one stuck out his tongue rudely. “Behave yourselves, everyone,” Sandra Smiles said. “This can’t go on. For the time being I’m putting the production of products, Apology and Gratitude, on hold, but not for long. With public memory being short, I don’t want our products to be erased from people’s memories.”  To be continued...   There were no buyers for Apology and Gratitude. Why are they so slow moving?
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Really and truly?||‘Literally’ is one of those words in English that have two different meanings. But the problem is that it has two somewhat opposite meanings. What it means One meaning is that something happened exactly as a person said it happened. Like this: “His mother came after Kumar with a chapati roller. As he ran out, he bumped into his father and fell down. He fainted and was literally taken to the hospital on a stretcher.” That would mean that Kumar was badly injured; so badly that he was unable to walk by himself. He had become unconscious and actually had to be placed on a stretcher and taken to the hospital. That is one meaning of ‘literally.’ There’s also another meaning. If a boy bumped into his father, he normally wouldn’t get so badly hurt unless his father was made of stainless steel. So the person who was relating this story was exaggerating somewhat when he said, “…he was literally taken to the hospital on a stretcher.” Kumar probably did not even go to the hospital. Sometimes you have to get the meaning of words also by considering who is saying them. So literally is used in two ways: 1. To tell what exactly happened 2. To emphasise or exaggerate Let’s have a look at another example of emphasis or exaggeration; “The bride was literally drowning in a sea of gold.” Here, obviously, there was no sea and neither was the bride drowning. All it says is that the bride was overloaded with jewellery. How it happened Here’s an example of literally in the ‘truly’ or ‘really’ sense of the word: “Even though he was only the secretary to the Minister, he was literally running the show.” This means that, though the person was only a secretary, he was the person in charge who was taking all the decisions. Here, it’s not an exaggeration; it speaks about what was really happening. So you can literally use ‘literally’ in two different ways. It literally depends upon when it is said, and who is saying it. In this sentence, ‘literally’ has been used in the ‘true’ or ‘real’ sense of the word.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||What to wear?||Across  1 Made from denim (5) 4 Clothing for your foot (4) 7 Sweater (8) 8 Wound around the head (6) 10 Half-pants (6) 12 To colour a garment (3) 13 A ___gown is worn to formal dances (4) 14 Clothing for the hands (6) 16 Hair of an animal (3) 17 ____ hat protects from the sun (5)  Down  1 Blazer (6) 2 Worn by a chef (5) 3 A girl's dress (5) 5 Sits on the head of royalty (5) 6 A type of tapered pants (6) 9 Stiff neckline of a shirt (6) 10 Loose cloth worn around the neck (5) 11 Clothing worn in Ancient Rome (4) 12 He wears a scuba suit (5) 15 To stitch (3)
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||How does water form in a tender coconut?  The water in a tender coconut is what has been absorbed by the tree’s root system. It travels through the capillaries to the nut. It gets stored as food or endosperm to nourish the coconut’s growth. When the coconut is green, it is stored as liquid, which is what you drink as elaneer or tender coconut water. As the fruit matures, the liquid changes into a creamy substance that gets deposited on the insides. When the soft creamy tissue becomes hard, the endosperm becomes clear coconut water. This contains many vitamins, amino acids and enzymes that helps in hydrating the human body and in digestion and metabolism.  How doesa chameleon change its colour, according to its background?  A chameleon doesn’t change its colour to hide itself. It is mostly to regulate its body temperature and to tell other chameleons what it’s up to. The outermost layer of its skin is transparent and the other layers below contain cells called chromatophores, which are filled with various pigments. The deepest one contains brown melanin, which also gives human skin its colours. On the top are cells called iridophores that have a blue colour and reflect blue and white light. So when its body temperature changes, its nerves send signals to specific chromatophores to change the colour. By coordinating each chromatophore in all layers of the skin, the chameleon is able to take on a multitude of colours.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The tick-tock of a clock||“There is a rhythm to everything in this world. If you want to learn music, then you must try to find the rhythm and beat in every activity. The emotion behind every song will then be yours.” This is what Mohini, brilliantly essayed by Sheeba Chaddha, tells her son Radhe towards the end of Bandish Bandits , the recent web series that’s made quite a splash. The ten-part show, set in contemporary Rajasthan, revolves around the cultural politics of Indian classical and pop music and has received rave reviews for plot, performances, production values and, most importantly, an incredible soundtrack. Reviving interest in music One scene especially left an indelible mark. A frustrated Radhe, tasked with everyday chores of cleaning, cutting and washing, asks his mother about their relevance. Mohini, who has just taken over her father-in-law’s role as Radhe’s teacher, for the local music competition ‘Sangeet Samrat’, instead of delving straightaway into singing lessons, commands her son into doing everything else by way of a new training. It is in the ordinary everyday that a permanent sense of music resides, and as Mohini’s teaching makes it clear, one can truly become proficient if one acquires that sense by fully immersing in it. This focus on immersion lies in its seamless blending of the inside and outside, which begins a dialogue between spaces and the self that couldn’t be experienced in the training under Pt. Radhe Mohan Rathore, Radhe’s grandfather. This approach encourages the young man to observe his surroundings with renewed attention, from the tick-tock of his bedside clock and the twang of the cotton-fluffing machine to the rhythm of vegetable chopping and the echoing depths of the ancient baolis or step-wells. The domestic world that had contained Mohini for 26 years transforms into a receptacle of creativity, thereby subtly critiquing the all-male preserve of Panditji’s teaching. As Radhe imbibes these new lessons, his life acquires a new rhythm. Rhythm facilitates the acquisition of skills. And for there to be rhythm, movement must be felt. As celebrated anthropologist Tim Ingold pointed out, “The practitioner who has a feel for what he is doing is one who can bring the many concurrent movements into phase with one another.” Classical Indian music synchronises such felt concurrent movements through hand and body gestures that instinctively accompany the articulation of aaroh, avroh, murkiyan, meend and harkatein — all ingredients of active singing. Indeed, one of the delights of watching a recital is the multitude of bodily movements that accompany particular phrases and emotions, movements that rise, fall, stretch and squeeze according to the nuances of the composition. Focus on rhythm ‘Poise’ here is not synonymous with absolute stillness but with controlled, calibrated release, quite like dance. No wonder then that in the new lessons that Mohini engages Radhe in, Kathak is an essential. As the mother says, “Dancing makes you understand the beats, and when one’s feet begins to recognise the beats, then all tones will automatically fall in place” — in effect birthing rhythms.Even if obliquely, Bandish Bandits’ quest for rhythm is also telling in the context of the pandemic. Among the many lessons that the prolonged lockdown has taught, one of the most visceral ones has been the frustration resulting from one’s bondage within four walls. The initial sense of freedom and creativity quickly came to an end. Within a few weeks, it became clear that the harmony of everyday life, howsoever fractured, intrinsically resides in a continual dialogue with the outside world. No matter how much joy and comfort the digital platform brings, the role the external environment plays in maintaining a sense of balance was forcefully brought home. Nature owns a definite rhythm of its own — harmonising and uplifting. It’s not accidental that the very first shot of Bandish Bandits presages its central narrative of music through the twittering of birds and the cries of a peacock, and only then moves on to the human setting of Panditji’s haveli. As with the beginning, so with the end. Recalling the singing duel between Baiju Bawra and Miyan Tansen in Vijay Bhatt’s 1952 film Baiju Bawra , the final episode concludes the search for rhythm by once again connecting to nature, as Radhe’s dramatic performance of Raag Malhar literally reaches for the sky and makes it rain. As the lockdown eases and life begins to return to normal amidst the partly destructive, partly regenerative downpour , one hopes to cultivate fresh rhythms to brave the vicissitudes of the new world in the making.  The author is a writer and photographer from Shimla
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Supporting art is not a priority for the government’||The term ‘powerful’ not only defines her voice and musical concepts, but her thoughts too. Hindustani vocalist Shubha Mudgal is that rare Indian musician who fights for the rights of her community, forthrightly discusses the country’s political developments, and passionately advocates equality and social justice. Seldom do we get this from artistes, especially those from the classical field, who are perhaps too occupied in the single-minded pursuit of their art. Mudgal’s recent efforts to help disadvantaged musicians during the pandemic are praiseworthy and draw attention to systemic disparities in the performing arts. Excerpts from an interview: The current crisis is tough for the performing arts community. What’s the road ahead? The road ahead seems uncertain, full of challenges and pitfalls. I hear that the search for an effective vaccine is underway. But it isn’t as if all our troubles will miraculously disappear when the vaccine is ready. The economic crisis cannot be cured by any vaccine, and recovering from it may take several years. In this situation, it cannot be denied that the arts are at great peril as are artistes. It is also a fact that almost every part of the world has been affected badly. So when we ask for help and support for any one community or sector, we must do so with the realisation that there have been disruptions and loss in every direction. Under the circumstances, it might be best to plan for a long and arduous road towards recovery. The pandemic has also exposed the socio-economic disparity in the performing arts. How could we address this? For any systemic change to take place, policy-makers have to get involved. And I don’t see that happening. In the eyes of the government, art and culture are not essential, and support to them is not a priority. Even before the COVID-19 crisis, government-funded events, projects and grants paid artistes very poorly. The amounts paid by state-run radio, television, or even by government-funded academies and organisations are pitiable. Artistes in this country would become impoverished if their earnings were solely from such sources. On the other hand, we are taxed like any other individual, business or service. We are in the 18% GST bracket, which is the second highest slab! There are no subsidies, no special schemes for the arts, even though I do realise that subsidies are not the answer. Can we be naive enough to expect our policy-makers to have any vision or empathy for the arts? Across political parties, election after election, we vote into power men and women who are accused of the most heinous crimes and corruption. Even those of our artistes who are nominated to Parliament rarely do anything for the benefit of the arts. Some never attend Parliament, others sit silently, and only the rare exceptions make a difference to the life of artistes. Artistes themselves too need to ask for a change. How can there be any change when nobody voices the need for betterment? Artistes are ambassadors for so many good causes — from wildlife to swachhta, and more. It is fantastic that artistes are valued as influencers, but when it comes to their own field , very few are willing to openly accept that there is a need to clean up the mess, for establishing greater equality, doing away with hierarchies, and creating a more artiste-friendly ecosystem. What is the idea behind your initiative, Gift A Concert?  Gift A Concert is a small attempt to create a sustainable revenue-generating model for artistes. I know that many others are also coming up with ideas. Aneesh [Pradhan, her husband] and I came up with this initiative because we felt that the online medium is suitable for an on-demand performance format, which can be hosted by any individual or group who would like to support the arts but not as a charitable cause. So, if anyone wants to gift a performance for a special occasion or just for the love of the arts, they can get together, select an artiste, a duration, date and time for an online performance, and pay the artiste a fee. For instance, if I wanted to listen to a flautist play raag Shankara, maybe on my birthday, I can select an artiste from the Gift A Concert website, find out the performance fee, and book a performance if the terms are mutually satisfactory. I can gift myself or my family can gift the performance to me. Recently, you wrote an article on the lack of representation of musicians in various policy-making bodies for music. What can they do to be more inclusive?  I think communication has become quite simple with technology. If the authorities or the music industry wanted to consult artistes, all they would need is [to create] an online form that artistes could fill, or even send a voice note with. Their responses could have been collated and compiled and referred to. They could then have discovered what artistes in different parts of the country require, what challenges they face, and what needs to be done to assuage their fears and provide some relief. This is not about charity but making it less challenging to make an honest living as a musician in the current situation. Charitable efforts are admirable, but I think it is equally important to see how musicians and ancillary professionals can resume work and start earning a livelihood. And for that, the powers that be need to have their ear to the ground, and not take decisions that reek of condescension and apathy. Why is the performing arts community silent about the socio-political climate in the country? I disagree with you. More than ever before, artistes are now politically aligned and vocal about their affiliations. Today, some of the most abusive trolls are artistes. You will find most of them silent when any issue regarding the arts is discussed. But anything political, and they will come at you with all guns blazing. I can only say that each artiste must do what he or she believes in and make independent choices to support whatever and whoever they want to.  (The writer teaches Literary and Cultural Studies at FLAME University, Pune   Aneesh and I have come up with the initiative, Gift A Concert, a small attempt to create a sustainable revenue-generating model for artistes
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Pushing boundaries with the singing violin||Behind Kala Ramnath’s simple and unassuming persona is a musician who has put her distinctive stamp on the Hindustani violin. One of the youngest recipients of the Sangeet Natak Akademi Puraskar, she has been hailed as one of the world’s 50 best violinists, was the first Indian to be featured in the violin Bible The Strad , and her album ‘Kala’ was selected as one of the UK-based Songlines magazine’s 50 best recordings. The New York Press recently inducted her into the list of 100 Most Influential Asians. Despite being globally recognised, she is little known in South India, despite having been raised in Chennai. To begin with, the violin is uncommon in Hindustani music. Kala, however, has blazed a trail all her own, after V.G. Jog and her paternal aunt, N. Rajam, got it recognition. Kala reinvented the handling of the instrument, producing a uniquely refined sound that is much lauded by critics the world over. She developed the technique to convey minute microtonal nuances as clearly as the human voice — earning her instrument the epithet of ‘the singing violin’. The articulate Kala, who speaks with conviction, says that musicians should not offer their art for free, pandemic notwithstanding. “If you want to be seen online, then teach, offer advice, help others,” she says. “Performing at home, without accompanists, cannot be called a concert. That is merely personal practice. If you want to post a concert, then do a professional recording with accompanists and charge for it.” Tough training regimen Kala’s training began in 1969, at age two, under her grandfather, A. Narayana Iyer. “Thatha would ask me to practise exercises a hundred times. If I faltered, even at the 99th time, I had to start all over again.” At the successful completion of each sequence, she could choose one colour of candied fennel seeds. Apart from the time spent in school and on homework, every moment was devoted to practice. “I have never gone on excursions, had friends over, or visited them. No Enid Blytons or Perry Masons. I got one day off a year – Saraswati Puja.” She attended Hindustani concerts in Chennai, playing before many artistes including V.G. Jog at age seven. She played for Pt. Bhimsen Joshi in 1980, the year her uncle, T.N. Krishnan, received the Sangita Kalanidhi. Her first public performance was at age 12 in Bombay, a duet with Rajam’s daughter, Sangeeta, arranged by Rajam and presented by Pt. Jasraj. Later, in 1982, Ustad Zakir Hussain asked why anyone would listen to an imitation of her aunt. “Another reason I eventually went to Pt. Jasraj,” she says. She received the A Grade from All India Radio, one of the youngest to get it. And grew up unaware of her prowess, perhaps the keystone to her being so grounded even today. Relocating to Bombay, she became one of Pt. Jasraj’s prime disciples, mostly imbibing his art by accompanying him at concerts. Kala’s understanding of the placement of individual notes became intensely embedded. She gives an example. “Though both have the ‘komal re’, the ‘re’ of Bhairav is higher than the ‘re’ of Shree.” This awareness is so acute that she can sing or play at any sruti without tanpura for reference. Modification process “Jasraj-ji pioneered the importance of sahitya in Hindustani music,” she says, “even researching Haveli Sangeet to reflect the original lyrics.” Kala reworked every aspect of the instrument and its playing to reproduce the nuances of Pt. Jasraj’s singing. Knowing that the moving of fingers from string to string, and within various points on the same string takes time, she rethought it completely — optimising and minimising as needed. To round out the sound, she began using ¾ viola strings and started playing at a pitch of 2 for her solos. On what it takes to be a successful performer, she mentions several aspects, of which the first is to remember one’s guru but not blindly copy him or her, as Zakir Hussain had pointed out. Pt. Jasraj made the point differently — one’s biological children might resemble one initially but soon their individuality will come through. So too should one’s music present its unique self with an undertone of its provenance. Secondly, riyaaz (practice) should not only be quantitative, but qualitative. Thirdly, it makes a real difference whether someone is in music because they want to be versus because they have to be in it. She stresses on realistic expectations. “This is a niche field. Classical musicians cannot expect the kind of adulation and following of pop idols.” Additionally, she emphasises the importance of honouring a commitment, remembering Pt. Jasraj’s tenacity wistfully. “Sickness or otherwise, one should not renege on what one has accepted, he would say.” Kala just released a new album titled ‘Rang’, a collaboration with talented tabla artiste Bickram Ghosh, made during the pandemic, with each artiste recording individually. Kala approaches collaborative musical engagements seriously. “Just getting together and playing on the spot is a jam session, not a collaboration,” she explains. Her works with the Danish Symphony, jazz orchestras and the London Symphony Orchestra took many months of active engagement. Kala Ramnath is now introspecting deeply into the music. “Looking at various raags, elaborating them differently, delving into challenging compositions, analysing one raag from the perspective of another allied raag: I am exploring these aspects minutely. Bringing out more beauty in the raag is what excites me now.”  The author writes on classical   music and musicians.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Dance therapy goes virtual||Nothing succeeds like dogged continuity. Five months after India went into lockdown, the performing arts are seemingly secure in cyberspace. Meanwhile, dance and movement therapy, a relatively less explored side of the Indian arts, has also acquired a major online presence. One might have considered therapy to be an area demanding in-person interaction, but for the past few months, the Creative Movement Therapy Association of India (CMTAI), among other organisations, has been working to develop modules for digital outreach. CMTAI co-founder Tripura Kashyap says they have “reconstructed a plethora of individual and group-based approaches and tools from creative movement therapy and adapted them to the ‘new normal’.” Enumerating techniques like creative visualisation, movement-based gratitude rituals, self-affirmation practices, body preparatory exercises, and relaxation routines combining breath and movement patterns have been adapted to “Telehealth-CMT,” Tripura says. “Therapists have also modified movement experiences to help nurture the inner selves of their clients, enhance endurance, encourage them to face a new reality, and also transform the pandemic crisis into aesthetic life affirmations.” Welcoming as a creative challenge the need to modify activities based on rhythm, hand gestures, props, movement meditation, etc. for the online medium, she says that reduced travel and stay costs are an added advantage. When Tripura mentions “acclimatising [the] mind-body continuum to the virtual world,” it sounds like a technical term for getting over the discomfort so many of us feel at having to talk to our screens. No wonder, among the population groups identified by CMTAI requiring “increased psycho-social attention during this pandemic,” Tripura names a whole spectrum of People Like Us: “Home-makers, educators, office-goers, school-going children and adolescents with or without special needs, the elderly in retirement homes, healthcare providers, people with borderline mental illnesses such as depression and anxiety as well as other marginalised communities.” In effect, if movement therapists “use movement specifically designed to contribute positively to an individual’s or group’s well-being,” tele-CMT is its adapted version for the pandemic, tailored “for confined spaces in which people live — the location of the therapeutic intervention is on a gadget — PC, laptop or mobile phone.” Special sessions The CMTAI recently started a series of ten sessions for children with special needs. The sessions are aimed at children and adolescents from age four to 18. “Usually, some of these children or adolescents are on the autism spectrum, or with Down syndrome, ADHD (Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder) with lack of social skills, speech delays, learning disabilities and other mental challenges,” says Tripura. “Some of them have physical challenges like a lack of body coordination or eye-hand coordination, balance issues, repetitive movement patterns and low muscle tone.” Members of CMTAI who facilitate the online workshops for young people with special needs along with Tripura are Preethi Rajagopalan and Sukriti Dua. During the group sessions, young participants are usually accompanied by a parent, most often the mother, and sometimes a sibling. Despite the obvious drawbacks of the virtual meeting space, Tripura remarks, “They love moving to music, enjoy rhythm and working with movement props like scarves or streamers. They verbally articulate what they want to do and express what they are feeling during the sessions. Their joy is infectious, and they surprise us all with their memory and sequencing skills of a ‘learnt’ dance. What is important in these sessions is that they try their best, with their parent’s help, to undergo all the activities during our sessions and also practise some of them during the rest of the week with their mothers.” Therapy method Her methodology includes body preparatory routines, movement activities based on group awareness, icebreakers, partner work, rhythm development and movement cool down routines with breath. “We have done and memorised hand gestures from classical dance with Sa Re Ga Ma, we have done mirroring, shadowing, sculpture making, spatial awareness activities, storytelling through movement and creating dance studies with all their signature movement for their names,” adds Tripura, who holds a specialisation from the Hancock Center of Dance and Movement Therapy, Wisconsin, and is trained in a range of genres including Kalaripayattu, Mayurbhanj Chhau, Bharatanatyam and Jazz Ballet among others. Emotional and verbal expression are important aspects of her work. Founded in 2014, the CMTAI also runs certificate courses in movement therapy and therapeutic dance in education. Now, CMTAI co-founder Reetu Jain is working on creating an M.A, programme in Dance Movement Therapy in affiliation with an Indian University — a course that does not exist in India at present, says Tripura. “Our next venture is to begin zonal chapters of CMTAI across India,” says Tripura, with an aim to “resolve the urban-rural divide that exists in CMT and other arts therapy fields.”  Therapists have modified movement experiences to help nurture the inner selves of their clients, enhance endurance, encourage them to face a new reality and also transform the pandemic into life affirmation Tripura Kashyap   Tripura Kashyap’s methodology includes body preparatory routines, movement activities based on group awareness, icebreakers, partner work, and rhythm development routines with breath.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Margazhi will not be the same||Nagaswaram legend T.N. Rajarathnam Pillai on occasions used to have an audience of more than 10,000 lining the street in front of his performance venue. Many temple concerts, even in the last decade, witnessed 5,000-strong audiences. The Shanmukhananda Sabha in Mumbai held concerts with 3,000 people in attendance. I once took my daughter, who was then six months old, to a rare M.S. Subbulakshmi concert in Bangalore’s Fort High School grounds. I was only five minutes late and had to stand outside the pandal for a full three hours holding my daughter. I was told that the crowd exceeded 2,000 people. From these we moved to halls with capacities ranging from 100 to 1,000. Srinivasa Sastri Hall at Luz can squeeze in 80 people at most. But where have we now come to? Concerts with no live audience at all. We are poised to witness the first December season in many decades that will have no audience attendance. Biwoko Hall in Japan recently saw the live performance of a Richard Wagner opera, with no audience but live-streamed to viewers. The legendary German composer, Richard Wagner, has a hall named after him in Bayreuth, with a capacity of 1,925 people, and tickets for the opera (even much after his death) were sold out a year ahead. That’s the kind of frenzy live shows attract. What effect will this absent audience have on a Carnatic concert? What impact, if any, do crowds have on the artistes on stage? To start with, it has always been believed that the mood of a concert comes not just from the artistes but also largely from the audience — their warm applause, ‘aha’ sighs and nodding of the head. The analogy for audience-less music is recorded film music or some of the AIR and television recordings. One is not sure if the ‘manodharma’ component of any of these is comparable to a live concert with audience. Live feedback The second aspect that is difficult to judge is the audience’s overall attention and engagement — artistes are very good at noticing restive behaviour, people leaving, or general approval for the concert. Many seasoned artistes are known to make content and duration adjustments on the go, based on the vibes they get. Moreover, a packed or a relatively sparse audience has no equivalent relevance when it comes to online audiences — the statistics of logins, sign-ins, likes etc. can never equal live assessment. In familiar venues, artistes also keenly look for known faces and audience composition (age groups, gender groups or disciple groups). One would also assume that the presence of erudite listeners and connoisseurs spurs many artistes to aim for a high level of artistry (versus simply performing a ‘on par’ show). Concert is a medium of communication between performers and listeners and in an audience-free concert, one side of the equation is missing. That will be a cause of worry for the traditionalists when the kutcheris go online . There could also be questions of audio quality at home versus venue. On the flip side, decibel levels can be regulated in online concerts to get optimal listening comfort. Younger artistes would surely love to have live audiences to cheer them and notice their talent. They may also feel robbed of their ‘big stage moment’ this year. It appears that going online has less pros and more cons. But these have to be overlooked in the wake of the pandemic. Whether it will be a one-year experiment or will survive beyond that is as yet unknown. The writer is a classical music critic and commentator  Young artistes would love to have live audiences to notice their talent. They may also feel robbed of their ‘big stage moment’ this year
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Maihar musings||It is as delightful to talk to Pt. Ronu Majumdar as it is to hear him perform. Both make for an immersive listening experience. If his lilting Pahadi dhun takes you up picturesque hills, his description of the nuances of the Maihar gharana helps you understand the depth of his music. “ Us ghar se aa rahe (coming from that home); gharana indicates where you hail from, musically. It grooms you in a particular style and technique. And this taiyari helps you find your individual expression,” says the Hindustani flautist. Trained under stalwarts such as Pt. Laxman Prasad Jaipurwale, Pt. Vijaya Raghav Rao and Pt. Ravi Shankar, the warm and affable Pt. Ronu Majumdar transcends all kinds of stereotypes. He has worked with R.D. Burman for 13 years, has been part of several global collaborative projects, but is most excited when he has to perform a pure classical concert. “For an instrumentalist to belong to the Maihar gharana is a blessing. I cannot think of any other gharana that boasts of maestros of sitar (Pt. Ravi Shankar and Nikhil Banerjee), sarod (Ali Akbar Khan), surbahar (Annapurna Devi), violin (V.G. Jog), and flute (Pannalal Ghosh). And they trained the hard way, staying at the modest house or rather the ashram of Baba Allauddin Khan, who founded the gharana in the small town of Maihar in Madhya Pradesh. Baba himself could play several instruments, including the piccolo and banjo. He even formed the Maihar Band to help orphaned children after an epidemic. The band is still in existence and performs every year at the Allauddin Khan Sangeet Samaroh,” says Pt. Ronu Majumdar, who took to the bansuri after training in vocal music. Dhrupad influence “When I blow the bansuri, the melody emanating often makes me feel vulnerable. The dhrupad influence of Maihar is visible in alap, jod, meend, jam jama and gamak; establishing the sur-soul link. There may be no fancy phrases or a theatrical edge to playing, but what draws listeners in are the contemplative, lucid notes. Every swar is well articulated and its measured movement lends intensity,” says the flautist, who developed a 3.5 foot long flute to play the weighty and relaxed dhrupad-style music. “During the raga elaboration, the Maihar musicians do not take too much liberty. Baba Allauddin insisted on a systematic way to develop a raga. He introduced the vocal of dhrupad to instruments in a complete manner that featured sophisticated gatkari and layakari. He put a technique in place to handle every aspect of music. Yet, he ensured that no two disciples perform in a similar fashion. The training was tough. Those who learnt to play an instrument had to take lessons in singing too. And vice versa.” Though Ronu Majumdar takes prides in being part of Maihar, he is a musician with a progressive outlook. “It is not easy for a flautist to get recognition as a soloist unless you put together a repertoire that is led by individuality and not just technique. It is important to lay down your roots in a gharana, but you needn’t restrict your creative vision. In fact, Baba was ahead of his times. He often faced criticism for his innovative ways. It is his taalim that gave Pt. Ravi Shankar the strength to be a trailblazer.” Pt. Ronu Majumdar, who has been part of his guru Pt. Ravi Shankar’s ensembles and albums, recalls his advice of how one should make music impactful and memorable. “If you play for the people they will never listen. Allow your soul to perform and then see how they warm up to you.”
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Understanding Annamayya kirtanas||“The experience of listening to an Annamayya sankirtana is different when you understand the sahitya (words) and feel its bhava (expression),” says classical musician Vyzarsu Balasubrahmanyam, referring to a new series Annamayya Sankeertana Vaibhavam being webcast on his YouTube Channel. Launched by his music institute Bhairavi Sangeeta Academy, the series shows Balasubrahmanyam explaining the essence and raga details of each Annamacharya kirtana , as well as the different sevas done for the deity in Tirumala. The series shows Balasubrahmnayam’s disciples taking centrestage to present these Annamayya songs. “The songs are in chaste Telugu, hence some words and their nuances might be tough to comprehend. By explaining the gist of each kirtana, this small introduction helps young singers to appreciate and explore each kirtana and kindles their interest to learn them. My goal is to take these gems to the common man and popularise them,” says Balasubrahmanyam. Directed by Swathi Kumar, the 20-episode weekly series with three songs per episode is high on production values and visual effects. Pavani, Balasubrahmanyam’s wife and assistant professor in music (veena) at the University of Hyderabad, has done the research for the series, which is anchored by Mrudula Iyengar. It was Balasubrahmanyam’s dream to create a rich visual experience for songs written by saint Annamacharya. “In today’s digital world, a story told through visuals is appealing,” says Balasubrahmanyam, who is an assistant professor of Indian Music (Vocal) at National Sanskrit University in Tirupati. Unique experience For director Swathi, who is experienced in shooting non-fiction entertainment, conceptualising a devotional musical series was a challenge. “It was a unique experience and a roller coaster ride,” says the young mother. She used to shoot for four days continuously from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., taking her one-year-old daughter along with her, and then take a break for two days. To create the right ambience, a painted five-and-half-feet statue of Lord Venkateshwara was placed on the set, which was created at the Academy in Nallakunta, Hyderabad. “We wanted to recreate the garbha gudi in Tirumala to bring an authentic feel for viewers, says Swathi. “Warm lights created by lighting diyas added to the effect,” she explains and adds, “Balasubramanyam garu described the songs to me, explaining how vaibhavam , kalyanam and abishekam would be performed. Also, we kept the narrative straight and crisp so that people can easily learn by watching from the confines of their homes.” Swathi says it was a spiritual vision that guided her in directing the content. “Balasubrahmanyam garu and his wife Pavani explained their vision clearly and that made my work easier,” she adds.  Annamayya Sankeertana Vaibhavam is webcast every Saturday at 6 p.m.  The songs are in chaste Telugu, hence some words and their nuances might be tough to comprehend. The small introduction helps young singers to appreciate, explore and learn the kirtanas. Vyzarsu Balasubrahmanyam
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||When song is added to script||While watching Atul Sabharwal’s The Class of ‘83, an efficient cop drama that is trending in the OTT space, one realises that the heroic officer on punishment posting is working for the good of the system at great personal cost, but it somehow doesn’t percolate through the screen strongly enough to make one bite one’s nails. Set in the rumbustious 1980s, the characterisation lacks the rhythm that can make us feel for the character’s moral dilemmas. It perhaps looks at the period from the prism of today. My thoughts went back to the real 1983, the year when Ardh Satya , one of the best cop dramas churned out by Hindi cinema, spurred the conscience of the country. Curiously, in a scene in The Class of ‘83 , we can see the posters of potboilers such as Nastik , Justice Chaudhary and Hero in the background but not of the masterpiece by Govind Nihalani who, very much like Atul, believed in the economy of emotions. Like Atul’s Vijay Singh, Govind’s Anant Welankar is also a latent volcano but early in the film, he gives us an insight into the lava building up inside him through a Dilip Chitre poem. In fact, the film draws its title from the poem that reflects Anant’s moral skeleton: being caught in a chakravyuh, it talks of the danger of becoming the one that he wants to annihilate, and above all the fear of being robbed of one’s manhood by the system that he wants to serve. The line ‘ Ek palde mein napunsakta, ek palde mein paurush, aur theek taraazu ke kaante par ardh satya, ’ (On one tray of the scale is impotence, on the other manhood, and right at the needlepoint is half-truth) makes you feel the acuity of Anant’s angst better than any other words, and lends meaning to the tight close-up of the actor. Lyrics with a message Similarly, the Hindi film song, when brewed with passion, has always communicated more than the text, adding a poetic layer to the script that shapes the response of audiences, and stays on with them as life lessons. It helps actors and directors in creating an audience connection with the character. Of course, 1983 was also the year of Himmatwala and Mawali, but a look at the soundtracks of the eclectic mix of films released in 1983 prove how effective a tool poetry is to convey complex human emotions. We understood the child-woman of Balu Mahendru’s Sadma through Gulzar’s song ‘ Surmaiyi Aankhiyon Main Nanha Munna Ek Sapna De Ja Re’ , set to Illaiyaraja’s lilting tune and rendered by K.J. Yesudas in a way that evokes the naivety of love. It helps establish the unique love story between a woman suffering from retrograde amnesia and the school teacher who takes care of her in just above four minutes. In Shekhar Kapur’s Masoom , Gulzar opens a window to DK’s guilt-ridden heart through ‘Tujhse Naraaz Nahin Zindagi Hairan Hoon, Tere Masoom Sawalon Se Hairan Hoon Mein.’ Here is a married man reaching out to his son, born out of his infidelity. It is again an uncommon situation, as the narrative doesn’t want to put the blame on anyone and the song strongly communicates the director’s vision. In Ravi Chopra’s Mazdoor , poet Hasan Kamal made a statement with ‘Hum Mehnatkash Is Duniya Se Apna Hissa Mangenge, Ek Bagh Nahin, Ek Khet Nahin, Saari Duniya Mangenge.’ Inspired by a Faiz Ahmed Faiz nazm, the song’s tone reflects the confidence of the labour movement in the 1980s in standing against injustice. It is no longer the Nehruvian approach of ‘Saathi Hath Badhana’ of Naya Daur , directed by Ravi’s father B.R. Chopra. Sometimes, a piece of poetry helps convey something the director wants to hint at but not underline. In Kamal Amrohi’s Razia Sultan , Jan Nisar Akhtar’s wrote ‘Khwab Bankar Koi Ayega’ to convey an amorous relationship between Razia and her confidante Khakun, long before Sanjay Leela Bhansali tried something similar in Padmavat . In Mahesh Bhatt’s Arth (released in December 1982), Kaifi Azmi wrote ‘Tum Itna Jo Muskura Rahe Ho, Kya Ghum Hai Jisko Chhupa Rahe Ho’ to establish the mental frame of a woman who has just walked out of an abusive marriage and the other man who is keen to welcome her into his world. Again, a complex state of mind captured for posterity in five minutes of screen time. Even Souten, criticised for its portrayal of Dalits, had the evocative ‘Zindagi Pyaar Ka Geet Hai, Ise Har Dil Ko Gaana Padega’ , reflecting the vision of director Sawan Kumar. Written by Kumar himself, it talks of egalitarianism in love in a society riddled with caste and class barriers and it lent the otherwise frothy entertainer some depth. Most of these songs continue to define not only the films they were a part of but our lives as well. Our cinema has never been about cold intelligence. Shakeel Budayuni said something as fundamental and universal as ‘Duniya Main Hum Aaye Hain To Jeena Hi Padega, Jeevan Hai Agar Zehar to Peena Hi Padega’ (If we’ve come into life, we have to live it. If life is poison, we’ve to drink it) in Mother India, and with its dozen songs it got nominated for an Oscar . In the name of realism or the rush to become ‘global’, if this pool of poetry is allowed to dry up, not only our cinema, but our lives too will be rendered prosaic.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Acting lessons||Koothu-p-Pattarai will conduct online acting classes for aspiring theatre artistes from September 1 to 30 via Zoom. There will be two sessions each day (8 a.m. - 10 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. - 7.30 p.m.). The theatre group is also organising a workshop for children from September 10 to 30 (4 p.m.) on Zoom. For registration, call 80723 33827.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Krishna Bhagavatar memorial concert||The 200th birth anniversary of Umayalpuram Krishna Bhagavatar will be celebrated with an endowment concert of vocalist M. Venkatanagarajan. He will be accompanied by Madurai M. Vijayaganesh (violin) and Umayalpuram Mali (mridangam). It will be streamed on http://bit.ly/umayalpuram tomorrow at 6 p.m. The birth anniversary of Krishna Bhagavatar is celebrated in August every year. Krishna Bhagavatar and his younger brother Sundara Bhagavatar were the direct disciples of Saint Tyagaraja. Every year, their descendants organise a concert in memory of the brothers at Sri Tyagaraja Sangeetha Vidwat Samajam in Mylapore. The brothers stayed with Sri Tyagaraja for almost 15 years and learnt music from him. It is said that the brothers were instrumental in constructing the samadhi and the brindavan (tulasi matam) for the saint-composer at Tiruvaiyaru, besides being actively involved in organising the annual aradhana function there.
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Across Dance’ workshop||One is a Delhi-based Kathak exponent and choreographer and the other a well-known name in the field of contemporary dance in the U.K., whose choroegraphic works have won rave reviews. Aditi Mangaldas and Aakash Odedra will conduct an online workshop series, Ácross Dance, from September 5 to 19. It will be streamed via Zoom from 2 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. (UK) and 6.30 p.m. to 8 p.m. (India). The workshop will help dancers explore the possibilities of both techniques through observation and participation. Each session will focus on the five elements of nature. The series will begin with Fire on September 5, Water on September 6, Wind on September 12, Earth on September 13 and Ether on Septemeber 19. For details log on tohttps://www.eventbrite.co.uk
28 August 2020||August 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Dhananjayans unveil new work||Veteran Bhartanatyam dancers V.P. Dhananjayan and Shanta have been working on a new production called ‘Shatripu’, based on an unconventional theme that reflects the current situation we are all in. It talks about how people can find a way to live a balanced and happy life. “ Mukti perum vazhi — the path to salvation — is to get rid of the ‘shat-ripu’ or six enemies of the human mind. These include kaama (lust), krodha (anger), moha (greed), lobha (stinginess), mada (arrogance) and maatsarya (jealousy),” says Dhananjayan, explaining the essence of the production. Shatripu has lyrics in Tamil by Nirmala Nagarajan of Kalakshetra, set to music by Vanathi Raghuraman. The swara section has been composed by Shanta Dhananjayan. Uttiya Barua and Sivadas Rajan are the dancers in the production that has been choreographed by Dhananjayan in Ragamalika and Talamalika. ‘Shatripu’ will be live-streamed on September 4 at 7 p.m, preceded by a newly composed Pancha Nadai Alarippu. The accompanying musicians are Shalin M Nair (vocal); K.P.V. Rameshbabu (mridangam); and R. Kalaiarasan (violin).
28 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab House session today amid virus fears||With the one-day Punjab Assembly session slated for Friday, the Opposition parties have hit out at the ruling Congress for the short duration of the session and decided to corner the government on issues surrounding the recent hooch tragedy, prevailing agrarian crisis and deteriorating law and order situation.  Extension sought The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday met Assembly Speaker Rana K.P. Singh and demanded that the session be conducted for at least 15 days. “If the Assembly session could be convened for a day amid corona guidelines, why could it not be extended for 15 days,” asked Harpal Singh Cheema, AAP MLA and Leader of the Opposition. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislative members meanwhile have asked for a special discussion on the Punjab government’s alleged failure to take action against distilleries whose collusion with the ‘liquor mafia’ resulted in the death of over a hundred people in the hooch tragedy. Meanwhile, as the number of COVID-19 positive MLAs and Ministers rose to 29, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh appealed to all legislators who had come in contact with them to avoid attending the one-day Assembly session. Endangering lives Capt. Amarinder said protests by AAP were endangering the lives of people, pointing to the party’s ‘dharnas’ in various parts of the State since August 20. “With anything between 25 to 250 people present at each of these gatherings, they had become tinder boxes for sparking further spread of the pandemic,” he said, urging the party to call off the protests. The Chief Minister pointed out that of the eight AAP leaders, including MLAs who had spearheaded these ‘dharnas’ so far, two had already tested positive and each of them had come in contact with scores of other people till now. In terms of MLAs, 4 from AAP were COVID-19 positive, he added.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi government, Centre spar over increasing COVID-19 testing||The State government on Thursday alleged that the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) was putting pressure on Delhi government officials to not increase the number of COVID-19 tests in the city, a claim which was rubbished by the MHA, which termed it as “false and baseless”. As Delhi has been witnessing an uptick in COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that the number of daily tests to detect the virus will be doubled – from 20,000 to 40,000 – in a week. On Thursday, in a letter written in Hindi to the MHA Secretary, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said, “Some [Delhi government] officials have said [Union] Home Ministry is putting pressure on them to not increase testing.” “Why is such anti-constitutional and illegal pressure being put on Delhi government officials? I request you to not put such pressure. Delhi government is increasing the number of tests and Central government should not interfere in this,” Mr. Jain said in the letter. Responding to the allegation, the MHA spokesperson said in a series of tweets, “The allegation raised in the letter of the Health Minister of Delhi Govt dated August 27, 2020, which is addressed to Union Home Secretary, to the effect that MHA is putting pressure on Delhi Govt officers not to increase testing in Delhi is false and baseless [sic].” “In this context, it may be recalled that it was after the intervention of the Union Home Minister that the daily tests in Delhi, which were averaging around 4,000 per day till mid-June 2020, have gone up to around 18-20,000 per day in a calibrated manner [sic.],” the tweet said. “I hope that the officers will comply with this message from MHA. I am sure that the officers, who were reluctant to increase testing today citing pressure from MHA, will immediately increase testing in Delhi,” Mr. Jain responded to the MHA’s tweets. Mr. Jain had also said in the letter that he was annexing a note written by Principal Secretary (Health) of the Delhi government, which was prepared by officials under pressure from the Union Home Ministry. Responding to this, the MHA said, “The letter of the Delhi Health Minister has annexed a note of the officers of the Delhi government. It may be noted that this note has made no mention whatsoever of any instruction of MHA on the matter of increase in testing in Delhi.” The MHA spokesperson said that the note has only proposed that the views of an expert committee headed by Dr. V.K Paul may be taken on the proposed doubling of testing in Delhi, for technical guidance on various issues such as mix of RT-PCR and rapid antigen, categories of geographical areas and demographics etc. Responding to the development, AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said during a press conference: “The Central government has ordered not to increase the testing in the Capital in an unconstitutional way and by keeping the Delhi government in dark. This order is inexplicable, shocking and flabbergasting.” “I do hope that after this letter from Delhi’s Health Minister, the Central government will realise and take back this illegal, unconstitutional order, which has a massive negative impact over the health situation of Delhi,” he added.
28 August 2020||Jaipur,||Religious places in Rajasthan to reopen from September 7||All religious places in Rajasthan that were closed during the COVID-19 lockdown, will reopen for public from September 7 with precautionary measures against the virus infection. No crowding will be allowed during prayers at religious places, which will be sanitised at regular intervals. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who announced the decision at a review meeting on Thursday, said he had cancelled meetings with visitors at his office and residence after 10 employees at the two places tested COVID-19 positive. Mr. Gehlot requested those willing to meet him not to travel to Jaipur for the purpose. “Since the visitors come in contact with the security personnel and other employees at the Chief Minister's office and residence, all appointments have been cancelled,” an official statement said. Mr. Gehlot instructed officials to ensure compliance with health protocols at public places and restrict the number of people assembling at a single place. The Collectors and Superintendents of Police will visit the major religious places in all districts to take safety measures and ensure adherence to the social distancing norms. As the number of infection deaths crossed the 1,000 mark on Thursday, the State government ordered the purchase of Cobas-8800 machines to speed up testing. Medical and Health Minister Raghu Sharma said two machines from the U.S. would reach here this month-end and in October.  51,640 tests a day The capacity to conduct 51,640 tests a day had been developed in the State and testing facilities would soon be available in all districts. The Cobas-8800 machines, which will allow both RNA extraction and RT-PCR tests to be performed simultaneously, are likely to increase the testing capacity to over 60,000 a day. The Minister said a community health centre, equipped with all the facilities, would be opened in each Assembly constituency so that the residents of the area need not travel to cities for medical treatment.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Centre betraying States by not paying GST compensation’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said that the Central government’s alleged refusal to pay GST compensation to States was the “biggest betrayal” in the history of federalism in India. Shortfall in collection Commenting on the alleged refusal to pay GST compensation by the Centre, he said, “In the last four months, we have collected Rs. 7,000 crore lesser tax. If we look at the entire year, we will have a shortfall of Rs. 21,000 crore. The Central government should take a loan on our behalf as we also need to pay salaries to our doctors, teachers, engineers, DTC, and other employees.” The Minister said when GST was rolled out, States were promised that they would be given compensation for the next five years with 14% growth. But now, the Central government has refused to pay. It said that as per the law, due to the ongoing situation created by the pandemic, the Central government is not liable to pay anything. “Today, many States, including the BJP-led States is demanding compensation from the Centre. Many States quoted the minutes of the meetings of the GST Council, where it was clearly stated that the Central government takes full responsibility if revenue of any State decreases and will compensate it,” he said. The Minister said that in the first two years when the Central government earned an extra cess of Rs. 47,000 crore, which was supposed to be given as compensation, they kept it in their fund. “Today when the revenue has started decreasing, they started asking A-G that whether they are liable to give this amount to States or not,” Mr. Sisodia said.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||Capital witnesses highest count of COVID-19 cases in over 45 days||Delhi on Thursday witnessed the highest number of daily new COVID-19 cases in over 45 days with 1,840 cases having been reported in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The total number of cases stood at 1,67,604 as on Thursday. The last time the number of cases were more than this was on July 10 when 2,089 cases were reported. Also, 22 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,369. Of the total cases, 1,50,027 people have recovered and there are 13,208 active cases in the city at present. When asked about the government’s plan to double the number of COVID-19 tests in a week, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain told The Hindu , “We already have about 300 testing centres. Also, there are about 1,700 new cases every day and if 20 contacts of each positive case are tested, this alone will be a substantial number.” A Delhi government official said that the government has already written to the ICMR for more testing kits and other equipment. A Health Department official said that Delhi government will discuss the plan to increase the number of tests with the ICMR to make sure that the guidelines by the latter are adhered to. Mr. Jain also held a meeting with officials of the Health Department on Thursday in which the issue of increasing the testing was also discussed. The number of active cases in the city on Wednesday was the highest in over a month. The last time the number of active cases was more than that was on July 24 when the figure was 13,681. The active cases, which were 27,007 on July 1, had fallen to 9,897 – below the 10,000 mark in months – on August 4, but since then it has remained above that mark. Though Delhi has a capacity to conduct around 11,000 RT-PCR tests a day, only 7,043 such tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total 19,816 tests conducted in the past 24 hours, 66.5% were rapid antigen tests, which have shown a low positivity in the city compared to RT-PCR tests. The positivity was 8.7% on Thursday, which was higher than the levels recorded earlier this month. The number of containment zones in the city increased to 734 on Thursday. The number of containment zones and especially smaller ones are likely to go up, according to officials.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kashmiri ‘Samaritan’ questioned for 30 hours||A 22-year-old Kashmiri youth, seeking help in the Capital for economically challenged brides in Kashmir, ended up being grilled by the Delhi police for 30 hours just for being found on the Rajpath lawns. A senior police officer said that on Wednesday, a youth identified as Manzoor Ahmed Ahanger, a resident of Budgam in Kashmir, was held for questioning after he was found roaming near Parliament House in a suspicious manner. When he was frisked by the police personnel, two IDs were recovered from his possession that raised suspicion. He was then taken to Parliament Street police station for further investigation. “He was questioned by the Delhi police and other intelligence agencies for verification. The two IDs — an Aadhaar card, belonging to him and a driving licence of his elder brother were found. After getting his verification done with the help of the Kashmir police, he was handed over to a local guardian,” added the officer. Helps poor families During questioning, he told the police that he lives in Jama Masjid area and works as a waiter in a hotel. He returned from his hometown in Kashmir around 25 days ago. He used to help economically challenged families in holding marriages of their daughters in his village back in Kashmir. He was collecting Zakat (charity) by visiting mosques in the city. To get more financial assistance, he went to Vijay Chowk, hoping to meet PM Narendra Modi or some senior Minister. “It took time to release Manzoor because he was staying alone in the city. We called his distant relative, who arrived in Delhi on Thursday, and he was handed over to him,” said the police officer. The officer added that police personnel at Vijay Chowk and Rajpath lawns keep checking for suspicious activities and randomly ask for IDs. It was a routine thing but the two IDs that were recovered from his bag had raised suspicion.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Metro likely to restart services in phased manner after Centre’s nod||The Delhi government is hoping for the resumption of Delhi Metro services in the first week of September and is likely to base its proposal related to their phased operation on recommendations already sent to the Prime Minister’s Office in May, sources claim. In mid-May, the Delhi government had sought clearance from the Centre to permit the Delhi Metro to restart operations, but limit its utilisation to government employees and those providing essential services with valid passes. Movement will be in separate time slots for both categories. With most activities now having resumed, however, slight modifications to these were possible but these would be put in place depending on the Centre’s go-ahead, sources said. On Sunday, while interacting with market associations, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the government had sought from the Centre that the metro should be allowed in Delhi on a trial basis and in a phased manner. In May, the Delhi government had suggested that services of the Delhi Metro should be limited to government employees and functionaries and these too in cycles between 7.30 a.m. and 10.30 a.m., and then from 5.30 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. Passengers with valid passes or those providing essential services should be allowed to use the metro between 10.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m, the proposal had stated.
28 August 2020||Bhopal,||11-year-old girl takes Class 12 exam in M.P.||Since three years of age when Krishna Gupta learnt to read and write, only persistent persuasion with cogent arguments can change her mind. Anything less — coercion through baby talk or an unreasonable demand thrust on her — she would simply ignore. On August 26, the resident of Lonara village in Khargone district took the third Class 12 open board examination, of Accounting, aged just 11, among the youngest to ever take a senior secondary examination in the State. Other students could only stare at her in amazement when the much-younger girl walked inside the exam centre accompanied by her father. Even Home Minister Narottam Mishra on August 19 lauded her eligibility for the examination. “You have proven that talent is not dependent on any given condition. May the blessings of mother Pitambara and Saraswati always be on you,” he wrote on Twitter. A psychometric test Ms. Gupta took in 2014 puts her intelligence quotient at nearly 150, classified as ‘very superior’, according to a report of Choithram Hospital, Indore. The psychologist advised she needed a structured and challenging environment where her “intelligence can be put to proper use”. Because of the “superior intelligence” she doesn’t find routine and mundane activities interesting and challenging and thus gets bored.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||AAP avenging defeat in municipal polls, alleges BJP||AAP was unable to forget its “crushing defeat” in the 2017 municipal elections and that was why it was taking revenge on the people of Delhi by allegedly starving the civic bodies financially, the BJP alleged here on Thursday. Delhi BJP media head Ashok Goel alleged that the Delhi government was not giving the share that has to be given to civic bodies based on the constitutional system every year. ‘Share being demanded’ “All the three civic bodies are continuously demanding their share from Delhi government according to the constitutional system, which is collected as a share of tax for civic bodies from the people of Delhi,” Mr. Goel alleged. “It is not hidden from anyone that ever since AAP lost the municipal elections, it has been maintaining a step-motherly behaviour with them,” he also alleged. The people of Delhi, Mr. Goel argued, had given the responsibility of Delhi to AAP-led government but they “left the people of Delhi to die” when the cases of COVID-19 are on the rise. ‘Funds withheld’ “If AAP is claiming that the government will pay timely salaries to the civic bodies’ employees on getting the command of the civic bodies, it is clear that they have intentionally withheld the funds,” he also alleged.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||Cab drivers threaten to go on strike from Sept. 1||Drivers engaged with popular cab aggregator platforms have threatened to go on strike across the NCR from September 1 if their financial problems are not solved and their demands not met. Drivers associated with various bodies, employed by cab aggregators, numbering around 2 lakh, will take part in the strike if the government fails to solve these, said Kamaljeet Singh Gill, president of Sarvodaya Drivers Association of Delhi. The cab drivers have demanded the extension of the moratorium on loan EMI to December 31, fare hike and increase in commission by cab aggregators, and withdrawal of e-challans issued against their vehicles for speeding, said a pamphlet from the drivers. “Our immediate fear is that most cabs have loans against them. The Centre’s moratorium on EMI will end on August 31 and banks start seizing the vehicle for EMI defaults after that,” Mr. Gill said.  The road tax payment relaxation should also be extended till December 31, he added. The drivers have also demanded the cab aggregators raise the fare and commission and share taxes paid by them while travelling between Delhi and NCR.
28 August 2020||New Delhi,||Let us run the civic bodies, says AAP||AAP on Thursday said that since the BJP came to power in the three municipal corporations, it has been complaining that they do not have money to even pay salaries to the employees and added that they should resign and let AAP run the civic bodies. “Stop crying like a child and if you can pay salaries, then run the corporations or else, resign and let us run these. We will run the corporations with the same fund and also run it well,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said while addressing a press conference. Mr. Bharadwaj said that as an MLA, wherever he goes, people of that area complain about the BJP-ruled municipal corporations. “Today, I will request all the AAP volunteers and leaders that whenever anyone complains about the civic bodies, tell them to handover the work to AAP and we will perform with utmost care,” he said. ‘World-class city’ Mr. Bharadwaj said that AAP will make Delhi a world-class city and make a cleanliness model for Delhi when the party comes to power in the municipal corporations.
28 August 2020||Bhopal,||Pending bypoll about future of M.P., says Nath||Former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath on Thursday said the pending by-election to 27 Assembly seats was about the State’s future which was tarnished by politics involving deals. Speaking with reporters here, he exhorted voters not to support him or the Congress but the truth. “This government was formed through bidding. Will they tell voters they were involved in deals and that’s why they resigned? Of course not, but they will instead say loans were not waived. We had waived loans of 26.5 lakh farmers,” Mr. Nath said. Taking a veiled dig at Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit the Congress along with 22 MLAs precipitating the fall of Mr. Nath’s government in March, he said, “And those who themselves held programmes relating to waiving loans now say they left the Congress because loans were not waived.” Further, Mr. Nath said he had devoted his past four months to strengthening the party organisation. “We know our contest is with the organisation of the BJP, not with their achievements. They don’t have any,” he claimed. The pending by-election, he said, wasn’t a regular one. “This election is about the future of M.P.and my message to every voter is to see the picture of the State before them, that of 15 years and ours of 15 months, when we portrayed our policy and intention,” he added.
28 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||MPD 2041: DDA set to interact with stakeholders||As a part of a public engagement strategy pertaining to the preparation of the Master Plan for Delhi (MPD) 2041, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is set to interact with several stakeholders over the next two months. The first such interaction — an online meeting — will take place on September 2 with Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) of unauthorised colonies. “The online meeting is planned to understand the issues and discuss possible solutions for improving the quality of life of residents. These meetings will be conducted in September and October with various stakeholders and citizen groups such as RWAs, market and trader associations, industry associations, women, children and youth,” the urban body said. Portal for public The land-owning agency has also launched a “Public Engagement Portal for MPD-2041” to enhance public participation. “The portal will share information on the preparation of MPD 2041 and will provide citizens with the opportunity to share their feedback and opinions through visioning and perception surveys. Announcements of upcoming public consultation meetings and events will also be available online,” said DDA officials. The DDA is currently in the process of preparing the MPD-2041 in partnership with the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA).
28 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal House to push for Sixth Schedule status||The 60-member Arunachal Pradesh Assembly on Thursday resolved to persuade the Centre for inclusion of the State under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution to protect the rights of its indigenous communities. Tribal areas of four north-eastern States – Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura – are under the Sixth Schedule. After Home Minister Bamang Felix moved the resolution, Chief Minister Pema Khandu said the State did not have adequate laws to safeguard tribal rights. “We will place the resolution before the Centre explaining all the views expressed by the MLAs and the community-based organisations so that it can be taken up for discussion in both Houses of Parliament,” Mr. Khandu said, adding that the “tough journey began today [Thursday]”. The one-day session was earlier scheduled for three days.  Non-IAS as DCs The Chief Minister also told the House that the Centre would be asked to open up posts of Deputy Commissioners of the State’s 22 districts for non-IAS officers.
28 August 2020||GUWAHATI:,||Rural and local council elections held in Mizoram||Elections to 558 village councils across nine districts and 83 local councils within the Aizawl Municipal Corporation (AMC) were held in Mizoram on Thursday amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Mizoram State Election Commission (MSEC) officials said 45.79% of a total of 2,18,758 voters across the AMC local councils and 64.36% of a total of 4,55,706 voters across the village councils cast their votes when reports last came in. “The final figure will be available by afternoon on Friday, the day of counting,” an MSEC official said. State Election Commissioner Laima Chozah said the polling went peacefully and in adherence to the standard operating procedure and safety protocol for all voters and polling staff and parties. “The term of the village councils expired on May 7, but it was extended till September 7 due to the COVID-19 outbreak,” he said. “Thanking all the election officials and every part-taker for providing a safe platform to many voters in exercising our constitutional franchise amidst this pandemic,” Chief Minister Zoramthanga tweeted after casting his vote.
28 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Restrict peace process to Nagaland: students’ body||The All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU) has toughened its stand on the Naga peace process, warning of “drastic movements” if the territorial integrity of the State is compromised for a final solution. This is the second time in a little more than a fortnight that the apex students’ body of the State has raised concern over the 23-year-old peace process. The Centre and the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN(IM), had declared ceasefire in mid-1997. Rival factions and older armed groups joined the peace process later. Several rounds of talks have been inclusive, although the Centre and NSCN (IM) had signed a Framework Agreement in August 2015. “We welcome and appreciate the progress in restoring peace in Nagaland but the peace process should not come at the cost of our territorial integrity,” AAPSU president Hawa Bagang said on Thursday.
28 August 2020||Guwahati,||Atul Bora re-elected AGP chief||Assam’s Agriculture and Veterinary Minister Atul Bora was on Thursday re-elected unopposed as the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) president, a post he has held since 2014. His Cabinet colleague, Water Resources Minister Keshab Mahanta was elected as the party’s working president. The election was held during the 11th general council at the party’s headquarters despite a stay order by a local court. “The council was held keeping COVID-19 precautions in mind,” Mr. Bora said.
