28 May 2020||New Delhi,||Now, Trump offers to mediate between India and China||U.S. President Donald Trump said on Wednesday that he had offered to help New Delhi and Beijing resolve their tensions at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The offer came as a surprise on a day the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs appeared to soften its line on the standoff, suggesting the situation was “stable and controllable” now. “We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute. Thank you!,” Mr. Trump tweeted. Indian and Chinese troops have faced off at at least four points along the LAC, including Pangong Tso (lake), Demchok and Galwan Valley in Ladakh and Naku La in Sikkim, where PLA soldiers are reported to have occupied tracts patrolled by Indian troops, pitching tents and building trenches. Mr. Trump did not elaborate on his offer, which came as a surprise for several reasons. While the U.S. has offered to mediate between India and Pakistan on multiple occasions in the past, this is the first time an American official has offered to be the third party between India and China publicly. China is a threat: Wells His comments also appear to be at variance with the stand taken by senior U.S. State Department official Alice Wells, who squarely blamed China for the border tensions and called it a “threat” to all its neighbours. Moreover, Mr. Trump’s offer comes at a time when the U.S. and China themselves have tensions between them on several fronts. In addition to an uneasy trade situation, the U.S. has accused China of not being transparent with information in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic. And just recently, U.S. National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien said the U.S. could impose sanctions on both Beijing and Hong Kong, if China were to go ahead and impose a national security law on Hong Kong. Neither the Ministry of External Affairs nor China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs responded to Mr. Trump’s statement. India has, in the past, rejected all offers of third party mediation. A senior Indian official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said neither side would take the offer “seriously”, although given the “optics”, China would view it less favourably. Earlier on Wednesday, China said both sides would resolve the standoff bilaterally.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. removes Rs. 4,500 ceiling on COVID-19 test||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has written to all the States and the Union Territories, suggesting that the upper ceiling of Rs. 4,500 for the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for COVID-19 be removed so that they can negotiate with the approved laboratories and introduce cheaper tests. The ICMR said the option was being given now as the “testing supplies situation has stabilised with greater local procurement”. “The earlier suggested upper ceiling of Rs. 4,500, vide letter dated March 17, may not be applicable now and, therefore, all State governments/Union Territory administrations are advised to negotiate with private labs and fix a mutually agreeable price for samples being sent by the government for private individuals desirous of testing,” it said.  The direction came on Wednesday when India reported 6,387 new cases and 170 deaths. The total number of cases stands at 1,51,767, including 83,004 active cases, 64,425 discharged and 4,337 deaths, according to the Health Ministry. “Our recovery rate is 42.4%, with a fatality rate of 2.86%, whereas the world average is 6.36%,” it said. Over 4,500 deaths However, according to the State Health Departments, 7,148 new cases and 187 deaths were reported on Wednesday. The total number of cases was 1,57,996, including 85,725 active cases. The number of deaths stood at 4,532. As many as 67,739 patients have recovered from the infection. The Health Ministry also said critical services for women, children and adolescents should be provided irrespective of their COVID-19 status, and under no circumstances should they be denied essential services. India records over 2.5 crore pregnancies every year and has the largest adolescent and youth population. Hence, it is vital to continue the essential services to the vulnerable sections.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Jaya’s nephew, niece entitled to her assets: HC||Ending the uncertainty over inheritance of vast properties left behind by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, the Madras High Court on Wednesday declared her nephew J. Deepak and niece J. Deepa as Class II legal heirs entitled to all the properties left behind by their aunt. The former AIADMK leader, who faced a disproportionate assets case, died intestate on December 5, 2016. The court made it clear that the State government could not acquire any of the properties without issuing notice to the legal heirs and paying them adequate compensation. Justices N. Kirubakaran and Abdul Quddhose allowed an application filed by Mr. Deepak and granted a Letter of Administration in favour of him and his sister. They also recorded the siblings’ undertaking that a few properties, to be selected as per their discretion, would be allotted to create a public trust named after Jayalalithaa for welfare activities. Such a trust should be created within eight weeks of the date of receipt of the judgment, the judges said. They rejected another case filed by AIADMK functionaries K. Pugazhenthi and P. Janakiraman for appointing them as administrators of the properties left behind by their departed leader. The Bench agreed with advocate S.L. Sudarsanam, representing Mr. Deepak, that rank outsiders could not be given Letters of Administration. Authoring the verdict, Justice Kirubakaran advised the government to give up its decision to acquire Veda Nilayam, Jayalalithaa’s bungalow at Poes Garden in Chennai, and convert it into a memorial. Since the bungalow, spread over 10 grounds in the posh locality, was reported to be worth over Rs. 100 crore, the judge felt it to be a waste of public money. Recently the State promulgated an ordinance to take over the bungalow temporarily. ‘Use money judiciously’ “Instead of acquiring the said property and paying a heavy compensation, the said amount could be utilised for development purposes... When there are so many essential amenities which are yet to be provided by the welfare state, public money cannot be wasted on memorials,” the court said. It cautioned that if Jayalalithaa’s residence was converted into a memorial, every other party that would come to power in the State might use public money to convert the residences of their leaders into memorials. On the other hand, if the government persisted with its plan to acquire the Poes Garden bungalow by burning a hole in the exchequer, either the entire property or at least a part of it could be used as the official residence-cum-home office of the Chief Minister and the rest could be converted into a memorial, the court said. The judges directed the government to provide round-the-clock security to Mr. Deepak and Ms. Deepa. Ordering them to bear the costs, they said any one of their aunt’s properties could be liquidated to pay the cost.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||107 test positive as COVID cases cross 2,000 mark||Telangana gasped as 107 COVID-19 cases were reported on Wednesday-which is the highest number of cases reported in a day till date. Until May 26, the highest number of cases in a day was 79 recorded on May 11. The total number of cases crossed the 2,000 mark on Wednesday and now stands at 2098. The statistics related to COVID-19 from Wednesday made people take notice of the situation for more than one reason. Besides the highest number of cases reported in a day, six more COVID patients succumbed to the virus. This is the eighth consecutive day of COVID deaths in the State. The format of medical bulletin was changed again leading to confusion while interpreting the data. This was criticised as it was difficult to make sense of the data without clarifications. It had some errors too. Though officials confirmed that cumulative number of active cases, discharged and deaths add up to 2,098, other details in the bulletin give another number. As per the bulletin, a total of 1,842 local cases were reported till May 27 evening and total cases of migrants, foreign returnees and deportees add to 297. (1842+297 =2139.) However, as per the bulletin, the total cases are only 2,098. Officials indicated that there is error in the total number of local cases. Officials from the State Health department said they have separated the cases detected locally from that of migrants, foreign evacuees and deportees. Till May 26, new cases were further categorised under districts, migrants, foreign evacuees, in the medical bulletin. Departing from the usual format, cases were distributed broadly into two categories 1) cases detected locally 2) positive cases detected among migrants, foreign returnees and those who were deported. Of the 107 cases detected on Wednesday, 39 are local cases, 19 migrants and 49 among Saudi Arabia deportees. Till date, 2,098 cases are detected in the State. Of them, 714 are active cases, 1,321 were discharged and 63 have died. Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao said the Centre has airlifted 458 deportees from Saudi Arabia. “These deportees have been quarantined at government quarantine centres in the State. A total of 82 deportees who tested positive for COVID-19 are undergoing treatment.” Regarding migrants who returned to the State, Dr Rao said that a large number of migrants were returning from different States. “These migrants are being home quarantined and monitored by district authorities. Those who are symptomatic are tested. Most of the migrants are arriving from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar, etc,” he said. Till date, 154 migrants have tested positive for coronavirus.
28 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||YSRCP failed on all fronts: Naidu||Development in the State has come to a grinding halt during the one-year rule of the YSR Congress Party, alleged Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chadrababu Naidu at the inaugural session of Mahanadu, the annual conclave of the party, at the national office at Mangalagiri on Wednesday. For the first time, the TDP organised a virtual Mahanadu keeping in mind the social distancing norms. Mr. Naidu said had the TDP been in power now, COVID-19 would not have spread like this. The government, instead of following the methods followed by States such as Kerala to check the spread of coronavirus, was looking for kickbacks even in purchase of bleaching powder, he alleged. The TDP president devoted a major part of his speech to the “failures of the government.” “The YSRCP promised the people that it would get Special Category Status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh if voted to power. What happened to the promise?” he asked. The “destruction spree,” which began with the pulling down of the Praja Vedika, continued till the demolition of the historical ‘three lanterns stupa’ at Vizianagaram. Arogyasethu app developer was threatened to hand over the land. In an apparent bid to woo the BCs and other sections of society, The TDP supremo said the BCs had been the backbone of the party ever since its inception, but there seemed to be some misconceptions among them. The party could not pay attention to the BCs though several schemes were implemented when the TDP was in power after the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh “Forget the mistakes, if any. I will take responsibility and correct the same,” he said.“We need to make a new beginning from this Mahanadu. The party has to go closer to the BCs, SCs, STs and minorities,” he added.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||He is weakening the country’s resolve: BJP||A day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the lockdown to handle the spread of COVID-19 had been a failure, the BJP accused him of “weakening the resolve of the country” in fighting the pandemic. Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, addressing a video presser from a party platform, termed Mr. Gandhi’s behaviour “most irresponsible” and said he was trying to mislead the country with “falsehoods and misrepresentation of facts”. Mr. Prasad, citing many instances of Congress Chief Ministers acting in opposition to Mr. Gandhi’s statements with regard to announcing lockdowns and curfews, also sought to know if they were even “listening to him”. “All he has done since March is to demoralise people and seek publicity for himself.” The BJP also released a booklet titled “Who is trying to weaken India’s fight against COVID?”, to attack Mr. Gandhi. The booklet is a compilation of his comments and also positive reports on the Modi government’s efforts to combat the novel coronavirus.
28 May 2020||PATNA,||Migrant workers jump off trains in Bihar to escape 14-day quarantine||Migrant workers returning to Bihar are jumping from trains to escape the 14-day mandatory quarantine. On Tuesday, 350 migrants returning from Delhi and Patiala pulled the alarm chain at two different places and jumped off the Shramik Special trains. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel and villagers, however, caught 180 of them. “They are jumping ahead of their destination. We convince those we manage to detain that it is necessary not only for them but also for their family members,” said an RPF official at Danapur railway station near Patna. A large number of migrants on board the Shramik Special from Delhi’s Anand Vihar to Purnea in north-east Bihar deboarded near the Ranibagh railway crossing on Tuesday. While nearly 150 managed to escape, around 250 migrants were caught by the villagers who then informed the RPF personnel. They were taken to quarantine centres, but some more managed to flee. Some flee, some detained In another incident, migrant workers stopped the Shramik Special from Chandigarh to Gaya in Sasaram district last week and 24 are believed to have escaped from the train, said an official. A senior East Central Railway official said this was happening often. “Sometimes they are caught, sometime they manage to escape,” he said. Lakhs of migrant workers returning home are refusing to be quarantined near their homes. “The government should allow us to quarantine ourselves at home. How can we be away from our family for 14 days after all the trouble we went through?” asked Mahendra Sahni from Muzaffarpur. On Tuesday, some policemen in Nalanda district were injured in a clash with inmates at a quarantine centre at Gurukul Vidyalaya in Katrahi. The enraged migrants were demanding better food and facilities. Similar protests and clashes have been reported from several other centres too.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,||817 fresh cases of COVID-19 take Tamil Nadu’s tally to 18,545||Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases surpassed the 18,000-mark on Wednesday as, in yet another spike, the State reported 817 new cases of the disease. The toll increased to 133 with six more fatalities. The fresh cases took the total number of COVID-19 cases to 18,545*. The number of persons discharged after treatment rose to 9,909, while the total number of active cases was 8,500. Chennai’s total, with the addition of 558 cases, climbed to 12,203. The city accounted for 95 of the 133 deaths. A total of 5,800 persons were discharged after treatment in the city. Another 567 were discharged after treatment from hospitals in the State. Among them was a 52-year-old inspector of police who was hospitalised at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) after testing positive for COVID-19 on May 7. He had symptoms of increasing breathlessness, and a CT scan showed more than 50% involvement of both lungs. His blood parameters indicated that he was in a severe cytokine storm. He was treated with high levels of oxygen, heparin and immunosuppressive drugs. Prone nursing and breathing exercises helped improve his lung condition, a press release from RGGGH said. There were 40 new cases in Tiruvallur, 31 in Chengalpattu, 14 in Kancheepuram, 13 in Tiruvannamalai, five in Tiruvarur, four in Ariyalur, three in Tiruchi, two each in Cuddalore, Thoothukudi, and one each in Kallakurichi, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Ramanathapuram, Thanjavur and Tirupattur. Among the six persons who died was a 39-year-old man from Chennai. He had diabetes, systemic hypertension and obesity, and was admitted to RGGGH on May 23. He died on May 26 due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 74-year-old woman from Chengalpattu, who was admitted to the Chengalpattu Medical College Hospital on May 11, died on May 25 due to respiratory failure and acute exacerbation of bronchial asthma, while another woman aged 78 died at RGGGH due to cardiopulmonary arrest, COVID-19 pneumonia, left ventricular dysfunction and cardiogenic shock. She had diabetes, systemic hypertension and coronary artery disease. A 54-year-old woman from Chennai and a 51-year-old man from Tiruvallur also died at RGGGH. A 79-year-old man, who had diabetes, systemic hypertension and pulmonary tuberculosis sequelae, died within two hours of admission to RGGGH on Tuesday. He died due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia. Apart from the cases within the State, 139 persons, who returned from other States, tested positive for COVID-19. Except for one person who had returned from Kerala, all the others were from Maharashtra. This included 73 persons who tested positive in Kallakurichi and 31 passengers who had returned in a special train from Mumbai to Tirunelveli and were under railway quarantine. Till now, a total of 1,122 children aged 0 to 12 have tested positive for COVID-19. Among the new patients were three one-month-old babies. A total of 1,627 persons aged above 60 have tested positive till date. A total of 11,231 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 4,42,970. Testing of 650 samples is under process. Two more testing facilities have been approved for COVID-19 testing — the Government Headquarters Hospital, Dindigul, and Krsnaa Diagnostics Private Limited, Coimbatore. With this, there are a total of 42 government labs and 28 private labs in the State, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||A full lockdown is damaging, says Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said a full lockdown was damaging and “the sooner we got out of it, the better”. He said this during an online interaction with Prof. Johan Giesecke, member of the Technical Advisory Group for Infectious Hazards of WHO, and Prof. Ashish Jha, Dean of Brown University School of Public Health, as part of his series of interactions with public health experts. While answering a question from Prof. Giesecke on how India was balancing between disease and economy, Mr. Gandhi said, “Well, we got a full lockdown and I am sceptical of a full lockdown myself. I do think that one has to move to a partial lockdown. I think the full lockdown is damaging and the damage increases exponentially.” He also accepted Prof. Giescke’s remark that more may die due to severe lockdown than the disease. Prof. Giescke, who works with Karolinska Institute, Sweden, spoke about his country, where the lockdown is far more relaxed.
28 May 2020||GUNTUR,||Will implement decision on English medium with ‘iron will’: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday said he was moving ahead with “an iron will” to implement the decision to introduce English medium in all government schools from Classes 1 to 6 from the next academic year. “I am keen on making English medium compulsory in all government schools from this year in spite of several obstacles. Next year (2021), we will introduce it from Class 7 so that students will become eligible to write examinations in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) pattern. We have already moved the Supreme Court on this issue and parents have overwhelmingly backed our decision. Who does not want his children to be proficient in English? Are those opposing English medium sending their children to Telugu medium schools?” asked Mr. Jagan. ‘Parents’ choice’ Speaking on Day 3 of ‘Mana-Palana - Mee Suchana,’ he said the government had conveyed the survey findings in which more than 96 % of parents favoured the switch, to the State Council for Education Research and Training (SCERT) which in turn asked the government to have at least one school in Telugu medium for every mandal. “I urge everyone to think on these lines. Even if our driver speaks to us in English, will we not treat him with respect? I want everyone to think that every poor family should be empowered, and English Medium is the only option,” the Chief Minister said. Minister for HRD Adimulapu Suresh, Advisor (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy and officials were present.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Cases cross 100 in 10 dists. after curbs are eased||Ever since the State eased lockdown restrictions on May 18, there has been a spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka, with at least nine districts, apart from Bengaluru Urban, reporting over 100 cases. Now, Chamarajanagar is the lone district free of COVID-19 in Karnataka. Faster doubling More significantly, cases in nearly 10 affected districts are doubling at a rate faster than the State average, which on Wednesday stood at 10 days. This has become a cause of concern and sources said that health authorities are now mulling over focussing only on symptomatic cases like in Kerala. While Bengaluru Urban and Mandya have crossed the 200 mark, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Belagavi, Davangere, Chickballapur, Hassan, Udupi, and Bidar have over 100 cases now. Yadgir, Udupi, Mandya and Chickballapur have reported the highest increase in cases ever since the curbs have been eased. In the past 10 days, the numbers rose from 11 to 156 in Yadgir, 11 to 120 in Udupi, 24 to 131 in Chickballapur, and 89 to 255 in Mandya. Kalaburagi, which had 114 cases on May 18, has now recorded 185 cases. Over 90% of the new cases in the last 10 days are inter-State passengers, especially from Mumbai in Maharashtra.  “Although the State’s bed occupancy is very minimal, we need to conserve our resources now so that we can handle the situation if it gets worse, which is expected,” the member said. Another doctor, who is part of the State’s COVID-19 task force, said home quarantine for all asymptomatic persons is the practical way forward now. Asked how viable this option would be, especially when there have been instances of people violating the norms, the doctor said: “Everybody should have a sense of responsibility. If they are stamped for home quarantine, they better follow it.” V. Ravi, senior professor and Head of Neurovirology at NIMHANS, said as the whole situation is dynamic, there is a need to review and modify testing and treatment protocols and other guidelines regularly. “The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the U.S. has studied that the infection is mainly spread by symptomatic cases. Based on this, the Union government too has been modifying guidelines time to time,” he added.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,||3 die, 135 new cases in State||Three more persons succumbed to COVID-19 infection in Yadgir, Bidar, and Vijayapura on Wednesday, taking the toll to 47. The State recorded 135 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, and the total stands at 2,418. In Yadgir, a 69-year-old female returnee from Maharashtra was brought dead to a designated hospital on May 20. Her samples tested positive on Wednesday. While a 49-year-old male SARI patient with uncontrolled diabetes died in Bidar, an 82-year-old male resident of Vijayapura, admitted with fever, cough, chest pain and breathlessness, died on May 26. Of the 135 new cases, 116 are inter-State travellers and two have international travel history.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Adding firepower||
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID cases cross the 3,000-mark||One more death and 134 fresh cases of positive COVID-19 were reported in the State during the past 24 hours. While 68 fresh cases are of local people, 66 are of migrant workers who returned to the State. The total number of migrant cases has gone up to 219 and 144 of them have recovered. The total number of cases among foreign returnees stand at 111, as per the bulletin issued by Health Department on Wednesday. The fresh death case was reported in East Godavari and nine cases (Chittoor-8, Nellore-1) are linked to Koyambedu hotspot. The tally crossed the 3,000-mark and reached 3,117. There are 1,002 active patients under treatment and 2,057 have recovered and were discharged.  Koyambedu links So far, Koyambedu hotspot in Tamil Nadu accounted for at least 213 cases in about six districts. All together the cases of persons linked to Koyembedu, foreign returnees and migrant returnees stood at 543 which is 17.4 % of the tally. The death toll increased to 58 which is 1.8% of the total positive cases. It took 45 days for the State to witness first thousand cases owing to Delhi returnees. About 16 days later the second 1,000 cases were reported and in another 66 days the 3,000-mark has been crossed, on the 77th day.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amid impasse, commanders’ meet begins||The continuing tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) are likely to top the agenda as the biannual Army Commanders Conference (ACC) began on Wednesday, with discussions led by the Army chief and the seven commanders, with a specific session devoted to each command over three days. The sessions by the Northern and Eastern Commands would be of particular interest as they cover the border with China. The ACC was originally scheduled for April, but was postponed owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, and is now scheduled to be held in two phases. Several military officers say the issue has to be resolved at the diplomatic and political level as the two Armies are entrenched on the ground and the talks between the local commanders haven’t made any headway.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||Capital sees record 792 new COVID-19 cases||The Capital registered 792 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 15,257, said a government health bulletin released on Wednesday. This is the biggest single-day jump in the number of cases in the city so far. On May 22, Delhi had seen 660 new cases.
28 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Five persons on Shramik Special trains die in U.P.||Five migrant workers travelling on Shramik Special trains allegedly died of unspecified causes near Kanpur and Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh over the last 24 hours, the police said on Wednesday. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Less chaos at airport after clear protocol on travel||With States coming out with a clear protocol on domestic air travel, the scene at Delhi airport on Wednesday was a lot less chaotic compared with the first day when there were many last-minute cancellations. Several passengers purchased full PPE kits being sold at kiosks in the terminal for Rs. 840.
28 May 2020||MYSURU,||Tiger that mauled tribal man to death trapped||A tiger that killed a Jenu Kuruba tribal at Nagarahole National Park was trapped late on Tuesday. The tiger is around 12 years old and is known by its unique identification number U386. Jagadish, who went missing on Monday, was found mauled on Tuesday.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,||‘BBMP prepared to handle monsoon’||The pre-monsoon showers over the past couple of days have shown how ill-prepared the city is to tackle the rains. With the Meteorological Department forecast stating more rains are expected, BBMP claims to have put in place various measures ahead of the monsoon months.
28 May 2020||MYSURU,||Chamarajanagar: A cut above the rest||In a bid to stay ahead of the COVID-19 curve, the local authorities have launched an ‘Evergreen Chamarajanagar’ initiative. This entails vesting the public with individual responsibility to ensure social distancing and high-level of hygiene in both private and public places.
28 May 2020||UDUPI,||Nine test positive for COVID-19 in Udupi||As many as nine persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Wednesday. These nine included a nine-year-old boy. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said here that all these persons had returned from Maharashtra recently and were in quarantine centres. They have been shifted to the designated hospital.
28 May 2020||UDUPI,||Fair price shops told to display details of items||Chairperson of Karnataka State Food Commission N. Krishnamurthy said on Wednesday that it was compulsory for fair price shops to display boards giving details of ration food items available with them. He told presspersons here that the fair price shops in Udupi district had only provided rice in April and May. They had not provided wheat and dal. The officers concerned had been directed to submit a report on this. There were some differences in the stock of food items in some fair price shops. Some shops were not entering the details of food items distributed to anganwadis in the printed register recommended by the commission, he said.
28 May 2020||Shivamogga,||Meeting on Saturday||The general body meeting of the Shivamogga City Corporation would be held on May 30. The meeting would commence at 10.30 a.m. Mayor Suvarna Shankarwould preside over the proceedings.
28 May 2020||Chennai,||Tokens for free rations to be given from tomorrow||Tokens for the free supply of essentials for family cardholders in Tamil Nadu for June will be distributed at their doorstep between May 29 and 31. The tokens would mention the date when people could collect the supplies from ration shops, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said in a release.
28 May 2020||Chennai,||Private schools warned against demanding fees||Reiterating that private schools should not force parents to pay fees, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said action would be taken against institutions if the issue was brought to the notice of the Department.
28 May 2020||Chennai,||Plan to hire doctors on contract draws flak||A move to engage medical officers in government medical college hospitals, its affiliated institutions and peripheral hospitals on a temporary basis, for three months, in view of the COVID-19 outbreak has evoked sharp criticism from doctors’ associations. In the midst of the COVID-19, the Health Department plans to engage more health staff.
28 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala reports three ‘community’ cases||Three persons succumbed in Yadgir, Bidar, and Vijayapura, in Karnataka on Wednesday. One death and 134 fresh cases were reported in Andhra Pradesh. COVID-19 cases continued to go up in Kerala with 40 more testing positive. All except three were expatriates and non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) from other States. Among new cases, nine had come from abroad while 28 were NoRKs. Three persons were believed to have contracted the disease from the community. Kasaragod accounted for 10 cases, Palakkad eight, Alapuzha (7), Kollam (4), Pathanamthitta (3), Wayanad (3), Ernakulam (2), Kozhikode (2) and Kannur (1). Ten patients recovered from illness. Currently, 445 patients were undergoing treatment in various hospitals. Of the 1,003 COVID-19 cases reported by the State so far, 542 had recovered. Kerala currently had 1,07,832 persons under surveillance, of whom, 1,06,940 were in home or institutional quarantine and 892 in observation in hospitals. The State had tested 58,866 samples, of which 56,558 samples were negative. As part of sentinel surveillance, a total of 9,095 samples were tested, of which 8,541 were negative. Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan said at his media interaction that the public themselves should become the warriors against COVID-19. The death of three more persons raised Karnataka’s fatalities to 47. The State recorded 135 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, and the total stood at 2,418. In Yadgir, a 69-year-old woman who returned from Maharashtra was brought dead to a designated hospital on May 20. Her samples tested positive on Wednesday. While a 49-year-old male with severe acute respiratory illness and uncontrolled diabetes died in Bidar, an 82-year-old man from Vijayapura, with fever, cough, chest pain and breathlessness, died on May 26. Of the 135 new cases, 116 were inter-State travellers and two had international travel history. Among new cases, Kalaburgi was highest with 28 followed by Yadgir with 16 cases. Bengaluru Urban recorded six cases - two with travel to UAE and Nepal. Besides one fatality, the 134 fresh cases in Andhra Pradesh included 68 local people and 66 migrant workers. The fresh death was in East Godavari and nine cases (Chittoor-8, Nellore-1) were linked to the Koyambedu hotspot.  Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of cases passed the 18,000-mark on Wednesday. State reported 817 new cases while the toll increased to 133 with six more fatalities.   (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Differences mustn’t shade ties’||India and China have kept up “close communication and cooperation” since the COVID-19 outbreak, said China’s Ambassador to India Sun Weidong, adding that he was “impressed” by India’s handling of the pandemic thus far. While he made no direct reference to the ongoing stand-off between the two Armies at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh and Sikkim, Mr. Sun said that India and China should “never let the differences shadow the overall situation of bilateral cooperation”, referring to the two countries as the “Dragon and Elephant dancing together”. “Our two leaders President Xi Jinping and Prime Minster Narendra Modi have exchanged letters, and our foreign ministers made phone calls twice to strengthen our anti-epidemic cooperation,” said Mr. Sun, speaking at an Internet seminar or webinar for “Indian Youth” on Wednesday. He added that Indian companies had helped with supplies on 45 Indian cargo flights to China, while Chinese companies like Alibaba, Fosun, SANY Group had assisted India with masks, protective suits, medical gloves and ventilators. ‘Swift action’ When asked what he thought of India’s response to the pandemic, Mr. Sun said he had been “impressed with several things”, including what he called “swift action” in placing a lockdown across the country on March 25, when confirmed cases of the infection were not very high. Praising the “solidarity” and “cooperation” with which Indians had responded to lockdown restrictions, the Ambassador remarked that a “majority of the Indian people follow government instructions and advice to stay at home, and the overall social order has been stable since the lockdown”.  Referring to the resolution by more than 100 countries at the World Health Assembly this month that called for a full enquiry into the origins of the novel coronavirus, Mr. Sun said all countries should be “vigilant” about what he called “conspiracy theories” that China had concealed the pandemic or that the virus had originated from the Wuhan Institute of Virology. India, which had backed the resolution at the World Health Assembly, has refused any public comment on the issue of the origin of the virus, stating that these issues must be dealt with only after the threat from the disease recedes. “We did not cover up anything, and did not delay any efforts. Identifying the source of the virus is a serious and complex issue of science, which should be studied and explored by scientists and medical experts,” Mr. Sun asserted, while addressing students on the webinar.
28 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||5 persons on Shramik Special trains die in U.P.||Five migrant workers travelling back to their native districts on Shramik Special trains allegedly died of unspecified causes near Kanpur and Varanasi over the last 24 hours during their journey, the police said on Wednesday. Ram Avadh Chauhan’s body was deboarded at the Kanpur Central station on Tuesday, along with that of another unidentified passenger on the same train from Maharashtra, carrying migrant workers to Gorakhpur. A third body was recovered at the Kanpur station from another train on Wednesday, said a Railway police inspector. Two persons arrived dead at the Manduadih station in Varanasi on a train from Mumbai’s LTT on Wednesday. The Superintendent of Police, Government Railway Police, Prayagraj, said Dasrath Prajapati, 30, of Jaunpur and Ram Ratan Goud, 63, of Azamgarh were found dead on the train. The bodies were sent for post-mortem examination. ‘Due to the heat’ According to his family, Ram Avadh Chauhan’s health had started deteriorating due to the heat. “He had taken off his clothes because his body had becom very hot,” said Kanhaiya Chauhan, his son. Working as a mason in Maharashtra’s Kalyan city, Ram Avadh, 45, with his two sons, wife, daughter and mother-in-law, travelled to Jhansi by bus. In Jhansi, they boarded a Gorakhpur-bound special train on Tuesday to their native place Azamgarh. During the journey, Ram Avadh, a diabetic, started feeling uneasy. Mr. Kanhaiya, a science student, said his father wanted the train to stop. The family members claim they pulled the chain, but the train did not stop. They also dialled the Railway helpline number, but allegedly got no help. At the Kanpur station, the family, travelling in the S13 coach, got off. His father died 10 minutes after Mr. Kanhaiya went in search of help, he said. “He was frothing at the mouth and bleeding from the nose,” Mr. Kanhaiya told The Hindu over the phone. No food provided Mr. Kanhaiya alleged that while they received puri sabzi and a pouch of water each on the train from Jhansi, from 1 a.m. on Tuesday, when they had arrived in Jhansi on a bus, till around 11 a.m. on Wednesday, they were not served anything to eat at the Jhansi Paramedical College, where they spent the night. The last proper meal they had was on Monday evening at Guna in Madhya Pradesh. “He [father] had not taken his medicine for diabetes since two days as he was was not getting regular food,” said Mr. Kanhaiya. The other migrant worker who died on the same train was yet to be identified but a police inspector said he was in his fifties, while the third person who died on Wednesday was also unidentified and aged about 35.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Despite lockdown, wheat procurement on target||On the back of a record wheat harvest of more than 1,071 lakh tonnes, procurement of the grain — currently at 342.6 lakh tonnes — has also crossed last year’s levels despite the lockdown, and is well on the way to reaching this year’s target of 407 lakh tonnes. However, the progress on procurement is uneven, with States such as Punjab and Haryana racing towards their targets despite a late start, while Uttar Pradesh lags behind, having reached less than 40% of its target. Madhya Pradesh has already crossed its target. Record production The late excess rainfall during last year’s monsoon followed by a long winter provided the climatic conditions needed for wheat production to hit a record high for the fourth straight year. According to the Agriculture Ministry’s third advance estimates, the country’s production amounts to 1,071 lakh tonnes of wheat this year, almost 36 lakh tonnes higher than previous year’s and 110 lakh tonnes higher than the average harvest. A little over a third of the crop is procured by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) at the minimum support price set by the Centre each year, to go into the central pool for subsidised distribution under the National Food Security Act. However, the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown had led to initial fears that procurement would be disrupted this year. When the lockdown began, harvesting was already under way in western and central States like Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. In the northern States, harvesting was delayed both by the long winter, as well as the challenges caused by the pandemic, including labour shortage and machinery that was yet to return from being rented to farmers further south. In Punjab, where procurement usually begins in the first week of April, it was pushed till April 15, immediately after the first phase of the lockdown. In Haryana, procurement was further delayed until April 20. Various concerns Once procurement started, concerns included a shortage of labour at markets, fears of infection spread and a shortage of jute gunny bags due to production being disrupted at West Bengal’s jute mills. The Food Ministry said it had permitted the use of plastic bags as well as used and cleaned jute bags to overcome this hurdle, and it offered specific time slots for farmers, as well as safety equipment for labourers. According to FCI data, 342.6 lakh tonnes of wheat have been procured so far in this 2020-21 marketing season, from 10 wheat producing States. This is higher than the 341 lakh tonnes procured last year. In Madhya Pradesh, procurement has touched 113 lakh tonnes as against a target of 100 lakh tonnes. In Punjab, 93% of procurement is complete, with 126 lakh tonnes purchased against a 135 lakh tonne target, while Haryana has reached almost 75% of its target. In Uttar Pradesh however, only 20 lakh tonnes have been procured, as against a target of 55 lakh tonnes.
28 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala to conduct 3,000 tests daily||Kerala has decided to do more diagnostic RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) testing for COVID-19 and increase the number of tests per day to 3,000 as the influx of non-resident Keralites from abroad and other parts of the country where disease transmission is intense has necessitated a better containment strategy. On Tuesday, an expert committee headed by B. Ekbal, member, State Planning Board, pointed out at a review meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan that community transmission could not be ruled out in the State now and that testing had to be augmented in a big way. He said it was highly likely that community transmission had already happened in the State as several isolated cases had surfaced in the community with no known source of infection. He advised that rather than ponder whether community transmission had become a reality, the State should act urgently and increase testing. The Chief Minister said here on Wednesday that in the initial stages of disease transmission, the State had been facing an acute shortage of PCR testing kits and RNA extraction kits. However, the State does not have a shortage of test kits now. It has a stock of 88,781 PCR kits, 10,0112 RNA extraction kits, and 1,28,450 swabs. There are 14 labs in the public sector and six in the private sector. The State has the capacity to do up to 5,000 tests daily. It has thus been decided that 3,000 tests would be done daily. Public health experts have been pointing out that in the second stage of disease containment, the State is not using PCR testing adequately. Sentinel surveillance On one side, in the absence of reliable antibody tests, on April 23 the State started sentinel surveillance studies using PCR to determine community transmission by collecting 900 random naso/oropharyngeal samples every week from all districts, from high-risk groups like health-care workers and those with high social exposure . This was augmented to 3,000 samples a week on May 14. In between, Kerala also did a one-time sample study (augmented sample survey) on April 26 when 3,000 samples were collected in a day from districts and sent for testing. However, till May 13, the average daily PCR samples tested by the State has remained at 800-1,000. It was only since May 14, when the imported cases of COVID 19 began to spike, that this was moderately increased to 1,000-2,000 samples. As on May 27, Kerala has tested 58,866 routine samples and 9,095 samples as part of sentinel surveillance. Even when it was pointed out that Kerala was doing comparatively fewer tests in the country (1,195.7 per million. In comparison, neighbouring Tamil Nadu was doing over 4,000 tests per million), the State argued that its test numbers were in proportion with its active cases detected. The expert committee has now recommended that the sentinel surveillance and augmented surveillance studies be doubled and that all persons in the “vulnerable” categories who come to primary health centres with influenza-like illnesses (ILI) be tested for COVID-19. All districts should initiate ILI ( influenza -like illness) surveys for which mobile sample collection vans should be readied. The committee also suggested that an ILI self-reporting app may be thought of.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka HC issues SOP for partially resuming courts||The High Court of Karnataka has issued Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the High Court and the district courts for resuming partial functioning of the courts across the State from June 1. While the HC will hear urgent cases through videoconferencing in three forenoon sessions between 10.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m., the final hearing cases will be taken up in the physical courts in the afternoon session from 2.30 p.m. to 4.45 p.m. However, only a total of 30 cases would be taken up for hearing in the forenoon sessions, and only 10 in the afternoon sessions. Only eight courts, two Division Benches and six Single Benches will be made available during sitting days in the High Court. In the district courts, only 10 cases each would be heard during the forenoon and the afternoon sessions respectively. The evidences in trial courts would be recorded only by videoconferencing, except for official witnesses. Only one advocatewill be allowed to enter the court halls, and no other paralegal staff, like advocates clerks, and interns, will be allowed inside the court hall. Entry for the public and the litigant public is strictly prohibited except as ordered by the court. All the judges are advised to use face masks while in the court premises, including the court halls. As per the SOP, the advocates’ association has to ensure that before the entry of bar members/advocates’ clerks, they would furnish a written declaration, as a one-time measure, undertaking that in the recent past, they have not travelled to any other country, other State or to any other district/s in Karnataka, which is notified as red zone. The declaration should also indicate or state that the advocates/advocates’ clerks have not visited any of the containment areas in the recent past. Elaborate arrangements for health screening at the designated entry points, social distancing, and sanitisation, including inside the court halls, have also been put in place as per the protocol for workplaces.
28 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala may take liberal stance on quarantine cost of NoRKs||Taking the sting out of the Opposition criticism against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s announcement that repatriates will have to bear their quarantine expenses, the government is learnt to have identified those who are eligible for availing themselves of the facility free of cost. The State government is understood to have reached a broad understanding on adopting a benign approach on footing the expenses in the case of repatriates who were rendered jobless post lockdown, job-seekers who had gone overseas on visiting visa, and those who were compelled to return in a state of penury. The United Democratic Front (UDF) that sought to put the government on the mat on the basis of Mr. Vijayan’s announcement raised a political debate and offered to sponsor the quarantine expenses of the indigent Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs). The UDF also chose to ignore the Central guidelines in this regard. Central guideline The Central government guidelines issued for international arrivals had specified that before boarding all travellers should give an undertaking that they would undergo mandatory quarantine for a fortnight, a week’s paid institutional quarantine at their own cost followed by a week’s home isolation with self-monitoring of their health. Though the State government had been diligently following the Central government guidelines on COVID-19 containment, it had taken a more benign stance on issues concerning the poor and the weaker sections. Hence, it was favourably inclined in bearing the cost of quarantine of the indigent repatriates. This was despite the fact that the government was funding the containment activities from the spartan resources at its disposal. The UDF bid to reap political mileage by accusing that the commitments made by the government to ensure the safety and security of the Non-Resident Keralites have all turned hollow, seems to have stirred the government into action and it has resolved to clear the air. Order soon An order specifying the details of the repatriates who are eligible for free quarantine would be issued soon. This is also expected to douse the political row triggered by the Opposition that was trying to pick up holes in the government’s COVID-19 management.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Churches, mosques to open on June 1, says Yediyurappa||A day after the Karnataka government decided to reopen nearly 35,000 Muzrai temples from June 1, Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday said churches and mosques too would be allowed to reopen from that date. Speaking to reporters, the Chief Minister said the norms applicable to temples such as social distancing would also be applicable to churches and mosques. “Once we say temples can open, churches and mosques should also open. There will be no restrictions on them. But the State government has been awaiting the Union government’s permission for reopening,” he said. “We want permission from Delhi. I have written a letter. The expectation is that mostly we will get permission.” On Tuesday, Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary held a meeting with the Chief Minister and had announced that government-owned temples, which were closed for over two months owing to COVID-19 lockdown, would be reopened from June 1. Asked about the opening of hotels and restaurants, he said he had written to the Prime Minister on that issue too. Meanwhile, the High Court of Karnataka has issued Standard Operating Procedure for the High Court and the district courts for resuming partial functioning across the State from June 1. While the HC will hear urgent cases through videoconferencing in three forenoon sessions between 10.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m, the final hearing cases will be taken up in the physical courts in the afternoon session from 2.30 p.m. to 4.45 p.m. Only eight courts, two Division Benches and six Single Benches will be made available during sitting days in the High Court.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court gets stinging letter from senior lawyers||Hours before taking suo motu cognisance of “certain lapses” in government measures in dealing with migrant workers, the Supreme Court received a stinging letter from 10 senior lawyers each from Delhi and Mumbai that was critical of its “self-effacing deference” to the government, “unwillingness” and “apparent indifference” in the face of the “enormous humanitarian crisis”. The senior lawyers, who include P. Chidambaram, Kapil Sibal, Prashant Bhushan, Indira Jaising, Vikas Singh, Iqbal Chavla and Navroz Seervai, said the way the Supreme Court chose to trust the “bland assertions and patently incorrect statements” made by the Centre reminded them of how it functioned during the Emergency era, “when detenues were left to the tender mercy of the executive with ‘Diamond bright, Diamond hard hope” that something would be done”. The lawyers also include Anand Grover, Mohan Katarki, Siddharth Luthra, Santosh Paul, Mahalaxmi Pavani, C.U. Singh, Aspi Chinoy, Mihir Desai, Janak Dwarkadas, Rajani Iyer, Yusuf Muchhala, Rajiv Patil, Gayatri Singh and Sanjay Singhvi. Sources said the court received the letter late on Monday. The decision to take suo motu cognisance of the “miseries and problems” of migrant workers was made on Tuesday. The court order admitted there were “inadequacies and certain lapses” in government measures. The court is scheduled to hear the case on Thursday. The lawyers’ letter referred to how the court on March 31 “expressed satisfaction” immediately after the Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta stated that “no migrant person was walking on the roads in an attempt to reach his/her hometown/village”. The court had even gone to the extent of saying that the migrants’ exodus was due to panic created by fake news. “The Supreme Court’s failure to protect the rights of the hapless millions of migrant workers in March, and its failure to scrutinise carefully the executive actions, resulted in them being compelled to stay in cramped unhygienic accommodation without employment and wages and often without proper food and with a much higher risk of COVID infection,” the letter said. The Supreme Court again failed to intervene in mid-May when millions of migrant workers commenced travelling home on foot or by trucks. The letter said the court could not look the other way by blankly saying these were “policy issues” best left to the government. “The migrant workers’ issues are not a ‘policy issue’. They raise constitutional issues... This Court has the power under Article 142 to undertake any measure to do complete justice. The show of helplessness does not do justice to the court’s motto ofYato dharmastato Jaya,” the letter said.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||SC declines to modify order letting AI assign middle seats||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to further intervene or modify its May 25 order permitting Air India (AI) to assign middle seats to passengers in non-scheduled flights bringing back citizens stranded abroad. The court had allowed the public carrier to fill up the middle seats on these flights till June 6, after which AI would have to comply with whatever orders passed by the Bombay High Court in this regard. The case was, in the previous hearing on Monday, remanded back to the High Court, which had already scheduled a hearing on June 2. On Wednesday, the Bench led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde refused to entertain an intervention application in the case. It asked the applicants to raise their concerns about safety protocol and social distancing norms in these flights before the High Court. “The infection is spreading with each flight. Yesterday, an entire [batch of] Air India crew was grounded,” advocate Abhilash Panickar argued for the interveners. But the Bench stood firm by its previous order, saying “We asked them to bring back stranded Indians and they are doing it... Let the interim arrangement continue for 10 days (till June 6).” The Central government, on the other hand, assured the court that public health and safety was of paramount concern in the flights.
28 May 2020||Jaipur,||Locust threat is bigger this year, warns monitor||The threat of locusts, which have invaded vast swathes of land in Rajasthan and entered neighbouring Madhya Pradesh, is bigger this year in comparison with the damage caused to standing crops in a limited area in 2019. The tropical grasshoppers have been crossing over to India via Pakistan’s Sindh province since April 11. The Union Agriculture Ministry’s Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), headquartered in Jodhpur, said on Wednesday that the locusts that came last year, after a gap of 26 years, were mature and had affected 12 districts of the State. “This time, the locusts are immature and have crossed the India-Pakistan border soon after their birth,” LWO Deputy Director K.L. Gurjar told The Hindu . Immature locusts, which are not fully grown, have the capacity to cause more harm as they have a longer lifespan. Dr. Gurjar said the breeding grounds in Balochistan were responsible for the movement of 10 to 12-day-old locusts towards the Thar desert, from where they were flying huge distances in search of food. The grasshoppers, which flew out from Sudan and Eritrea on Africa’s Red Sea Coast after excess rains, were earlier breeding in Iran. Pak. measures ineffective “Though Pakistan has claimed that it is taking action to eliminate the breeding grounds of insects, their control measures do not seem to be effective,” Dr. Gurjar said. While Pakistan’s National Disaster Management Authority has arranged aircraft and helicopters for the aerial spray of insecticides, locusts have destroyed crop in the cotton-producing belt of Sindh. Dr. Gurjar said Pakistan was unable to control the locust population because of their sheer number. The anti-locust spraying in the deserts of Thar and Cholistan has also proved to be ineffective, and huge swarms, aided by high-speed winds, have flown in to the Indian side of the Thar desert. A bigger challenge is likely to emerge when the swarms flying over 20 districts in Rajasthan start breeding. The locusts will start laying eggs after the onset of monsoon and continue breeding for two more months, with new insects being born during the growth phase of the kharif crops. The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organisation has warned of more attacks of locusts along both sides of the India-Pakistan border.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||CBSE students can shift exam venues||Responding to demands from thousands of students who have been forced to move or been stranded during the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has permitted Class 10 and 12 candidates to write their examinations wherever they are now. “Students who are currently not in the same district as their board examination centres due to lockdown, I have advised CBSE to shift your examination centre to your current district,” said Human Resource Development (HRD) Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank in a tweet on Wednesday. He advised such students to get in touch with their schools for further information. 13,000 centres The CBSE had earlier expanded its list of examination centres from 3,000 to 13,000 to allow students a wider choice of venues, and also make it easier to implement social distancing norms. The move comes as a relief to students who had been studying in coaching centres or residential schools and had initially selected examination centres in these locations. During the lockdown, these students returned to their home districts, including those from Navodaya and Kendriya Vidyalayas run by the HRD Ministry. Other students have also been forced to shift from the cities they studied in to their villages, often in other States, during the exodus of migrant worker families. The CBSE board examinations were on when schools closed in March, and 29 pending papers have now been rescheduled to be held in the first two weeks of July. Class 12 students have pending papers, along with Class 10 students whose examinations were disrupted by the Delhi riots in February.
28 May 2020||Shivamogga,||Eshwarappa: Don’t politicise gram panchayat issue||Appealing to the Opposition parties to desist from “politicising” the issue of nominating administrative committees to gram panchayats, K.S. Eshwarappa, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, said the State government would take a final call after considering the opinion of legal experts. “Neither the BJP leadership nor our MLAs have pressured the State government to form administrative committees. The BJP leadership as well as the State government want the elections to gram panchayats to be held. However, owing to the COVID-19 situation, it is practically difficult. Unfortunately, the Opposition leaders are levelling false allegations that the BJP government is trying to postpone the elections deliberately,” he said at a press conference here on Wednesday. He said that the State government has told the State Election Commission about the difficulties. As the terms of incumbent members of gram panchayats would end shortly, there were three options before the State government — to extend the tenure of the incumbent members, to appoint bureaucrats as administrators, or to form administrative committees to run the gram panchayats. He said there was provision in the existing laws to appoint administrative committees. The forthcoming meeting of the State Cabinet would take a decision in this regard, he said. Brushing aside apprehensions of Opposition leaders of nepotism in nominating members for the administrative committees, he said the responsibility of formation of the committees would be entrusted to the respective Deputy Commissioners and due measures would be taken to maintain transparency.
28 May 2020||MYSURU,||Mysuru varsity to hold exams early for Chinese students||Chinese students pursuing information technology courses on the Manasagangotri campus of University of Mysore are set to fly back to their homeland in June, and the varsity has decided to hold examinations for them earlier than scheduled to facilitate their evacuation from India. About 90-plus students from central China are studying MS (information technology) and MS (software engineering) courses specially designed for them, as per an MoU since the last 10 years. The students, who arrived here in October last, put off their journey to China when COVID-19 wreaked havoc in their country. They stayed in the international hostel in Saraswathipuram. The authorities monitored their stay, providing online classes for early completion of their courses. A few students, who could not return to Mysuru after vacation, remained in their hometowns on the advice of the varsity authorities. In response to an appeal from the collaborative university in central China for holding examinations early in view of the special fights arranged for evacuation of Chinese citizens from India, the university agreed to hold the exams from June 1 to 6. Earlier, it was scheduled from June 10 to 15. Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar said the decision was taken following a communication from the partner university. “It told us that the Chinese Embassy was arranging flights to evacuate its citizens, including students and others, and requested us to finish the exam by June 6. I’m told that the flights had been arranged from Mumbai and Delhi,” he said.
28 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Invasive mussel is spreading rapidly in Kerala’s backwaters||An invasive mussel native to the South and Central American coasts is spreading quickly in the backwaters of Kerala, elbowing out other mussel and clam species and threatening the livelihoods of fishermen engaged in molluscan fisheries. The rapid spread of the Charru mussel ( Mytella strigata ) may have been triggered by Cyclone Ockhi which struck the region in 2017, according to a paper published in the Journal of Aquatic Biology and Fisheries . Worst-hit Surveys show the presence of the Charru mussel in the Kadinamkulam, Paravur, Edava-Nadayara, Ashtamudi, Kayamkulam, Vembanad, Chettuva and Ponnani estuaries/backwaters. Ashtamudi Lake, a Ramsar site in Kollam district, remains the worst-hit. With a population as high as 11,384 per sq metre here, it has replaced the Asian green mussel ( Perna viridis ) and the edible oyster Magallana bilineata (known locally as muringa). Externally, the Charru mussel resembles the green and brown mussels (kallummekka in Malayalam), but is much smaller in size. Its colour varies from black to brown, purple or dark green. In many areas, this invasive species has smothered beds of the short-neck clam (manja kakka), according to the paper authored by A. Biju Kumar and Ravinesh R. of the Department of Aquatic Biology and Fisheries, University of Kerala, Graham Oliver of the National Museum of Wales, S. K. Tan of the National University of Singapore, and Kalesh Sadasivan of the Travancore Natural History Society. In Ashtamudi Lake, the Charru mussel had established breeding populations in 2018 and 2019, acquiring the moniker ‘varathan kakka’ (alien mollusc). The short-necked clam fisheries in the lake had obtained an eco label from the Marine Stewardship Council and about 3,000 people are dependent on fisheries here. In such a scenario, the fast-breeding Charru mussel could be seen as a ‘pest,’ the authors state. “The potential of Mytella strigata to outcompete the lucrative clam fishery is a serious concern that urgently needs to be addressed,” they add. Though this smaller mussel is edible, the overall economic loss and impact on biodiversity is much bigger, it is pointed out. In all probability, the mussel reached the Indian shores attached to ship hulls or as larval forms in ballast water discharges. Cyclone Ockhi may have simply sped up their invasion of inland waters. In this scenario, there is an urgent need to identify the presence of the Charru mussel in other parts of India by locating the pathways of introduction, said Biju Kumar of the University of Kerala. Invasion biology There is also a need to promote studies on invasion biology and strengthen awareness on marine invasive species, he said.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Panel defers decision on green pass to LG Polymers||A committee of experts constituted by the Environment Ministry has deferred its decision on providing environmental clearance to LG Polymers India, Andhra Pradesh. Styrene gas stored in the company’s industrial plant at Venkatapuram village in Visakhapatnam leaked on May 7, killing at least 11 persons and hospitalising over 500. The plant had been shut due to the coronavirus lockdown. Unconnected to the gas leak, the company had already been classified as an environmental violator. It had been operating the plant without an appropriate licence from the Centre and was doing so only under approval by the State environmental body. In 2017, the Environment Ministry created a provision for such companies, who were “violators”, to apply for permission for a chance at properly legalising their operations. This would involve paying a fine and satisfying the Expert Appraisal Committee that they had established processes to run the plant complying with environment laws. Permission sought In its application of 2017, the company applied for permission to manufacture polystyrene and increase capacity from 415 tonnes per day (TPD) to 655 TPD, as well as a nod to obtain environment clearance. The EAC, however, said it would not be considering the “expansion” in view of the gas leak. Moreover, the company also needed a licence because it had changed the “product mix”, the EAC added. All of these, however, were on a back-burner due to the gas leak as the EAC would now wait for the outcome of the “ suo moto action initiated by the National Green Tribunal, the cases being heard in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh, National Human Rights Commission and the committees constituted by the various authorities to investigate into the accident and post-accident scenario,” according to the minutes of the meeting made public on Wednesday.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||Standing Committee on Home Affairs to meet on June 3||The Standing Committee on Home Affairs is scheduled to meet on June 3, the first time since Parliament was abruptly adjourned on March 23 followed by an extended lockdown. The meeting has been convened by Chairman of the Standing Committee on Home Affairs Anand Sharma. Mr. Sharma has also written to the Rajya Sabha Chairman on Wednesday asking the House to provide for an alternate option of video conferencing for the members who are not able to join the meeting. “I have written to Rajya Sabha Chairman Mr. Venkaiah Naidu that the members who are unable to reach Delhi because of various restrictions or other reasons should be allowed to join the meeting via video conference...” Mr. Sharma told The Hindu . Mr. Sharma did not reveal the agenda of the meeting but said key officials of the Home Ministry would be asked to join the deliberations since the extended lockdown, the inter-State movement, the movement of migrant workers and other guidelines are all issued by it. With the resumption of air and rail transport, Presiding officers of both Houses of Parliament, Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, had met to review the facilities in the Parliament House to allow for the meeting of the standing committees. Nine such rooms have been identified in the Parliament House complex.
28 May 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata apprehensive of return of migrants to State||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that she is worried about the return of migrant workers to the State as many of them have tested positive for COVID-19. “There is no need to panic or to worry. But I am worried. Many of those who are coming now are COVID positive,” Ms. Banerjee said. She also blamed the Railways for planning without consulting the State. “We came up with a plan by which everyone would have come back in a few days in a phased manner. But, we got to know many trains were coming from Maharashtra. I spoke to the Maharashtra government [and] they said they were informed at 2 a.m. the previous night. If the Railway Ministry had consulted us then it would have been better. We are hearing reports of 2-3 people sharing one seat in trains and not following social distancing,” she said. According to her, around 25% of those returning have tested positive. “As many as 36 trains will enter the State … Railways has no responsibility,” she said. Since everyone cannot be quarantined institutionally, Ms. Banerjee asked the District Magistrates to create a block-wise task force for every district. While people returning from Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra will be institutionally quarantined in local schools, people without symptoms coming from other States can be on self-quarantine.
28 May 2020||Patna,||Video of baby with dead mother goes viral||Amid several videos showing the woes of migrant workers returning to Bihar these days, a chilling video went viral on social media on Wednesday. A baby is seen playfully tugging at a sheet partially covering his dead mother at the Muzaffarpur railway station in Bihar. The woman, said to be Arvina Khatun, 35, is seen lying dead on the platform, with two bags stuffed with her belongings kept away from her. An older child, with a water bottle in hand, too, appears for a moment in the video. “The woman had reached the Muzaffarpur railway station on May 25 along with her two children, sister and brother-in-law. She was from Katihar district. Only the doctor can say how she died,” Government Railway Police official Ramakant Upadhayay told presspersons. A local journalist in Muzaffarpur told The Hindu that the woman and her two small children had arrived by a Shramik Special train on May 25 from Ahmedabad. She collapsed immediately upon reaching the station, possibly due to extreme heat, hunger and dehydration. The woman is said to have boarded the train on May 23. Sharing the video on his Twitter handle, Sanjay Yadav, political adviser to Bihar’s Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Tejashwi Yadav, said, “The little child does not know that the cloth he is playing with is the shroud of his dead mother. She died because she did not have food and water for four days. Who is responsible for such deaths in trains? The Opposition should ask the hard questions or not?” In another incident, a the body of a woman was deboarded at the Mansi railway station in the State on Wednesday. “Some people took out the dead body of a woman on platform number 3 of Mansi railway station from a train coming from Surat in Gujarat to Purnia in Bihar. Her name is Uresh Khatun and she was from Katihar district. The relatives of the dead woman said the woman was suffering from a heart ailment and had surgery on March 22, 2020,” the Sonepur division of East Central Railway said in a statement.
28 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Steps for post-COVID higher education policy||The Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) has commenced consultative meets to evolve a post-COVID-19 higher education policy for the State. The draft document, approved by the council’s executive body on Tuesday, lays thrust on the wider use of the online instructional mode. The policy document highlights the relevance of online learning as a ‘new normal’ and views the mode as “the most important complementary to the present mode, if not a de facto substitute immediately”. The growing clamour for embracing online pedagogical techniques assumes significance at a time when the State is anticipating much impedance to the progress of the next academic year. Regular practice Pointing out that the incorporation of online tools will not be optional any more, the draft policy paper states that webinars and teleconferencing are set to become a regular practice, despite being utilised as a crisis-driven stop-gap arrangement now. The council also highlights the need for considerable investment on technological infrastructure, considering quality online teaching and learning programmes as ‘high-input enterprises’. While some teachers have attempted online teaching in amateurish ways on their own, it is necessary to turn them into professionals capable of utilising the technology innovatively and training students to make its best use, the document says. Among the challenges that have been identified are designing suitable training programmes for online teaching and sensitising the teaching community to the need for adopting such techniques. The council has decided to organise training sessions, develop e-contents, and create a digital repository of online learning materials. Consultative panel The executive body has constituted a consultative committee to finalise the policy. Comprising Vice Chancellors and academicians, the panel is chaired by council vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal P.M. and convened by member-secretary Rajan Varughese. The opinion of various cross-sections, including academics, students, and other experts, will also be sought.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Resume physical hearings from June 1, Bar Council urges CJI||The Bar Council of India (BCI) has written to Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde, requesting that physical court hearings be resumed from June 1. BCI chairperson and senior advocate Manan Kumar Mishra said that only a “handful of privileged class of advocates are the beneficiaries of the virtual court system”. “Not all requests for listing of cases even in this [urgent] category are adequately entertained. We are told that only two percent of this category succeed in getting the matter listed for virtual court hearing. Only a handful of privileged class of advocates are the beneficiaries of the virtual court system,” the BCI said. The letter said lawyers felt that “access to justice remains a dream for more than 95% of litigants... This is the harsh truth”. The BCI said lawyers were largely struggling to make ends meet. “Ninety-five percent of the advocates are without any court work and court appearances.” “The cases of only a few fortunate persons are being fixed, the kith and kin of only a few have earned a huge money during this lockdown in almost all High Courts. Such messages are pouring regularly in the BCI... This has caused a great loss to common advocates,” it said.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Row over naming of flyover in Bengaluru||The invitation extended by the BBMP for inauguration of the Yelahanka flyover sparked off a political controversy on Wednesday with the initial intimation indicating that it would be named after Hindutva ideologue V.D. Savarkar. As leaders of the Opposition, including two former chief ministers, took to Twitter to strongly criticise the move, the the civic body was quick to re-issue another invitation. This time, the invitation mentioned just the inauguration of the flyover without naming it. The inauguration, scheduled for Thursday, has been postponed citing COVID-19-related restrictions. Former Chief Ministers H.D. Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah expressed their opposition to the move soon after the first intimation came. They demanded that the State government rescind its decision and name the flyover after a freedom fighter from Karnataka. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar told The Hindu that though the civic body’s council had passed a resolution naming the flyover after V.D. Savarkar, the government was yet to approve of the same. K.A. Muneendra Kumar, BBMP’s Ruling Party Leader, claimed he was confident of the government approving the council resolution. “Everybody knows the contribution of Veer Savarkar to the Independence struggle. We are not worried about the opposition to the resolution,” he said, and added that the proposal to name the flyover was mooted by Yelahanka Satellite Town councillor Satish M. This is not the first time that the BBMP is facing opposition to naming and renaming. It courted controversy while renaming Albert Victor Road, also known as Alur Venkat Rao Road, in Chamarajpet as Tipu Sultan Palace Road.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||A full lockdown is damaging: Rahul Gandhi||Mr. Gandhi’s interaction with both the experts were centred on the question of exit strategy to get out of the lockdown. He posed this question to both the experts. The lockdown, he said, had brought about a psychological change. “When you classify the disease and then you say that we are going to have a lockdown, you change the psychology of the people, of the population, who are suddenly convinced that this is a very dangerous thing… you can’t just blow open the doors,” Mr. Gandhi said, speaking to Prof. Jha. Prof. Jha agreed that while the lockdown helped in slowing down the spread of the virus, it could not be the goal unto itself. He also said that the government should communicate to the public and be candid about it. He said that the projections that the virus would slow down in next few months were wrong. Till a vaccine was found, which could take up to 18 months, life will more or less remain the same as it was under the lockdown. Mr. Gandhi said that during his interactions with the migrant labourers he understood that it was the uncertainty of what lay in the future that was frightening for them. Mr. Gandhi claimed that he had been told unofficially by bureaucrats that the reasons testing figures were low was because it would “frighten the people”.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Commanders’ meet begins amid standoff||“The Army has matched Chinese ingress on the ground and we are prepared to sit there longer, if needed. It is now for diplomacy and political leadership to reach an understanding to sort out the issue,” one officer said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Sources say deliberations are going on daily between the local commanders at different levels up to the rank of Major-General, but there has been no breakthrough. Given this, several officers say it is for diplomacy to work. The extent of the standoff across eastern Ladakh is unlike in the past, so it has to be taken up at the highest level, according to another officer. Separately, in the first comments by a senior Minister, Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways and former Army chief Gen. V.K. Singh said China was trying to change the LAC to suit its claims. Gen. Singh said there was no need to be worried about the situation, because “at present China is in the dock with the whole world, and it is trying to deflect attention from these problems”. “So these tensions it is creating at the LAC are a part of that effort by China. The Army is handling the situation on the ground and the government is in discussions about it and PM [Narendra] Modi will guide us in the right direction,” he said. He added that the current situation would not affect road construction on the border, India’s troop deployment or anything else. “Everything has to be dealt with in a very normal and graduated manner.”
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||ICMR removes Rs. 4,500 cap on COVID-19 test||It has reiterated that pregnancy care management, newborn care and childhood illness management are among the essential services. In its latest guidance note on the provision of Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn, Child, Adolescent Health + Nutrition (RMNCAH+N) services during and after the COVID-19 pandemic, the Ministry has said, “Any area exiting a ‘containment/buffer zone’ can start RMNCAH+N activities after a minimum gap of 14 days following de-listing, while an area entering a ‘containment/buffer zone’ should restrict RMNCAH+N activities immediately and follow listed protocol.” The Health Ministry has said not-for-profit/private sector hospitals can be involved in the provision of non-COVID-19 essential services wherever the public sector capacity needs to be supported. “All Facilities have been directed to follow a staggered approach, where adequate seating space for beneficiaries and caregivers with physical distancing is ensured and community-based activities should have limited participation (5-10) at a time,” it said.
28 May 2020||Mumbai,||MVA allies put up a united front||The allies in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the State — Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress — launching an attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and the ruling coalition at the Centre, for not providing financial aid to Maharashtra to tackle the crisis in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Maharashtra Congress president and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, Shiv Sena leader and Transport Minister Anil Parab, and State unit president of the Nationalist Congress Party and Irrigation Minister Jayant Patil held a joint press conference demanding that BJP leader and the Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis justify his claims that the Centre till now provided aid of Rs. 28,104 crore and the Union government’s COVID-19 package would give Rs. 78,500 crore to Maharashtra. The leaders also debunked speculations of political instability at their first joint press conference after rumours of instability in the State government and the possibility of President’s Rule began to emerge. GST dues In a point-by-point rebuttal to the claims of the BJP leader, Mr. Parab said, “The Centre is yet to clear the GST dues of over Rs. 18,000 crore from 2019-20. We have not received anything new. Whatever the Centre has given is through ongoing schemes. Maharashtra has not received anything special. Where is the money that Mr. Fadnavis is talking about?” Asked aboutbodies being kept in hospital corridors, Mr. Parab said he had gone into the details of such photos. “As per the prescribed procedure, a process involving police and hospital authorities has to be completed after any death related to corona takes place in a hospital. This takes 45 to 50 minutes. During the period, photos of bodies kept in a corridor were taken. We are working to reduce the time and the results will be seen soon,” he said. ‘Nothing concrete’ Mr. Patil said Mr. Fadnavis’s statements raised doubts over whether he was a friend or foe of Maharashtra. Providing data on actual aid received from the Centre, Mr. Patil said the Modi government had not given a single PPE kit or ventilator to Maharashtra despite demands. Mr. Thorat clarified that former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s statement was not only twisted but also his actual statement congratulating the Maharashtra government in its performance to tackle corona was ignored. “This government is like a fist. The Opposition is creating unrest. They may try and do so but we are together,” he said.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Randeep Surjewala seeks to intervene in case||Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala approached the Supreme Court on Wednesday for permission to intervene in the suo motu case on migrant workers’ crisis amid the lockdown. Mr. Surjewala, represented by advocate Sunil Fernandes, said the government, first of all, did not have a nationwide action plan to tally the exact number of migrant labourers stranded in various parts of the country without basics such as food, water, shelter and transport to return to their native villages. The Congress leader said the government needs to work with the grassroots administrative mechanism to create lists to accurately identifying stranded workers. The Centre should set up reception centres for receiving them and facilitating their further travel to their native places, he added.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||Nehru put India on path of self-reliance: Priyanka||On the 56th death anniversary of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra recalled him as the first proponent of a self-reliant India. Listing the institutions created under his leadership, from the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences to the Indian Institutes of Technology, in a series of tweets, Ms. Vadra said it was only owing to the institutions he established that we had reached space today, had a place in the world of education, had world-class doctors and engineers and were known the world over for our expertise in technology. “All this was made possible because of Nehru ji ’s idea of making India truly self-reliant,” she said.  “Pandit Nehru played a vital role in shaping our democracy. He preached and practised self-reliance long before others realised it,” senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Ahmed Patel said in a tweet. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said that his legacy had stood the test of the time. “A visionary, he is immortalised in the world-class institutions he inspired, that have stood the test of time,” he said.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Seven Telangana districts alerted over locust attack||The agriculture department has alerted all Telangana districts bordering Maharashtra about a possible locust attack from the neighbouring State. According to agriculture secretary B. Janardhan Reddy, swarms of locusts have already reached Amaravati district in Maharashtra and officials there were trying to control their spread further. The Locust Warning Centre in Jodhpur, when contacted, had informed Telangana officials that there are chances of the swarms reaching Telangana in case the officials in Maharashtra failed to control their movement. The Rajasthan officials also indicated that locusts were likely to cover 12 to 15 km in an hour and cause severe loss to standing crops by sitting on nearby trees. After a meeting with entomology department scientists of the agriculture university, and the Central Integrated Pest Management Centre and National Institute of Plant Health Management, Mr. Janardhan Reddy alerted the administrations of Adilabad, Kumram Bheem Asifabad, Mancherial, Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Nirmal and Jayashankar Bhupalapally districts bordering Maharashtra about the locust attack. Collectors of the seven districts were asked to form committees with scientists and officials of agriculture and horticulture departments and keep necessary insecticides ready to contain the locust spread. Forming village level committee was also suggested to take counter measures swiftly.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump offers to mediate between India and China||“At present, the situation in the border areas between China and India is generally stable and controllable,” China’s MoFA spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at a briefing. “Between the two countries, we have good border related mechanism and communication channels. We are capable of resolving related issues properly though dialogue and consultation,” he added. “China and India communicate through established border-related mechanisms and diplomatic channels, including communication between local border troops, diplomatic departments and embassies of the two countries,” he remarked, in responses at the briefing that appeared to signal a détente in the month-long standoff between the two armies. Mr. Trump’s comments were also surprising as the Centre has so far not said that the situation at the LAC was serious in any way, and has stressed that “established mechanisms” were being applied to resolve the issue. In the only official statement made to date on the LAC tensions, the MEA spokesperson had accused Chinese troops of “hindering normal patrol patterns”, although sources on the ground have said that PLA troops have moved in, in considerable numbers. Attacking the government for not providing enough information on the situation along the LAC, the Congress party called the ‘stand-off’ a matter of “serious national concern”. “The differing accounts in national and international media of escalation and continuing stalemate has caused anxiety among the people of India,” said the opposition party’s senior spokesperson Anand Sharma, even as he urged the government to “take the nation into confidence” on the issue. ( With inputs from Ananth Krishnan )
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||39 cases in GHMC, 19 are migrants||Till May 26, new cases were further categorised under districts, migrants, foreign evacuees, in the medical bulletin. Departing from the usual format, cases were distributed broadly into two categories 1) cases detected locally 2) positive cases detected among migrants, foreign returnees and those who were deported. Of the 107 cases detected on Wednesday, 39 are local cases, 19 migrants and 49 among Saudi Arabia deportees. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said the Centre has airlifted 458 deportees from Saudi Arabia. “These deportees have been quarantined at government quarantine centres in the State. A total of 82 deportees who tested positive for COVID-19 are undergoing treatment.” Regarding migrants who returned to TS, Dr. Rao said that a large number of migrants were returning.
28 May 2020||Press Trust of India Thane,||Key witness who had identified Kasab and braved bullets, dies||Harishchandra Shrivardhankar, a key witness who had identified terrorist Ajmal Kasab during the case trial, died at his house in Kalyan, his family members said on Wednesday. He was 70. Shrivardhankar was hit by two bullets on the night of November 26, 2011, near Cama Hospital in south Mumbai when 10 Pakistani terrorists attacked Mumbai, . He had also hit Kasab’s accomplice Abu Ismail with his office bag. “He died on Tuesday night,” his family members said. Shrivardhankar was the first key witness to identify Kasab before the special court and also testified against him. Kasab, the only terrorist among the 10 who was captured live by the police, was hanged in Pune’s Yerwada jail in secret on November 21, 2012 after a court trial. A few days back, Shrivardhankar was found lying on a footpath in Kalyan. His family members reportedly could not afford his medical treatment. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had checked on his condition and announced that the BJP would provide Rs. 10 lakh to help the family. He is survived by his wife, two sons and daughters- in-law.
28 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Govt. offices in Kerala to function with 50% staff||All government offices will have to function with 50% personnel on the rolls even if they come under the COVID-19 hospots. Offices located in the hotspots have been asked to function with limited staff hailing from the same district. All offices and institutions involved in COVID-19- related awareness and other works will function as usual. Except in hotspots, 50% of the personnel will have to report for work in government offices, said detailed guidelines issued on Wednesday. In essential services, all personnel will have to attend office daily. District Collectors have been asked to make available Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses for those stranded to return to their workplace. The fuel cost will be met by the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and employees will have to pay for bus tickets. Those who are unable to come back have been asked to report to the respective District Collectors and continue there till further orders. Their service will be utilised for works related to the pandemic and to the needy local self-government institutions. The police have been asked to issue travel passes to those travelling to other districts. Those employees having serious health issues, pregnant woman, those having children below five years, physically challenged, and parents of the physically and mentally challenged will be exempted from duty.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre, States doing their best: Prasad||A day after the Supreme Court took cognisance of the “unfortunate and miserable” plight of migrant workers, Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday said the Centre and States were doing their “best” in these very challenging times, and if “there is scope for improvement we are open for that.” He was addressing a press conference over video link. “I can only state with all humility that all the governments are doing their best. . In the given situation, best possible efforts are being done and will continue to be done,” he said. The Centre and States would inform the court about the steps taken, he said. His position as Law Minister precluded him from commenting further on the court’s comments.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC tells Centre, PCI to respond to Jamiat plea||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre, the National Broadcasters Association (NBA) and the Press Council of India (PCI) to respond to a petition filed by Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, which alleged that certain sections of the media communalised the Tablighi Jamat congregation by linking it to a spike in the spread of the COVID-19 infection. A Bench led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde impleaded the NBA. It asked what action could be taken against the media channels under Sections 19 and 20 of the Cable Television Networks Act, 1995. The court scheduled the case for hearing after two weeks.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||NHRC notice to U.P. over man’s death||The National Human Rights Commission on Wednesday issued a notice to the Uttar Pradesh government over the death of a migrant worker due to starvation in Saharanpur while he was walking from Ludhiana to his home in Hardoi. The 19-year-old, Vipin Kumar, died after walking for six days, covering 350 km.
28 May 2020||PATNA,||Migrants jump off trains to flee isolation||Migrant workers returning to Bihar are jumping from trains to escape the 14-day mandatory quarantine. On Tuesday, 350 migrants returning from Delhi and Patiala pulled the alarm chain at two different places and jumped off the Shramik Special trains. Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel and local villagers, however, caught 180 of them. “They are jumping ahead of their destination. We convince those we manage to detain that it is necessary not only for themselves but also for their family members,” said an RPF official at the Danapur railway station, near Patna. A large number of migrants on board the Shramik Special from Delhi’s Anand Vihar to Purnia in northeast Bihar deboarded near the Ranibagh railway crossing. While around 150 managed to escape, around 250 migrants were caught by the local villagers who then informed the RPF personnel. They were taken to quarantine centres, but some more managed to flee. In another incident, migrant workers stopped the Shramik Special from Chandigarh to Gaya district somewhere in Sasaram district and 24 are believed to have escaped, said an official. Lakhs of migrant workers returning home are refusing to be quarantined near their homes. “How can we be away from our family for 14 days after all the trouble we went through?” asked Mahendra Sahni from Muzaffarpur.
28 May 2020||Mumbai,||‘No home quarantine option in Goa’||The Goa government on Wednesday made changes to the standard operating procedure (SOP) that was in place, doing away with the home quarantine option. Instead, the State Cabinet decided that every person arriving in Goa should either carry a COVID-19 negative test report or get tested on arrival. “Those arriving in the State will have to either carry a valid COVID-19 negative report or be prepared to be compulsorily tested on arrival. There will be no option of home quarantine,” Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said. This will be in force till June 3.
28 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Blowout at OIL well in Assam||Officials of the Oil India Limited (OIL) said efforts were on to bring under control a well in Assam’s Tinsukia district that experienced a blowout — uncontrolled escape of gas — on Wednesday morning. The well is under OIL’s Baghjan oilfield near the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park. “The blowout at 10:30 a.m. happened when operations were on to produce gas from a new oil and gas bearing reservoir at a depth of 3,729 m. The well had been producing about 1 lakh standard cubic metre per day of gas,” an OIL spokesperson said.
28 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Recovered patients more than active cases in Odisha||The people who have recovered from COVID-19 outnumbered the active patients in Odisha for the first time on Wednesday. The State’s recovery rate crossed 50%-mark when 79 more persons were discharged from hospitals, pushing the number of recoveries to 812. The total number of positive cases stood at 1,593 with detection of 76 new cases in different districts. While 74 of the new cases were detected in quarantine centres, two were from the local community. According to the State Health & Family Welfare Department, the number of active cases stood at 774. Only seven have died of COVID-19 in the State so far, the fatality rate being negligible. The State has been detecting more number of cases during the current month with many of the migrant workers returning from other States testing positive. In fact, 95% of the cases detected in the State were from quarantine centres set up at gram panchayat level for institutional quarantine of the returnees. For the past several days, the number of recoveries was almost matching the number of new cases. Among the recovered were an 85-year-old woman with frail health and 20 children below 14 years of age. Meanwhile, the State government decided to resume work on the Puri heritage corridor project and Ekamra Kshetra project in Bhubaneswar by maintaining social distancing.
28 May 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Guru’s son, kin injured in attack||Former president of Vanniyar Sangam and former PMK MLA the late “Kaduvetti” J. Guru’s son and two of his close relatives suffered grievous injuries after they were attacked by a group of persons at Kaduvetti on Tuesday night. According to sources, a group of armed persons had picked up a quarrel with a supporter of Kanalarasan, son of Guru, near his house. When Kanalarasan came out in support, they attacked Kanalarasan with a sickle. They also attacked Manoj, Guru’s brother-in-law, and his brother Mathan with sickle and wooden logs, and escaped from the spot. Kanalarasan and others received deep cut injuries on head, neck and shoulders. All of them were rushed to the Government Hospital in Jayankondam. After first aid, they were referred to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital for treatment. All three of them were said to be out of danger. The Meensuriti police conducted enquiries.
28 May 2020||Bodi,TAMIL NADU||Man held under POCSO||A 61-year-old man identified as Ganesan of Combai was booked on charges of abusing a two-year-old girl child. Following a complaint, the Bodi All Woman Police Station registered a case. An official from the Childline said that the victim had suffered bruises on her body. As she was weeping, when the family members questioned her, the child had complained about the harassment by the aged man. Preliminary inquiry revealed that he was a local functionary of the AIADMK. A case under POCSO Act was registered and the accused was sent to judicial custody.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Krishna water release from A.P. resumes after a month||After a month’s gap, Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh is on its way to help meet Chennai’s drinking water needs. The water was released into the 152-km-long Kandaleru-Poondi canal on May 25 and has reached Kalahasti in Andhra Pradesh. It would cover 60 km and reach the inter-State border at Uthukottai in Tiruvallur by Thursday evening. Officials of the Water Resources Department (WRD) said the authorities from Andhra Pradesh assured the release of 0.5 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) of water from the Krishna. On Wednesday, nearly 1,200 cusecs (cubic feet per second) were discharged from Kandaleru reservoir. “The initial flow may be less. We expect to receive 500-600 cusecs daily in a few days,” an official said. Of the 8 tmcft assured by the Andhra Pradesh government, Chennai has so far received 7.55 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) since September-end. This was set to help augment the storage in city’s reservoirs. Water would be stored in Poondi reservoir and distributed to Chennai from there. Discharge from Kandaleru reservoir was suspended mid-April in order to discourage irrigation, since the period was over. “We now have 5.2 tmcft of water in four city reservoirs against their capacity of 11.2 tmcft. There will not be dearth of resources this year. We will be able to manage water needs till the onset of the Northeast monsoon. Krishna water will help sustain the same drinking water supply,” the official added. The department is also looking to build up storage in Veeranam tank, Cuddalore, after water is released from Mettur dam in June. Veeranam is another significant water source for Chennai. Metrowater recently increased drinking water supply to 700 million litres a day to ensure piped water supply to an additional 1,000 streets. The same volume of supply is expected to be maintained for a few more months.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plan to hire doctors on contract draws flak||A move to engage medical personnel in government medical college hospitals, affiliated institutions and peripheral hospitals on a temporary basis — for three months — has evoked sharp criticism from doctors’ associations. In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Health Department is all set to engage additional human resources such as medical officers, laboratory technicians and multi-purpose health workers in various institutions under the Directorate of Medical Education (DME). In a notification, the Department said that the additional manpower would be recruited on a temporary basis, through outsourcing, for three months. The plan is to appoint 665 medical officers, 365 laboratory technicians and 1,230 multipurpose health workers on consolidated pay. This includes 30 doctors each at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, and other medical college hospitals in Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Madurai and Coimbatore. However, the decision has drawn flak. G.R. Ravindranath, general secretary, Doctors’ Association for Social Equality, said that doctors should not be appointed through outsourcing or on contract, on a temporary basis. “Instead, the government can make permanent appointments through the Medical Services Recruitment Board (MRB), even if an emergency arises. Despite opposition, the government reduced manpower in government medical colleges, citing Medical Council of India norms,” he said. ‘Reinstate the doctors’ He added that many doctors who completed postgraduation were working in other health directorates. “These doctors should be promoted to DME institutions. All doctors who were transferred for taking part in a protest should be reinstated to their original posts. Most of them are specialists and super specialists,” he said. K. Senthil, State president of the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association, said that the association, as a policy, was opposed to appointment of doctors on contract basis. “This will not yield the desired result. Doctors should be appointed on a regular time-scale basis,” he said. Increasing manpower is a welcome move, said A. Ramalingam, convenor of the Federation of Government Doctors’ Association. “But last year, through a government order, (4D)-2, for restructuring posts in government medical college hospitals, nearly 600 posts of assistant surgeons in the ranks of junior, senior residents and assistant professors were cut across the State. This led to the displacement of several doctors — nearly 200 in Chennai alone. This is the right time to amend the order and increase the posts as per patient strength,” he said. A doctor said that the move was to reduce the expenditure burden. “Recently, MRB called for applications to fill up 223 vacancies. They can increase this number to 1,000 to fill the gaps in COVID-19 duty, instead of outsourcing for three months. If they call for regular appointments, even specialists will come forward,” an office-bearer of the Tamil Nadu Medical Officers’ Association said.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Safety measures in place at evaluation centres||With a host of safety measures in place, evaluation of the Plus Two public examination answer scripts began across the State on Wednesday. While around 60 centres had initially been earmarked to carry out the evaluation work, the number was increased to 202 centres to ensure that physical distancing norms were followed. The evaluation centres located in Chennai were all moved out to schools in Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts. The Director of Government Examinations C. Usharani said that on the first day, around 10,000 chief examiners and scrutiny officers were present at the centres. “They began the evaluation of answer scripts and ensured that all necessary arrangements were in place. From Thursday, the assistant examiners will take over the evaluation under the guidance of the scrutiny officers and chief examiners,” she said. In every room, not more than 8 persons including six assistant examiners, a scrutiny officer and a chief examiner will be seated according to the guidelines issued by the government. The School Education Department had instructed the teachers to wear face masks unfailingly when they come from their homes. “Sanitisation of the classrooms was carried out twice: before start of the valuation work and after completion, on Wednesday. The safety measure will be followed on a daily basis till the last day of valuation,” said S. Shanthi, CEO, Tiruchi. Teachers screened In Coimbatore district, as part of COVID-19 precautionary measures, all the teachers were screened at the entrance of the evaluation centres for high body temperature using thermal scanners. Foot-operated hand sanitiser dispensers were also made available at the entrances. The teachers were also advised to bring their own lunches and stationery items in a bid to minimise physical contact among them. A chief examiner at a centre in Melur, Madurai said that the department had made arrangements to ensure that a maximum of eight people can be seated in a room at a centre. “They will be providing buses to pick up assistant examiners from Thursday and have arranged for 18 bus routes to six centres,” he said. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation has coordinated with district-level educational officials across the State to provide transport for teachers.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tokens for June rations to be distributed from tomorrow||Tokens for the free supply of essentials for family cardholders in Tamil Nadu, for the month of June, will be distributed at their doorsteps between May 29 and 31. In an official release on Wednesday, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said that the tokens would bear the specific date and time when consumers could go to ration shops and get their supplies, from June 1. He urged consumers to follow physical distancing norms and wear face masks while getting their supplies. Cash assistance All ration cardholders in Tamil Nadu will be given essentials — 1 kg of rice, 1 kg of tur dal and 1 litre of edible oil free, for June. Rice cardholders will get additional supplies, besides the regular rations, he said. Following the COVID-19 lockdown, besides a cash assistance of Rs. 1,000, essentials such as rice, sugar and edible oil were given free to the 2.01 crore rice cardholders. Over 98% of ration cardholders received the cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 and over 96% cardholders received essentials in April. Since the lockdown continued in May, besides the supplies granted in April, 1 kg of dal and 1 kg of edible oil was given to the cardholders. So far, 1.84 crore cardholders have received supplies. Moreover, orders were issued to give an additional 5 kg of rice per person, for ration card holders, between April and June. Besides the additional allocation per person, rice would be doubled if there were four or more persons in a card for the three months, the Chief Minister said.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rules framed for repatriation operations||The Ministry of Civil Aviation has issued a standard operating protocol (SOP) for private aircraft and charter operations on international sectors in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the flights will be allowed subject to clearance from the respective State/Union Territory governments. The new guidelines follow the instructions of the Ministry of Home Affairs, permitting private aircraft and international charter operations to bring back Indians who had travelled to different countries before the lockdown for various purposes — employment, tourism, business, studies, etc. — and were stranded there. Going by the SOP, passengers intending to undertake travel should register with the respective foreign missions, giving details prescribed by the Ministry of External Affairs. The cost of travel will be borne by the travellers or their employers/hiring firms or any other entity. Only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to travel after they sign an undertaking that after landing in India, they will undergo COVID-19-related protocols/guidelines issued by the Government of India (Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and the Ministry of External Affairs) and the State/U.T. government concerned. Information sought All passengers are advised to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile devices. They will also have to sign an undertaking in the format prescribed by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, furnishing information on their health status, countries/places visited in the last 28 days, place of stay in India and other contact details. Other instructions on board were that flight crew members should wear masks while in the cockpit/crew rest area and change their masks, at regular intervals, in case of long and ultra-long-haul flights. There would be no sale of any item on board in order to minimise interaction of the crew with passengers. There will be no newspapers/magazines or other non-essential loose items on board. In-flight entertainment will be switched off to minimise touch on aircraft surfaces. There will also be no or minimum catering (pre-packed cold meals/snacks, depending on the duration of the flight). In case of an ill passenger or a passenger showing COVID-I9 symptoms such as fatigue, cough, high fever, etc., the passenger will be isolated from the others and a dedicated crew, in complete protective gear, will be assigned to handle the case. Earmarked area A specific area of the aircraft will have to be reserved as quarantine area for handling possible in-flight emergencies. Asked if any request was received from any airline, a senior official in the Tamil Nadu government said that no such request was received till late on Wednesday. Experts would be consulted before taking a decision on allowing international flights, the official said.  In case a passenger shows COVID-I9 symptoms, he will be isolated and a dedicated crew, in complete protective gear, will be assigned to handle the case
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jayalalithaa’s property dispute far from getting over||The Madras High Court’s judgment declaring former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s nephew J. Deepak and niece J. Deepa as her legal heirs could possibly end up being the starting point for many more litigations to come in the future than putting matters to rest once and for all. Justices N. Kirubakaran and Abdul Quddhose on Wednesday declared the siblings to be inheritors of her properties since it was claimed that they could not trace any Will despite diligent efforts to ascertain if there was any. However, in the same breath, the siblings had conceded before the court that they had no access to the residence of their aunt either during her lifetime or after that. Since Jayalalithaa’s close aide V.K. Sasikala, now convicted in a disproportionate assets case, was the only person who had resided along with her at Veda Nilayam, the Poes Garden residence, any claim in the future regarding the existence of a reported Will might turn the tables and bring about a new twist to the issue. Even otherwise, there were many complications in assessing the properties left behind by Jayalalithaa. The siblings had staked claim strictly going by the assets declared by her when she contested the Assembly elections in 2016 and those that had been listed by a trial court which convicted her in a disproportionate assets case in 2014. Value of properties Though the value of those properties acquired between 1991 and 1996 was just Rs. 58.02 crore as per the trial court verdict, the siblings in their valuation report claimed that the properties would now be worth Rs. 188.48 crore. This figure was still low when compared to another report submitted by two AIADMK functionaries who had valued the properties at Rs. 913.41 crore. Besides all this, a startling claim made by Sasikala in December last that the sprawling Kodanad Estate was no more a partnership firm and that she had become its sole proprietrix might end up putting spokes in the way of the siblings in claiming right over that property. Sasikala had made the claim in response to a notice issued to her by the Income Tax department. Then, through a series of exclusive reports, The Hindu revealed Sasikala’s claim that she was a partner in Kodanad Estate, Royal Valley Floritech Exports, Green T Estate, Sri Jaya Publications and Sasi Enterprises only till Jayalalithaa’s death on December 5, 2016, when the partnership firms reportedly stood dissolved and she became a proprietrix. Adding to these confusions is a recent Ordinance promulgated by the State government to acquire Veda Nilayam and convert it into a memorial. Now that the siblings had inherited the property through court orders, they would have the option of opposing either the acquisition itself or at least the quantum of compensation and taking the matter to the court of law. Expressing dismay over personal issues of a former Chief Minister having been dragged to court, Justice Kirubakaran, in his verdict, said, the very fact that the people of the State chose to make Jayalalithaa their Chief Minister on four occasions was enough proof for her strong leadership qualities and enchanting charisma. [She was sworn in CM six times — twice after being unseated by court verdicts.] “When such was her success on the political front, very unfortunately on the personal side, this court has to deal with the issue of legal heirs who are entitled to inherit the estate left behind by the deceased Dr. J. Jayalalithaa.”
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||All bags disinfected at airport||Those of you who passed through Chennai airport in the last few days, did you know that your baggage was being quietly disinfected before departure and on arrival? According to officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI), ever since domestic operations resumed on Monday, the baggage of about 2,500 passengers has been disinfected. Passengers were allowed one piece of check-in and hand baggage each. “So when a passenger drops their baggage in the in-line scanner for checking, it eventually reaches an area where staff spray disinfectant over it. Only after this is the baggage sent to the aircraft for loading. Likewise, after the baggage is unloaded on arrival, it is disinfected before being put on the conveyor belt,” an official said. Every airport has to implement measures to sanitise baggage, AAI officials said. Airline and ground staff would also be provided with masks and gloves, they added. In Delhi and Kochi airports, ultraviolet disinfection tunnels were already in use. AAI was considering installing one at Chennai airport but eventually decided to spray disinfectant on baggage instead. “If we had a firm that held a certification from a government lab showing that such disinfection methods are indeed useful and kills the virus, we would have certainly done it,” another official added.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pvt. schools forcing parents to pay fees will face action: Minister||Reiterating that private schools should not force parents to pay fees, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said that action would be taken against institutions if it was brought to the notice of the Department. The Minister was speaking at the launch of a new app, ‘Vagupparai Nokkin’, which aims to implement better learning and assessment practices across classrooms in the State. While the Minister initially said during the media interaction that action would be taken against private schools conducting online classes, he later clarified that there was no ban on online classes for children and that schools had just been informed not to call teachers to school for these classes.  “A decision regarding the reopening of schools will be taken at a later date by the Chief Minister, who will also take into consideration the recommendations made by the expert committee of the Education Department,” he said.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Paid lodging may soon be an option for transit passengers||Passengers having long layovers at Chennai airport may soon be provided paid accommodation, airport sources have said. During a high-level meeting between officials of the State government and the Airports Authority of India on Wednesday, elaborate discussions were held on the ways and means to provide accommodation to transit passengers. For instance, if a passenger from Tiruchi arrives in Chennai and has to catch another flight to Delhi in four hours’ time, he/she can just be seated at the airport. But in the case of an overnight layover, some form of accommodation may be needed. “The State government has been considering setting up some kind of paid facility where these passengers can stay. The airlines will have to coordinate with the passengers, AAI and State government authorities to facilitate this. A decision will be taken on the matter in the coming days,” an official said. There is no clarity on whether these transit passengers will need a TN e-pass or not. AAI has been receiving several queries on a daily basis regarding the options available to transit passengers, and whether they need to apply for a TN e-pass. Some have been asking whether they will need to undergo quarantine if they are transiting through Chennai. “We will know more about [the answers to] these queries in a day or two,” the official added. Many passengers have taken to Twitter to ask the authorities whether they will have to get an e-pass. Among them is Kiran Kumar Immidi, who tweeted: “@TNeGA_Official @chennaicorp @TNGOVDIPR Please advise epass requirements for transit through chennai airport. Will not be exiting airport. No option on tnepass portal applicable for transit.”    The airlines will have to coordinate with passengers, AAI and State government authorities to facilitate this
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ritchie Street shoppers park on Anna Salai, hinder traffic flow||The movement of traffic was affected on a stretch of Anna Salai near Ritchie Street, as hundreds of shoppers parked their vehicles on the arterial road for want of parking space. The entry of vehicles into the many lanes leading to Ritchie Street — the electronics hub of Chennai — has been barred, prompting shoppers to park their cars and two-wheelers on the busy Anna Salai. Due to haphazard parking, the space available for motorists shrank considerably. All the entry points to the electronics hub, including Narasingapuram Street, Wallers Street, Meeran Sahib Street, Mohammed Hussain Sahib Street and Guruappa Road, have been barricaded. Since the parking facility at Casino Theatre is a paid one, many preferred to park their vehicles on Anna Salai, Blackers Road and Adithanar Salai, blocking free movement of traffic. R. Chandalia, secretary, Chennai Electronics and Infotech Traders’ Association, said, “We have placed banners across the market, informing motorists where they can park their vehicles. We are also making arrangements for parking near the Metro Rail station. We have asked the police to tow away any vehicles parked on the main road in a haphazard manner.”
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. signs 17 agreements for investments of over Rs. 15,100 cr.||In the midst of the global COVID-19 pandemic, the Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday inked 17 Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) with companies from various countries, for investments to the tune of about Rs. 15,128 crore, which are expected to provide jobs for over 47,100 people. Representatives from these companies from Germany, Finland, Taiwan, France, South Korea, Japan, China, United States, Australia, England and the Netherlands exchanged signed agreements with Tamil Nadu officials, in the presence of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswamiat the Secretariat here. “I have formed a Special Investment Promotion Task Force as we fight COVID19. As a result, we have signed MOUs with 17 institutions that will bring 15128 Crores worth of investment and 47150 jobs in Tamilnadu. We will continuously work towards creating more job opportunities in TN,” Mr. Palaniswami tweeted. “We have the most skillful manpower with electricity and water in surplus and most importantly one of the top states in maintaining good law and order. I welcome all the investors to #InvestinTN We are committed to help you through the entire investment process,” he tweeted. The investments are to be made in the manufacturing of heavy vehicles, electronics, footwear, energy and medical equipment sectors among others, an official release stated. The MoUs have been signed with: Daimler India Commercial Vehicles, Polymatech Electronics, Salcomp, Chung Jye Company Ltd & Aston Shoes Pvt Ltd, Lai Investment Manager Pvt Ltd, Mando Automotive India Pvt Ltd, Dinex, Chennai Power Generation Ltd, IGL India Transplantation Solutions Pvt Ltd, Vivid Solaire Energy Pvt Ltd, HDCI Data Centre Holdings Chennai LLP, ST Tele Media, Baettr, BYD India Pvt Ltd, TJR Precision Technology Company Ltd, Pillar Industries India Pvt Ltd and Lincoln Electric. Industries Minister M.C. Sampath, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Industries Secretary N. Muruganandham and senior officials were also present.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wonderla gets extension of tax break as lockdown hits construction||Amusement park operator Wonderla Holidays has obtained a further extension from the State government towards exemption from entertainment tax for its Chennai project, as construction was hit by the COVID-19 lockdown. Earlier, the Tamil Nadu government had granted an exemption of entertainment tax for a period of five years from November 1, 2019, till 31, October 2024. However, the company said that since the project has not progressed even after December 2019, it has obtained a further extension of this exemption from the State government to cover a period of five years from the date of commercial operations or September 30, 2021, whichever is earlier. Construction work on the Chennai project is scheduled to restart around October 2020 with targeted completion within 18 months thereafter, i.e. around April 2022, it said in a footnote to its fourth quarter earnings release. Wonderla said the cost of the Chennai project is about Rs. 330.24 crore and it has so far spent about Rs. 109.19 crore for development. During the Global Investors Meet (GIM) 2015, Wonderla signed a Memorandum of Understanding in the presence of the then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and land was allocated near Kelambakkam. However, the firm had threatened to scrap the project over the issue of the State government levying local body tax of 10% over and above the 18% Goods and Services Tax. Last year, the State government had granted the exemption for five years.  Wonderla said the cost of the Chennai project is about Rs. 330.24 crore and it has so far spent about Rs. 109.19 cr. for development
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State may go ahead with setting up Jaya memorial foundation||The State government is learnt to have received legal advice that it can go ahead with the formation of the ‘Puratchi Thalaivi Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Memorial Foundation,’ an entity proposed in the ordinance promulgated by Governor Banwarilal Purohit last week, to administer the Veda Nilayam, residence of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Indicating this, a senior government official said that as far as the government was concerned, the Madras High Court, which on Wednesday declared Jayalalithaa’s niece and nephew as her class II heirs, it has only made certain suggestions, which the government might “ignore.” Even at the time of promulgation of the ordinance, the position of the authorities was that as and when the legal heirs were ascertained, they would be paid compensation, most likely through a city civil court. An ordinance had to be issued, as the Veda Nilayam was an intestate private property and the State government had planned to convert it into a memorial of the late leader. The official contended that the court apart from directing provision of round-the-clock security to Jayalalithaa’s nephew Deepak and niece Deepa [at their cost], did not make any “direction to the government”.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Migrant youth’s burial opposed in Chengalpattu||A section of residents opposed the burial of a 25-year-old migrant youth who died on Tuesday near Chengalapattu. The deceased has been identified as Ajmal, from Assam, who worked as a helper in a private firm in Thiruporur. As he was fasting, his condition deteriorated. He was admitted to the Government Hospital, Chengalpattu, 10 days ago but died on Tuesday without responding to treatment. On Wednesday, his body was taken in an ambulance to a burial ground in Alapakkam village near Chengalpattu. On seeing the ambulance, the residents gathered and opposed the burial suspecting the deceased might be a COVID-19 case. Police personnel and other authorities negotiated and shifted the body to another burial ground where it was buried.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM condoles death of Lankan Minister||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday condoledthe death of Sri Lankan Ministerand Ceylon Workers’ Congress leader Arumugan Thondaman. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said Mr. Thondaman had served as a Minister for many years. ‘A huge loss’ He not only was a prominent leader among persons of Indian origin, but also served for the welfare of Tamils in Sri Lanka. Terming his death a “huge loss” for Sri Lanka and its people, Mr. Palaniswami extended his condolences to the bereaved family, party workers and the people of Sri Lanka. Former TNCC president Su. Thirunavukkarasar, TMC president G.K. Vasan and AMMK founder T.T.V. Dhinakaran were among those who condoled the death of the Ceylon Workers’ Congress leader.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Colleges, varsities should not insist on exam fee’||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has urged colleges and universities not to insist on payment of semester or examination fee by students. The advisory, issued on Wednesday, comes in the wake of grievances received from students and parents, according to Rajnish Jain, secretary. The Commission had launched a COVID-19 related grievance forum on its portal for students to air their concerns. A taskforce of the UGC is monitoring the portal. “We received grievances from students and parents. They have represented that due to the financial hardship during the lockdown, they are not in a position to pay the fee.”
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Consumers can now book LPG refills on WhatsApp||Bharat Gas consumers can now book their liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) refills through WhatsApp, with the company launching the facility across the country. Tamil Nadu has a total of 53 lakh consumers using Bharat Gas. A company source said since many consumers were comfortable using the messaging application on their smart phones, the company was offering this option too. Consumers can save the BPCL Smartline number, 1800224344 on their mobiles and send a “Hi” message from their registered mobile number. To book a refill, they have to send “Book” or “1” and they will get confirmation of the booking. IOC and Hindustan Indian Oil Corporation and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation already are offering refill booking facility through WhatsApp.  The WhatsApp number for Indane gas consumers is 7588888824 and for HP Gas it is +91 92222 01122.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Remote chances of locust attack in Tamil Nadu’||Even as there was only a “remote chance” of locust swarm attacking the State, Tamil Nadu government officials have planned a five-point strategy to handle the situation should the menace touch its borders. Asked about the possibility of the threat to Tamil Nadu, since locust swarms from Africa have crossed Rajasthan and have even touched some parts of Madhya Pradesh, a senior official said the chances were “bleak”. “In India, the locust swarm witnessed presently in States like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, so far never spread beyond Deccan Plateau. Hence, the Department of Agriculture assesses that there is only very remote chances of locust swarm attack in Tamil Nadu,” an officer said. However, the Department of Agriculture was “continuously monitoring the locust swarm movement through Government of India,” he said, adding: “In case of attack by chance, the Department advocates some strategies for controlling the desert locusts.” Strategies The strategies include spraying environmental-friendly neem-based pesticides, mass ground spray of malathion pesticides using tractor-mounted sprayers and fire engines, spraying bio-pesticide metarhizium anisopliae.
28 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||OBC medical aspirants deprived of quota: Stalin||DMK president M.K.Stalin on Wednesday accused the Central government of depriving OBC students of their rightful quota in the admission to undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses under the all India quota. “They have lost 11,000 seats in three years,” he had posted on Facebook. “I urge the Prime Minister to safeguard the reservation policy in letter and spirit as per the Constitution,” he further said.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Present new budget, Stalin urges CM||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to present a new budget for 2020-21 in view of the State’s poor financial health in the wake of the pandemic. “There is a compulsion to present a new budget and the Chief Minister cannot escape the responsibility. The budget already presented in the Assembly has failed because of the crisis in industrial development, economic development and financial growth in the State,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. He said that even though the State government had constituted a committee to recommend short and medium-term responses to COVID-19, five months would be wasted by the time the committee was ready with its report. He pointed out that it was a matter of concern that the Chief Minister was not ready to understand the financial condition of the State because the budget, estimates and allocations were out of shape and required restructuring.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM to chair meeting with Collectors||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is scheduled to chair a videoconference meeting with all District Collectors on Friday. On Saturday, he is scheduled to hold a meeting with public health and medical experts. Mr. Palaniswami has been taking decisions on extending the lockdown only after meetings with medical experts, Collectors and other officers. Building disinfected On intimation from two government employees that they tested positive for COVID-19, the third and seventh floors of the Namakkal Kavignar Maaligai on the Secretariat campus have been disinfected. While the seventh floor was disinfected on Tuesday after an employee informed his colleagues, the third floor was disinfected on Wednesday. The two employees reported for work on Saturday last, an informed source said. However, employees on the seventh floor of the building reported for work on Wednesday, a day after it was disinfected.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancel Bharathi’s interim bail: police||The Central Crime Branch police on Wednesday moved an application before the Madras High Court to cancel the interim bail granted by a lower court to DMK Member of Parliament R.S. Bharathi in a case booked under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act of 1989. Justice M. Nirmal Kumar heard the arguments advanced by State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan on the plea and adjourned the hearing to Friday.
28 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners seek loan waivers||Members of the All India Confederation of Goods Vehicles Owners’ Associations want a waiver of loan interest, other dues of taxes and provide relief to truckers.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Food provided to migrant workers||Food packets were provided at Rajarthinam stadium to migrant workers who were leaving to their home towns and villages. On Wednesday, they were brought in buses to board a Shramik Special at Egmore railway station. Before boarding, they were provided with food packets and water bottles by the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services director and DGP C. Sylendra Babu along with volunteers.
28 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patient ends life||A 57-year-old man who was admitted for COVID-19 treatment, ended his life in a bathroom of the Government Medical College Hospital at the Omandurar Government Estate. His body was found early on Wednesday. The victim was a resident of Royapettah. He was admitted to the special ward of the hospital after he tested positive for COVID-19. The staff at the hospital found he was missing from the ward in the early hours of Wednesday. Later, they traced his body to the bathroom. On a complaint from the hospital authorities, police personnel from Triplicane came to the spot and recovered the body. Further investigations are on. Those in distress or with suicidal tendencies can contact the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ayanavaram case convict kills self||A life convict in the Ayanavaram sexual assault case ended his life at the Central Prison, Puzhal, on Wednesday, said prison sources. The prisoner identified as N. Palani, 42, was lodged in the AB-1 Block of the Central Prison. At 12.45 p.m., he came out from his cell and went into a bathroom attached outside the cell. He ended his life in the bathroom. Police in Puzhal were informed and the body was taken for a post-mortem examination . He had been depressed for some time, said a source.  Those in distress of who have suicidal tendencies can contact the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.
28 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Deepa, Deepak hail verdict||Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s niece Deepa and her brother Deepak on Wednesday separately welcomed the Madras High Court verdict declaring them as Jayalalithaa’s legal heirs and inheritor of her properties. “This is our ancestral property (Veda Nilayam in Poes Garden). It legitimately belongs to us. I am happy with the court verdict,” Ms. Deepa told journalists. “This has put to rest all the claims made all along that Jayalalithaa did not have heirs,” she said. Describing this as the “first stage”, she said that once the full copy of the judgment was available, then the process of inheriting the properties could begin. On his part, Deepak said that as informed in the court, he and his sister would establish a trust in Jayalalithaa’s name to use certain properties for welfare activities. The siblings were not in favour of establishing a memorial for Jayalalithaa at Veda Nilayam. “I have been saying this from the beginning. Even the court has pointed out that public money should not be used to acquire houses of leaders to establish memorials,” said Ms. Deepa.
28 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Kerala carrying out maintenance work in Siruvani Reservoir||Kerala Irrigation Department carrying out maintenance work in the Siruvani Reservoir will not affect water supply to the city, the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD) Board sources said here on Wednesday. The Board’s assurances to the public comes in the wake of media reports that the department has been trying to seal an outlet pipeline. The sources said that as of Wednesday the water level was 8.2 feet above the dead storage level and well above the last and fourth intake valve, which was at least six feet below the level. With the available water, the Board could meet the Coimbatore Corporation’s water needs till June 20 and that there was no need to panic. On Wednesday, the Board supplied 70 MLD (million litres a day) water to the Corporation. The sources said beneath the last intake valve and buried under the dam bed were to outlet pipelines. The media reports seemed to suggest that the Kerala Irrigation Department was working to close the mouths of the pipelines, just as it had attempted to do so in 2014. The attempt to seal the pipelines had become an annual affair for the department, which took it up during May-June depending on the water level. The Board was in touch with its counterparts in the department to ascertain the veracity of the statement that it attempted to seal the mouths of the pipelines and was also apprising its officials in Chennai. In a related development, the Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam petitioned the district administration seeking the State Government’s intervention. It said what the Kerala Government was doing in Siruvani was a violation of the inter-State water sharing agreement as it had not informed the Tamil Nadu Government. This was not withstanding the fact that the Tamil Nadu Government paid the Kerala Government for the reservoir’s upkeep. It claimed that if the Kerala Irrigation Department were to seal the mouths of the pipelines, the city’s water supply would be severely affected. The Board sources, however, said that even if the Kerala Government attempted to seal the pipelines the Tamil Nadu Government could do very little because it was outside the scope of the inter-State agreement.
28 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation permits pushcart vendors to resume business||Coimbatore Corporation has permitted pushcart vendors to resume business after laying a series of conditions. A Corporation release issued late on Tuesday night said that the vendors could do business between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. by following physical distancing norms, disinfecting their cart or business area, wearing a mask and urging customers to do so. The release said the Corporation had asked the vendors to prevent crowding around their cart or business area, ensure sufficient space among vendors if they were to operate within a small area or street and use digital payment gateways or mobile applications for receiving payment from customers. The release warned the vendors of action for violation of any of these norms. They should not engage senior citizens for work or do business if they had symptoms such as fever, and cooperate with the efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19. Flower market inspection Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath on Wednesday inspected shops at Flower Market in West Zone and T.K. Market in Central Zone to check if physical distancing was followed to combat the spread of COVID-19, said a release from the civic body. The Commissioner later went to the budget canteen (Amma Unavagam) to check the quality of food and whether it was given free of cost.
28 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Smile Maker surgeon passes away||Making children smile was a lifetime mission for Hirji S. Adenwalla, who dedicated himself to performing surgeries to correct the cleft lip and palate -- a congenital deformity in children -- for five decades at the Charles Pinto Centre for Cleft Lip, Palate and Craniofacial Anomalies of Jubilee Mission Hospital at Thrissur in Kerala.. Dr. Adenwalla, who was to turn 90 on June 5, died early Wednesday at a private hospital in Coimbatore while being treated for fever and difficulty in breathing. Dr. Adenwalla teamed up with the U.S.-based Smile Train, a not-for-profit organisation dedicated to cleft lip and palate surgery world-wide, and performed over 17,000 surgeries at the Charles Pinto Centre. A Parsi from Mumbai, Dr. Adenwalla joined Jubilee Mission in 1959. Over decades, he brought a smile on thousands of children with the congenital deformity through surgical correction. The partnership with Smile Train helped in performing the surgery free of cost on children from poor families. “Treating children with cleft lip and palate became his passion”, says Fr. Francis Pallikunnath, Director of the hospital, who came to Coimbatore to pay his last respects to the doctor despite the lockdown. “He would have performed anywhere between 17,000 and 18,000 cleft lip and palate surgeries. He worked with a missionary zeal. He also served as chief medical superintendent for 25 years. He was coming to the centre even at the age of 89 until he moved to his daughter’s residence in Coimbatore,” Fr. Pallikunnath said. “The centre currently does around 60 free surgeries a month to correct cleft lip and palate,” he said.
28 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Outfit demands deferring of public examinations||Save School Education Movement, a Coimbatore-based school education outfit, has demanded the State Government to defer the conduct of public examinations owing to the COVID-19 situation in the State. In a statement, the outfit’s coordinator S. Chandrasekar alleged that there was no clarity on how to handle the situation if schoolchildren contracted COVID-19 during the examinations and on how to counsel students dealing with stress. Many students have left for their hometowns and would not be able to travel long distances to write the examinations, he said. The government must consider the conditions of schools in tribal settlements and the students there, he said. While the parents of those students studying in government schools were hit due to the lockdown, the Department of School Education has “accepted the requests of the managements of a few private schools” and announced the conduct of Class X examinations and the pending examinations of Class XII and XI, Mr. Chandrasekar alleged. A letter in this regard will be sent to Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan soon, Mr. Chandrasekar said.
28 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||IAF gets second LCA squadron||The Indian Air Force (IAF) formally inducted into service the first Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas Mk-1 in Final Operational Clearance (FOC) standard on Wednesday and operationalised its second LCA squadron No. 18 ‘Flying Bullets’. Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal (ACM) R.K.S. Bhadauria received the first FOC standard LCA from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) in a function held at Air Force Station Sulur, near Coimbatore. “We are proud to deliver a much lethal aircraft than the Initial Operational Clearance (IOC) block. Apart from all the capabilities of IOC aircraft, the FOC variant additionally comes with air-to-air refuelling capability, close combat gun, additional drop tanks, Beyond Visual Range (BVR) missile capability, updated avionics and flight control software suite,” HAL chairman R. Madhavan said in a statement. A ‘Sarva Dharma Pooja’ (inter-faith prayer) was performed before the induction of the new fighter into the force. Before the ceremony, ACM Bhadauria flew a sortie on an IOC aircraft from the No. 45 squadron ‘Flying Daggers’. The handover and induction of the LCA in FOC standard got delayed due to COVID-19 and the lockdown restrictions. Four more FOC aircraft in advanced stages of production and testing are expected to join the squadron soon, HAL said. The FOC certificate for the LCA was handed over during ‘Aero India’ at Bengaluru in February last year. The first LCA squadron with IOC standard aircraft was operationalised in July 2016. IAF has so far placed orders for 20 IOC standard aircraft and 20 FOC standard aircraft including eight twin seater trainers. The trainer variant of LCA has not been handed over to the IAF yet. The No. 18 Squadron was originally formed on April 15, 1965 and got number plated on April 15, 2016, after the Mig-27 aircraft it was flying then, were retired. The Squadron was resurrected on April 01 this year at Sulur. The N0. 18 squadron saw active combat during 1971 war and Flying Officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhon was posthumously awarded the highest gallantry award ‘Param Vir Chakra’. There is also an order for 83 LCA in Mk-1A configuration with four major and several minor upgrades which ACM Bhadhauria termed a ‘high priority’ in a recent conversation with The Hindu . The deal estimated around Rs. 38,000 crore is expected to be signed in the next three months. HAL is setting up a second assembly line in collaboration with the private industry to increase the production rate of the LCA from current eight to 16 to meet delivery timelines.
28 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Potato wholesale trade remains low||Wholesale potato trade in Mettupalayam is seeing just 50 % or lesser arrivals as demand has reduced. According to Zakir Hussain, a wholesale potato dealer, nearly 2,000 families in Mettupalayam are dependent on potato business. The traders, wholesale and retail, get supplies from Gujarat, the Nilgiris, and local farmers. “We used to get about 100 lorry loads a day, with each lorry carrying 500 bags of potato. Now just 20 to 30 lorry loads come every day,” he says. According to Mr. Hussain, supply to Kerala was disrupted completely when the lockdown started and it is yet to pick up. Similarly, the local weekly retail markets held in and around Coimbatore district are shut. These have affected sales and the traders do not want to procure large quantities. Arrivals from Gujarat and the Nilgiris are down nearly 50 %. The wholesale potato market is functioning in Mettupalayam for the last one week and the private mandis are closed. Yet, sales is yet to pick up.
28 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Youth arrested for assault||The Podanur police arrested a 24-year-old youth for allegedly assaulting a resident of Mahalingapuram near Vellalore with beer bottle on May 24. M. Gunasekaran was held based on a complaint filed by M. Ranganathan. The police said that Gunasekaran assaulted the complainant when the latter asked him to return the money he had borrowed. He was lodged in prison in judicial remand.
28 May 2020||DHARMAPURI/KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,300 teachers engaged in Dharmapuri and Harur||A total of 1,306 teachers and accompanying staff were engaged for the evaluation of answer scripts at four evaluation centres in Dharmapuri and Harur. In the view of COVID-19 pandemic, the number of evaluation centre were increased by two additional sub-centre for Dharmapuri and Palacodde education district and Harur education district. Evaluation centres were set up at Senthil Matriculation Higher Secondary School, and a sub centre at Senthil CBSE school in Adhiyamkottai for Dharmapuri and at Indian Public Higher Secondary School and Indian Public CBSE School for Harur. A total of 87,960 answer scripts were received for evaluation at the Dharmapuri centre. The evaluation is being carried out by 86 chief examiners, 86 micro observers, 516 assistant examiners. A total of 45,883 answer scripts are being evaluated at the Harur evaluation centre. The evaluation is being carried out by 58 chief examiners, 58 invigilators, 348 assistant examiners. However, the evaluation process was marked by restrictions such as physical distancing in the evaluation centres. Each evaluation room was being filled up by one chief examiner, one micro observer, and six evaluating staff. The center and the evaluation rooms were disinfected before and after evaluation. The administration had allocated four bus routes for evaluation duty for Dharmapuri and for bus routes for Harur centres. The administration has proposed to distribute 2,000 masks and the school education department had provided 1,300 masks for the evaluation staff. Evaluation of Plus I and Plus II answer scripts commenced at seven centree in the two education districts of Krishnagiri. In Krishnagiri, the Government Boys Higher Secondary School functioned as the main centre, while Nalanda Matriculation School, Vijay Vidyalaya, and Velankanni Matriculation Higher Secondary as the sub centres. Similarly, in Hosur, the Government Girls Higher Secondary School served as the main centre, with Achievers Academy Matriculation Higher Secondary School and Parimaam Matriculation Higher Secondary School as the sub centres. A total of 143 chief examiners, 143 assistant examiners, and 858 staff have been deployed for the evaluation works. The evaluation centres were sanitised and disinfected, and the personnel were mandated to use sanitisers at entry and exit, besides wearing the masks.
28 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Work under way to shift Nethaji market in Erode||Work is under way to shift the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruits Market to V.O.C. Park Ground here. The market is expected to function from the new premises from June 1. The market was earlier located in a congested area on R.K.V. Road and after the announcement of COVID-19 lockdown, the shops were shifted to the Corporation Central Bus Stand premises. While the wholesale market functions from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. for shopkeepers, the retail market for the public functions from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. every day. With bus services expected to resume soon, the civic body has decided to shift the market to the V.O.C. Ground herre . MLAs K.V. Ramalingam (Erode West) and K.S. Thennarasu (Erode East) along with Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan and engineers inspected the ongoing works on Tuesday. Mr. Elangovan told The Hindu the work to establish 450 shops would be completed in four days and the market would function from the ground after that. He said that all basic amenities would be available at the grounds for the convenience of the traders and customers.
28 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Evaluation under way at six camps across Erode district||The evaluation of Class XII answer scripts, which was delayed due to COVID-19 lockdown, began at six camps across the district here on Wednesday. The camps are set up at Hindu Kalvi Nilayam, S.V.N. Matriculation Higher Secondary School and Vellalar MHSS in Erode educational district and Saradha HSS, Saradha MHSS and Palaniyappa Girls HSS in Gobichettipalayam educational district. On the first day, chief examiners and scrutiny officers evaluated the answer scripts, while assistant examiners will begin the process from Thursday. A total of 872 examiners, comprising 109 chief examiners, 109 scrutiny officers and 654 assistant examiners in Erode and 66 chief examiners, 66 scrutiny officers and 396 assistant examiners will be involved in the process for 12 days. District Collector C. Kathiravan inspected a centre at Thindal along with Chief Education Officer R. Balamurali on Wednesday. He said that to ensure personal distancing, only eight persons - a chief examiner, a scrutiny officer and six assistant examiners - were allowed inside each hall. All the teachers have been instructed to wear masks and use sanitiser while entering the premises. Disinfection was done in all the camps and police personnel were posted to prevent unauthorised entry of persons.  Salem  In Salem district, evaluation began at six camps in the educational districts of Salem, Attur and Edappadi in which 266 chief examiners and 266 scrutiny officers were involved. A total of 1,544 assistant examiners will start evaluating the answer scripts from Thursday and the camps are expected to conclude on June 23.  Namakkal  In Namakkal district, evaluation began at Kurinji Matric HSS, Vidyaa Vikas Boys HSS and SRV Girls HSS at Rasipuram and a total of 184 chief examiners and 184 scrutiny officers have been involved. A total of 1,104 assistant examiners will evaluate answer scripts from Thursday.
28 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance works in the electric lines, there will be no power supply in the following areas from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on May 29, Friday .  Sivagiri sub-station: Sivagiri, Vettuvapalayam, Kagam, Konthalam, Minnapalayam, Palamangalam, Veerasangili, Kallapuramkottai, Vilankattuvalasu, Ellakadai, Kulavilakku, Karakkaattuvalasu, Kovilpalayam, Aayaparappu, Molapalayam, Parapalayam, Vilakethi, Kuttapalayam, Amman Kovil, Thoppapalayam, Perumparappu, Vadugapatti, 24 Velampalayam, Pannaikinaru, Karattupudur, Kattupalayam, Rakamapudur, Itchipalayam, Muthayanvalasu, Karukkampalayam, Unjalur, Othakadai, North Pudupalayam and surrounding areas.  Nadupalayam sub-station: Nadupalayam, Thamaraipalayam, Malayampalayam, Kombanai Pudur, P.K. Mangalam, Injampalli, Kolanalli, Karumandampalayam, P.K. Palayam, Solangapalayam, Pasur, M.K. Pudur, R.N. Palayam, Kalipalayam, Kolathupalayam, Semmandampalayam and Kuttapalayam.
28 May 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Lukewarm turnout at liquor shops not a cause for comfort||Though there was no overcrowding in front of the IMFL, arrack and toddy shops in Karaikal on Monday and Tuesday, purportedly due to the price hike, social activists express apprehensions that the authorities may not be able to ensure that customers fully adhered to personal safety norms essential to check the spread of the novel corona virus. Of course, social distancing norms are followed at the selling point. But, the attention of the customers of liquor towards personal safety would naturally diminish once they start consuming it. Those given to drinking habit usually consume liquor in groups. There is no guarantee that the public safety will not be compromised due to the risky behaviour of the liquor consumers, S. Anandakumar, president, India Against Corruption, Karaikal, said. The cause for a little relief is that the public response has been lukewarm, unlike in Tamil Nadu. "It is because there are more number of liquor shops for a limited population," Mr. Anandakumar said, adding that the steep hike in the cost of liquor was also a deterrent. The Puducherry government effected a steep hike by imposing special corona fee on liquor in all the three segments: ordinary, medium and premium, as also arrack. After the hike, there is now a parity in the price of liquor brands common to Puducherry and Tamil Nadu. The price parity will eliminate the scope for smuggling of liquor from Karaikal to Nagapattinam. But, police personnel in Nagapattinam district involved in checking liquor smuggling say there is still no room for complacency.
28 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Focused testing controls COVID-19 count in Theni||Theni ranks second among the districts in Tamil Nadu in terms of number of COVID-19 tests per million population, after Chennai*. This is despite the district ranking 18 in the total number of positive cases reported in the State. As many as 108 people have tested positive in the district as on Wednesday. Collector M. Pallavi Baldev says focussed testing helped them identify and contain more positive cases, thus helping in limiting the spread of the infection. As per data provided by the district administration on May 24, as many as 13,154 tests have been conducted with 8,871 tests per million population. “We test a minimum of 15 contacts for each positive case. By extensively going through their logs, establishing primary contacts and creating a detailed record of the number of people the positive patient met, we zero down on testing,” she says. This is apart from the influenza-like illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI) cases. Ms. Baldev adds that they are among the first district to do random sampling. Through this exercise they found 31 positive cases in Bodinaickanur alone. “We are not going out of the way to test but are merely following government protocol and leaving nothing to chance. We believe in tracking, tracing, testing and treating. The more people we identify as positive, the more we can give treatment,” she says, adding that the more number of COVID-19 positive cases they identify, the greater is their success in containing the pandemic. Ms. Baldev says a they have turned their focus on testing people who arrive from other districts and States. “The first spike here was observed when people who attended a religious conference in New Delhi tested positive. The second spike came during the Koyambedu cluster began testing positive,” she says. With several migrants returning to Theni, there is a need to test and ensure strict quarantine measures for them. “We have enough institutional infrastructure to take care of quarantine,” she says. “We are going to continue testing as per government guidelines and will not shy away from any number of positive cases,” she adds.  *TPM data as on May 19.
28 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Campaign against female infanticide must continue’||Psychologists and social workers say the district administration’s move to conduct a month-long campaign against female infanticide will strengthen the work of Village Health Nurses. They also call for a sustained and prolonged efforts apart from the campaign, to address the issue. Collector T. G. Vinay said on Sunday that officials of District Child Protection Unit and Health and Family Welfare department would provide counselling to parents of two or more girl children. The family would be educated on government schemes and incentives available for raising girl children. Village Health Nurses are expected to explain maternity benefits available to mothers even outside of the campaign, says Madurai-based child psychologist and activist Rani Chakravarthy. Schemes like Dr. Muthulakshmi Maternity Benefit Scheme which provides optimal nutrition for pregnant and lactating women and Cradle Baby Scheme where children who cannot be raised by parents will be rehabilitated are novel initiatives by the State government. “The role of a VHN is to ensure that she keeps tabs on antenatal women and explain the various benefits the State offered to them. With more officers from the government visiting homes of high order mothers, it might instil some confidence about raising the girl child. It will also instil a degree of fear and hence curb potential cases of infanticide,” she says. Managing Trustee of Justice Shivaraj V. Patil Foundation S. Selva Gomathi says visited a number of villages over the years where cases of female infanticide were reported. “Women justify female infanticide because they do not want their daughters to undergo domestic violence, abuse and eve teasing - all issues that they have faced in their lives. Some others complain about gold prices increasing over the years. They fear that they may not be able to get their daughters married. To address these issues, we must ensure that we uproot these fears from them and the society that they live in,” she says. The district administration must focus on prolonged efforts to address the skewed thinking in villages and towns prone to infanticide. “Mothers should have confidence that the State government will support them through growing-up years of the female child. A detailed outline of the State government’s support towards education of the girl child, employment opportunities and health will make an impact,” she says.
28 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Eight test positive in Madurai||Eight persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai district on Wednesday, taking the total count to 241. Of the eight, seven were returnees from Maharashtra. They tested positive when they were stopped and screened at the checkpost. Some of them were from Dharavi cluster and all worked at local eateries in Mumbai. All were quarantined at institutional facilities set up by the district administration, said Madurai Collector T. G. Vinay. Another patient was a 25-year-old man, who arrived from Chennai by car. He was in home quarantine at Vadipatti as he did not display any symptoms and did not have any comorbidities. Besides the eight persons, a 23-year-old man, who travelled from Mumbai to Madurai by train, also tested positive. He was placed at a railway quarantine facility. According to a State medical bulletin, 18 persons were discharged and there are 99 active cases. According to the bulletin, no fresh cases were reported from Dindigul and Theni districts. Two cases reported in Sivaganga were returnees from Maharashtra, while the patient in Ramanathapuram was a local. In Theni, 12 patients were discharged after successful treatment at Government Medical College Hospital. With 108 active cases testing positive, the district discharged 75, leaving 33 under treatment. Tirunelveli The district had four more positive cases, while neighbhouring Thoothukudi saw seven new cases including five returnees from Maharashtra. With this, Tirunelveli had 301 viral infections so far and 154 active cases as on Wednesday. Thoothukudi’s tally touched 194 with 114 active cases. With no fresh cases, Tenkasi district’s tally stood at 85 cases with 31 active ones. Kanniyakumari had one case. The district had 59 positive cases, with 31 patients undergoing treatment at Government Medical College Hospital, Aasaaripallam.
28 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plus Two answer sheet evaluation begins in districts||Evaluation of answer scripts for Plus Two public examination formally began in several southern districts of the State on Wednesday. Though the examinations were held in March, the valuation exercise was delayed by two months due to COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown. Madurai Valuation of papers in Madurai district went smoothly on the first day, according to chief examiners. Officials from the Education Department said that only chief examiners arrived at the centres to assess the safety of rooms and begin the exercise a day ahead of assistant examiners. On Thursday, 1,800 teachers would arrive at the centres to begin their work, said a source in the education department. A chief examiner at a centre in Melur said the department had made arrangements to ensure that a maximum of eight persons would be seated in a room at a centre. “Buses have been arranged on 18 routes to pick up assistant examiners and drop them at to six centres from Thursday,” he said. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said evaluation was being done at four schools in Aruppukottai and three in Sivakasi in Virudhunagar district. A total of 169 chief examiners in the rank of higher secondary school heads and senior-most PG teachers and 169 scrutinising officers in the rank of senior PG teachers would be involved in the exercise. The Collector and Sivakasi Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar, along with Chief Educational Officer Subashini, inspected the arrangements at the centre in S.H.N. Girls Higher Secondary School. “On Wednesday, the chief examiners and scrutinising officers evaluated the papers to familiarise themselves with answer scripts and key words meant for evaluation of the scripts. This will help them to scrutinise papers evaluated by assistant examiners,” an official said. From Thursday, 1,014 assistant examiners would start evaluation. Each of them would evaluate 24 answer scripts of all subjects except biology. “For biology, each assistant examiner will evaluate only 16 papers as each answer script has to be evaluated by different teachers with expertise in botany and zoology,” the official added. The evaluated answer scripts would be checked and verified by scrutinising officers and chief examiners. The district administration had provided adequate number of masks at the centres to be distributed to all staff members involved in evaluation. Thermal scanners would be used to check the body temperature of staff members before they were allowed inside the centres. Besides, facility for handwashing and sanitiser had been provided in all eight centres. All classrooms at the centres would be disinfected twice a day. The district administration had also arranged for food and bus facility for teachers to reach the centres. Dindigul Senior teachers tasked with evaluation were given orientation by officials from the Department of Education in Dindigul on Wednesday. A total of165 chief examiners were present at their centres in Dindigul and Oddanchatram. Assistant examiners would begin valuation of the allotted answer sheets from Thursday. Sixteen special buses had been arranged for teachers. The Red Cross had been given the task of screening the teachers. Health officials had been told to sanitise the areas at least twice a day. All teachers had been advised to ensure that they practised social distancing at the centres. Ramanathapuram Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao told reporters that centres at Ramnad and Paramakudi had been provided with all basic amenities. The teachers designated for valuation duty would be exempt from holding e-pass for travel if they were from other districts. Sivaganga The district administration had arranged eight buses from different destinations to the valuation centres. The special service would be operated till the valuation was completed, Education officials said.
28 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Waive customs duty on newsprint, says CPI(M)||Communist Party of India (Marxist) has sought waiver of customs duty on newsprint and increase in rates of Bureau of Outreach and Communication advertisements issued to the print medium. In a representation sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the party’s Madurai MP, Su. Venkatesan, said that many newspapers had already cut down the number of pages and closed down a few editions to keep them going as they have ethical commitment to the society. Stating that this industry gave employment to 30 lakh people “who are the ones enlightening our society at large,” he said the disastrous effects of COVID-19 had brought down the advertising revenues to almost nil. “This situation is expected to continue for a long time until the ‘new normal’ is established and set rolling,” Mr. Venkatesan said. Stating that advertisement revenue drove the newspaper industry forward, the MP said that even logistical issues had led to reduction in circulation. Mr. Venkatesan also sought clearance of BOC dues and increased use of print medium for government announcements. Stating that the current crisis had pushed the industry into a question of its very survival, he supported the newspaper body’s demand for a complete tax holiday for the next two fiscals.
28 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bottle with kerosene thrown at policeman’s house||Unidentified persons hurled a bottle filled with kerosene at the house of a policeman, Shahjahan, in Melamadai in the small hours of Wednesday. However, it did not injure anybody or cause damage to the property, Earlier, the Anna Nagar police had arrested three persons from the area in a robbery-attempt case. Suspecting that Shahjahan, attached to Armed Reserve, Chennai City Police, who is here on leave, might have alerted the police, the culprits could have thrown the kerosene-filled bottle at his house to threaten him, police suspect and are on the lookout for the accused.
28 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Nehru’s death anniversary||People who remained indoors during the lockdown, fearing for life due to the pandemic, were coming out only for their livelihood and survival despite the continuing threat of coronavirus, said Congress MP B. Manickam Tagore. Talking to reporters after garlanding the statue of the first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, on his 56 death annivesary here on Wednesday, Mr. Tagore said that people coming out despite the lockdown only showed the failure of the Centre. “Had the Centre given Rs. 7,500 to 14 crore below poverty line people in the country, they would not have faced the livelihood problem. They are now more bothered about their livelihood than life,” he said. The poor workers also faced the threat of interest repayment for loans they availed. The Centre did not have a proper plan for the lockdown. Stating that Nehru had termed the public sector units as temples of modern India, he said the Centre was attempting to sell PSUs to promote private enterprises.
28 May 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Kudimaramathu works inspected||The ‘Kudimaramathu’ works for strengthening of waterbodies undertaken by the Public Works Department in Kollidam, Mayiladuthurai and Sirkazhi panchayat unions a cost of Rs. 87 lakh were inspected on Wednesday by the Principal Secretary, Backward Classes, MBC and Minorities Welfare Department, B. Chandra Mohan. Accompanied by Collector Praveen P. Nair and senior PWD officials, the Special Monitoring Officer took stock of the works in progress at Kazhuthai Vaickal in Nallavinayagapuram, Uppanaru in Pudupattinam area, Muvalur, and Vaideeswarankovil. The 131 Kudimaramathu works being undertaken at a cost of Rs. 87 lakh, and the 80 desilting works carried out at a cost of Rs. 51 crore will be completed before release of water from Mettur dam, Mr. Chandra Mohan said. On Tuesday, the Collector inspected Kudimaramathu works under way at locations in Tirumarugal Panchayat Union.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Barred floors of city hospital to be used for COVID-19 patients||The Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed the Tamil Nadu government to use four “unauthorised” floors of the Billroth Hospital at Shenoy Nagar in Chennai for treating COVID-19 patients. On June 3 last year, the apex court stayed the demolition of floors four to eight of the hospital. The court further did not permit the use of the floors for any purpose because “their construction was found to be unauthorised and without sanction.” The hospital, however, recently urged the apex court to use its fourth to seventh floors for housing COVID-19 patients as the State was in need of additional space. “Even though the need for using available space for the purpose of locating in-patient beds is legitimate and necessary, we see no reason why the said floors should be allowed to be used by the petitioner-hospital. However, since the demand for additional space has been made by the State of Tamil Nadu (represented by Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan) we consider it appropriate to permit Tamil Nadu to use the floors, i.e., fourth to seventh floors of the building for the purpose of dealing with the pandemic,” the court held. It said the State could utilise the service of any agency, including the hospital, for treating the COVID-19 patients. The court also made it a point to stress that this order “will not create any rights in favour of the petitioner-hospital and have no bearing on the question of regularisation of the said premises which is sought for in the petitions.” Last year, the apex court agreed to consider the hospital’s case after the Madras High Court directed the State government, the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority and the Greater Chennai Corporation to raze the top five floors.
28 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||9 new cases in Puducherry||Nine COVID-19 cases, including four from Villupuram in Tamil Nadu, were reported in Puducherry on Wednesday. The five cases in Puducherry were from Solai Nagar, Muthialpet, Dharmapuri and Reddiarpalayam. The tally of active COVID-19 cases stands at 39 in the UT. The cumulative total aggregates to 51, with 12 cured. “The new cases were detected during contact tracing conducted on an estimated 160 subjects,” Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said. “So far, during contact tracing for new cases, we have been able to identify index patients from whom the transmission has occurred. This gives hope that community transmission is not happening,” T. Arun, Collector said.
28 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Flight service resumes at Salem airport||After being grounded for 63 days by the COVID-19 lockdown from March 25, the flight service in the Salem-Chennai sector resumed on Wednesday with a service from Chennai landing at Salem Airport with 56 passengers and returning with 39 passengers. Trujet Airlines flight departed from Chennai at 7.20 a.m. and arrived in Salem at 8.20 a.m. Special teams of the Health Department collected nasal swabs from all the passengers and stamped a seal on their hands that carried the date of travel. They were asked to remain in institutional quarantine arranged by the district administration or choose a paid quarantine in hotels in the city. Officials said that once the test results arrived, passengers who tested negative could go home but remain in quarantine for 14 days. Those testing positive would be admitted to the isolation ward at the hospital here. Disinfectants were sprayed on passengers’ luggage who were ready to board the flight to Chennai. Also, officials confirmed that all passengers had installed Aarogya Setu app in their mobile phones and wore a mask, after which they were allowed to board the flight. The flight departed at 8.50 a.m. Airline officials said the flight would be operated five days a week, except Tuesday and Thursday.
28 May 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Firefighter flees to village in Sivaganga||After giving samples for swab tests two days ago, a 25-year-old firefighter in Chennai made his way to his native village near Kalayarkoil in Sivaganga district on a two-wheeler on Tuesday. When officials firom the health department in Chennai contacted him on his mobile phone to convey that he had tested positive and ask him to get admitted in hospital, he told them that he had reached his native village. Shocked, the officials immediately directed him to get admitted at Government Medical College Hospital in Sivaganga.
28 May 2020||Special Correspondent,TAMIL NADU||Kalayarkoil villagers stage protest||Villagers of Sivantharendal near here staged a protest on Wednesday against lifting soil from a tank. Former Communist Party of India MLA Gunasekaran said despite repeated appeals to the district administration not to permit lifting of soil, as the tank was the source of irrigation for 150 acres of agricultural land, the illegal act went on unchecked. When the culprits descended on the tank with earthmovers early in the morning of Wednesday, the villagers squatted at the site. The culprits threatened the people to disperse as they had permit to lift soil. But when the villagers did not budge, they left the spot, Mr. Gunasekaran said. The villagers had submitted petitions to the Collector J. Jayakanthan on four occasions - during weekly grievance day meetings and farmers’ meetings. He assured that nobody would be allowed to lift soil from the tank, still the illegal act continued.
28 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Complete desilting works before water release’||Agriculture Production Commissioner and Principal Secretary, Agriculture, Gagandeep Singh Bedi, has directed the Public Works Department officials to complete the desilting works taken up under the Chief Ministers Special Desilting Scheme before water for irrigation is released into the Cauvery river. Mr. Bedi, who is also special officer depuuted to monitor the execution of the works in Thanjavur district, issued necessary instructions to the PWD officials during his inspection tour of the district on Tuesday where he checked progress of various works implemented under the CMSDS in Thanjavur, Orathanadu and Pattukottai taluks on Tuesday. He had also inspected desilting, bund strengthening, regulation construction/renovation and other works taken up under the ‘kudimaramathu’ and the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee schemes in these three blocks. The Special Officer had also asked the officials involved in the exercise to expedite the works so as to get them completed before water for irrigation was released from the Stanley Reservoir, Mettur, on June 12. The works should be completed in such a manner that the water for irrigation released into Cauvery reaches the tail-end areas without fail, he said. Collector M.Govinda Rao and senior officials from the PWD, DRDA and Revenue Department accompanied the APC during the inspection tour. Senior officers deputed by the government to monitor the desilting works inspected their progress in Tiruchi, Ariyalur, Pudukottai and other districts.
28 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Desilting of 3,450-km of riverbed under way’||Priority is being given to desilting of rivers, channels and canals that carry water for irrigation among the works taken up through various schemes in the Delta districts, according to K.Satyagopal, Chairman and Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Water Resources Conservation and Rivers Restoration Corporation. Mr. Satyagopal, who has been designated as a special monitoring officer for desilting works implemented in the delta region, said that desilting of around 3450 kilometres of riverbed, irrigation channels and canals have been taken up under various schemes in the delta districts and were expected to be completed before the release of water from the Mettur dam on June 12. Stating the priority was being given to the works taken up on the waterways that carry water for irrigation, he urged the officials involved in the desilting exercise to ensure that the works were completed before water reaches the Delta from the Stanley Reservoir. The special officer inspected the desilting and other works taken up in rivers and irrigation channels at Kumbakonam and Thiruvidaimaruthur taluks on Wednesday, according to a press release. The CMD, TNWRCRRC had also chaired a meeting with the farmers’ representatives at the District Collectorate along with the special officer, Chief Minister’s Special Desilting Scheme and Agriculture Production Commissioner, Gagandeep Singh Bedi and the Collector, M.Govinda Rao.
28 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Paddy crop suffers rice leaf mite attack||Summer paddy crop raised in some parts of delta districts is said to be affected by rice leaf mite, according to the Tamil Nadu Rice Research Institute, Aduthurai. In a press release, the TRRI director, V.Ambethgar said that the institute had received calls from the farmers seeking steps to be taken up to control the mite attack on their crop. The mite colonises under the leaf and sucks the exuding sap leading to chlorophyll loss. Thus the plant leaf turns yellow or brown as they dry up. The mite becomes more active during the periods of high temperature and high relative humidity, according to Dr. Ambethgar. In order to control the attack on paddy crop, the farmers have been advised to apply the prescribed quantity of nutrient in phases and not at one go, and also spray either two millilitre of fenazaquin 10 EC mixed in one litre of water or 05. ml of propargite 18.5 EC in one litre of water or 2 ml of spiromesifen 240 SC in one litre of water on the crop, he said.
28 May 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Man booked for violating quarantine norms||A 32-year-old man identified as Muthukumar, son of Selvaraj of Pulikuthi, Chinnamanoor near In a bid to ensure that quarantined people stayed indoors, the police are monitoring them through the Kavalan app. At the police control room at the Theni district police office, set up exclusively for surveillance since the lockdown came into effect two months ago, the police have been keeping track of persons in quarantine through digital mode. On Tuesday, with the aid of Kavalan app, the police spotted Muthukumar stepping out of his house and going out for a distance of about 2-3 kilometres. Hence, he was charged for violating the guidelines to remain indoors. The Chinnamanoor police booked a case against him under IPC Section 271 read with section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act and section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. Superintendent of Police E. Sai Charan Tejaswi has appealed to residents to remain indoors, especially those who were in quarantine, as per medical guidelines. By stepping out of home, people were taking a risk of spreading COVID-19. Only with public support, the police could effectively discharge their duties, he said.
28 May 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Estate owners meet Collector||Following a meeting held with Collector M. Pallavi Baldev, cardamom estate owners and auction agents are hopeful of reopening of the auction centre at Bodinaickanur soon. According to a release, a delegation of cardamom growers met the Collector recently and explained their difficulties in reaching their estates in neighbouring Idukki district in Kerala. Since lockdown norms were being eased, if they were allowed to go to their farms in Kerala, they would adhere to social distancing norms while tending to farming. The delegation gave a list of 437 persons who had estates in Idukki and sought e-pass.
28 May 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||VOC Port handles long windmill blade||The V.O. Chidambaranar Port handled 72.40 meter-long wind turbine generator blades, the longest to be handled by the port so far, on Tuesday night. The German-flagged 151.67 metres-long heavy lift vessel ‘M.V Maria’ with draft of 8.50 metres was berthed at VOC-II berth for loading the longest ever wind turbine generator blades made in the country. Loading of the blades was executed diligently by using the ship’s three hydraulic cranes. The shipper of the above blade is M/s. Nordex India Private Limited, Thiruvallur, and the cargo is consigned by M/s. Nordex Energy GMBH, Germany, to the Port of Antwerp, Belguim. The Stevedore and Ship Agent for the above vessel is M/s. Aspinwall & Company Limited, Thoothukudi. The windmill blade was transported by M/s. Namakkal Transport Carriers Logistics Private Limited using specialized truck all the way from Mappedu near Chennai to Thoothukudi. Lauding the efforts, T. K. Ramachandran, Chairman, V.O. Chidambaranar Port Trust, stated that the Port had all infrastructure in place to handle windmill blades and towers.
28 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Valuation of Plus Two answer papers begins||Valuation of Plus Two answer scripts began here on Wednesday amidst safety precautions in view of the COVID 19 pandemic. Chief Examiners and Scrutinising Officers who turned up at the valuation centres on the first day were appreciative about the steps taken by the School Education Department towards ensuring safety of the evaluators, officials said. In Tiruchi district, a little over 500 Chief Examiners and Scrutinising Officers turned up at the 13 valuation centres, in complete adherence to the safety protocol for containment of COVID 19 pandemic. There was cent percent attendance, officials said. Assistant Examiners will begin coming to the valuation centres from Thursday onwards. As many as 2,000 teachers have been deployed for the valuation duty in the district. The education department had instructed the teachers to wear face masks unfailingly when they come from their homes. The department has a stocked up face masks to be given the evaluators, Chief Educational Officer S. Shanthi said. Sanitisation of the classrooms was carried out twice: before start of the valuation work and after completion, on Wednesday. The safety measure will be followed on a daily basis till the last day of valuation, the CEO said. The evaluators were provided with hand sanitisers, before commencing their valuation work. The first day was marked by checking the contents and the answer keys. The full-fledged valuation will begin from Thursday onwards, with only eight teachers: a chief examiner, a scrutinising officer and six assistant examiners in every classroom, in compliance with the personal distancing requirement. In Perambalur district, the valuation work commenced at the Golden Gates Matriculation Higher Secondary School. District Collector V. Santha who inspected the centre accompanied by the Chief Educational Officer Mathivanan and other senior officials said 600 out of 36,552 answer scripts assigned for the district were evaluated on Wednesday. Disinfection of the exam halls and hand hygiene have been accorded utmost importance, the Collector said. In Nagapattinam district, thermal scanners were used to rule out COVID 19 infection for teachers attending the valuation duty at the centres. Transport arrangements were made to facilitate teachers to reach the valuation centres. A total of 1,032 teachers are expected to complete evaluation of 72,349 answer scripts. In Ariyalur district, the valuation work commenced at Montfort Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Ariyalur town, and at Government Higher Secondary School, Jayankondam. The Ariyalur and Jayankondam Municipalities have made arrangements for disinfection of the centres twice a day for the duration of valuation work.
28 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||16 persons test positive in central region||Sixteen patients tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Wednesday. Of them, five each hailed from Ariyalur and Tiruvarur districts while three tested positive in Tiruchi, and one each in Nagapattinam, Pudukottai and Thanjavur districts. In Ariyalur district, five patients who had returned to their home towns tested positive. While four patients including three men aged 42, 23 and 22 and an 18-year-old woman returned from Chennai, a 24-year-old man had returned from Maharashtra. The patients are undergoing treatment at the Ariyalur District Government Headquarters Hospital. The patient who returned from Maharashtra was intercepted at a check post and swab sample was lifted for testing, official sources here said. On Wednesday, 42 new samples were taken from patients with fever and cold symptoms and have been sent to the K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College for testing. In Tiruchi, three persons tested positive. This included a life convict at the Tiruchi Central Prison whose test result was officially announced on Wednesday. The parents of a girl who had tested positive earlier were the other two positive cases. The family hails from Somarasampettai. Ten patients hailing from Tiruchi, one from Perambalur and one from Theni are undergoing treatment at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, officials here said, adding that the patients were all responding well to treatment and were stable. In Tiruvarur, five male patients, in the age group of 18 to 23, tested positive for the virus. ,The addition of these patients increased the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district to 42 so far. In Thanjavur, one patient, a 54-year-old male tested positive. He is undergoing treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. In Nagapattinam, a 42-year-old man hailing from Vedaranyam tested positive for the virus. The man was tested on May 26 and was shifted to the Vedaranyam Government Hospital for treatment. The sole patient who tested positive in Pudukottai was a 54-year-old man who returned to the district from Maharashtra. Official sources here said that he was intercepted on arrival at a check post and a test was lifted immediately. So far, 21 patients in the district have tested positive of which 14 are active cases. Eight patients are being treated at the Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial Government Hospital while six are admitted to Ranees Hospital here.
28 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Labourer makes hats from coconut fronds||An agricultural labourer, who has been rendered jobless during the lockdown, has taken to weaving and selling hats made of coconut fronds to children and adults near the Collectorate here. The man apparently learned the skill on the internet. R. Vijayakumar, who works as an agricultural labourer who also weaved coconut frond decorations for pandals for weddings has always been interested in the flexibility and strength of the coconut tree, he says. The pandals would stay strong for weeks, even after the leaves had dried up. During the lockdown, with no weddings and celebrations being organised, Mr. Vijayakumar had a load of fronds on his hands and nothing to do with them. “I researched on YouTube and found these hats. It was difficult to learn but I did it quickly,” he says. Mr. Vijayakumar then decided he would show the work to his friends. Every morning he would bring a small load of the fronds and weave them seated near a tea shop which his friend owned. One day, some parents who passed by here admired my work and asked if they could by some for their kids, he says. The bright green hats attracted a lot of people. From then on, I come here almost every morning, weave till about noon and sell whatever I weave, he adds. The coconut fronds are purchased from men who climb the trees to harvest coconuts. “If I pay them Rs. 100, I usually get three to four fronds,” he says. The leaflets are then removed individually and soaked in water, which makes them more flexible. Despite his hardships, he has not set a fixed price on the hats. He says- “people come and watch me weave them, record some videos and then pay me anything between Rs. 50 -100 for a hat. I do not demand any money as I know everyone else is struggling as well.”
28 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery, textile showrooms seek permission to open||Faced with heavy losses due to the lockdown, owners of major textile showrooms, jewellers, utensil shops and other big commercial establishments have urged the district authorities to allow them to open with appropriate restrictions to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. In a memorandum submitted to the Collector on behalf of the business majors, the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu said that the big establishments functioning on the city’s main commercial areas of NSB Road, Chinnakadai Street, Big Bazaar Street, Nandhikovil Street, Singarathope, West Boulevard Road, Central Bus Stand and other parts of the city have suffered huge losses as they have remained closed for two months. Thousands of employees in the establishments and those who were getting indirect employment through them have been deprived of their livelihood, the association said. “Stocks worth crores of rupees are lying at the establishment. Since the establishments are closed for two months, the products have been damaged by rodents and insects,” Ve. Govindarajalu, State general secretary, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu, said in the representation. Owners of the establishments have paid two months salary to the employees even though there has been no business and are faced with the prospect of having to pay electricity charges as per the previous reading. This has only added to the burden of the establishments, he said. Almost all stand alone shops and establishments were now allowed to function to restricted timings as per the relaxations announced by the government. In most other cities, including in non-containment zones in Chennai, many textile shops and commercial establishments have started functioning, Mr. Govindarajalu claimed. But in Tiruchi, textile showrooms, jewellery shops and utensil shops have been classified as big establishments and not allowed to open, he regretted. If the showrooms and shops were not allowed to open immediately, they may face the prospect of permanent closure, jeopardising the livelihood of businessmen and thousands of employees, he contended and demanded permission for the shops to open. Mr. Govindarajalu said the establishments were willing to comply with all necessary regulations and safety norms if allowed to function.
28 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Folk music artistes demand relief||Members of the Tamizhaga Natupura Isaikalai Perumandram petitioned the Collector on Wednesday requesting compensation for the loss of livelihood over the last three months. The early months of a year, up to May, are when they get work, which was lost during the lockdown, they say. About 50 parai artistes gathered outside the Collectorate and beat their drums in unison as a they protested lack of assistance from the government. The artistes said that of about 5000 members of the Tamizhaga Natupura Isaikalai Perumandram, only about 1000 have received assistance. “The only reason we are able to survive is the free ration provided at the Public Distribution System shops,” one of the protesters said. K. Karunakaran, vice-president, Tiruchi wing of the Tamizhaga Natupura Isaikalai Perumandram, said that from January onwards up to May is when they are hired for shows and celebrations. “Be it weddings or any other event, it would all be planned only in these months. All our earnings are made then and for the rest of the six months we survive on it. This has been our life for years,” he said. “From May onwards, only if there is a funeral we get to work. That’s our life,” he said.
28 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Relief distributed to airport workers||About 100 labourers, including trolley retrievers, canteen and other contract employees, working at the Tiruchi International Airport were given essential commodities worth Rs. 1,000 each in view of the lockdown. Airport Director K. Gunasekeran handed over the bags, sponsored by the employees of the Airports Authority of India (AAI), Tiruchi, to the beneficiaries on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the Confederation of Indian Industry and Young Indians, Tiruchi zone, donated a touch-free automatic hand sanitizer dispenser to the airport on Tuesday. The dispenser developed by Clear Aqua Technologies Pvt Ltd was inaugurated in the presence of Mr. Gunasekaran, Ketan Vora, Chair, Yi, Tiruchi Chapter, and Gajeshwaran, Managing Director, Clear Aqua Technologies. The stand-alone dispenser has a storage capacity of 6.5 litres and can be used over 1,800 times with a single refill. The dispenser is approximately valued at around Rs. 20,000, a CII release said.
28 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Snake rescued from open well||A Russell’s Viper, one of the most venomous snakes found in Asia, was rescued from a deep open well in Ponnusangampatty in Thuraiyur taluk on Tuesday by K. Naveen, a farmer and environmentalist, with the help of a few volunteers. Mr. Naveen, who runs a 10-hectare (approximately 24 acres) farm in Krishnapuram, Mavilipatty Panchayat, has carried out around 6-7 animal rescue missions in and around Thuraiyur since the lockdown began, with the last two involving Russell’s Vipers, known to be one of the most venomous snakes found in Asia. “I got a call from Ponnusangampatty elders on Monday night that a snake had been spotted inside the well, which could potentially poison the only source of water for the village. Since the well was very deep and also had a small grove of trees around it, we felt it was better to use a makeshift raft covered with coconut fronds that the snake could climb on to. But unlike other snakes, the Russell’s Viper is not equipped to wind itself around any object; so it kept slipping off from the wooden frame,” Mr. Naveen told The Hindu . After an hour elapsed, and the snake remained marooned, Mr. Naveen decided to lower himself into the well with the help of a rope harness. “We had 10 volunteers from the village who were in charge of handling the ropes, and though I nearly lost my balance when I went in, I was able to brace myself quickly. Luckily my helmet saved me from head injury, as I banged myself against the well’s stone wall,” he said. The entire episode, which lasted two and a half hours on Tuesday, was filmed on camera as well. Mr. Naveen was able to catch the snake and bag it in a large sack, to keep both itself and the excited villagers out of harm’s way. He handed the snake over to the Thuraiyur Forest Department, for safe release into its natural habitat. “Snakes are commonly spotted in water bodies during the rainy season, and also when there is a prolonged dry spell in farmlands. I guess this snake may have inadvertently fallen into the well during the recent showers in our district,” said Mr. Naveen, who conducts many conservation programmes through his Global Nature Foundation. “It is better to rescue snakes, rather than kill them, because they are an important part of the agricultural landscape.”
28 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rodents compound traders’ woes||At a time when the traders have suffered huge loss due to the extended lockdown, rodent menace in the locked showrooms and shops has compounded their woes. Although most of the small and medium scale shops and business establishments were allowed to resume business and trade, large scale textile, ready made, jewellery and air conditioned showrooms continue to remain closed since March 25. Similarly, hotels, lodges, bars, marriage halls and hostels have also been closed for the past couple of months. They are yet to be given permission to resume business. As the government permitted only parcel service, most of the restaurants and eateries function with just 10% to 20% of staff members. The long closure of trade and business establishment has made unintended consequences. Emboldened by the absence of staff and customer movements, it is said that rat population has seen manifold increase in the closed showrooms and big business houses. In search of food, the wandering and hungry rats, with their strong and powerful teeth, have wreaked havoc on fabrics, dress materials, furniture, doors, electrical wires, plywood, floors and others. Several traders in the city are said to have suffered huge loss due to the rodent menace. If the small traders suffered loss in thousands of rupees, it runs into in lakhs of rupees in large scale showrooms. The damages have come to light when the traders opened their showrooms for carrying out maintenance work a few days ago after the State government given permission for it. “We did not expect such large scale destruction by rodents. Fabrics, worth several lakhs of rupees, have damaged as the rats went on rampage day and night during the closed period. It is totally unexpected,” says M. Roshan, Managing Director, Sarathas, Tiruchi. If the showrooms were functioned as usual, there would have been movements of customers and staff members. Since the showrooms were closed for more than 2 months, the rats had taken advantage of the situation and had made life miserable of many traders. Mr. Roshan said that the full extent of damage would be known only after the showroom was reopened with regular employees. The damaged fabrics and dress materials were being taken out of display. It is not just that the textile showrooms have suffered a huge loss due to rodent menace. The hotels are also suffered a lot. “The rats have destroyed beds, bed covers and furniture in almost all rooms. It is a huge loss. We have no other option but to replace them ,” Stephen, Manager of a hotel in Chathiram Bus Stand.
28 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special train to Bihar departs from Tiruchi with migrant workers||A Shramik special train with 839 passengers on board departed from the Tiruchi Railway Junction on Wednesday afternoon on a journey to Bihar. The train, arranged by the Southern Railway , would ferry the migrants to their home town in the northern state. The train carried workers who had been employed in six districts in Tamil Nadu when it departed from Tiruchi. Of the 839, 248 worked in Tiruchi, while 133 worked in Ariyalur, 157 in Pudukottai, 148 in Perambalur, 139 in Dindigul and 14 from Karur districts. The workers had expressed an interest to make the trip and had applied for it with their district administrations. The respective districts arranged special buses for them to reach Tiruchi Railway Junction in time to board the train. Collector S. Sivarasu handed each of the travellers some food, water and snacks before sending them off on a journey which would culminate at Darbhanga Railway Junction in Bihar on Friday. The train would also be making a stop at Chengalpattu, official sources here said.
28 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Illegal sand mining racket busted, kingpin arrested||Veeravanallur police busted a sand mining racket in Ambasamudram and Kallidaikurichi and arrested the kingpin on Wednesday. Police sources said a patrol team led by Inspector Samson raided areas near Vandalodai, about 10 km from Palayamkottai-Papanasam Highway, following information about illicit sand mining activity. The team found a group of people loading sand on a tractor from a dry stream bed without a valid pass. Questioned, they said they were acting on the instruction of John Peter, 32, of Pottal. As the police team was proceeding to Pottal, John Peter reportedly called Mr. Samson over the phone and asked him to release the tractor. He was detained. “John Peter introduced himself as reporter of a Tamil TV news channel and threatened the police with serious consequences including losing their job,” said a police officer attached to Special Branch. Unmindful of it, the police team arrested him and his accomplice, who were involved in illicit sand mining in Kallidaikurichi, Ambasamudram and Vickramasingapuram for a long time with the alleged connivance of some revenue and police officials, the officer added.  “When they stepped out of their ‘haven’ in a bid to expand their area of operation, they were nabbed,” according to the officer. A probe into their role in smuggling stones from five quarries in Ambasamudram and Cheranmahadevi taluks was on. The police team was also pursuing leads about the gang’s smuggling of ration rice into Kerala. “The gang, with the help of another man, who claims to be reporter of a TV news channel, has been smuggling ration rice for the past five years with the help of officials and a woman employee in a ration shop,” said another police officer from Ambasamudram Sub-Division. “When we detained a few ration rice smugglers, they said they were getting the stock from the ‘reporter’ since 2014 to be sold in Kerala for a premium after polishing it in a rice mill,” the officer added. Police said the key accused, John Peter, was arrested and booked under IPC Section 379 (sand theft) following a complaint from village administrative officer S. Balamurugan of Malaiyankulam. The tractor and trailer were impounded.
28 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Isolation camps set up in colleges for returnees||With the number of returnees from other States and countries on the rise, several ‘isolation camps’ are being created in colleges in the district. The move comes following a directive from Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish. Chairing a review meeting here on Wednesday, Ms. Shilpa said the special isolation camps would house returnees from Maharashtra and Gujarat, who were arriving by special trains or flights. They would be kept in the isolation camps based on the outcome of their health screening report. While positive cases would be sent to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for treatment, others would be asked to home quarantine for 14 days. Facilities The Collector told officials that the returnees should be provided with nutritious food,kabasura kudineer,nilavembu kudineerand tablets prescribed by doctors. Proper medical assistance should be put in place in the isolation camp. She also asked them to ensure drinking water, generator, toilet and other facilities at the camp. The toilets should be cleaned thrice a day and the garbage generated there cleared instantly. Each isolation camp would be monitored by a team headed by a Deputy Collector she said.
28 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Evaluation centres disinfected, examiners scanned by health workers||Evaluation of Plus Two answer scripts began at seven centres in Tirunelveli district on Wednesday. A total of 920 persons, including 103 chief examiners, 103 scrutiny officers 618 assistant examiners, would be involved in the exercise at the centres in St. Ignatius Convent Girls’ Higher Secondary School (Chemistry and Computer Science), St. John’s Higher Secondary School (Physics), Sarah Tucker Girls’ Higher Secondary School (English), Rose Mary Matriculation Higher Secondary School (Accountancy and Economics), Bell Matriculation Higher Secondary School (Tamil), Cathedral Higher Secondary School (Biology, Botany and Zoology) and Jayendra Saraswathi Silver Jubilee Matriculation Higher Secondary School (Mathematics), all in Palayamkottai. As the evaluators arrived at the centres wearing masks, they were provided soap and sanitiser to wash their hands. Health workers carrying thermal scanners screened their body temperature. All centres were disinfected in the morning. Chief Educational Officer Bhoopathi visited the centres. Most of the teachers reached the centres in 14 special buses operated from various parts of Tirunelveli and neighbouring districts, while those on personal vehicles showed their identity card at check-posts. Each hall had only eight persons — chief examiner, scrutiny officer, six assistant examiners — to ensure physical distancing. Evaluation started in three centres in Tenkasi district and at six centres in Thoothukudi district, where 1,344 teachers would be involved in evaluation of 1,32,518 answer scripts. Thoothukudi Collector Sandeep Nanduri visited an evaluation centre.
28 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two special trains leave from Tiruppur||The Salem Division of Southern Railway operated two more Shramik special trains from Tiruppur Junction for the migrant workers in the district on Wednesday. Railway officials said that the trains were bound for Balasore, Odisha and Muzaffarpur, Bihar, which left the Junction at 12 noon. and 4 p.m. respectively. The trains ferried 1,600 passengers each. A total of 14 Shramik special trains have been operated from Tiruppur Junction as of Wednesday. The trains were operated to four States namely Bihar (8), Odisha (3), Uttar Pradesh (2) and Jharkhand (1). Apart from these, a special train from Coimbatore Junction bound for Korba, Chhattisgarh halted at Tiruppur Junction on May 25, where 800 migrant workers boarded the train. Over 20,000 migrant workers were sent to their hometowns from Tiruppur district through Shramik special trains, according to the officials.
28 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for stealing motorcycles in Tiruppur||The Tiruppur South police on Tuesday arrested two men on charges of stealing motorcycles from the premises of Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. Aravind (29) and Bharathiraja (27) confessed to stealing the motorcycles whose total worth was around Rs. 2 lakh, police said. Judicial custody Police personnel seized the stolen vehicles and remanded the accused in judicial custody.
28 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Flood control rooms to function from June 1||Flood control rooms in all the taluk offices and revenue divisional offices in Tiruppur district must be functional from June 1, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan ordered the Revenue Department and District Rural Development Agency on Wednesday. The Collector chaired a review meeting with officials from the district administration on the preparedness for the southwest monsoon in the district. The flood control rooms must function 24x7 and must alert the higher officials regarding damages due to floods and death of livestock. Tahsildars must instruct the Village Administrative Officer to send reports at the earliest regarding damages due to floods in their respective villages, a press release said. As COVID-19 precautionary measures continue to be in force, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits must be made available to all first responders and volunteers. Additional relief centres must be set up and personal distancing must be maintained inside the centres. All those staying in relief centres must be tested for COVID-19 symptoms, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan instructed the officials. Instructions regarding flood preparedness were provided to other departments including Public Works Department, Forest Department, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Department and Fire and Rescue Services during the review meeting. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan also instructed the officials involved in disaster management activities to download the Tamil Nadu - System for Multihazard potential impact Assessment and Emergency Response Tracking (TN-SMART) mobile application, which was launched by the State government to provide flood alerts, according to the release.
28 May 2020||Tiruvannamalai,TAMIL NADU||21 new cases reported positive for COVID-19 in Tiruvannamalai including health workers||Increase in number of returnees from other States has led to a situation where the district administration is looking out for space for quarantine. On Wednesday, 21 persons tested positive, which included 7 frontline health workers. This has sent a scare to the district administration. Contact tracing has been initiated as soon as the samples are tested and the health workers have been asked to concentrate on primary contacts such as family members, an official said.
28 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Lack of patronage hits autorickshaw drivers||Autorickshaw drivers in the Nilgiris are among the most affected by the suspension of tourism in the district due to the COVID-19 pandemic. According to the Regional Transport Office estimate, there are more than 1,000 autorickshaw drivers in the district, with Udhagamandalam town accounting for over 300 drivers. “While in other districts, autorickshaw drivers are dependent on local residents, the situation is entirely different in the Nilgiris. Here, most drivers depend on tourists and tying up with hotels and lodges to take tourists to popular tourist locations in and around the major towns,” said S. Mani, an autorickshaw driver at the ‘Popular auto stand’ on Commercial Road in Udhagamandalam. Mr. Mani said that before the lockdown, he would expect to earn anywhere between Rs. 500 to Rs. 750 each day, with him being assured at least 10 rides. “Today, I have been here since 9 a.m. in the morning, and I have not had a single customer requiring a ride till 1 p.m.,” said Mani. Many autorickshaw drivers are planning to find other jobs. “There are many drivers who are trying to sell their rickshaws, but they cannot do that either as no one is buying their vehicles at this time,” said another driver from the town. D. Lawrence, a driver at the ‘Liberty auto stand’ in Udhagamandalam, said that usually 20 autorickshaws would be stationed at the auto stand on any given day. Now, he says there are only six vehicles, as many drivers are trying to find jobs in other sectors. “We hardly make Rs. 100 to Rs. 200 every day as there are no tourists and locals too do not want to hire a rickshaw because they too don’t have any money. The situation is extremely difficult and if the situation continues, most of us will have to look for alternative employment,” said Lawrence.
28 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Hospitality sector in the Nilgiris may see 70% slide in revenue||The COVID-19 pandemic has had a huge impact on the tourism industry in the Nilgiris, with hotel owners estimating that they may lose up to 70% of their average annual revenue in 2020 as the district has remained closed to tourists since mid-March. As the lockdown coincided with the April-May period, which is normally the peak season for tourism, the pandemic has had a tremendous impact on local businesses, particularly those in the hospitality sector. District Tourism Officer M. Abarajitham said that between April and June, an average of five to six lakh people visit the district each month. According to Sivasubramaniam Samraj, Joint Director of Horticulture, Nilgiris district, nearly 1.5 lakh people visit the Government Botanical Garden during the five-day annual flower show. A vast majority of these tourists also visit other parks and gardens run by the Horticulture Department, including the Rose Garden and the Sims Park. The closure of the district’s borders has translated to lost revenue for the government as well as private businesses like hotels, restaurants and lodges, which usually earn a majority of their revenue during the summer season and the “second season” in November and December. N. Chandrashekar, honorary secretary of the Nilgiri Hotel and Restaurant Association (NHRA), said that the livelihoods of 80,000 to 1,00,000 people were linked to the fortunes of hotels and restaurants operating in the district. “Such has been the impact that many hotel and restaurant owners are finding it difficult to pay salaries and maintenance costs and repay creditors,” he said. “Businesses connected with the tourism industry are highly dependent on the summer season for revenue generation to meet operational costs for the rest of the year,” Mr. Abarajitham said. Many other businesses are also dependent on the tourism industry. “There are thousands of taxi and bus tour operators, around 200 tourist guides, and many small business owners and even street vendors who are dependent on the tourism industry to sustain their livelihoods,” he added.  Nonetheless, Mr. Abarajitham expressed hope that tourists would soon return to the Nilgiris due to the low rate of infection here, with only 14 cases having been reported till date.
28 May 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||M.Tech, MCA admission on UG performance at VIT||Vellore Institute of Technology's (VIT) M.Tech and MCA admissions will be based on undergraduate degree performance, instead of entrance exam this year. Candidates can apply through www.vit.ac.in. The last date for submitting online application will be June 20, 2020. Application submitted already will be kept open for editing, except for Email ID and mobile number till June 20. The counselling will be conducted online.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Class XII answer scripts evaluation begins in Coimbatore, Tiruppur districts||The evaluation of Class XII answer scripts began on Wednesday at 11 evaluation camps across Coimbatore district and five camps in Tiruppur district. In Coimbatore district, 338 chief examiners, 338 scrutiny officers and around 200 non-teaching staff arrived at the camps on the first day. The 2,028 assistant examiners will participate in the evaluation process from Thursday, school education officials said. The 11 evaluation camps, which were all private schools, comprised five camps in Coimbatore educational district, four in Pollachi educational district and two in S.S. Kulam educational district. As part of COVID-19 precautionary measures, all the teachers were screened at the entrance of the evaluation camps for high body temperature using thermal scanners. Foot-operated hand sanitiser dispensers were also made available at the entrances. The premises of all evaluation camps in Coimbatore districts were disinfected twice a day in coordination with local body authorities. Masks were provided to the teachers at the camps and personal distancing was ensured in all rooms, according to the officials. The teachers were also advised to bring their own lunch and stationery items in a bid to minimise physical contact among them. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation operated 74 buses in 44 routes in Coimbatore district for around 1,750 teachers who opted for transport to reach the evaluation camps. However, in Pollachi educational district, three teachers could not board the bus in Valparai as the bus left the spot earlier than the scheduled time. “We asked the buses to leave at 7 a.m., but the bus left at around 6 a.m.,” an education official said. The TNSTC arranged an alternative bus and the teachers reached their camp by 8.45 a.m., the official said.  Tiruppur  In Tiruppur district, 200 chief examiners, 200 scrutiny officers and 87 non-teaching staff reported to the five evaluation camps on Wednesday and the 1,200 assistant examiners will report on Thursday. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and Tiruppur Chief Educational Officer R. Ramesh inspected an evaluation camp in Tiruppur educational district on Wednesday. In all the evaluation centres, squares were drawn from the entrance of the camp all the way to the respective rooms to maintain personal distancing of one metre between two teachers, officials said. TNSTC operated 21 buses in 16 routes for 441 teachers who opted for buses to reach the evaluation camps. There were no complaints regarding transport from the teachers on Wednesday, according to the officials.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||FlyDubai delays cargo flight plans||The plans of FlyDubai to operate cargo flights on select days between May 23 and 31 from Coimbatore to Dubai is yet to take off, according to a source here. “The cargo flight scheduled on two days did not materialise for ‘commercial reasons’. There is a requirement for flight connectivity to Dubai from Coimbatore. Several consignments sent to Sharjah go to Dubai from there and a lot of cargo is moved from Coimbatore to Kochi to be air-lifted to Dubai. The potential in Coimbatore should be tapped with a direct flight,” says the source. Since FlyDubai had announced flight plans, cargo was mobilised. “Cargo is available in the market. Some say the rate quoted in Coimbatore is higher compared to Kochi. Such issues should be addressed and only if a couple of flights are operated from here will there be better awareness among the trade. It will lead to better mobilisation of cargo from here,” the source adds. Custom House and Steamer Agents Association of Coimbatore president P. Subramaniam says the cargo flight to Dubai from Coimbatore is expected to take off on Saturday. “We hear that 50 % booking is already done for the Saturday flight. Our entire trade welcomes this move and we will take efforts to sustain the cargo service to Dubai. Only then will more carriers look at Coimbatore,” he said. In a message to the association members, Mr. Subramaniam said the flight on Saturday from here is expected to carry about 14 tonnes of cargo to Dubai. The tentative plan is to operate flights on Saturdays, Mondays, and Wednesdays at 11 p.m. According to Vanitha Mohan, vice-chairperson of Kongu Global Forum, says the Kongu region comprising seven districts has a variety of sectors with international cargo potential. “People should know that a flight service to Dubai is available and time should be given for the cargo bookings to go up.” The entire region, especially the farmers and businesses, will benefit if there is a direct flight to Dubai, she said.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||817 fresh cases take Tamil Nadu tally to 18,545||Among the six persons who died was a 39-year-old man from Chennai. He had diabetes, systemic hypertension and obesity, and was admitted to RGGGH on May 23. He died on May 26 due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 74-year-old woman from Chengalpattu, who was admitted to the Chengalpattu Medical College Hospital on May 11, died on May 25 due to respiratory failure and acute exacerbation of bronchial asthma, while another woman aged 78 died at RGGGH due to cardiopulmonary arrest, COVID-19 pneumonia, left ventricular dysfunction and cardiogenic shock. She had diabetes, systemic hypertension and coronary artery disease. A 54-year-old woman from Chennai and a 51-year-old man from Tiruvallur also died at RGGGH. A 79-year-old man, who had diabetes, systemic hypertension and pulmonary tuberculosis sequelae, died within two hours of admission to RGGGH on Tuesday. He died due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia. Returnees test positive Apart from the cases within the State, 139 persons, who returned from other States, tested positive for COVID-19. Except for one person who had returned from Kerala, all the others were from Maharashtra. This included 73 persons who tested positive in Kallakurichi and 31 passengers who had returned in a special train from Mumbai to Tirunelveli and were under railway quarantine. Till now, a total of 1,122 children aged 0 to 12 have tested positive for COVID-19. Among the new patients were three one-month-old babies. A total of 1,627 persons aged above 60 have tested positive till date. A total of 11,231 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 4,42,970. Testing of 650 samples is under process. Two more testing facilities have been approved for COVID-19 testing — the Government Headquarters Hospital, Dindigul, and Krsnaa Diagnostics Private Limited, Coimbatore. With this, there are a total of 42 government labs and 28 private labs in the State, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Baby girl sold to couple rescued||A three-and-a-half-year-old girl, who was sold to a couple from Kovilpatti by her father’s friend, was rescued on Wednesday. Sources in the District Child Protection Unit said Ashraf Ali of Nagapattinam sought the help of his friend to admit one of his two girls, aged about three-and-a-half years, in a home for children, as he was struggling to raise them due to domestic issues. A few weeks ago, the friend took the girl away, telling Ashraf Ali that she had been admitted in a home. In fact, the friend had sold the girl to a couple from Kovilpatti. When Ashraf Ali wanted to see his daughter, he asked his friend to take him to the home. But his friend continuously dodged the request. After repeated appeals, the friend gave an address in Madurai and asked Ashraf to meet his daughter there. When Ashraf found that she was not there, he contacted his friend over the phone to get the facts. However, his friend told him that he had sold the girl to a couple and threatened Ashraf that he would file a complaint with the police saying that Ashraf had sold the girl. Upset over this, Ashraf submitted a petition to Madurai Collector T.G. Vinay, who asked senior police officials to locate the girl. When the police grilled Ashraf’s friend, he told the investigators that he had sold the girl to a couple from Kovilpatti. A police team was immediately rushed to the couple’s home at Loyal Textile Mill area in Kovilpatti and from there they made a video call through which the girl spoke to her father. On being alerted, the District Child Protection Officer, Thoothukudi, Jothikumar, took the girl to the home and she would be handed over to Ashraf after proper inquiry. Meanwhile, Madurai police picked up Ashraf and his friend for inquiry and they would be handed over to Nagapattinam police for further investigation.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC takes serious view of workers not having PPE||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has taken a serious view of the plight of conservancy workers working without personal protective equipment (PPE). The court perused photographs of the same on Wednesday. Hearing via video conferencing a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State to provide PPE to non-medical frontline workers such as police and conservancy workers, a Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi sought the State’s response in this regard. The court was hearing the petition filed by R. Sathiamoorthy, the executive trustee of People’s Watch, who said but for masks the non-medical frontline workers were discharging their duties without personal protective equipment. During the course of the hearing, advocate Henri Tiphagne submitted recent photographs of conservancy workers from Madurai, Tiruchi, Ramanathapuram and Dharmapuri districts who were working without PPE. The State sought time to respond to the plea. Taking cognisance of the submission, the court said that it wanted to know the status of Madurai district. The case was adjourned till June 1.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three held for attack on two men||The Saibaba Colony police arrested three persons on charges of assaulting two men at Velandipalayam on Monday. The arrested have been identified as J. Krishnan (24) from Velandipalayam, S. Jayakumar (25) from Edayarpalayam, and S. Vijayakumar (26) from Somaiyanur. The police are on the lookout for their friend Kaja Moideen (25), who was also involved in the attack. Those arrested were remanded in judicial custody.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In cool zone||
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Avail subsidy for solar fencing’||Collector T.Anand has called upon the farmers to avail the subsidy scheme for erecting solar fencing to protect their crop from animals. In a press release, the Collector has said that it has been proposed to extend financial assistance to the individual farmers for putting up solar fencing around their agriculture land with 50 % subsidy. Applicants depending on their need and the area in which the cultivation had been taken up could install solar-powered electric fencing at a cost of Rs. 250 per metre for five strip fencing; Rs. 350 per metre for seven strip fencing and Rs. 450 per metre for ten strip fencing. A maximum sum of Rs. 2.18 lakh would be extended as subsidy for taking up this project for up to 1245 metres or 5 acres to the individual farmers, the release added. Interested farmers in Tiruvarur Revenue Division could contact the Assistant Executive Engineer, Agricultural Engineering Department, Tiruvarur and those in Mannargudi Revenue Division could contact the AEE, Mannargudi for further details.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Extend relief to unregistered workers’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday sought a response from the State in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State to extend the COVID-19 relief measures to unregistered unorganised workers in Ramanathapuram district. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi sought a status report from the district administration. The petitioner, N. Malaikannu, co-ordinator of Association for Rural Development and upliftment of Humanity to Virtual Integrity, said most of the workers were uneducated and unaware that they had to register with the labour welfare boards. Most of them had been pushed into poverty due to the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. The State government has offered relief to those workers who have registered with the welfare boards. The same must be extended to those who have not registered with the boards, he said, adding he sent a representation to the Ramanathapuram district administration but did not receive response.
28 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Probe into complaints by patients ordered||Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli has ordered an inquiry into complaints by some persons isolated in the district designated COVID-19 hospital and other quarantine centres. The primary complaint was from a woman who said that she and other vegetarian inmates were being served eggs in the hospital. The pregnant woman complained to hospital director Vinay Dastikoppa about the food served and threatened to go on a hunger strike. She survived a day on biscuits and fruits. She refused the food served by the hospital and demanded that she be served food from her house. However, others have not complained. Now, she is being served a different menu, said an officer of the district administration. In the second case, a resident quarantined in a private hotel on Kolhapur Road quarrelled with city corporation officials, saying that he was kept in the hotel beyond the mandated period of 14 days. He also argued that his throat swab was collected four days ago, but the results were not declared. Another complaint sent to the Deputy Commissioner says that a woman quarantined in a private hotel was not staying in the hotel. She came to the hotel every morning for a few minutes and went out. When other inmates of the quarantine facility questioned the city corporation officer stationed in the hotel, he said that she had been given special permission. The fourth complaint was about the alleged deliberate delay in carrying out a test. A senior citizen has complained to the Deputy Commissioner that his wife, who had suffered brain haemorrhage, had been kept in quarantine for more than 14 days but had not been tested yet. “She was not tested till we fought for it,” said the complainant.
28 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Area around boy’s house to be sealed||A two-year-old boy tested positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi district. He and his family had returned from Kerala, a release said. He is from Tilakwadi area in the new city here. Officials said that the area around the residence of the boy would be sealed soon. Three more persons from the district, all returnees from Maharashtra, tested positive on Wednesday. This has taken the tally to 146. A total of 94 persons have been discharged and there are only 48 active cases in the hospital. Meanwhile, the Tahsildar at Athani has written to the Deputy Commissioner that there was no need for declaring any village as a containment zone after 16 cases were detected from four villages. The officer has reasoned that all the quarantine centres from where the cases were detected, were schools away from the villages. This follows allegations that COVID-19 patients in Athani taluk had violated quarantine norms.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP prepared to handle monsoon, claims civic chief||The pre-monsoon showers that have been lashing Bengaluru over the past couple of days have shown how ill-prepared the city is to tackle the rains. With the Meteorological Department forecast stating more rains are expected, BBMP claims to have put in place various measures ahead of the monsoon months. According to a rain preparedness action plan prepared by the BBMP’s Engineer-in-Chief, apart from the permanent control rooms in the head office and the eight zonal offices, temporary control rooms have been set up in each of the 63 divisions. These control rooms will be functional only during the monsoon months and will be equipped with the required men and machinery. To clear the fallen trees and branches, 21 forest teams have been formed. Each of these teams will have 8 unskilled workers and a supervisor, who will be armed with a chainsaw, crowbar, saws, hammer, ropes and other essential equipment. These teams will be deputed in each of the eight permanent control rooms in shifts. The plan states that Chief Engineer (Lakes) has been instructed to ensure that the inlets of lakes are free of obstruction, apart from coordinating with Chief Engineer (Stormwater Drains) to ensure free flow of water in the drains. BBMP sources claimed that while desilting work had been taken up across the city, construction of a few new drains and remodelling of old drains had been stalled for want of funds. Work on as many as 23 packages worth approximately Rs. 500 crores had not been taken up. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar told The Hindu that apart from setting up the temporary control rooms and constituting emergency response teams, the civic body was monitoring many places that have a history of flooding and water-logging. The zonal joint commissioners and engineers, the Commissioner said, had been directed to take up cleaning of areas under their jurisdiction. “They have been instructed to clear any objects that can be a receptacle of water and become breeding grounds for mosquitoes, such as coconut husks and rubber tyres,” he said.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC declines to interfere with govt. decision on SSLC exam||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday declined to interfere with the State government’s decision to conduct the SSLC exam in the ongoing COVID-19 situation, but directed Deputy Commissioners to set up helplines to assist students to use public transport to reach the examination centres. The court also directed the State government to ensure that the students, who write and succeed in te SSLC exam in the second round during September owing to their inability to appear for the first round beginning from June 25, do not lose an academic year. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice P. Krishna Bhat, issued the directions while disposing of a PIL petition, filed by Lokesh M. and two other advocates. The petitioners had sought direction for cancelling the SSLC exam for 2019-20 and promotion of students based on their marks in the preparatory exams. However, the Bench said that the courts should always go slow in interfering with academic matters as it is best left to the academicians and the experts in the field, while noticing that a committee, headed by the Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, had resolved to conduct the SSLC exam after consulting experts. SOP produced In response to a query by the Bench in the morning session on safety measures taken to protect students in the prevailing situation, Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi, in the afternoon session, produced a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board on May 27. The Bench, from the SOP, found that various safeguards, like social distancing in examination halls by restricting the number of students in a room to 18-20, separate rooms for students having symptoms of COVID-19 and from containment zones, has been put in place. However, the Bench said that both the government and the board has to scrupulously follow the social distancing norms inside every examination hall. The SOP shows that both the government and the board are fully concerned about safety of students, the Bench observed while pointing out to the A-G that though the SOP dealt with the issue of transport arrangement to the students it required to be streamlined by setting up a helpline in each district. The A-G accepted the court’s suggestion. Further, the Bench directed that the students, who have left for other States and those residing in containment zones, should be informed through an SMS about the availability of the second round of the exam to be conducted within two months from June 4, if they were not able to appear in the first round between June 25 and June 4. On the contention made on behalf of the petitioners that the examination cannot be conducted as the academic year 2019-20 ended on April 11, the Bench said that they have not produced any statutory provision that prohibits the conduct of exam after the expiry of an academic year.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Survey underlines job loss, drop in earnings during lockdown||The State is still coming to grips with the true extent of the impact of COVID-19 on livelihoods but early surveys reveal the severity of the situation. A survey conducted by the Azim Premji University in association with other organisations has revealed that 73% of around 870 respondents in Karnataka have lost their jobs. In urban areas, three out of four respondents have lost jobs during the lockdown, while among non-agricultural casual workers eight out of 10 people are unemployed. For the survey, people in 25 districts were interviewed and data was collected between April 15 and May 15. In addition to job loss, 67% of casual workers and self- employed non-agricultural workers saw a drop in their weekly earnings. The survey states that 44% of salaried wage workers reported that they had not been paid or received reduced salaries during lockdown. Rosa Abraham, research fellow at the Centre for Sustainable Employment, said: “When someone loses a job, it has implications on the household in terms of how much they spend on food and consumption. The survey also revealed that people are anticipating the situation will continue and are allocating money accordingly.” She pointed out that compared to rural areas, the impact of the pandemic on urban areas in Karnataka is more pronounced. “In urban areas, we find people have resorted to borrowing loans to meet daily expenses and consuming less food. There is some cushioning in the agricultural sector but in the long run, we would expect rural areas to also suffer,” said Ms. Abraham, adding that migrant workers have suffered hardship during the lockdown as they did not have access to ration and schemes. The survey paints a bleak picture: six in 10 households were without money to buy essentials for a week. Eight in 10 households reported that they consumed less food than before. Among vulnerable households, 74% received ration but only 32% received at least one cash transfer. The authors recommend expanding the reach and providing PDS for at least the next six months and cash transfer of at least Rs. 7,000 per month for two months. There should be urgent focus on programmes for urban poor, expansion of MNREGA, introduction of urban employment guarantee, and investment in universal basic services, it noted. The COVID-19 livelihood survey, Karnataka, was conducted by Azim Premji University along with Azim Premji Foundation, Centre for Advocacy and Research, and Gauri Media Trust.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Trees are the biggest casualty of pre-monsoon showers in the city||For the second consecutive day, heavy rains lashed the city on Wednesday, and trees seem to be the biggest casualty this pre-monsoon season. Thunder showers accompanied by strong winds saw trees uprooted and branches fall in several areas of the city. The eight control rooms of the BBMP got the maximum complaints about tree and branch falls from Malleswaram. In two places – near Kadu Malleshwara temple and near 18th cross signal, Mathikere – tree branches fell on vehicles parked by the side of the road. No casualties were reported. However, this resulted in traffic jams in Malleswaram and surrounding areas in the central business district. Two huge trees were uprooted at Gandhinagar and on W.H. Hanumanthappa Road while other complaints from residents came from Sanjaynagar, Bahubalinagar, Seshadripuram, Jayanagar 4th T Block, Munekolala, near Garuda mall, near Gali Anjenayaswamy temple in Yeshwantpur, and Chowdeshwarinagar in Laggere. The meteorological department warned of thunderstorms, accompanied with light to moderate spells of rain and strong winds reaching 30-40 kmph in Bengaluru (Urban), Bengaluru (Rural), Chikkaballapur, Kolar, Tumakuru, Ramanagar, Mandya, Chitradurga, Mysuru, Kodagu, Chamarajnagar, Hassan, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police register case against 2 persons after woman’s death||The police have filed an FIR against the owner and the contractor of a building under construction after bricks from a compound wall fell on a 21-year-old woman who succumbed to her injuries on Tuesday. “We have booked them for causing death due to negligence and have issued a notice to the accused to report for questioning. Based on the investigation, action will be taken,” said the inspector of Nandini Layout police station. The deceased, Shilpa S., was clearing water from outside her house in Ramanna Block in Lakshmidevi Nagar when the incident took place. M. Velunayakar, Lakshmidevi Nagar councillor, has recommended Rs. 10 lakh compensation to her family. The thunder showers on Tuesday claimed the life of another woman, Hemamalini R., 49, who was killed on the spot when a tree branch fell on her at Devarachikkanahalli Main Road while she was riding a two-wheeler. The tree branch was from a Silver Oak that was growing on the premises of a hostel run by the Department of Social Welfare. A case of accidental death has been registered by the Begur police. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar visited Lakshmidevi Nagar on Tuesday night and Devarachikkanahalli on Wednesday. He said that the compensation to the victims would be announced after a discussion with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Mayor M. Goutham Kumar. “Chief Minister, who is also the Bengaluru development minister, is likely to announce the compensation,” he said.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State has 60 ICMR-approved labs now||From two labs approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in February, Karnataka now has 60 labs that have an overall testing capacity of nearly 13,000 samples a day. Although the government of India had set a target for Karnataka to establish 60 labs by May 31, this was achieved much before the deadline. Except one, all the labs are functional, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, who is also the COVID spokesperson for the State. “Starting from one lab in February at National Institute of Virology in Bengaluru, we had six labs by the end of March. The number of labs rose to 17 by April-end and now we have 60,” the Minister told presspersons on Wednesday. The State’s testing capacity too has increased from 2,308 samples in March to 55,034 in April. This month from May 1 till date, as many as 1,79,397 samples have been tested. “On Wednesday, 12,694 samples were tested and this is the highest ever done on a single day,” he said.  State’s distinction V. Ravi, senior professor andhead of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, who is the ICMR-appointed nodal officer for setting up labs in the State, said Karnataka is the only State to have set up 60 labs much ahead of the deadline set by the government of India.On April 15, ICMR had identified 12 mentor institutes across the country, including AIMS, PGI Chandigarh, JIPMER in Puducherry, NIMHANS, and NEIGRIHMS in Shillong, and given them the responsibility of setting up labs in States allotted to them. “NIMHANS had been given Karnataka and the target was to set up two labs in each district. We had 15 labs on April 15 and since then have managed to add one lab a day [in 42 days],” said Dr. Ravi.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hungry and homeless, workers protest at KG Halli police station||Hundreds of labourers on Wednesday thronged outside KG Halli police station demanding information on when they would get a berth on a train to go back to their home towns. The labourers sat in front of the station even as the police tried to convince them that they had no information on the seat bookings. “We’ve been waiting for three days for an update. We submitted our details on the Seva Sindhu portal but there has been no response. We want to go home,” said Asif Iqbal, 30, one of the labourers. Mr. Iqbal is among the 200 labourers from Bihar and West Bengal staying in KG Halli. “We have no work, no roof over our heads, and nothing to eat,” he added. As the situation grew tense, a group of volunteers arrived at the spot and tried to organise trucks to take them to a temporary shelter. “However, onlookers and other residents objected claiming that the protesters were not following social distancing rules,” said a police officer. The group threatened to go to the BBMP headquarters for food and shelter. The police finally managed to arrange for autorickshaws to take the labourers to a private college in Lingarajapuram. S.D. Sharanappa, DCP (East), said the incident arose out of confusion and miscommunication. “The local police have asked to help enrol migrant labourers on Seva Sindhu. Hence, they thought we had answers.”
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Animal activist beaten up over stray dogs||The police have filed an FIR against residents of an apartment in Begur for allegedly beating up an animal rights activist after he asked them why they were catching stray dogs illegally. Based on a complaint filed by Harish K.B., the police charged the residents for assault, criminal intimidation and also under various sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. In his complaint, Harish claimed the residents were sedating and catching stray dogs from in and around the area. When he heard about it, he went to the spot and allegedly caught them in the act. “In his statement, the complainant said that he objected and demanded that the dogs be released immediately. Enraged, the residents attacked him with the sticks they were using to catch the strays,” said the police. Harish escaped with the help of bystanders and approached the police, who are now examining CCTV footage to identify the attackers. The Residents’ Welfare Association has been summoned for questioning.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. warns schools still not teaching Kannada||The State government has warned that it will take action against schools that are not teaching Kannada as a subject. On Wednesday, Primary and Secondary Education minister S. Suresh Kumar, during a review meeting with Kannada Development Authority and officials of the department, said that ignoring the provision of Kannada Language Learning Act -2015 will invite action. The Minister said that every student studying in the State must learn Kannada and eligible teachers should teach the subject. He further said that in the interest of students, private schools must support the government. During the interaction, Mr. Kumar said that in the coming days, 1,000 government schools will be identified to teach subjects in Kannada and English. Students in these schools will have textbooks in both languages.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||15 smart kiosks to be set up for COVID-19 testing||The State government in collaboration with Wipro GE Healthcare will set up 15 ‘smart kiosks’ across the State in the next few days for random population-based screening for COVID-19. The company’s initiative comes as part of its CSR efforts. “Along with our ongoing measures, we are intensifying our efforts to test more people who may be potential or symptomatic cases of COVID-19. Effective partnership between the government and the industry is critical when dealing with challenges such as the one we face today,” said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The smart kiosk consists of two enclosures, one for the person being tested and the other for the healthcare worker. The two are separated by a see-through, air-tight partition. The partition wall has a pair of replaceable gloves and a sanitizing gel dispenser to enable safe sample collection. Nalinikanth Gollagunta, managing director, Wipro GE Healthcare, said, “Our design team has created this smart kiosk which eliminates any contact between a suspected patient and the healthcare worker, thus reducing their chances of getting infected,” For police officers In another initiative, QuEST Global has partnered with the Bengaluru City Police to sponsor COVID-19 tests for more than 300 police officers in the city. The real-time PCR test for the frontline warriors will be done for 30 police personnel daily at Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre, Whitefield.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Speaker convenes meeting on anti-defection law||Karnataka Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishveshwara Hegde Kageri has convened a meeting of parliamentarians and legal experts on Thursday for reviewing the relevance of the Constitution’s 10th Schedule introduced in 1985 to check defections. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla constituted a three-member committee of the Speakers of the Karnataka, the Rajasthan, and the Odisha Assemblies to review the relevance of the anti-defection law. Speaking to mediapersons here, Mr. Kageri said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Cabinet Ministers, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, and Congress and JD(S) leaders will attend. The Advocate General and the law secretary too will attend the meeting.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New NABARD chairman||G.R. Chintala is the new chairman of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). He has served in various capacities in the bank, including as managing director, NABARD Financial Services Ltd., a subsidiary of NABARD, in Bengaluru. Mr. Chintala took over from Harsha Kumar Bhanwala on Wednesday, said an official press release. P.V. S. Suryakumar and Shaji K.V. assumed charge as deputy managing directors, NABARD. All top officials of the bank have been working from Bengaluru owing to rampant spread of COVOD-19 cases at the bank’s headquarters in Mumbai and owing to restrictions on travel. All three top officials took charge in Bengaluru.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to have health registry||The State government will soon launch a project to maintain the health database of all its citizens in a health registry. The ‘State Health Register’ will be a robust and standardised health repository of all citizens, said Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Wednesday. “The project will be first implemented in Chickballapur district on a pilot basis. Enhanced focus on healthcare has become imperative and our government is committed to provide world-class healthcare to all citizens,” he said after chairing a meeting of the State’s COVID-19 Expert Committee.
28 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Break leads to backlog||There have been complaints of backlog of samples in various labs in the State, because of which the test reports of many are yet to come despite they completing 14 days of quarantine. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said this was because three premier labs in Bengaluru — NIV, NIMHANS and BMCRI lab — had taken a two-day break on rotation for calibration of equipment. “The backlog is being cleared now and the issue will be sorted out,” Mr. Pandey said.
28 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Property tax hike to be taken up in Cabinet meet||Minister in-charge of Dharwad district Jagadish Shettar has promised to take up the property tax hike issue in the next Cabinet meeting and discuss the matter with the Urban Development Minister. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Shettar said that urban local bodies have hiked property tax up to 30 % and after facing flak from the people, they have reduced each slab by 5 %. However, various local organisations and the general public have been demanding that the government to roll back the hike and maintain status quo . He said that he was not the immediate authority to take a decision. Hence, he would convey the people’s demand to the Chief Minister. On some private banks and micro finance firms reportedly penalising customers for non-payment of loans, Mr. Shettar said that there is a direction from the Centre and also the State to banks asking them not to bring pressure to bear on people for repayment of loans for the next three months in the wake of COVID-19 situation. The Deputy Commissioner has been told to hold a meeting with private banks and micro finance firms and warn them against penalising customers who have availed of loans and have delayed repayment, he added. On the COVID-19 situation in the district, he said that preventive measures taken by the district administration had yielded satisfactory results. So far, 13,033 persons have been tested for the infection of which 12,432 have tested negative and the results of the remaining are awaited. Officials have been told to decentralise the APMC market so that there is no large gathering and also protect farmers from middle-men. Playgrounds should be converted into shandies and facilitate growers to sell their produce directly to consumers and get remunerative prices, he said.
28 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||With test results delayed, it is a longer stay at quarantine centre for many||The delay in getting COVID-19 test results has forced many people, who have travelled from different States, to remain in quarantine centres for more than 14 days in Hassan and Chikkamagaluru districts. They have demanded that the government get the results at the earliest and release them as they have completed the mandatory 14-day quarantine. The district authorities have provided accommodation for the travellers in hostels and hotels designated as quarantine centres. Those who have chosen hotels have to pay Rs. 750 per day. Now, they have to pay more from their pocket as they are staying for a longer period. Delay in taking swabs “We reached Hassan on May 11. But, the administration did not take our throat swab samples for laboratory tests immediately,” said a man who has returned from Mumbai with his family. The authorities took the samples on May 22, the 11th day of their quarantine period. “It has been four days since the officers took our samples, but there is no result yet. Meanwhile, we completed 14 days of quarantine on Sunday itself,” he said on Tuesday. Besides the financial implications, they all have complaints about poor facilities in hotels. “We agree, there cannot be room cleaning services during this time. But, there is none to clear the waste collected in the dustbins on the corridors. We have to wash our clothes inside the room and dry them within the four walls of the room,” he said. Similarly, those in hostels, to whom the government provides food, have been waiting for the test results. Around 15 people quarantined in Chikkamagaluru city, on Wednesday, threatened to stage a protest if they were not allowed to go out. The people at the quarantine centres have circulated their video statements saying they would not stay there for long. All of them have completed 14-day quarantine period, yet the results of their samples are not known. The samples collected in Chikkamagaluru are sent to Hassan for laboratory tests. Bigger load The laboratory in Hassan can test 250 samples in a day. However, it has been getting more samples every day. “We are getting samples from Chikkamagaluru as well. To clear the pendency, we had sent 487 samples to Bengaluru. We have discharged 413 quarantined people after receiving their test results,” said Deputy Commissioner R. Girish on Wednesday.
28 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Case registered for spreading false information||The Hassan city police registered a case against a person who allegedly recorded and circulated a video revealing the identity of a COVID-19 patient, accusing her of hiding information about her travel history. The police registered the case under section of The Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides certain sections of IPC. Devaraje Gowda, resident of Ravindra Nagar, circulated the video on Tuesday alleging that the patient did not share information about her travel history and names of family members with the district administration. The video did rounds on social media platforms. He took the names of the patient’s father, brother and sister-in-law in the video. The patient’s brother filed the complaint accusing Gowda of spreading false information. The complainant said the family had been cooperating with the administration in tracing the contacts and underwent testing.
28 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Rise in positive cases upsets Minister||Hassan district, which was in the green zone with zero cases of COVID-19 until May 12, reported 136 positive cases as on Tuesday. This rise has upset many, including Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs J.C. Madhuswamy, who is Minister in-charge of the district. In a meeting here on Wednesday, he said that from now onwards nobody would be allowed to enter the district without a test. All those who enter the district would be tested at the border itself.
28 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Four test positive||The four patients who were found positive for COVID-19 infection on May 12 have remained infected even 12 days after their hospitalisation. They were among the five who returned from Mumbai. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has said that 136 have tested positive for the pandemic in the district so far.
28 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Unorganised workers likely to be brought under special package||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and district-in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said that he had requested the Chief Minister to include workers from the different unorganised sectors too in the special package. Speaking here on Wednesday after distributing food kits, being given by the Labour Department and various organisations, among workers from unorganised sectors, including pandal workers, Mr. Shettar said that the Chief Minister had, by announcing the special package, boosted the morale of the workers who had been badly hit by the lockdown. Mr. Shettar said that the State government had taken every step to help the people of various sectors, and because of the lockdown, the pandemic is under control now. Workers from the unorganised sectors who had been left out from the special package announced by the State government, had already made an appeal to the Chief Minister. “However, there are some technical issues in the disbursement of the benefits under the package. They will be sorted out soon and steps will be taken to ensure assistance to all those in need,” he said. The Minister said that economic activities were slowly resuming after the relaxations announced in the lockdown norms and soon, they [economic activities] would gain momentum. Representatives of various organisations, including businessman Ramesh Bafna, Santosh Chauhan, Baburao, Shashank Ekbote, and others were present.
28 May 2020||HUBBALLI/DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Protesters urge State govt. to get tax hike withdrawn||Protests against the hike in property tax by the Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) continued in the twin cities with various organisations and political parties seeking withdrawal of the decision. On Wednesday, members of the district committee of Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) staged a demonstration in front of the municipal office building in Dharwad maintaining social distancing and condemned in strong words the property tax hike. Addressing the protesters, district committee member of SUCI-C Gangadhar Badiger said that when the whole country was hit by COVID-19 and people had lost their sources of income, the municipal corporation had hiked property tax. He said that in this moment of crisis, the municipal corporation was trying to fleece the residents, instead of focussing on developing infrastructure in the twin cities and providing succour to the citizens. Mr. Gangadhar said that the municipal commissioner was saying that the hike was inevitable as they had to pay salaries to municipal employees. “If such is the case, then they should seek more salary grants from the government and should not indulge in looting the people,” he said. Another district committee member Lakshman Jadagannavar said that instead of using public money to waive loans of capitalists, the government should use that money to reduce the burden on the people. The government should immediately get the tax hike withdrawn, he said and added that people would be forced to take up agitation in the coming days if the hike is not withdrawn.
28 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bidar reports another COVID-19 death||A 49-year-old COVID-19 patient, P-1712, died at the designated hospital in Bidar on Wednesday taking novel coronavirus toll in the district to three. As per a media bulletin, the patient, a resident of Vidya Nagar in Bidar city, was admitted to Bidar Institute of Medical Sciences for Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) after he complained of fever, cough and breathlessness. He had also diabetes.
28 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi registers 28 new cases||As many as 28 new cases of COVID-19 were reported in Kalaburagi district on Wednesday taking the total number of infected persons to 185 which included seven deaths and 75 people discharged upon recovery.
28 May 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Model dies in accident||Mebina Michael, model and winner of Kannada reality show ‘Pyate Hudugir Halli Life’ season 4, died in a car accident in Mandya district on Tuesday. She was going to Somwarpet from Bengaluru.
28 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||PU evaluation work in Mangaluru from today||Pre-University College lecturers from the three coastal districts who were assigned evaluation duty in Mangaluru will commence the process on Thursday as the government has agreed to provide transport, lodging and boarding facilities. In a communique here, presidents of Dakshina Kannada District PU College Principals Association and Lecturers Association said that they had represented to the government their hardships in commencing evaluation if transport and food facilities were not provided. Evaluation was to start at five centres on May 27 and May 29, respectively. The associations said that the district administration has agreed to provide transport facility to lecturers in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts from their nearest towns to Mangaluru. For lecturers from Uttara Kannada, the administration would provide lodging facilities too. Canteen facility would be provided to all by the administration during the evaluation process at the centres, the associations said. They also said that the administration would get classrooms in evaluation centres completely sanitised by the Mangaluru City Corporation and provide sanitisers as well as thermal scanners. Meanwhile, the department has agreed to provide Rs. 500 towards travel and daily allowance to temporary Group D workers working at these centres, while it would meet expenditure towards cleaning of toilets and other activities at the centres. The associations said that the department director has also agreed to issue evaluation orders to all eligible lecturers who have not got them till date. Thanking the district administration and the department, the associations said that the deputy chief evaluators would report for evaluation on Thursday, while assistant evaluators would report on Friday.
28 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Demand to reintroduce overnight express train||People in coastal Karnataka and Mysuru region have urged the Railway Ministry to reintroduce the Bengaluru-Kannur/Karwar overnight express via Mysuru on all days of the week and extend it till Madgaon in Goa to restore lost connectivity between Mysuru region and coastal Karnataka. The service was unilaterally cancelled by the Railway Ministry on March 7 at the behest of Konkan Railway Corporation for the introduction of Bengaluru-Karwar direct train bypassing Mangaluru. KRCL had cited loss of revenue if more and more passenger trains were operated on its network taking paths of freight trains. Kunjal Venkatesh Kini, member of Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee of South Western Railway, has written to the Ministry. To allay KRCL’s concern over loss of path, he suggested cancellation of train no. 22636/22635 Mangaluru Central-Madgaon-Mangaluru Central intercity express that has poor patronage. The Bengaluru-Karwar/Madgaon-Bengaluru train could take the path of the intercity express thereby causing no loss to KRCL. The cancellation had affected regular travellers and tourists between the two regions, Mr. Kini noted. The service was a convenient commuter train between Mangaluru and Karwar. Various railway passenger associations have demanded its reintroduction, he said. Yogendra Swamy from Mysore Grahakara Parishat said the ministry has to fulfil the demand as the cancellation had cut off Mysuru’s connectivity with coastal Karnataka. Hundreds travelled from Mysuru to Kukke Subrahmanya, Mangaluru, Udupi, and vice-versa, he said.
28 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three-year-old girl tests positive||A three-year-old girl child was among 11 persons who tested positive for COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada on Wednesday. With this, the total number of active cases in the district rose to 45. Of them, 10 had arrived from Mumbai and one came from Gujarat. All of them are under institutional quarantine. A bulletin said that three patients who had recovered from COVID-19 were discharged from the hospital on Wednesday. Of them, two, a male aged 26 and a woman aged 50, were from Karkala in Udupi. Another woman aged 38 and a resident of Someshwara, near Ullal, was also discharged. It said that a case has been registered against three persons who were under home quarantine for violating the quarantine conditions. Their violations were recorded in the COVID-19 Quarantine Alert System. The case was registered in the Mangaluru South Police Station.
28 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Evergreen Chamarajanagar’ keeps district free of COVID-19||In a bid to stay ahead of the COVID-19 curve and ensure that not a single positive case is reported from the district, the local authorities have launched an ‘Evergreen Chamarajanagar’ initiative. This entails vesting the public with individual responsibility to ensure social distancing and high-level of hygiene in both private and public places. As per the concept, every citizen is a corona warrior along with the health workers and medical fraternity who are leading the battle against COVID-19 from the frontline. Onus on individuals The Evergreen Chamarajanagar initiative — launched by district in-charge Minister S. Suresh Kumar — also drums in the message to the public that the virus will not go away overnight and nor can any government be expected to handhold society for an extended period of time. Hence, the onus of preventing the spread of the virus by adhering to social distancing and sanitisation norms, wearing masks, etc. is on individuals. As on date, Chamarajanagar district continues to be the green zone and has remained immune from COVID-19 thanks to its relative isolation and general backwardness that results in very little interaction of local people with the other districts. So, the prospects of the virus being spread from people outside are less. Besides, more than 50% of the district is under forest cover and hence the population is distributed thin and wide and there is no congestion the kind of which is seen in urban areas. But it also shares borders with COVID-19 hotspots and high-risk States of Tamil Nadu and Kerala while the cluster zone of Nanjangud is hardly a few kilometres from the town and Chamarajanagar border. Yet, the district managed to escape the scourge which has been attributed to intensive screening at the borders to isolate people with COVID-19 symptoms. “There are 12 checkposts on roads leading into and out of Chamarajanagar district and despite inter-district movement of vehicles, we have continued to screen all passengers and disinfect cargo trucks entering the district at the borders,” said M.R. Ravi, Deputy Commissioner of Chamarajanagar district. “We have also conducted two rounds of door-to-door surveys covering the entire district and there is no COVID-19 case. So the only way the virus can now enter is from outside and hence the vigil at the checkposts,” he said. Yet to issue passes There are 800 natives of Chamarajanagar who have registered on Seva Sindhu portal from high risk States, including 235 from Tamil Nadu, about 80 from Maharashtra, 60 from Kerala, and 30 from Gujarat. But the authorities have not relented and are yet to issue passes. Some districts allowed natives working in other States to return but this only opened up the flood gates of COVID-19 positive cases, said Mr. Ravi. About 125 people entered the district without permit trekking through forest routes for some time and taking a detour through village roads. But they were rounded up within 24 hours thanks to alert villagers, and quarantined. As on date, 195 people are still under quarantine and their test results are awaited.
28 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tiger that mauled tribal man to death trapped||A tiger that killed a Jenu Kuruba tribal at Nagarahole National Park was trapped late on Tuesday, much to the relief of the local community around Neralakuppe hamlet in Hunsur taluk of Mysuru district. Jagadish (65), who went missing on Monday,was found mauled by a tigerand his body parts were retrieved in a combing operation on Tuesday afternoon. The authorities swung into action almost immediately and, in a meticulously planned operation, managed to trap the tiger the same night. The conventional method of combing the area using elephants, tracing the tiger’s pugmarks and tranquillizing it was abandoned as heavy rains that lashed the region at night had washed away all traces of scent and pugmarks. “We studied its behavioural and movement patterns based on the camera trap images obtained from various locations and realised that this particular tiger had a tendency to return to the spot of the cattle kill the same night. The tiger had killed four heads of cattle in recent days and, each time, it had returned to the spot of the kill,” explained Mahesh Kumar, Director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. A few cages were placed at strategic locations outside Neralakuppe and the tiger, as expected, not only returned to the spot but also fell into the trap at night, he added. The male tiger is around 12 years old and is known by its unique identification number U386. It has a canine missing, besides a tear in the upper lip, which has healed but the marks are prominently visible. It is an aged tiger pushed out of its territory by a younger one and hence was preying on livestock, the authorities said. U386 has been shifted to Bannerghatta in Bengaluru and it is unlikely to be released back into the wild, given its condition and confirmed history of having tasted human blood. This is the third tiger to have been trapped in the Bandipur-Nagarahole belt in the last 10 days, underlining the intensity of the human-animal conflict in the region.One tiger was trapped from Bandipurandanother from the Virajpet territorial division in Kodagubordering Nagarahole eight days ago.
28 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kodagu braces for monsoon||Kodagu, which witnessed back-to-back devastating floods in 2018 and 2019, is bracing for the monsoon, which, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), is expected to arrive on June 5. The forecast has put the district administration on alert. The team of officials which was in the forefront of disaster management last year has worked entirely on monsoon preparedness since the last few weeks. The process of collecting information on the areas hit by calamities in the last two years has been completed besides identifying the vulnerable areas. The gear required for handling the flood situation and emergencies is being readied. Officials in Kodagu have been asked not to avail leave and stay put in the district during the monsoon. The district administration said it was in touch with the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority for inputs and is closely monitoring updates from the IMD for the preparations at the panchayat level. Alerts on heavy rains based on inputs from the IMD are uploaded on its social media accounts besides WhatsApp groups for quick communication.
28 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||RS polls: GTD backs HDD’s candidature||Even though he is nursing a grouse against the JD(S) leadership, the former Minister G.T. Deve Gowda on Wednesday backed the former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda’s candidature for the Rajya Sabha polls from Karnataka. Mr. G.T. Deve Gowda told reporters in Mysuru that he would be casting his first preferential vote to the JD(S) patriarch if he contests the Rajya Sabha polls.
28 May 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Five fresh cases reported in Raichur district||As many as five fresh cases of COVID-19 have been registered in Raichur district, taking the total number to 71 so far. The details of the new cases are as follows: P-2,322, a 30-year-old male and P-2,324, a 60-year-old female from Honnakatamanahalli village, P-2,323, a 20-year-old female and P-2,321, a 25-year-old male from Mukkalagudda village and P-2,325, a 12-year-old female from Deodurg town.
28 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Greens slam approval for project survey in Sharavathi sanctuary||In the wake of the COVID-19 situation, the permission granted for a survey and geo-technical investigation for the proposed Sharavathi Underground Pumped Storage Project, in the limits of Sharavathi Valley Lion-Tailed Macaque (LTM) Sanctuary, has drawn flak from environmentalists. The 57th meeting of the Standing Committee of National Board for Wildlife on April 7 approved the proposal by Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd. (KPCL) seeking permission for the survey. Following this, the Chief Wildlife Warden of Karnataka gave the nod. Akhilesh Chipli, environmentalist, told The Hindu that in the wake of reports that a tiger was infected with COVID-19, the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change had written to Chief Wildlife Wardens of all States and Union Territories on April 6 directing them to take action to reduce human-wildlife interface and restrict the movement of people in national parks and wildlife sanctuaries. Referring to the drilling work at the sanctuary, under the aegis of KPCL for the underground pumped storage project, Mr. Chipli said a large number of workers from outside had been deployed for the work. “To step up efforts to conserve the Lion Tailed Macaque, the sanctuary was recently renamed Sharavathi Valley LTM Sanctuary and its boundaries were redefined. The sanctuary also hosts Myristica swamps, unique freshwater swamp forests that comprise perennial streams and flora networks home to wide range of species of reptiles, birds and amphibians. At the time when the focus is on preventing the transmission of virus from humans to wildlife, the Department of Forest and Wildlife has given permission for entry of labourers with machinery to the sanctuary limits,” he said. Cautioning that human movement in the sanctuary limits now may prove disastrous, Mr. Chipli demanded that the department immediately withdraw the permission. He also submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Conservator of Forest of Sagar.
28 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Super-specialty centre inaugurated||The newly-established super-specialty treatment centre on the premises of McGann Hospital started functioning on Wednesday. Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa, who inaugurated the centre, said that the cardiology and neurology wings would initially offer outpatient consultation services. Shivamogga MP B.Y. Raghavendra and Shivamogga Rural MLA K.B. Ashok were present.
28 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Low rates, poor demand hit jasmine growers||Though the sale of Udupi Mallige or Udupi jasmine started about a month ago, growers say that they are getting low rates, while flower sellers say that the demand is poor on account of lockdown restrictions due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Udupi Mallige enjoys Geographical Indication (GI) tag and is most sought after for religious ceremonies, weddings and other functions. This jasmine is grown on 116 hectares of land. The annual production of this flower is 863.55 tonnes and its value is estimated at Rs. 120 crore. Unlike for other flowers, a plantain stalk is used to tie Udupi Mallige together. The sale of this flower had stopped when the lockdown was announced in March this year. However, when the lockdown restrictions were eased a little, its sales began in mid-April. However, this has not brought any cheers to the growers who are getting low rates for the jasmine. President of Udupi Mallige Belegarara Sangha Ramakrishna Bantakal told The Hindu that normally, on an average, growers used to get Rs. 500 per “atte” (3,200 flowers) in May. “But now the price is hovering between Rs. 80 and Rs. 160 per atte. It is mostly Rs. 80-Rs. 100 per ‘atte’ and at times as low as Rs. 40. We are barely managing to survive,” he said. According to the flower sellers, the lockout meant that no festivals were being celebrated in the temples in the district. Marriages and such other functions are not being celebrated grandly. All these has meant poor sales of flowers. Jaya, proprietor of Vishnu Flower Shop, said that marriages and other functions were being organised in a low-key manner. “People now buy very less flowers as marriages are restricted to just 50 persons. The other customers are women who buy flowers for adorning themselves with them. Our business now is just about 25 % than it was before the lockout,” he said. “Poor sales means lower rate for growers,” said Mr. Bantakal.
28 May 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Special food kits for malnourished children||To remove malnourishment among children, the Women and Child Development Department has launched a pilot project of distributing ready-to-eat special protein-rich food to the children of four districts in Karnataka. At a programme to distribute the special food kits on Wednesday, Shashikala Jolle, Minister of the department and district in-charge, said Vijayapura, Belagavi, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada have been selected for the programme. She said that a private company, Agro Crop, will distribute food kits worth Rs. 1.5 crore for free. Around 1.42 lakh kits are being prepared for children who are either borderline cases or suffering from acute malnourishment. “Each kit contains 30 candy-like eats which are prepared using nutritious materials such as cereals, pulses and jaggery. One candy should be given each day for 30 days for children who are borderline cases, and 60 candies for acute malnourished children,” Ms. Jolle said. The Minister directed the Child Development and Project Officers to educate mothers about the kit and keep record of the improvement in the child after using it for a month.
28 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Samples of dead woman return positive||A 69-year-old woman native of Arkera (K) village, (P-2,301), who collapsed owing to breathing difficulties during screening at a check-post near Yargol village in Yadgir district on May 20 after she returned from Chembur, Mumbai, Maharashtra, died in the COVID-19 hospital the same day. Her samples sent to laboratory returned positive on Wednesday. Therefore, her death was considered because of COVID-19 virus and district registered the first death of the virus.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Appeal to State govt. on quarantine for medical staff||The Hassan district administration, on Wednesday, appealed to the State government to allow doctors and support staff to stay put in hotels during the duty week as well as quarantine period. District surgeon V.R. Krishnamurthy at a meeting with Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs J.C. Madhuswamy, said that earlier the government had allowed doctors and support staff to stay put in hotels. However, a recent circular withdrew the facility. “The latest circular suggests the staff quarantine at home or make their own arrangements outside. The staff members are worried as they have children and aged parents at home. I wish they are provided with facility,” he said. Around 60 people, including 10 doctors, would require the facility. Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences director B.C. Ravi Kumar and district health officer K.H. Sathish Kumar reiterated the same opinion. Hassan Assistant Commissioner Naveen Bhat said a staff nurse at Ballari contracted the infection even after wearing PPE kit. Considering the risk the staff members were taking, they need a facility to stay in hotels, he said. Mr. Madhuswamy said he would discuss the issue at the government level.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||NDRF team||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), which assisted the district during the worst-ever floods and landslides, is expected to arriver by May-end. The team is expected to be stationed in the district for the entire monsoon.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Big damage to power infrastructure||The sudden downpour since Tuesday has not only caused deaths, inundation, and brought down trees and branches, but also damaged power infrastructure in the city. The Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) had its task cut out as it continued to pour on Wednesday. Bescom officials said as many as 294 electricity poles were damaged across its jurisdiction on Tuesday. In around five instances, transformers were damaged. Most complaints came from south Bengaluru, an official said. On Wednesday, 15 poles fell while 21 tree branches fell on power lines, mostly in north Bengaluru. The resultant power outages have been leaving consumers at their wits’ end. Harish (name changed), a vegetable shop owner in Vigyan Nagar in east Bengaluru, was trying his best to adjust the emergency light to help both customers shopping as well as himself at the cash counter. “It has been four hours since the power went off. We learnt that a JCB (deployed for road work in the area) damaged a power line,” he said on Wednesday. Some took to social media to complain or seek help from Bescom. One Twitter user said: “Rain rain go away, otherwise Bescom will cut power whole day.”
28 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Seven more positive cases in Alappuzha||The district witnessed the biggest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases with seven more people testing positive for the disease on Wednesday. With this, the number of COVID-19 cases in the district has touched 35, of which 28 remain active. Officials said that of the fresh cases, four came from Abu Dhabi in the UAE and three from other States. From the Gulf One of the patients, a native of Chengannur taluk, reached the district from Abu Dhabi on May 17. Another two patients, from Chengannur and Karthikappally taluks respectively, reached the district from the Gulf country on a flight on May 18. The fourth person, a youth from Ambalappuzha taluk, came from Abu Dhabi on May 20. All four had been observing the mandatory institutional quarantine period at a COVID-19 care centre, said an official. Among three persons from other States, two had come from Mumbai and one from Chennai. According to officials, one of the patients, a woman from Mavelikara taluk, reached the district from Chennai in a private vehicle on May 10. The other two patients, a young man and a woman from Cherthala and Kuttanad taluks, came on board a train on May 18 and May 21 respectively. All seven patients were shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, for treatment, the official added. Woman recovers Meanwhile, a woman from Alappuzha who was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, in Malappuram with COVID-19 tested negative for the disease. Of the total cases in the district, seven people made a full recovery.
28 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||No new cases in Idukki, only 2 active cases||No new COVID-19 case was reported in Idukki on Wednesday, District Medical Officer N. Priya said. There were two active cases in the district, one in Munnar under Devikulam taluk and at the other at Santhanpara in Udumbanchola taluk. They had returned from Maharashtra, she said adding that they were in isolation wards in hospitals. She said wards 8,11, and 12 at Udumbanchola grama panchayat were the only three hotspots in the district. A person who tested positive in Tamil Nadu had stayed there for two months during the lockdown. Earlier, two wards in Karunapuram grama panchayat were declared containment zones as a bakery owner who tested positive was residing there. Though he had tested negative, restrictions were being maintained in the wards. 20 expatriates return Meanwhile, 20 expatriates from four countries reached the district in the past two days. They included ten persons from Tel Aviv and two from Dubai who came on Tuesday. They were put in various quarantine centres at Adimaly. Eight expatriates, six from Kuwait and two from Ukraine, who reached the district on Wednesday were put in quarantine centres at Thodupuzha.
28 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||‘Grasshoppers in Wayanad not locust swarm’||The Tree Health Helpline of the Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI) has found that the grasshopper attack in some parts of Wayanad district is not the sign of a locust swarm attack. Some media had reported that there was a swarm of locusts in Wayanad that had the potential to become a serious problem and many agencies recommended pesticide application. Field observations conducted by Dhaneesh Bhaskar, a researcher of the KFRI, recently revealed that the ‘coffee locusts’ ( Aularches miliaris ) do not belong to the locust family and that they are a grasshopper species belonging to the Pyrgomorphidae family. The locusts that recently invaded northwestern and central India are Schistocerca gregaria , belonging to the Acrididae family, which are commonly called desert locusts, Mr. Bhaskar, who is also a member of the Species Survival Commission (Grasshopper Specialist Group) of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), said. There are several grasshopper species that are loosely called locusts and the Aularches miliaris is usually spotted in coffee plantations. This is why the grasshopper is termed ‘coffee locust’, he said. “What we observed in Wayanad is a smaller aggregation (hopper bands) of grasshoppers that is largely misconceived as early signs of locust swarms. The swarms are usually much more visible than hopper bands,” Mr. Bhaskar said. All not pests It should also be noted that all grasshoppers were not pests, he said. “Among the 28,500 grasshopper species, around 500 across the globe are considered as pests that can cause damage to pastures and crops, and about 50 are considered as significant pests. Aularches miliaris is nowhere on this list, and are a minor pest causing occasional economic damage. Low risk This species is listed as lower risk and near-threatened for South India on the IUCN regional conservation status assessment. Hence, severe pest management strategies are not to be suggested at this stage of infestation,” he added.
28 May 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Three new cases in Wayanad||Three more cases of COVID-19 were reported from Wayanad district on Wednesday. Three members of a family, a 53-year-old man, his 50-year-old wife and 25-year-old son, at Vellachi Moola near Panamaram in the district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, District Medical Officer R. Renuka said. They were admitted to the COVID-19 care hospital at Mananthavady, she said. They were in quarantine after they returned from Maharashtra on May 20, Dr. Renuka said. Meanwhile, a truck driver, who had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and remained in isolation at the hospital, was discharged after he recovered from the disease.
28 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||One more KFD case in Wayanad||One more case of Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), also known as monkey fever, a viral disease transmitted to human beings through a species of ticks usually found on monkeys, has been reported from the Begur area in Wayanad district. The patient, a seven-year-old boy of the Changala Gate tribal hamlet at Begur, is undergoing treatment at a private medical college hospital at Meppadi and is reportedly out of critical condition. . As many as 28 KFD positive cases were reported in the district, of which three persons succumbed to the disease, Dr. Renuka said.
28 May 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Brothers choke to death in well||Two brothers who stepped into a well to rescue a calf died of suffocation at Kumbala in Kasaragod district on Wednesday. According to the police, the deceased were identified as 45-year-old Narayanan and 35-year-old Shankar. Shankar who first stepped into the well to bring the calf outside experienced breathing problems and uneasiness. Realising that his brother was in trouble, Narayanan also entered the well to help his brother. However, he was also trapped, unable to breathe. Both fell unconscious. People nearby then called the Fire and Rescue Services from Uppala. But by the time they were brought out, the brothers had died.
28 May 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||10 more COVID-19 cases confirmed in Kasaragod||Ten more persons were confirmed to be positive for the SARS-CoV-2 virus in Kasaragod on Wednesday. According to A.V. Ramdas, District Medical Officer, eight of the affected persons had returned from Mumbai, while two had arrived from abroad. Five persons hailing from Varkady, Meenja, Manjeswaram, Mangalpadi, and Chemmanadu who arrived in Kasaragod from Mumbai on May 17 and three natives of Kasaragod who arrived from Mumbai on May 23, tested positive for the disease. Meanwhile, two persons recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospital on Wednesday. With the 10 new cases, the number of persons undergoing treatment for the disease in the district has gone up to 49 while 3,369 persons now in quarantine who include 2,797 under home observation and 572 in hospitals. One case in Kannur In Kannur, one person tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. District Collector T.V. Subhash said a 45-year-old man who hailed from Kottayam (Malabar) and returned from Mumbai on May 23, had been confirmed with the disease. Body fluid samples were collected from him for testing at the Anjarakandi COVID-19 treatment centre on May 25. With this, the total number of people affected by the disease in the district stood at 197. Of these, 119 persons have recovered and discharged from hospitals. The district now has 11,676 people under surveillance. Among them 47 are in the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital, 69 at the COVID treatment centre at Anjarakandy, 26 in the Thalassery General Hospital, 19 in the Kannur District Hospital and 11,515 under home observation. So far, 6,082 samples have been sent from the district for testing and 5,818 results have been received.
28 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Slum project gets corpn. nod||A Rs. 19-crore ‘slum redevelopment’ project under Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) has received the Kochi Corporation’s approval. It is to be implemented in three areas of West Kochi. CSML had submitted a list of six slums in West Kochi to the corporation in early February. The project will focus on providing basic amenities in the area, considering the allocated funds, but the details will be chalked out once an official confirmation is provided by the civic body. The six areas had been selected after a preliminary assessment of factors, including population density, number of families, and access to transport facilities and basic amenities. The areas were chosen keeping in mind minimum land ownership issues, CSML officials said. The colonies on the list are Thundiparambu in Karippalam division, Galamseth, Pudukkatuparambu, Kochuparambu, Thopinakam, and Mathesuparambu, all in Mattancherry. The welfare standing committee of the corporation had last month given nod for the project to be implemented at Thundiparambu, Kochuparambu, and Mathesuparambu, and the council concurred with the decision on Tuesday. The deadline for tendering all Smart City projects was March 31, according to Central government guidelines, but in the COVID-19 scenario, no fresh instructions have been issued on projects that have not been tendered yet, CSML officials said. Since CSML was awaiting the corporation’s approval of the list of slums, the integrated redevelopment of slum housing is the only CSML project that is yet to be tendered. The Thundiparambu colony, with around 200 houses, will require work on roads, drainage, housing, and LED lighting, said Bindhu Levin, councillor representing Karippalam. According to the City Sanitation Plan prepared in 2011 by the corporation, there are 283 listed slums within the corporation limits with a population of 1,27,872. The figures have not been updated since then, according to Nisa A., project officer, Urban Poverty Alleviation Department. Of these, 42 are within CSML’s Area Based Development (ABD) plan for five divisions in West Kochi and parts of Ernakulam South, Central and North divisions.
28 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fresh rain prediction has Chellanam wide awake||The coastal village of Chellanam, ever at the wrong end of the swelling waves, is wide awake after weathermen predicted a fresh bout of rain till June 4, with cyclonic storms forming in the Arabian Sea. The most vulnerable coastal stretches of the village were lashed by larger-than-normal waves after midday on Wednesday as laying of geo bags to prevent flooding continued at the Vachakkal beach. The work on laying bulwarks of geo textile tubes filled with sea sand is yet to take off, said panchayat vice president K.D. Prasad. More than a kilometre of the coastal stretch between Velankanni and Companippady has experienced severe erosion of shores in the past. Such stretches have been identified for geo textile tube laying. But a combination of factors, including the lockdown, has delayed the work, which should have been over by the end of May as per the earlier plan. A senior official of the Department of Irrigation said the Vachakkal beach had been witnessing some brisk work to possibly contain the waves, and that a dredger to pump sand into large geo textile tubes was expected to arrive on Thursday. The official added that once the dredger arrived, the work should be swift and efficient. The contractor has been asked to complete geo textile tube laying by June 20. The official said there was an assurance that the work could be continued even in rough weather. Joseph Arakkal, a resident of the village and member of a group demanding quick completion of the shore protection work, said Chellanam continued to face the same threat as earlier. There is still a promise that at least some work will be completed by the middle of June, he added. Jinson Veluthamannunkal, a resident of Velankanni, one of the most affected areas of Chellanam, said Vachakkal, Velankanni, Companyppady, and Maruvakkadu were among the coastal stretches that needed immediate protection. But he hoped that the work would be completed at least along the nearly 500-metre stretch of the coast at Bazaar and Velankanni. There is a sense of impatience among coastal residents as their demand for shore protection walls dates back to 2017 December when Cylcone Ockhi hit the coast, flooding homes and damaging property. Mr. Veluthamannunkal recalled that the district administration had promised to complete the erection of geo textile tubes by June that year.
28 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Producers, exhibitors reach consensus||The Kerala Film Producers Association (KFPA) and the Film Exhibitors United Organisation of Kerala (FEUOK) resolved their differences over the issue of the direct-to-digital premiere of Malayalam movies at the talks convened by Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce on Wednesday. Producers who wish to release their movies first on the over-the-top (OTT) platforms have to submit their requests before May 30. “We will send letters to the producers of over 50 movies who were not able to release their works owing to the pandemic crisis, asking them whether they would like to opt for digital release or wait till the cinemas reopen,” said B. Rakesh, KFPA treasurer. Lack of clarity The producers’ association had earlier taken a stance that producers cannot be stopped from releasing their movies on the digital platform following the lack of clarity on when cinemas will reopen amidst the continuing curbs. Mr. Rakesh said the OTT release was an alternative for producers to tide over the financial crisis in this unprecedented situation. “We will work out solutions to minimise the impact of digital release on theatre owners. Those producers who wish to release their movies on the streaming platforms would have to return the advance, if any, collected from the exhibitors,” he said. Positive outcome M. C. Bobby, FEUOK general secretary, termed the talks positive and said the producers can opt for direct-to-digital release considering the delay in the reopening of cinemas. “The producers’ association has taken the lead to work out an amicable solution over the issue of OTT release,” he said. First OTT release  Sufiyum Sujathayum directed by Naranipuzha Shanavas will be the first Malayalam movie to skip its theatrical release, to have a direct-to-digital premiere on Amazon Prime Video. It figured among the seven Bollywood and regional movies acquired by the OTT platform after the cinemas downed shutters in the wake of the COVID-19-induced lockdown.
28 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Police act tough on physical distancing norm violators||Tightening the noose on people violating physical distancing norms, the City police on Wednesday conducted a surprise inspection at the commercial nerve centre in the heart of Kochi stretching from Broadway to the market area and registered 20 cases. The inspection was led by Vijay Sakhare, District Police Chief (Kochi City), around noon. The offenders were slapped with IPC Sections 118 (Concealing design to commit offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 118 (acts causing danger to public or failure of public safety), and relevant sections of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance. This was in addition to cases registered against 28 persons who were found violating home quarantine norms. Fourteen of them were shifted to institutional quarantine. The City police have also started a special night drive to detect lockdown violations post-7 p.m. when people are not supposed to venture out, except for emergencies. They registered 144 cases, seized 94 vehicles, and arrested 157 persons, who were released later, in such a drive conducted on Tuesday.
28 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||2 more test positive for SARS-CoV-2||Two more were added to the list of COVID-19 positive cases in Ernakulam district on Wednesday, taking the number of active cases under treatment to 18. Of the two new cases, one is a 34-year-old woman from Thrikkakara who arrived here on May 18 from Abu Dhabi. Renal patient Quarantined at home, she was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital at Kalamassery on May 22 after she developed symptoms. She had earlier undergone kidney transplant. The other positive case is a 26-year-old Kunnathunadu native who reached Ernakulam on May 22 by train from New Delhi. He was also moved to the Karuvelipady Taluk Hospital after showing symptoms. He has now been shifted to the Medical College Hospital. Meanwhile, the surveillance team on Wednesday moved nine more persons into hospital isolation, while eight persons were discharged. As many as 63 persons are under hospital observation, of whom 29 are at the Medical College Hospital, four at the Muvattupuzha General Hospital, six at the Karuvelipady Taluk Hospital, one at the Aluva District Hospital, three at the Port Trust Hospital, and 20 at various private hospitals. The number of those who were home-quarantined on Wednesday stood at 608.
28 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||As caseload goes up, more health workers fall prey||As the number of COVID-19 patients goes up in what is considered the third phase of the disease in the State, the number of health workers getting affected is also on the rise. So far, 27 health workers have been affected, 14 in the second phase from March 9 to May 6 and 13 in the third phase from May 7, with expatriates and Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) from other States reaching the State with the easing of lockdown restrictions. “The influx in the third phase has been too large that it challenged our system at the check-posts,” says Joseph Chacko, president of the Kerala Government Medical Officers Association. Those coming from hotspots are most likely to carry the disease and the front-line health workers exposed to the large numbers are at risk, he adds. Besides, it is likely that in spite of the personal protection equipment (PPE), the workers can get exposed to the virus as the quality of all PPE may not be the same. The kits are now being made in large numbers to meet the demand and it is likely that Indian Council of Medical Research recommendations may not have been followed. These are only assumptions as health-care professionals here are not lax about following the norms, he says. The number of cases in the State stood at 502 in three months before the influx of people started. The next 461 plus cases came up in just over two weeks. The number of health-care workers exposed to infected persons is more in this phase, says A. Fathahudeen, Vice Principal, Government Medical College, Ernakulam, and nodal officer for COVID-19 in the hospital. The duration of contact with the patient and the frequency of contact are likely to expose health-care workers to the highly contagious virus as they have to deal with patients in close proximity. After they take a week off, they are exposed again a second time and a third time to patients carrying viral load. In spite of the PPE kits there could be rare instances when someone can get infected, says Dr. Fathahudeen. “This only shows that we should continuously re-evaluate our PPE protocols as social human behaviour is such that one cannot always be on the toes,” he says.
28 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Hurdles in school admissions worry NoRKs||Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) returning home amid the COVID-19 pandemic, especially from West Asia, are finding it difficult to secure admission for their children to their preferred CBSE/ICSE schools. The non-availability of seats to closure of admissions are among the reasons cited by school managements. Thanks to the spike in the number of Keralites returning home, the demand for school admissions is expected to soar in the coming days. Satheesh (name changed), who had sent his wife and children home, said they had sought admission to Class 1 at a CBSE school here, but the management informed them that there were no vacancies for the new academic year. Most parents prefer CBSE/ICSE schools as their children had been enrolled in schools under these boards abroad. Gokul (name changed), who lost his job in Dubai, said he had applied online for admission to a school in Thiruvananthapuram. “However, the authorities are yet to respond. They had also asked for the transfer certificate. But I would be able to present it later as classes for the current academic year are progressing online in Dubai,” he added. Indira Rajan, secretary general of the Council of CBSE Schools Kerala, said a user-friendly single-window platform (www.ccskerala.org) had been opened to help NoRKs seeking admission for their wards to CBSE schools across the State. “Parents can log in to our portal and register details highlighting any three schools of their preference. The council will re-direct the request to the schools concerned for taking a decision based on the availability of seats and norms prescribed by the board,” she said. T.P.M. Ibrahim Khan, president of the Kerala CBSE Schools Management Association, said managements had to give preference to children of Keralites returning from abroad owing to the crisis triggered by the pandemic. “The association has written to the Ministry of Human Resource Development and the board, seeking relaxations in norms for admitting such students to Class X. I have requested the managements not to insist on embassy attestation while admitting children in view of the current situation,” he added.
28 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||BevQ a user-friendly app||BevQ offers a user-friendly interface though its efficacy will largely depend on how it will cope with the possibly high download traffic. The customer will have to first fill in the name, mobile number and PIN code on the login screen before going on to accept the terms and conditions and selecting the preferred language. The customer will then get a six-digit verification code, entering which will take the customer to the outlet booking page. The outlet has to be chosen based on whether the user is looking for liquor, beer or wine followed by token booking. SMS for feature phones For those without smartphones, token can be booked by sending SMS to the number 89433 89433. Separate formats are to be followed for booking liquor (<BL><SPACE><PIN CODE><SPACE><NAME>) and for beer or wine (<BW><SPACE><PIN CODE><SPACE><NAME>). Time slot The user will then receive a confirmation message. Once the user clicks on the ‘Book your time slot’ button, he/she will get a confirmation page with a queue number, details about the outlet and the reserved date and time. The user can scan the QR code given for the details of the outlet. If the specified time slot is not available, the user will get a message ‘Token Not available.’  A user who gets a confirmed token will not be able to try another booking for the next five days. Slot booking can be made between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. “Early birds are likely to benefit since trying to book the slot as early as possible may be the safest bet for a smooth sailing,” said Bhuvanesh, a youngster who was disappointed about missing the opportunity to download the app during the trial run and is now eagerly waiting for its launch.
28 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Lethal cobra bite leaves experts baffled||Investigators are looking into the various aspects of the alleged murder of a young woman in Kollam where a common cobra was reportedly used to lend a lethal bite to the victim by her husband recently. Though the post-mortem of the common cobra is commonly carried out by forest veterinarians in wildlife crime cases, it was probably for the first time that a post-mortem was carried out in connection with a murder case. The post-mortem analysis was primarily focussed on the identification of the species of the reptile. Hood intact As the hood of the snake was obtained almost intact, the confirmation of the species was possible by identifying the spectacled hood, a unique feature of the species, which is also known as Indian spectacled cobra, said Kishore Kumar, a forest veterinarian. It was an adult snake of 152 cm length. The animal might have been killed by a deadly blow on its hood. The carcass was available for post-mortem after nearly 20 days of its death. Yet, the scales and skin could be obtained, said Dr. Kumar, who had participated in the post-mortem. The samples collected from the carcass has been preserved in four solutions — brine, normal saline, ethyl alcohol and formaldehyde — for any future analysis. Though wildlife crimes involving the capture and trade of snakes and snake venom are widely reported, rarely has any offence committed using snakes been reported, said Jose Louise, an International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) expert in snakes. In one such instance in Madhya Pradesh, suspicions over a murder committed using a snake had surfaced. However, the case faded away for want of evidence. In the Kerala case, a common cobra (Naja naja), which is commonly found across the State, was allegedly used to commit the alleged murder. The victim, it was reported, was earlier bitten by Russell's viper, another commonly found snake in the State, said Mr. Louise. Death could happen within two hours of a cobra bite. Neurotoxic The venom, a neurotoxic one, could cause asphyxiation and multiple organ failure in the victims. If provoked, the snake could inflict a potential bite, leading to painful death, said Dr. Kumar.
28 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Use ICWF to bring back poorly paid Indians: HC||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the Central government to consider the representations given by the wives of four Keralites and other poorly paid Indians stranded in Gulf countries seeking repatriation using the Indian Community Welfare Fund (ICWF). The court asked the Centre to take a call on the pleas of those who were found eligible to get the benefits of the fund and repatriate the most deserving using the fund. The directive came on a writ petition filed by Jisha of Kozhikode and two others whose husbands were employed in the UAE, Saudi Arabia, and Qatar respectively. According to them, their husbands were jobless now following the outbreak of COVID-19 and subsequent lockdown. In fact, they were paid poorly when they were employed. Now, they were in dire straits. The petitioners pointed out that their husbands could not fly back during the Vande Bharat Mission as they did not have money to pay for the tickets. In fact, only affluent persons were able to book tickets for flights operated under the mission.
28 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Fault-lines among State fishers come to the fore||The Centre’s new order that imposes a uniform 47-day fishing ban on all west coast States in the Indian Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) from June 15 to July 31 and Kerala's decision to stick to the earlier schedule of 52 days have left deep divisions in the State’s fisher community. “Since the State can decide when to implement the ban on the territorial waters extending up to 12 nautical miles, there will be no change [of dates] in Kerala. The ban in the State will begin on June 9 midnight and no trawler will be permitted to cross the territorial waters,” Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma told The Hindu . Kerala’s decision comes as a major blow to the mechanised sector which has lost several working days during the pandemic-induced lockdown, leaving the industry in a standstill. Fishers in the sector have suggested it as a remedial measure to revive the economy. As per the new Central order, the ban period ends in Tamil Nadu on June 1 (the 47-day fishing ban for east coast States is from April 15 to May 31), much ahead of the original schedule, and our sea will be teeming with boats from other places. We are planning to approach the Chief Minister so that the government will reconsider the decision,” says Joseph Xavier Kalappurakkal, general secretary, All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators Association. “It’s a period when Kerala's large traditional fleet exploit the resources. They follow all unscientific methods and the nets they use weigh around 4,000 kg. There is no point in preventing only trawlers in the name of conservation,” he says. Meanwhile, the National Fishworkers’ Forum (NFF) has submitted a memorandum to the Centre demanding that its order be scrapped. Pointing out that the monsoon is the season for fish spawning, the forum argues that it is essential to protect the marine habitat during this period. A forerunner “Kerala has been a forerunner in this field and this uniform fishing ban comes into effect after several years of intersector and interstate conflicts. Another reason for opting this season is the turbulent monsoon climate and concerns over sea safety. Reducing the days of trawl ban will only protect the interests of the hugely exploitative mechanised sector,” says T. Peter, general secretary, NFF.
28 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Four more positive in Kollam||Four more persons from the district tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of active cases to 22. The new cases include a 41-year-old who reached Kollam on May 11 from Tamil Nadu and a 22-year-old who came from Delhi on May 22. The other two are primary contacts of a 35-year-old woman who was tested positive earlier.
28 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Nod for flyover at Kundara Pallimukku||The Public Works Department (PWD) has accorded administrative sanction of Rs. 447.15 crore for constructing a flyover at Kundara Pallimukku and converting the 3-km stretch from Koyikkal Junction to Karikode Junction into a four-lane road. Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma, who is also Minister in-charge of the district, had held discussions with PWD Minister G.Sudhakaran and Finance Minister Thomas Isaac in this regard. Since the new bypass is connected to NH 744, congestion between Koyikkal and Karikode junctions has intensified and the project was conceived in consultation with the departments concerned to ease traffic snarls on the stretch. As part of the project, the rail overbridges at Moonamkutty and Karikode will be demolished and new four-lane bridges will be constructed. The narrow bridge at Kallumthazham will also be converted into a four-lane bridge. An estimate of Rs. 280.15 crore has been prepared for the project. Kundara Pallimukku Junction will have a flyover and a new rail overbridge (ROB) to eliminate the level crossing gate. The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board had given sanction for the ROB but later it was decided to construct a flyover also on the National Highway to make the traffic flow more hassle-free. The estimate of the project is Rs. 166.58 crore.
28 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Govt. clarifies stand on paid quarantine||Widespread criticism seems to have led the Kerala government to clarify its stand on the cost of institutional quarantine for returning expatriates. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had announced during his daily press meet on Tuesday that the expatriates would have to pay the expense for the quarantine facilities, irrespective of their financial condition. Asked about those from poor families, Mr. Vijayan said the decision would cover them as well though affordable quarantine facilities would be considered to address their concerns. This was termed by his political rivals as a volte-face from the government’s earlier announcement that it would bear the cost of the isolation arrangements of all those who are returning. They also ridiculed the Chief Minister’s statement both online and offline, pointing out that the tall claims about expatriates being the “backbone of our economy” and “taking care of their needs” have now fallen flat. This forced the government to clarify on Wednesday that it would consider allowing free quarantine facilities for the poor among the expatriates. Sources in the Health Department, however, said there could be economic as well as health parameters behind the government’s decision to limit free quarantine facilities. Though it is yet to be known how much is the cost of institutional quarantine facilities, a Facebook post by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac right now doing the rounds says the individual expense of treatment would go up to Rs. 25,000.
28 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Concern over neglect of mask||Health workers and police personnel, who have been playing a crucial role in averting community spread of COVID-19, have raised concern about people’s neglect to wearing masks. The number of people not wearing masks while staying outdoors is on the rise, forcing police to book large number of cases under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Last Sunday, over 4,200 such cases were registered in the State. According to an Accredited Social Health Activist in the city, the price is a major factor that forces lower income group people to reuse surgical masks and hoodwink the checking squads. There are also people staying in green zones who wear the protective gear casually unmindful of the risk, she says. A Station House Officer in the city said there were several incidents in which people in public places were found carelessly handling masks, ignorant of their basic purpose. “We have also come across pedestrians and motorists wearing the mask on their chins and fix it correctly on seeing the police,” he said. A official from Nadakkavu station said the police were keeping an eye on such deliberate violations. As ignorance was the main reason for such acts, the police were taking efforts to make the offenders aware of the risks. According to doctors working in the public health sector, a person should keep at least two masks for daily use. It is better not to use one mask continuously for more than five hours. The multi-layered surgical masks should be disposed of by burning or burying, which is not done by many now, they observe. “Cloth masks should be washed properly using soap and water as soiled masks will only double the health risks; two or three drops of antiseptic lotions can also be added. Three spoons of bleaching powder mixed in one litre of water is a very effective solution for washing masks,” says Dr. Soumya Sarin, a public health activist. Ironing of re-usable cloth mask is also a good practice during monsoon season to avoid moisture, she adds.
28 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Local bodies ready to pay expense||Two local bodies ruled by the United Democratic Front have written to the government seeking permission to use their own funds to pay for institutional quarantine of NRKs. Heads of the Koduvally municipality as well as Peruvayal grama panchayat sought the government’s nod to use their own funds to pay for the quarantine facilities for expatriates.
28 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Parents allege medical negligence in infant’s death||The parents of a four-month-old child from Manjeri who died of COVID-19 at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on April 24, have alleged that the infant’s death was due to failure in treatment and not because of coronavirus. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, the child’s parents Mohammed Ashraf and Ashifa alleged a conspiracy behind linking their four-month-old daughter’s death to COVID-19. They also demanded a comprehensive investigation into the death of the child. They said the child was wrongly tested positive for COVID-19. They said there were desperate attempts to somehow link the family with a COVID-19 patient. They also alleged that the first test conducted on the child at the virology laboratory in Alappuzha was negative. “What we saw from the authorities was an attempt to cover up their fault,” they said.
28 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Seven test positive in Palakkad||Seven more persons were confirmed to have contracted COVID-19 in the district on Wednesday. As many as 89 patients are currently being treated for COVID-19 in the district. Among the seven positive cases, a 45-year-old woman from Malampuzha is believed to have contracted the coronavirus from her son who returned from Chennai on May 13 and found to be positive on May 24. A 28-year-old migrant worker from Assam too was among the seven new cases. He was working at a restaurant at Kanjikode. A 47-year-old man from Mundur who returned from Chennai on May 13 was found positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. He had travelled along with a man who was confirmed to have contracted the disease on May 23. A 34-year-old man from Kadambazhipuram who returned from Hyderabad on May 11, a 30-year-old man from Ambalapara who returned from London on May 20, and a 29-year-old man from Kanjikode who returned from Bengaluru on May 18 were among those found COVID-19 positive in the district on Wednesday. When the sample of the Mundur man was collected on May 24, the other six were tested on May 25. All of them were shifted to District Hospital, Palakkad, which is the COVID-19 designated hospital in the district. Among the 89 patients in the district are two persons each from Thrissur and Malappuram, and one person each from Idukki and Assam. One person from Mankara is under treatment at Ernakulam and another from Nellaya at Manjeri.
28 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||3 positive in Pathanamthitta||The number of COVID-19 cases in the district went up to 32, with three more Non-Resident Keralites testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. Of the total cases, 17 have been cured of the disease. A 13-year-old boy who came home to Kulanada from Maharashtra on May 15, a 37-year-old man who came from Delhi to Makkappuzha on May 13, and a 32-year-old woman who reached home at Makkappuzha on May 13 are the new patients. They have been quarantined at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital on Wednesday, a bulletin said. 45 in isolation wards A total of 45 people, 16 of them COVID-19 patients, were in quarantine at isolation wards in hospitals in the district. There are 17 people at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, nine at the District Hospital, Kozhencherry, four at the General Hospital, Adoor, and 15 at private hospitals. On Wednesday, 14 persons were admitted to isolation wards. A total of 3,700 people were in quarantine in the district as on Wednesday. The bulletin said 93 expatriates and 247 persons from other States were put in quarantine on Wednesday. Test results of 588 swab samples were awaited. So far, 940 people were in quarantine at 95 corona care centres in the district, the bulletin said.
28 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Horticorp to open honey park in all districts||The Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) will open honey parks in all the 14 districts. Managing director J.Sajeev said the project envisaged opening holistic refreshment stalls and sales outlets of ethnic as well as value-added products of honey. The State’s first comprehensive honey park would start functioning at a three-acre premises of Horticorp at Kochalummoodu, near Mavelikara, in two months and the second one at Kakkanad in Ernakulam later this year. The project to set up the honey park at Kochalummoodu would be implemented by Horticorp regional manager B.Sunil, an expert in beekeeping and holistic use of honey. Mr. Sajeev said the project would be implemented in association with vana samrakshana samitis (VSS) attached to the Forest Department. Forest Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar would launch Amrit Achenkovil Forest Honey, an ethnic honey brand of Horticorp soon. Horticorp, in association with the VSS, had distributed 400 beehives to 40 tribal families at a settlement at Achenkovil and the corporation would procure honey from them at competitive prices. Mr. Sunil said the honey park would have an ethnic cafeteria, a sales outlet for different types of honey, value-added products, and ethnic products such as bamboo rice, wild nutmeg, ragi, foxtail millet, and horse gram. Uplift of tribes Mr. Sajeev said the honey park also aimed at uplift of the tribes as it would offer better prices for forest produces brought by the tribespeople. He said Horticorp had already started production of value-added honey products at its plant at Kochalummoodu.
28 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three hotspots in capital||Three places in the district - Nellanad, Kulathoor (Pozhiyoor) and Navayikulam - were declared COVID-19 hotspots on Wednesday. All three places entered the list of hotspots following the identification of positive cases over the past few days. Nellanad was declared a hotspot after a remand prisoner hailing from Venjaramoodu tested positive. Kulathoor entered the list after a 38-year-old man from Pozhiyoor who had arrived from Nagercoil tested positive. Navayikulam entered the list after an ambulance driver and a 65-year-old who had returned from Oman tested positive. On Wednesday, 586 people were placed under COVID-19 surveillance, even as 409 people completed the observation period without displaying symptoms. In all, 28 people who exhibited symptoms were admitted to hospitals in the districts. As on Wednesday, 6,358 people are under surveillance in the district, the district administration said in an update. Of this, 5,359 people are in home quarantine, 112 are under surveillance in hospitals, while 887 others are in COVID Care centres. In all, 223 samples were despatched for tests on Wednesday. One hundred and sixty-six samples tested negative. As many as 128 persons, 57 of them women, entered the State through the inter-State border check-post at Inchivila. Of this, 22 people had come from red zones. Fourteen were recommended home quarantine, while eight others were sent to COVID care centres. Special drive The city police registered cases against 73 persons following a special drive against vehicles carrying more than the permitted number of passengers in violation of COVID-19 security arrangements. Cases were registered against the vehicles owners and drivers under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. The police also charged petty cases against 227 people for not wearing masks. Train A special train left Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday with 194 passengers bound for Tripura, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh. Sixty-four passengers arrived in Thiruvananthapuram from Rajkot in Gujarat.
28 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Much-awaited liquor sales to resume today||Consumers in Kerala can purchase legal liquor from Thursday. They can place their orders in advance through the smartphone-based liquor purchase application BevQ. The application is calibrated to receive and process orders from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. every day, except on dry days and Sundays. The virtual queue system will assign individual buyers a specific time to collect the liquor as takeaways from the nearest liquor store, bar, or beer and wine parlour of their choice. Customers can purchase liquor at the maximum retail price fixed by the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco). As many as 301 liquor stores, 576 bars and 291 beer and wine parlours have spruced up their premises to receive customers from 9 a.m. The establishments will shut shop at 5 p.m. Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan said the businesses could sell liquor only to those who notify their demand in advance through the application. Others will be turned back. So will be buyers who arrive early or late to pick up their order. Strict guidelines Not more than five persons will be allowed in front of liquor stores or bars at a time. Buyers have to wear masks mandatorily. Consumers can purchase liquor only once in four days. An individual can buy only up to three litres at a time. Employees have to wear mask and gloves, provide hand sanitisers for the public and disinfect the sales counter frequently. Mr. Ramakrishnan said the measure was temporary and the government would withdraw the retail permits allowed to bars once the pandemic threat receded. He said the government has allowed private clubs to sell liquor to their members. The State would issue the necessary orders soon. Mr. Ramakrishnan denied the allegation of the Opposition that the government had favoured an “inexperienced” start-up to develop the application. He said the tendering and selection process was transparent. He also denied that the government had opened the door for the firm to make outsize profits. The 50 paise charge on every executed liquor purchase order was for meeting the rent charge by cloud and mobile phone service providers.
28 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||HSE exams resume with strict COVID-19 protocol||The higher secondary education (HSE) examinations which were postponed owing to the lockdown resumed on Wednesday morning. The SSLC and vocational higher secondary education (VHSE) examinations resumed on Tuesday. On Wednesday, 3,39,951 of the 3,44,409 students who had registered turned up for the examinations. A total of 2,257 Plus One and 2,201 Plus Two students did not appear. The attendance was 98.64% for Plus One and 98.77% for Plus Two. The VHSE examinations, also held in the morning, saw 18,938 of the 19,122 registered students taking the examination. The number of absentees for VHSE Plus One and Plus Two examinations were 110 and 74 respectively. The turnout for the SSLC examinations was 4,22,094 — 99.92%. Not much difference There had not been a big difference in the number of students who appeared for the HSE (including open school), VHSE and SSLC examinations before the lockdown and on Wednesday, a statement from Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. said. For Wednesday’s examinations also, the COVID-19 prevention protocol was in place. Physical distancing and use of masks and sanitisers were ensured. Crowding or socialising was discouraged and students directed to classrooms early enough to prevent last-minute rush. Separate classrooms and sanitised corridor for students from outside the State and those in quarantine were ensured.
28 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Major bureaucratic reshuffle at top levels||The government on Thursday decided on a major reshuffle at other top levels of the bureaucracy. Additional Chief Secretary (Public Works) T.K. Jose will be shifted to the Home and Vigilance portfolio with the additional charge of Water Resources and Coastal Shipping and Inland Navigation. Kochi Metro Rail Managing Director Alkesh Kumar Sharma will hold additional charge of Additional Chief Secretary (Special Projects and Kochi-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor) and Executive Officer, Smart City, Kochi. Revenue Principal Secretary V. Venu will be transferred to the Department of Planning and Economic Affairs with additional charge of Secretary, Planning Board, and Principal Secretary, Cultural Affairs. A. Jayatilak will take over as Revenue Principal Secretary with the additional charge of the Kerala State Housing Board. Fisheries Principal Secretary Ishitha Roy will be the new Agricultural Production Commissioner holding additional charge of Principal Secretary, Agriculture. Biswanath Sinha will be appointed Local Self-Government (Urban) Principal Secretary and Puneet Kumar will take over as Principal Secretary, SC/ST Development, in his place. He will also hold charge of Backward Classes Welfare and Parliamentary Affairs. Animal Husbandry Secretary Tinku Biswal will have additional charge of Fisheries, Zoos and Sports and Youth Affairs while Power Secretary B. Ashok will be transferred to Water Resources. Other appointments The Cabinet also decided to appoint Dinesh Arora as Secretary, Public Works, on his return from training. He has been given additional charge of Power. Director of Fisheries S. Venkatesapathy will be transferred as Managing Director, Kerala Water Authority, and KSTP Director M.G. Rajamanikyam will be appointed in his place. Personnel and Administrative Reforms Secretary K. Gopalakrishna Bhat will be given additional charge of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (Official Language). Thiruvananthapuram District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan will be shifted to Malappuram. He will be replaced by Navjot Khosa, Managing Director, Kerala Medical Services Corporation. Food Safety Commissioner A.R. Ajayakumar will be given additional charge of MD, KMSC. Registrar of Cooperative Societies A. Alexander will be the new Alappuzha Collector. He will replace M. Anjana who will be transferred to Kottayam. Jalanidhi Executive Director Joshi Mrinmayi Sasank will be transferred as Staff Officer to the Chief Secretary with additional charge of Executive Director, Jalanidhi, Deputy Secretary, Water Resources (National Hydrology and DRIP projects and water resources projects under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative). Civil Supplies Director Narasimhugari T.L. Reddy will be appointed Registrar of Cooperative Societies. General Administration Joint Secretary Haritha V. Kumar will hold additional charge of Civil Supplies Director. General Administration Deputy Secretary Renuraj will be the new Urban Affairs Director.
28 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Free dialysis for patients||The city Corporation has launched a project to provide free dialysis to patients who are unable to afford it. As part of the project, such patients can get dialysis treatment for free at government as well as private hospitals in the city. Mayor K.Sreekumar said that the civic body will foot the expenses incurred for dialysis in private hospitals for patients from economically backward categories. He said that several patients have been facing difficulties in carrying out the treatment due to their economic situation. Among the private hospitals, S.K.Hospital, Indian Hospital, Nims Hospital, Al-Arif hospital, PRS Hospital, Cosmopolitan Hospital and GG Hospital have agreed to co-operate with the Corporation for the project, said the Mayor. The scheme is available for those from families having an annual income of less than Rs. 1 lakh. To claim the benefits, patients have to get copies of the doctor’s certificate, income certificate, Aadhar card and ration card attested by the ward councillor and submit it to the health officer through the respective health circle office.
28 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU identifies exam centres across State, Lakshadweep||The University of Kerala has identified 11 institutions outside its jurisdiction, including one in Lakshadweep, to conduct its CBCSS sixth-semester (final-year) examinations, beginning on June 2. The examination centres will enable students to appear for the papers in their home districts without having to travel to their colleges. In addition to the centres in the districts coming under the university’s jurisdiction that stretches up to Alappuzha, the examinations will also be conducted at Kavaratti in Lakshadweep; Government College, Kasaragod; Krishna Menon Memorial Government Women’s College, Kannur; Government College, Kalpetta, Wayanad; Government Arts and Science College, Meenchanda, Kozhikode; Government College, Malappuram; Government Victoria College, Palakkad; Government Training College, Thrissur; Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam; Government College, Kattappana, Idukki; and Government College, Nattakom, Kottayam. The university has finalised its protocol for conducting the examinations in strict compliance with government guidelines. Besides sanitising the premises frequently, the university will permit entry to the centres only one hour prior to the examinations and prohibit students from entering the halls half-an-hour after the commencement of the examinations. Separate rooms will be reserved for students who come from hotspots and those placed under quarantine.  Learning software  The university has developed its own software (UoKmeet) for conducting online classes, official meetings, seminars, and PhD open defence. Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai formally launched the platform on the Karyavattom campus on Wednesday.
28 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Twin lows brewing over Arabian Sea||In the run-up to the 2020 southwest monsoon, the Arabian Sea is in for stormy times with two low-pressure areas taking shape in the region. On Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had warned that a low-pressure area was likely to form over the southeast and eastcentral parts of the sea close to the Indian and Maldivian coasts. In an update on Wednesday, the weather agency said a cyclonic circulation over the southwest Arabian Sea now lies over its westcentral and adjoining southwest regions. These regions are closer to the African coast. Depression “Under its influence, a low-pressure area is very likely to form over the same region around May 29. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region during the subsequent 48 hours,” the IMD update said. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority has banned fishing activity in the Arabian Sea from the midnight of May 28. All boats engaged in deep-sea fishing should make for closest shore by the night of May 28. In October 2019, the Arabian Sea had simultaneously hosted two cyclones - Kyarr and Maha. Monsoon trail Meanwhile, the southwest monsoon is expected to advance to the southeast parts of the Arabian Sea over the next two days. Pre-monsoon showers are expected to continue in Kerala. Eight southern and central districts – up to Thrissur – can expect isolated heavy rainfall on Thursday and Friday, the IMD said. Yellow alert Yellow alerts indicating the possibility have been issued for the eight districts for both days.
28 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||40 test positive, 37 are NoRKs||COVID-19 cases continued on an upward spiral in Kerala with 40 more testing positive for the disease on Wednesday. All except three cases were detected in expatriates and non-resident Keralites (NoRKs). Of the new cases, nine persons had come from abroad while 28 were from other States. Three persons are believed to have contracted the disease from the community through ‘contact’ with unknown sources of infection. Kasaragod accounted for 10 cases, Palakkad eight, Alappuzha seven, Kollam four, Pathanamthitta three, Wayanad three, Ernakulam two, Kozhikode two, and Kannur accounted for one. Ten patients were also reported to have recovered. Currently, 445 patients are undergoing treatment. Of the 1,003 COVID-19 cases reported by the State so far, 542 have recovered. The State has 1,07,832 persons under surveillance, of whom, 1,06,940 are in quarantine and 892 under observation in hospitals. Mild symptoms On Wednesday alone, 229 persons with mild symptoms were admitted in hospitals. The State has tested 58,866 samples so far, of which 56,558 samples have returned a negative result. As part of sentinel surveillance, 9,095 samples have been tested so far, of which 8,541 have been negative. The State has 81 hotspots now, with the addition of 13 new regions on Wednesday. These include 10 regions in Palakkad district and three in Thiruvananthapuram. In his daily briefing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the public should become the warriors against COVID-19. Violation of home quarantine would upstage all of State’s strategies. He said everyone should observe Sunday as a total sanitation day and devote it to cleaning their premises. Local bodies should take over cleaning public places.
28 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. to foot quarantine bill of needy returnees||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday clarified that the government would underwrite the institutional quarantine expenses incurred by non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) arriving in the State from within the country and abroad. The State would soon decide the criterion for determining which category of returnees required government assistance for board and lodging. The Opposition had criticised Mr. Vijayan for having stated that returnees should afford their quarantine cost irrespective of their income status. At an all-party meeting chaired by Mr. Vijayan via video link, leaders of the Congress, Indian Union Muslim League and Kerala Congress (M) had batted for charge-free institutional quarantine for all arrivals.  The CM’s explanation also came on a day when two Congress-ruled local self-governing institutions in Kozhikode had written to him seeking permission to pay for the quarantine cost of returnees under their respective jurisdictions. Mr. Vijayan said the misunderstanding had crept up because of the insistence of the Central government that all arrivals go into institutional quarantine mandatorily for seven days regardless of whether they had flu symptoms or not. The State government had argued in vain that home quarantine had worked well for Kerala. Mr. Vijayan said the matter of paying quarantine fee should not alarm those wishing to return home. However, they should inform the government in advance. The conference also decided to observe Sunday as ‘monsoon preparedness day.’ Mr. Vijayan urged the public to sanitise their homes and surroundings. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala attended.
28 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||ANERT scheme announced||The Agency for Non-conventional Energy and Rural Technology (ANERT) is converting conventional agricultural pumps into solar-powered ones. The scheme is being undertaken as part of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha evam Utthan Mahabhiyan (PM-KUSUM) Scheme of the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy. Pumps of 1 HP to 10 HP capacities can be converted under the scheme. The cost of converting a 1 HP pump is Rs. 54,000. Beneficiaries will be eligible for Central-State government subsidy equal to 60% of the amount.
28 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KVs readying to start online classes||As online learning becomes inevitable in the wake of the lockdown, schools under the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan’s Ernakulam regional office are gearing up to launch online classes from May 29. The Kendriya Vidyalaya institutions are using apps such as Google Classroom, Google Meet and TeamLink to impart lessons to students even as the uncertainty over school reopening lingers on. Classes will be held between 8.30 a.m. and 3.30 p.m., with two sessions of around 40 minutes each a day for a student. The Google Classroom platform will be used for teaching-learning activities for primary students. Live classes are not on the cards for them at the moment. Videos on various subjects will be uploaded on Google Classroom, and the students will be given assignments, which can be completed and uploaded on the same platform for correction. S. Ajayakumar, Principal, Kendriya Vidyalaya, Pattom, says this feature is helpful in case a student misses the video in the first instance or does not have access to a laptop or mobile while parents are at work, or two siblings in the same house have to share a single system. Interactive class For senior students, the school plans to use Google Meet so that interaction between students and teachers is possible. Maya Reghu, Vice Principal, Kendriya Vidyalaya, Pangode, says they have staggered timings for the classes so that, to the extent possible, siblings fit into different slots and sharing of phones or computers is possible. Occasional interactive sessions for the primary students will be held through TeamLink. Trials have been done for all classes, and for secondary students, studies are well under way.
28 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||‘Smile Maker’ passes away||Eminent cleft lip and palate surgeon Hirji S. Adenwalla, fondly called ‘Smile Maker’, passed away at a Coimbatore hospital on Wednesday. He was 90. Head of the Charles Pinto Cleft Centre at Jubilee Mission Hospital, Thrissur, Dr. Adenwalla had brought a smile on the faces of more than 16,000 children in his six-decade-long career. Under his leadership, the cleft centre became one of India’s leading comprehensive cleft-training centres. After his medical education from Bombay, Dr. Adenwalla, who was interested in social service, joined Jubilee Mission Hospital, a small hospital that offered rudimentary treatment, in 1958. After a few years of service at Jubilee Mission, Dr. Adenwalla started focussing on cleft surgery, which he continued until a few months ago.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Two cases reported in Kozhikode||Two more SARS-CoV-2 cases were reported from Kozhikode district on Wednesday. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said in a release that they were a 53-year-old from Naderi in Koyilandy and a 55-year-old from Mavoor. Both had returned from abroad. The first person had arrived from Abu Dhabi at the Calicut International Airport on May 17 and had been under observation at a Covid care centre at Koyilandy. Body fluid samples were sent for lab tests on May 25. The patient is right now at the first-line treatment centre at the Lakshadweep Guest House. The second person had arrived at the Kannur International Airport on May 21 and had been home quarantined. He was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on May 25. The number of active COVID-19 patients from Kozhikode now stands at 27. Fourteen people are at the medical college hospital, eight are at the first-line treatment centre and five are at various hospitals in Kannur. Apart from this, two natives each from Malappuram and Kasaragod districts and one from Thrissur too are at the medical college hospital. One person from Thrissur is undergoing treatment at MVR Cancer Centre and Research Institute here. Meanwhile, the number of patients under surveillance reached 7,566, among whom 1,372 are expatriates. Fifty five of them are at the medical college hospital.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Music for troubled times||
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Homeward bound||
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In agitation mode||
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Half-hearted defence||
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rise in fake posts spreading COVID-based canards: CM||Fake social media posts targeting individuals in the name of having contracted COVID-19 is on the rise, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday. In Alappuzha, a set of miscreants attempted to ostracise a youth who had arrived from Mumbai by spreading the false news that he was a transmitter of the virus. The victim received threatening calls and feared whether his neighbours would brand him an outcast. The police arrested the perpetrators, the CM said. He said the police had raised a voluntary force of non-disabled citizens with a clean legal record who would help the police patrol neighbourhoods. Law enforcement had issued them badges. The police would use digital tools, including drone surveillance and videoconferencing, as force multipliers to reduce its workload and optimise officer deployment. Mr Vijayan said COVID-19 had changed governance. The Thamarassery taluk in Kozhikode district had held a grievance redressal adalat online. The government had asked other taluks to attempt the same. Lockdown violations The police reported 3,261 instances of citizens not wearing masks on Wednesday. As many as 38 persons jumped quarantine. So far, law enforcers have booked 458 persons for quarantine violation.
28 May 2020||ACHANTA (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Villagers evacuated as gas leaks from borewell||Tension prevailed at Vemavaram village in Achanta mandal of West Godavari district when gas leaked from a borewell on Wednesday. Repair works were under way at the brorewell when the gas leaked and the residents ran helter-skelter in panic. Police, fire, revenue officials and State disaster response teams rushed to the village and shifted the residents to safer places. “We are yet to ascertain the type of gas that leaked from the borewell. As a precautionary measure, the villagers are evacuated. Efforts are on to plug the leak. The situation is under control,” an officer said. The villagers said that the gas leak was arrested later in the day.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on science and technology post-COVID||SRM University-Andhra Pradesh in association with The Hindu is organising a webinar on “Post COVID-19 : Science and Technology” on May 29. Focus areas The webinar would discuss the type of research to be carried out in view of industrial resurgence in the country. The possible slowdown of research and development and the strategies, institutional collaborative research in science and technology will also be discussed. It will be chaired by C.N.R. Rao, Linus Pauling Research Professor, JNCASR, Bengaluru, while Asuthosh Sharma, Secretary to Government of India, Department of Science and Technology, M. Rajeevan, Secretary to Government of India, Ministry of Earth Sciences and S. Chandra Sekhar, Director of CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad are the invited speakers. D. Narayana Rao, pro vice-chancellor of SRM University-AP, is the moderator and convener of the webinar.
28 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies seeing picture of his father’s body||A 45-year-old man, Dhananjayulu Naidu, on Wednesday died of cardiac arrest after having a look at the picture of the body of his father, who passed away at his native village Venkataiahgari Palle of Chittoor rural the previous night. The incident took place at the border check post with Karnataka at Palamaner, 45 km from here. According to information, 78-year-old farmer Anjaneyulu Naidu died at the village near Chittoor. On information, his son, staying in Bengaluru, left for the village in a car. At the border check post, the police on COVID lockdown duty asked him to furnish supporting evidence for entering the district. The neighbours at Venkataiahgari Palle had sent the pictures of his deceased father through social media. On seeing the pictures, Dhannjayulu collapsed all of a sudden, holding his chest. Case registered The police rushed him to the area hospital at Palamaner, where he was declared brought dead. The police registered a case. A pall of gloom descended on the village with the death of father-son duo.
28 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only quality education will help eradicate poverty: CM||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that the State government has allocated a substantial amount of money to education to enable the children to derive maximum benefit. Addressing the students, teachers and academicians at a brainstorming session on Education at his camp office near here on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said education was the only possible investment one could make to lift a vast number of people out of poverty. ‘Revolutionary reforms’ “There is only one panacea to tide over poverty in the country, and that is to provide quality education. Our government has been implementing several schemes, and has brought in revolutionary changes in the sphere of education,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. As part of the Nadu-Needu, the government decided to revamp 15,715 schools during 2019-20 and complete the works by July. The Jagananna Ammavodi scheme benefited 43 lakh mothers, 82 lakh students, and the government credited Rs. 6,350 crore directly into the accounts of the mothers. Further, the government released fees reimbursement of Rs. 4,200 crore to the colleges till March 31, including arrears of Rs. 1,880 crore, he said. Earlier, the Chief Minister launched a website that had details of all the educational institutions. Beginning his address by referring to his padayatra covering all the 175 constituencies, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that many students had told him that supply of textbooks was being delayed till October-November. The maids working in the mid-day meal scheme had complained of lack of sufficient support from the government, the Chief Minister recalled. “It was then I decided to revamp the entire education system. We want to introduce English medium, and most of those who are opposing it are making their children study in the English medium. Many are asking me, as to why I am spending so much money on education. Look at the figures – in India only 25.8% of children are getting enrolled in schools, while it is 82% in Russia and 51% in Brazil. On the other hand, 74% of children in India are dropping out of school,” said the Chief Minister.
28 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Website launched||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday launched a portal where the government, aided private, private schools and colleges would have to upload information about facilities and the quality parameters being followed in their educational institutions. The portal – www.apsermc.ap. gov.in – would have all the information a parent or a student needed to know about the schools and colleges in which they would like to admit their children. He asked whistle-blowers to come out openly if any school or college was violating norms.
28 May 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||City springs back to life with almost all shops open||City was abuzz with activity as a number of garment, footwear and jewellery stores opened on Wednesday, after the State government announced relaxations with strict guidelines, late on Tuesday night. Though several small scale standalone cloth shops opened last one week itself, big and branded garment stores opened their doors on Wednesday, after two-month lockdown period. Many shops were seen hanging the board ‘We are open’. Busy look Roads leading to Asilmetta, Siripuram, Dwaraka Nagar and a few other areas once again wore a busy look with most of the garment and jewellery shops thrown open for its customers.  Many stores were also seen encouraging customers for online purchase. All the shops which opened on Wednesday were seen strictly following the guidelines such as checking the body temperatures of customers, providing sanitisers and making sure customers maintain minimum distance between them. Trial rooms have been prohibited in the garment stores and in the stores that earlier provided the facility. “No customer or staff is allowed to enter the store without a mask. Not more than five customers are allowed inside the store at a time. Sanitisation of the common touch points like door knobs in the store is done. Trial rooms are not allowed to be used. Exchange of products is discouraged, however if any exchange happens, they are being kept in separate quarantine boxes for four days,” said Sudixa Majumdar, a garment store manager at Dabagardens. ‘Heavy loss’ Managements of garment and jewellery stores said that they had suffered heavy losses due to the lockdown, which was announced during peak wedding season. “March to May is a major business season, as number of weddings take place. Families come to purchase saris and other clothes in bulk. We do not see such a boost in the near future, since weddings are now a low-key affair, as per the COVID-19 protocol,” said Adi Narayana, a garment shop owner from Gajuwaka area.
28 May 2020||K. Umashanker,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gifts from police cheer migrants||Getting quarantined is sort of a forlorn experience. But for the Chittoor-based migrant workers who returned from Mahahrastra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Rajasthan, housed in the quarantine centres at Kanipakam, Gangavaram, Baireddipalle and Palamaner, it turned out to be a memorable experience, thanks to the gesture of the police personnel, who presented gift-boxes to their children, in addition to soothing words to overcome their traumatic conditions. When SP S. Senthil Kumar and Deputy SP (Chittoor) K. Eshwar Reddy arrived at the quarantine centre at Kanipakkam, where 139 workers from Nindra, Nagari, Vijayapuram, Nagalapuram and Nagari mandals have been accommodated, fear gripped the inmates that they would be shifted to some other quarantine facility. Much to their surprise, the SP asked the families to be ready to get gift-boxes for their children. Each box contained chocolates, biscuits, small toys, drawing pencils and crayons along with slates and other stationary. For the elderly, sweets and fruits were distributed. As many as 131 migrant workers with their children reached Kanipakam quarantine facility from Maharashtra on May 23, and the samples collected from them were sent for tests in Tirupati. The inmates were worried that they might be sent to isolation any time, and that the virus would paralyse their lives further. Allaying fear When some women workers broke down before him, Mr. Senthil Kumar allayed their fears about isolation in case any of them tested positive. He said nutritious food had been provided to them and their children at the quarantine centres, and they could soon return to their homes. The SP also extended the gift boxes to all the children at the quarantine centres in Chittoor, Puttur and Palamaner police sub-divisions.
28 May 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight injured as rival YSRCP groups clash in Kadapa||Internal bickering among the YSRCP cadre in Kadapa district came to the fore on Wednesday when several party activists came to blows during a programme in the presence of Badvel MLA G. Venkata Subbaiah at Payalakunta in B. Kodur mandal on Wednesday. Eight people who sustained injuries in the incident were rushed to Porumamilla government hospital. There was a gathering of the YSRCP activists at the foundation stone laying ceremony of the village secretariat building. MLA G. Venkata Subbaiah came to the village and laid the stone. The trouble began when members of two groups reportedly owing allegiance to local leaders Ramakrishna Reddy and Yogananda Reddy accosted each other, apparently in a bid to claim credit for the development works in the mandal. Heated arguments The rival groups exchanged heated arguments and started pelting stones at each other. Some activists also came to blows. The police took more than twenty persons into custody.
28 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 pedal edema patients shifted to Kakinada GGH||Twelve tribal people suffering from pedal edema were shifted to Kakinada Government General Hospital on Wednesday. All of them belong to Chintoor Agency where 14 persons died of the disease since March. The prime symptom visible among all the patients is ‘swelling of legs’. An exclusive 20-bed ward has been set up at the GGH, with a dedicated team of doctors. “The patients are being treated in the special ward. Most of them have vitamin deficiency and kidney ailments ,” said GGH Superintendent M. Raghavendra Rao. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy inspected discussed with the doctors the need for a ‘Standard Operating Procedure’ to prevent the mortality rate in the Chintoor Agency.
28 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three Chennai returnees test positive in Prakasam||After a brief lull, four patients hailing from remote villages tested positive for coronavirus in Prakasam district on Wednesday. Twenty four-year-old man from Santhamagaluru village, near Addanki had contracted the disease after visiting Chennai, COVID-19 nodal officer Johan Richardson said. So was a 30-year-old man from Kanagalavaripalem village, near Korisapadu, and a 50-year-old woman from Kolachankota village, near Maddipadu. With this, six persons had so far been infected after visiting neighbouring Tamil Nadu and two others after returning from Maharashtra. The fourth person who tested positive on Wednesday was 26-year-old man from Rajupalem village, near Chimakurthy. He had returned from Vijayawada. Meanwhile, two persons were discharged on recovery from the Government General Hospital, where seven persons underwent treatment. Health officials scrambled to identify the primary and secondary contacts of the four infected persons and sanitized their villages. Pat for medical team The containment action plan was implemented in the mandals of Santhamagaluru, Maddipadu, Chimakurthy and Korisapadu. After all the 60 persons who had been infected after visiting Nizamuddin in New Delhi were cured of the disease, the district is seeing fresh set of cases linked to Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. State Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy appreciated the efforts of the medical team in dealing with the cases. Meanwhile, health officials in neighbouring SPSR Nellore district heaved a sigh of relief as no fresh case was reported on Wednesday. The number of active cases continued to remain at 84. As many as 144 persons have been cured of the disease so far, while four persons had succumbed to the disease.
28 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown presents mixed fortunes for farmers||It was a mixed bag of fortunes for farmers in Prakasam district during the lockdown imposed to combat coronavirus. While growers of, among other crops, paddy, Bengal gram, maize, as also vegetables and fruits made a killing, those who cultivated export-oriented crops of tobacco and chilli found it hard to market their produce. Thanks to good demand for the principal food grain crop, the farmers, especially those coming under the Krishna Western Delta, got a premium price for their produce. While the minimum support price was Rs. 1,360 for 75 kg of paddy, farmers sold it at over Rs. 1,400. Before the lockdown, they were forced to sell their produce between Rs. 900 and Rs. 1,000 only, a group of farmers in rice-rich Swarna village said in a conversation with The Hindu while showing the empty giant traditional storage devise. High demand for paddy Farmers who used to take the trouble of taking their produce to the State-run procurement centres earlier were able to liquidate the stock at their doorstep itself, as private millers vied with each other to purchase paddy. Prior to lockdown, the market price for Bengal gram variety ‘JJ 11’ was ruling below Rs. 3,500 per quintal. After the lockdown was imposed, price of the principal commercial crop grown in about one lakh hectares saw a hike. “We were able to get a better price of Rs. 4,500 per quintal,” said K. Koteswara Rao, a farmer from Inkollu. Though the price of maize, a key ingredient for poultry feed, dipped to about Rs. 1,200 initially in the wake of outbreak of coronavirus pandemic, the farmers could sell the cereal crop at a fair price of about Rs. 1,700 per quintal, explained CPI(M)-led Kavulu Rythu Sangam State president N. Ranga Rao. A dampener However, tobacco growers were in an unenvious position as the lockdown coincided with the peak of the marketing season. Though the e-auctions started on an encouraging note in Southern Light Soil(SLS) on February 17, the closure of the platforms for most part of the lockdown period put paid to their hopes of getting a remunerative price for their produce, as exporters shied away from the market on the pretext of lack of confirmed orders from overseas buyers in view of global economic downturn. Labour shortage The chilli growers, who faced a daunting task to complete the harvest in view of the labour shortage after imposition of lockdown, are also keeping their fingers crossed after putting their produce in cold storage units as the main market for the export-oriented crop in COVID-19 hotspot of Guntur remained closed.
28 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Total prohibition in three years: Balineni||State Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy on Wednesday said that total prohibition would be introduced in the State within three years. Inaugurating a de-addication centre at the Government General Hospital here, he said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was firm on introducing prohibition in phases as per his poll promise. “The party chief has seen for himself the plight of common people during his long march. The de-addiction centre is part of his efforts to prepare the people for a ‘dry State’,” Mr. Srinivasa Reddy said. District Collector P. Bhaskar said the 15-bedded de-addiction centre set up at an allocation of Rs. 37.27 lakh would rehabilitate those addicted to liquor.
28 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown-hit farmers press for loan waiver||2The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Prakasam district has urged the Centre to announce a special financial package for farmers who are struggling to cope with the lockdown imposed to combat Coronavirus. Leading a protest in front of the Prakasam Bhavan, its district convener Ch. Ranga Rao said it was unfortunate that both the Union and State Governments neglected the agriculture sector. Loans advanced to farmers should be waived and fresh loans given to them to take up cultivation during the coming kharif season in time, he said. Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangam State general secretary K.V.V. Prasad wanted the State government to procure farm produce at the doorsteps of farmers. Small and tenant farmers were clueless on marketing their produce as the traders drove down the prices on the pretext of alleged reduction in demand for farm produce during lockdown, protesters said.
28 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||KVPS protests against attacks on Dalits||Alleging that attacks on Dalits had increased during the lockdown, the CPI(M)-led Kula Vivaksha Porata Sangam(KVPS) on Wednesday demanded constitution of Human Rights Commission at the State-level forthwith. Wearing masks, they staged a demonstration at the LBG Bhavan here to press their demands including filling up of vacancies in the post of Chairman and members of the State SC/ST Commission. Atrocities on Dalits had increased during the YSR Congress Party regime in the State, KVPS Prakasam district general secretary K. Raghuram contended, adding that the culprits went scotfree due to alleged indifference of the officials concerned to the plight of the victims. The district-level monitoring committee to hear grievances of Dalits had not met for long, he lamented. The KVPS also demanded appointment of an officer in the rank of Deputy-Superintendent of Police to exclusively deal with the atrocity cases.
28 May 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five held for ‘murder of rowdy-sheeter’||Five persons have been arrested in connection with the murder of a 40-year-old rowdy-sheeter at the quarry centre on the outskirts of Rajamahendravaram in East Godavari district. The five persons have been identified as Y. Srinivas (prime accused), K. Chandu, G. Ayyappa Swami, M. Sattibabu and Sateesh. Police said that the five accused have confessed to the murder of Addepalli Sateesh (40) on the midnight of May 19. “The accused killed the victim by hitting him on his head. Srinivas had sought the help of his four friends to eliminate his rival. All the accused belong to Rajamahendravaram city,” Rajamahendravaram III Town Circle Inspector and Investigation Officer S. Durga Prasad told The Hindu . “Srinivas chalked out a plan to eliminate Sateesh, reportedly after the latter spoke ill about some women members of Srinivas’ family. The duo used to run a microfinance business together and fell apart after Sateesh quit,” Mr. Durga Prasad said. “All the five accused have been produced in a local court and the investigation is on,” the officer added.
28 May 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CID registers case for ‘objectionable remarks’ against judges||The Cyber Crime Wing of the Crime Investigation Department (CID) late on Wednesday night registered a case against public representatives and social media activists who allegedly made objectionable comments against Supreme Court and High Court judges with regard to some judgments delivered in the recent past. A complaint was filed by B. Rajasekhar, Registrar-General of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, stating that some public representatives, political leaders and social media activists had allegedly posted comments on some media platforms and made highly objectionable remarks against the judges in their speeches on the recent orders. Many leaders booked The Registrar-General, in his complaint addressed to the CID SP, said several persons, including Nandigam Suresh, Amanchi Krishna Mohan, Metta Chandra Sekhar, Kalanidhi Gopalakrishna, Kishore Reddy Darisa, G. Sridhar Reddy, Jalagam Venkata Satyanarayana, Chandu Reddy, K. Gowthami, Chiranjeevi and others, made allegations of corruption through various social media sites against the judges and allegedly attributed caste motives to them. They allegedly made abusive and threatening posts against the judges and reportedly caused ‘disaffection’ to the courts and the judges. In an interview to a media channel, Mr. Naidigam Suresh reportedly said that Leader of the Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu was “managing” the High Court. The Cyber Crime police station registered a case under Section 67 of IT Act, 2000, Sections 153 (a), 505 (2) and 506 IPC and took up investigation. The case has been handed over to the CID regional office for further investigation. Vigil on social media groups Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang, in a separate release, on Wednesday said that the case filed by the High Court Registrar-General would be fast-tracked. “We have created a separate wing to deal with the cyber crime in CID, particularly on the comments being posted in various groups. A vigil has been kept on social media groups and stern action would be taken against those, who criticise the government and target individuals,” Mr. Gautam Sawang warned.
28 May 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 8 lakh Tirumala laddus sold in three days||The decision of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to make available laddus in all district headquarters has received an overwhelming response from the devotees. Subsidised price According to the sources in the temple trust board, more than eight lakh laddus have been sold in a span of just three days. In an attempt to make the laddus available to devotees as the temple of Lord Venkateswara remains closed for darshan in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the trust board has embarked on a mission of selling the laddus at a subsidised price of Rs. 25 per piece at all its kalyana mandapams across the State. Anantapur and Kadapa districts have topped the list with the sale crossing the one lakh mark. The sale of laddus has also been remarkable in Visakhapatnam, Krishna and Kurnool districts with the stocks exhausting before noon.
28 May 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arjuna Rao sworn in as ex-officio member of TTD||Endowments Commissioner Arjuna Rao on Wednesday was sworn in as an ex-officio member of the TTD Trust Board. TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy administered him the oath of office at a brief ceremony organized inside the Balaji temple in Tirumala. Speaking to mediapersons afterwards, Mr. Rao expressed his happiness on being bestowed with the opportunity of serving the devout.
28 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Feeding the needy, every day of the lockdown||A family has been serving breakfast to the underprivileged sections of society every day since the lockdown came into force, at Alipiri. Nutritious meal Prayaga Subrahmanyam, who retired as a General Manager at Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in Hyderabad and is now settled in Tirupati, reaches Alipiri along with his family members every morning to serve nutritional breakfast to the needy, mostly comprising ascetics and beggars. The breakfast comprises boiled eggs, bread, cheese sandwiches and fruits. The family tries to minimise the use of plastic in the entire process, be it in the form of carry bags, plates or glasses. While serving, the family chants ‘Govindanamam’, though not insisting on the beneficiaries to do the same. “We counsel and persuade all the 55 recipients to follow social distancing among themselves and have successfully brought about a change in them,” his wife Arunakumari Prayaga, a professor of pathology at SVIMS University, said. The couple’s son P. Krishna Venkatesh, who works at an automobile company in Bengaluru, has been held up here due to the lockdown. He too joins his parents sharp at 8 a.m. every day to serve breakfast. “We don’t look at the money incurred every day as an expense, but as our contribution towards ‘Govinda Seva’, a service to society,” Mr. Subrahmanyam said.
28 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||One killed as vehicle runs over hawkers||A woman died and a few others were injured when a vehicle ran over hawkers at the Narasingapuram railway crossing on the Tirupati-Madanapalle National Highway on Wednesday. The SUV, on its way from Tirupati to Piler, was reportedly overspeeding, when the incident occurred. The woman, identified as Rajini(28), sustained grievous injuries in the incident and was shifted to SVR Ruia Government General Hospital where she died. Chandragiri police have registered a case and investigation is on.
28 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmer suicides on the rise: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, speaking on a resolution on agriculture at Mahanadu on Wednesday, said the party could control farmer suicides during its rule, but now they were on the rise. It was unfortunate that farmer suicides were being reported even from Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s constituency, he said. Former Agriculture Minister S. Chandramohan Reddy said the YSRCP government earmarked Rs. 20,000 crore for agriculture, but had spent mere Rs. 7,400 crore. “The TDP government achieved 11% growth rate in agriculture. What is this government’s achievement?” he asked. Former MLA Dhulipala Narendra lamented that the YSRCP divided farmers on caste lines. About 14 lakh farmers did not receive the benefits under Rythu bharosa, he said.  ‘Don’t sell TTD properties’ In another resolution moved by AP Brahmin Corporation former chairman Vemuri Anand Surya, the TDP opposed sale of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) properties. The TDP also found fault with the TTD for its decision to sell laddus in bulk. The YSRCP leaders were eyeing TTD properties. Mr. Jagan seemed to be following in the footsteps of his father Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, the speakers said. The TDP adopted a resolution urging the government to continue the old slab system and waive power charges for the coronavirus period. Vijayawada MP Kesineni Srinivas (Nani), moving the resolution, said that the government had increased power charges three times in a year despite the YSRCP promising people in the run-up to the elections that it would not burden the consumers if voted to power. The previous government could overcome the power deficit of 22.5 million units in just 100 days. The TDP did not hike the tariff during its rule, he recalled.
28 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||86,863 migrant workers sent home||Seventy special Shramik trains were operated from the State to send home around 86,863 stranded migrant labourers from various other States till Monday (May 25). In a statement, State coordinator for COVID-19 M.T. Krishna Babu said 464 buses were used to send 15,730 migrant labourers, who were going by walk, to their native States. Food and relief camps were arranged at every 20-km distance on National Highways to cater to the scores of migrant workers who started walking to reach home and 118 food points (dhabas) were arranged — Krishna (10), Guntur (10), Anantapur (10), Nellore (7), Kurnool (9), Srikakulam (6), Vizianagaram (6), West Godavari (18), Kadapa (6), Prakasam (10), Chittoor (12), East Godavari (5), and Visakhapatnam (9). He said between May 16 and May 25, 37,779 migrant workers were shifted to relief centres. Of them, 36,270 were sent to their native places in buses belonging to the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) and trains till May 16. There were 1,509 of them in relief camps now, he said. Review meet Mr. Krishna Babu said a review meeting with the Joint Collectors was held on Monday (May 25) to assess further requirement of the special trains. In view of the gradual beginning of activity, many migrant labourers who had registered earlier to go back to their States were now dropping out as they wanted to continue in the State. Speaking about the next few days schedule, he said one train was required to be operated from Chittoor to Bihar, two from Vijayawada and Chittoor to Odisha and three trains from Guntur, Prakasam and Eluru to West Bengal.
28 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revolutionary changes made in education sector: Minister||The YSRCP Government has made revolutionary changes in the education sector by introducing a series of welfare schemes which will help students from weaker sections chase their dreams, Minister for Endowments Velampalli Srinivasa Rai said on Wednesday. The Minister was speaking to reporters after attending a video-conference chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy as part of ‘Mana Paalana, Mee Suchana’ programme marking the completion of one year in office of the YSR Congress Party. Mr. Rao said that the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka was one such scheme that would be implemented from this academic year in 2,614 government schools in Krishna district. Mr. Rao said that a sum of Rs. 8.94 crore has been earmarked for implementation of the educational programme. Under the scheme, students would be given school kits comprising a school bag, textbooks, notebooks, three pairs of school uniforms, a pair of shoes and two pairs of socks. “CM Jagan Mohan Reddy has ushered in revolutionary changes by introducing schemes like Amma Vodi, Jagananna Vidya Deevena, Jagananna Vasathi Deevena, Jagananna Vidya Kanuka, Jagananna Gorumudda, Nadu-Nedu, and introduction of English as a medium of instruction in government schools,” the Minister said. He added that the fee reimbursement scheme was to enable students from economically weaker sections to pursue higher education. “The late YSR had introduced the scheme, helping students from the weaker sections to chase their dreams. His son went a step ahead and introduced a number of welfare schemes to make education accessible to all. Under the Amma Vodi programme, Rs. 6,350 crore has been deposited in the bank accounts of 43 lakh mothers who sent their children to government schools,” Mr. Rao said.
28 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Women panel proactive even during lockdown’||The A.P. Women Commission helped more than 100 women who complained about harassment, ill-treatment and stranded in foreign countries and other States, said its Chairperson Vasireddi Padma. The commission had received 144 complaints through WhatsApp, phone, e-mail and to the helpdesk at its office from March 23 to May 26 amidst the lockdown, Ms. Padma said here on Wednesday.“We received about 93 calls at the helpdesk. Of the total, 43 were domestic violence and 23 women sought old age pension, ration and other help,” she said. Officials received about 51 pleas relating to harassment, civil disputes and domestic violence through e-mail and post and others. Though some complaints were not related to the commission, instructions had been given to the staff to speak to the officers concerned, she said. “The commission received a plea from a woman from Guntur and settled in the U.K., on alleged harassment by her husband. We along with Disha staff spoke with her husband and solved the issue. Likewise, a women staying in Dubai urged to help her return to India. We gave the helpline numbers and helped her apply for repatriation,” said commission secretary Nirmala. Team effort “The commission provided transportation to pregnant women for safe delivery. The women called the helpdesk from Vizianagaram, Rajamahendravaram and Narsaraopet,” said director R. Suez. Ms. Padma said the commission provided food to migrant women in Hyderabad, 200 families stranded in Chennai and a few more who sought help in Vijayawada.
28 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mahanadu goes virtual||Probably for the first time since its inception, the TDP successfully kick-started its annual meet, Mahanadu, virtually through the Zoom app on Wednesday. It was hassle-free. The two-day meet is being organised through the digital platform in view of the ongoing lockdown in the State. Party sources said that 25,000 delegates attended the meeting on the inaugural day that started with the rendition of the ‘Maa Telugu Thalli’ song. In his inaugural speech, party national president N. Chadrababu Naidu stressed the need for using latest technology and innovations, and digital socialisation. The party had taken early steps towards digital socialisation and could overcome the limitations of social distancing during the lockdown. “Digital Mahanadu-2020 is also a part of this initiative. The TDP has emerged as the first political party to hold India’s first digital political conclave,” Mr. Naidu claimed. Stating that many had suggested postponing the conclave, Mr. Naidu said, “Technology and innovation can provide solutions to any problem in society. The TDP organises Mahanadu on May 28 every year to coincide with the birth anniversary of its founder-president N.T. Rama Rao.
28 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister questions ‘double standards’ of Kanna, Pawan||“Why did BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana keep quiet when about 40 temples were demolished in Vijayawada during the TDP term? Why was he silent when scores of devotees were killed in a stampede during the Godavari pushkarams in Rajamahendravaram? Why is he now talking about protecting Hindu temples and traditions?” Endowments Minister V. Srinivasa Rao has questioned. Similarly, JSP president Pawan Kalyan, who used to perform rituals by wearing shoes, was putting up a display of his faith in Hinduism, the Minister pointed out, and suggested to the BJP and JSP leaders to give up their “double standards.” Addressing the media on Wednesday, Mr. Srinivasa Rao alleged that Mr. Lakshminarayana was hand-in-glove with former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, and BJP leader Bhanuprakash Reddy was a signatory to the proposal to sell TTD properties as a member of trust board. He dismissed as baseless the campaign that funds of Hindu temples were being used to pay remuneration to Muslim clerics and Christian pastors, and advised the BJP and JSP not to indulge in politics in the name of religion.
28 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospitals’ help sought for free medical camp||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh called upon private hospitals, doctors and laboratories to come forward and take part in the special health camp to be organised for the sanitation workers. Mr. Venkatesh said that the municipal corporation will be organising the camp soon and interested hospitals and doctors can come forward to offer their service for free or for minimal charges. The Chief Medical Officer of Health can be contacted for more details at 9866514149.
28 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. urged to establish human rights commission||The Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) has demanded the State Government to take immediate steps to establish a Human Rights Commission (HRC) in the State. CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu, in a statement on Wednesday, said that the SHRC was not functioning in Andhra Pradesh for the last four years despite a directive from the judiciary. “The Andhra Pradesh High Court, in a judgment on October 30 last year, had said that the Human Rights Commission should be constituted within four months. The government conveniently ignored its assurance given to the court and did not take any action in that direction for the last seven months. The previous government too neglected the issue,” Mr. Madhu said. Protest call “The people were looking at courts for justice regarding many issues, particularly in the wake of COVID-19. A Human Rights Commission is the need of hour for the poor,” Mr. Madhu said. Civil rights associations and lawyers’ associations gave a call for State-wide agitations on May 29, he said, urging the government to constitute the commission without further delay.
28 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engineers’ associations defer Statewide protests||The APSEB Engineers’ Association (APSEBEA) and APSEB Assistant Executive Engineers’ Association (APSEBAEEA) have deferred protest demonstrations at power plants and circle and divisional offices across the State proposed to be held from May 28 to June 6, following an offer of talks from the government. The APSEBEA and APSEBAEEA had resolved to protest against the government’s lukewarm response to issues raised by them pertaining to power utilities. They are opposing the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020, phasing out of old units of Dr. Narla Tatarao Thermal Power Station, joint venture/sale of Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant, purchase of Athena and Amarkantak private power plants and the inordinate delay in recovering Rs. 4,500 crore from Telangana Discoms and collecting the dues from various A.P. government departments and unscientific capacity additions. In a letter to Energy Department Secretary N. Srikant, APSEBEA secretary-general G. Ramakrishnudu and APSEBAEEA general secretary N. Lakshmana Rao said they were forced to stage protests as the government cold-shouldered urgent issues raised by them.
28 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple board constituted||The State government has constituted a board of trustees to the Sri Muthyalamma Ammavari temple located at East Kanupuru village of Chillakuru mandal in Nellore district. The government, in G.O. 481 issued on Wednesday, appointed as members of the board Duvvuru Chandrasekhar Reddy, Vemareddy Murali Mohan Reddy, Annadi Setti Dhanalakshmi, Innamala Masthanamma, Yallasiri Penchalamma, Duvvuru Sai Krishna Reddy, Krishnapatnam Muni Lakshmi, and Uppala Prabhakar. Archaka in the temple Chakiri Ramanaiah will be the ex officio Member. The trustees shall hold the office for a period of two years with effect from the date of taking oath of office and secrecy. The government asked the Endowments Special Commissioner to take steps to administer the oath of office and secrecy to the persons appointed as trustees. The government asked the Endowments Special Commissioner to take steps for the election of the chairman to the trust board as per the provisions of Section 20 of the AP Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act, 1987.
28 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||FCI procures record quantity of paddy, wheat||Overcoming the logistical hurdles created by the lockdown, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) has ensured a smooth and efficient procurement of wheat and paddy during the ongoing rabi season. A quantity of 341.56 lakh tonnes of wheat has already been purchased up to May 24, surpassing the last year’s figure of 341.31 lakh tonnes. In Andhra Pradesh, 21.85 lakh tonnes of paddy has been purchased during rabi, which constitutes two-thirds of the season’s target. Nearly 6.15 lakh tonnes of rice has been procured cumulatively by the FCI and the State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited under close monitoring by FCI CMD D.V. Prasad, according to an official release. It was stated that during the lockdown, the Central government launched several schemes aimed at ensuring sufficient foodgrain supplies to different categories of beneficiaries. The first major intervention was the allocation of around 120 lakh tonnes of foodgrain through the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana.
28 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||FCI transports huge stock of grains by rail||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has transported 3.42 lakh metric tonnes of food grains by train to West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka during the lockdown, FCI AGM (General) B. Ranga Prasad Naik said on Wednesday. The FCI has exported 9,900 metric tonnes of food grains by sea to Andaman and Nicobar. FCI is implementing several schemes, including Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) for beneficiaries and migrants, and all schemes are being monitored by FCI Chairman and MD D.V. Prasad. FCI has procured 21.85 lakh metric tonnes of paddy during the ongoing Rabi seasion in Andhra Pradesh, Mr. Ranga Prasad said.
28 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scientific assistant posts to be filled||The State government has accorded permission to fill scientific assistant posts in the Andhra Pradesh Forensic Science Laboratory. In a G.O. issued on Wednesday, Principal Secretary (home) Kumar Vishwajeet said the posts would be filled through the Andhra Pradesh State Level Police Recruitment Board. The Director General of Police was requested to take action in the matter, the G.O. said.
28 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Application date for RIMC exam extended||The last date for submission of applications for the entrance exam of Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC), Dehradun, has been extended till June 15. The exam, scheduled to be held on June 1 and 2, has been postponed. Revised dates will be announced later, said APPSC Secretary P.S.R. Anjaneyulu. Waiver has been granted to candidates who are yet to submit application forms in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. They can submit the forms without education or domicile certificates. They need to submit the documents during the viva-voice.
28 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||D. El.Ed exam in August||The Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed.) first year exams for the 2018-20 batch will be held in August, a statement issued by the Director of Government Examinations said on Wednesday. The failed candidates of the previous batch are eligible to appear for the exams . The last date for payment of fee to the principals concerned without late fee is June 10 while the last date for submission of the fee by the principals is June 11. The last date for payment of exam fee by candidates to their principals with a late fee of Rs. 50 is June 15 and the last date for the principals is June 16. The following is the fee structure for both regular and once failed candidates: For four to six subjects - Rs. 250, for three subjects- Rs. 175, for two subjects - Rs. 150 and for one subject, it is Rs. 125.
28 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP, JSP launch ‘Vizag not for sale’ campaign||The BJP and the Jana Sena Party leaders launched a campaign against the proposed sale of government land with the slogan ‘Vizag not for sale’, here on Wednesday. Led by BJP MLC P.V.N. Madhav, the party workers erected a board with the slogan inscribed on it on a piece of land near Jodugullapalem. The government has notified about 75 cents to 1 acre of government land near Jodugullapalem for sale through e-auction. “It is imprudent on part of the government to sell away prime property at a time when the State is reeling under the COVID-19 pandemic. Further, the time is not ripe for it as the market remains sluggish due to the pandemic and the government will not be able to get a good rate,” Mr. Madhav told the media here. He said it was wrong to sell away prime land for implementing the ‘navaratnalu’ programme. “The government can sell land, but the proceeds should be invested on development or productive activity that would fetch good returns, not on doling out freebies, he said. “There are other means to generate revenues, but sale of prime property is not accepted and will be opposed tooth and nail,” said Mr. Madhav.
28 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP seeks judicial inquiry into styrene monomer leak||Telugu Desam Party Urban Committee has sought the adoption of resolutions seeking a judicial inquiry into the LG Polymers styrene monomer vapour leak and justice to the victims, at the party’s Mahanadu, which began in Guntur on Wednesday. The urban committee president and Visakhapatnam South MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar and committee leaders Chode Pattabhiram, Pothana Reddy, Raja Rao, Sanapala Panduranga Rao, Malla Appalaraju and E. Sujatha were among those who participated in the Mahanadu from the party office in the city through Zoom app, held under the auspices of TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu. Giving details to the media, Mr. Ganesh Kumar said the other party leaders participated in the conference from their respective homes. A two-minute silence was observed in memory of those who lost their lives in the gas leak. Mr. Naidu and others, who participated in the Mahanadu at the party office in Guntur, expressed their condolences to the bereaved families of the gas leak victims and expressed hope that those who turned ill, due to inhalation of the styrene gas and were under treatment, would recover soon. Visakhapatnam West MLA P.G.V.R. Naidu moved the condolence motion and it was seconded by former Minister and senior party leader Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy. He demanded shifting of the plant, assistance to people living in 3-km radius of the plant, a judicial probe into the leak and punishment of the guilty. Earlier, the party leaders garlanded a statue of party founder and former Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao.
28 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discom reduces T&D losses to 6.64%, says CMD||Andhra Pradesh Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) has reduced its power transmission and distribution (T&D) losses to 6.64% from 6.68%. APEPDCL Chairman and Managing Director S. Nagalakshmi said on Wednesday that the company, rated as very efficient by all parameters, achieved a satisfactory level of 92.44% from consumers by using toll-free number 1912 for solving consumers’ problems. It has been adopting effective monitoring mechanisms such as Eastern Power Mobile App, WhatsApp No. 8500001912, Easter Power Distribution Company of Andhra Pradesh Facebook, "@epdcl1" Twitter, Two-Way SMS (Call Back Request) and HT Consumers Mobile App to solve their problems.  ‘Transparent service’ She said in a release that APEPDCL was providing transparent service to consumers by setting up compliant boxes in all offices.
28 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two students from Telangana killed in road accident||Two B.Tech. students from Telangana died in a road accident on NH-16 at Yelamanchali in Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday. The deceased have been identified as Kalyan and Praveen, both aged around 20 years, and natives of Bhupalpally in Telangana. According to the Yelamanchali police, the two youth were reportedly going to Srikakulam from Bhupalpally on a two-wheeler. The accident reportedly occurred at around 1 p.m. near Kokkirapalle, when the youth allegedly hit handle of another bike while overtaking it. Unable to control the bike, they reportedly hit the median. Both of them suffered severe head injuries and the bike was smashed, the police said. Bodies have been shifted to NTR Area hospital in Anakapalle for post- mortem. Family members have been informed about the incident. Some friends of Praveen reportedly said that he had borrowed the bike from his uncle in Srikakulam and was going to return the vehicle. A case was registered and investigation is on.
28 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||LG gas leak: one more dies||P. Venkayamma (73) of Venkatapuram, who was affected by the styrene monomer vapour from the LG Polymers plant, died while undergoing treatment at the King George Hospital (KGH) on Tuesday night. While her relatives said she died due to respiratory problems as a result of inhalation of styrene gas, doctors said she had other problems also. Venkayamma was admitted to hospital after the tragedy on May 7. She was treated and discharged after a few days. She had also received Rs. 1 lakh as compensation from the government. She later developed some complications and ANMs and ASHA workers gave her some medicines, but her condition did not improve. “She was brought to hospital on May 19 with complaints of dehydradation. She was put on ventilator. She was also suffering from hypertension and electrolyte imbalance,” Superintendent G. Arjuna said. “We have sent the body for post mortem examination to ascertain the cause of death,” he added.
28 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||I am being given psychiatric drugs unnecessarily, alleges Vizag doctor||The suspended doctor from Narsipatnam Area Hospital, K. Sudhakar, who is undergoing treatment at the Government Hospital for Mental Care here after being booked in a public nuisance case, on Wednesday wrote a letter to the hospital Superintendent requesting that he be shifted to a better medical centre. In the letter, Dr. Sudhakar alleged that he was being administered psychiatric drugs despite being normal, and that they were leading to reactions on his body. “The drugs may turn me into a psycho,” Dr. Sudhakar feared, and said that the hospital was very unpleasant and the atmosphere disturbing. Threat to life feared Meanwhile, Dr. Sudhakar’s family members feared a threat to his life, and demanded that the government shift him to a private hospital for better treatment. The doctor’s mother, Kaveri Bai, alleged that her son was a victim of political persecution as he had pointed out the “government’s failure to provide N95 masks to the doctors on COVID-19 duty” and visited TDP leader Ayyanna Patrudu’s house at Narsipatnam. “The YSRCP government is framing a 20-year-old experienced anaesthetist as an alcoholic and mentally unstable man,” she alleged. “My son was taken to King George Hospital (KGH) from the IV Town Police Station and declared that he was mentally unstable within 30 minutes,” she alleged, and questioned how could doctors declare him so without observing him for 48 hours. She further demanded the suspension and arrest of the police personnel who had allegedly manhandled her son. ‘Ulterior motive’ “The doctors are not disclosing the names of medicines being administered to my brother. It is evident that the government is trying to make him mentally unstable, and then produce him in the court,” said Vijay Kumar, a family member. Dr. Sudhakar was booked under various sections for allegedly creating public nuisance on the national highway. Later, videos showing policemen tying his hands to his back, beating and pushing him into a waiting auto-rickshaw went viral. In April, he was suspended for alleging that N95 masks were not being given to the doctors on COVID-19 duty. After his arrest, Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena told the media that the police had to tie Dr. Sudhakar’s hands to his back as he was drunk, used derogatory language, created nuisance in full public glare and was uncontrollable. Mr. Meena later suspended the police constable who was seen beating the doctor in the video. TDP to step up stir Meanwhile, TDP leader V. Anitha, who filed a PIL in the High Court, criticised the way the government was treating a Dalit doctor. She said if the government failed to provide proper treatment to Dr. Sudhakar by Thursday, the TDP would take up a sustained agitation from Friday. Based on her PIL and a couple of them filed by others, the High Court had asked the CBI to probe the case.
28 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MSMEs get 1st instalment of pending incentives||The MSME units in the district have been sanctioned Rs. 53 crore towards incentives pending since 2014, of which the first instalment of Rs. 28 crore was released on May 22. While 276 units have been benefited by the release of the incentives in the first phase, in the next instalment, 503 account holders will get Rs. 25.5 crore. Lauding the initiative taken by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to help the MSMEs to overcome financial and marketing difficulties posed by the COVID-19 crisis, the office-bearers of AP Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation (AP Chambers), said that several incentives were being given to the MSMEs under Restart Package during the lockdown period in spite of severe financial constraints faced by the government. AP Chambers former president G. Sambasiva Rao said releasing of Rs. 450 crore as the first instalment of incentives between 2014-2019 would benefit nearly 10 lakh people working in 98,000 MSME units, who were facing hardship due to the lockdown. Thanking the Chief Minister for his timely initiative, Pydah Krishna Prasad, president-elect, AP Chambers, said the decision on working capital loans at low interests to the MSMEs with a repayable period of three years including moratorium period of six months for meeting liquidity crisis, was a step in the right direction. Waiving of fixed charges/minimum demand charges for April, May and June would help MSMEs to cope with the impact of COVID-19, said K. Kumar Raja, vice-president, AP Chambers. The same would be deferred in the case of all other enterprises for the said period helping them resume operations. Credit limit Under the Restart Package, the credit limit for the MSMEs from the banks would be increased by 20% without collateral security. Also, non-performing assets and stressed accounts were taken care of with separate package, said A.K. Balaji, director of AP Chambers. Zonal chairman Sudhir Mulagada said the industries should avail of the benefits. He said the government’s purchase of items manufactured by MSMEs had been increased with a timeline to complete payments within 45 days. It was commendable and help ease the liquidity crisis of MSMEs, he added.
28 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two COVID-19 patients discharged||Two COVID-19 patients from the district who were under treatment have been discharged on Wednesday after they tested negative, according to the Health Department officials. No new cases were reported on May 26 and 27. According to the officials, the total number of cases in the district stands at 99. The total number of discharged patients from the district is 68 and the active cases are 30.
28 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APGenco AE found dead||An Assistant Engineer of APGenco was found dead at his quarters at Sileru in Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as K. Srinivas (40). According to the Sileru police, the engineer had come to Sileru from his home town Rajamahendravaram around a week ago and was placed under home quarantine. For the last two days, he had not been responding to phone calls of his family members. They asked some of his friends to check his quarters at Second Cross Junction at Sileru. As foul smell was emanating from the house, his friends informed the police. After breaking open the doors, the police found him dead. A case was registered.
28 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||S. Korean expert drops plan to leave the country||A South Korean expert who had come to the city to probe the styrene vapour leak from the LG Polymers plant, dropped his plan to leave the country in the last minute, on Wednesday. Clearing the air on the reports that the expert and a few other South Korean nationals were detained at the airport when they tried to leave the country by a chartered flight, Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena said he now intended to go back along with his other compatriots who are scheduled to leave on June 2. Mr. Meena said about seven to eight South Koreans, including a few from the management side, had come to the city after the gas leak on May 7. ‘Passports seized’ “We have seized the passports of the management team, but not those of the technical team as it has come to assist us in our probe. All of them are housed in a star hotel in the city,” the Police Commissioner said.
28 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 held for ‘illegal sand transport’||Officials from City Task Force (CTF) arrested two persons who were illegally transporting sand at Gangavaram in Visakhapatnam on Wednesday. The police seized about 27 tonnes of sand along with the lorry. The case has been handed over to New Port police station.
28 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Markets make cautious return to normalcy||Markets in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram reopened on Wednesday on a cautious note after a gap of two months. Almost all shops, including jewellery, textile and footwear shops, reopened for business. Many shop owners heaved a sigh of relief after getting permission to reopen their businesses, albeit under several restrictions. In Srikakulam, Kameswari Jewellers proprietor Perla Sambamurthy hailed the Centre’s relaxation for jewellery shops. “The two-month lockdown cripped our business altogether. It had a telling impact on the staff as a majority of the owners were unable to pay them their salaries after paying the rents and electricity bills. The relaxation will revive the businesses to some extent,” he said. Gold prices have skyrocketed in recent days, with the price of ten grams now Rs. 48,500 in the retail market. Its rate was around Rs. 33,000 for ten grams in April 2019, and it rose to Rs. 40,000 by January 2020. Many people who invested in gold have now stopped buying it fearing that the prices might crash in the near future.“The demand for gold will rise only when prices come down to around Rs. 38,000. Till then, only need-based buying will prevail in the market,” Sainadh Gold proprietor Tankala Vidyasagar said. “The continuous lockdown has hampered the import of jewelry from Chennai, Coimbatore, Mumbai and other places. Any extension of the lockdown will affect the business further since all retail shops depend on metro cities for import of jewelry,” he said. In Vizianagaram, Sravya Gold proprietor Manchukonda Nagaraju hoped that the gold business would get back on track in the next three months. “Whenever there is an economic crisis, gold prices rise significantly as it is considered to be the best option for savings. However, it would have an adverse impact on the retail business. The gold prices may settle at an attractive level when COVID-19 is controlled across the world,” he said. M.S. Raju, manager of the Vizianagaram-based Profit Shoe Company, expressed happiness over the permission for reopening of footwear shops. “Due to the fear of coronavirus, many people are not interested in shopping. However, normalcy will be restored as far as footwear is concerned since it is an essential item for every individual. We are implementing social distancing norms to protect customers and staff from COVID-19,” he said.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||With new hope||
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||United fight||
28 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Old Adilabad braces for possible locust attack||A locust attack alert has been sounded in old united Adilabad and Nizamabad districts by the Central Integrated Pest Management Centre in Hyderabad, as these places border Maharashtra hit by swarms of desert locusts recently. The swarms were reported specifically from Nagpur, the boundaries of which are located about 150 km away from the northern borders of Adilabad and Kumram Bheem Asifabad districts in former Adilabad. Desert locusts attack standing crops or any vegetation, mostly pastures and fodder. If the swarms fly southwards from Nagpur, they are most likely to hit the bordering areas of Telangana in the next five days or so. The occurrence of individual locusts as a pest in crops was actually seen in the second half of January in some polyhouse raised horticulture crops in Adilabad. This attack is not a new phenomenon but the damage was comparatively severe this year.“We initiated measures like administering chemicals to save the seedlings of cucumber in the polyhouses in Devapur and Bheemsari villages but in vain. The damage resulted in resowing of seeds and the expenditure of the farmers increased by about Rs. 40,000,” recalled Adilabad horticulture officer (technical) G. Srinivas Reddy. “Farmers, however, came up with an innovative idea to ward away the locust menace towards the latter half of February by using cups made of thin plastic to cover the germinated plants with a hole on the inverted top. The locusts flew away as the plastic made strange sounds once the insects sat on it to devour the seedling visible through the hole,” he explained. This technique used by the horticulture farmers of making loud noise perhaps corresponds by the shrill sounds produced when tins or plates made of metal are beaten or banged. This is among the standard procedures to shoo away locusts besides some integrated pest management techniques. Officials of the agriculture and concerned departments in Adilabad district were given a low-down on the likely attack and preventive measures on Wednesday. Though there are hardly any standing crops, the threat of locusts laying eggs in the fields readied for vaanakalam sowing seems to loom large in case the swarms drift towards Telangana.
28 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||BRF||An incident of food poisoning had 17 persons from Shamnaik tanda in Utnoor mandal falling ill on Wednesday, and three children being admitted to RIMS Hospital. The villagers had sacrificed a goat to the local deity on Tuesday, and consumed parts of the meat on Wednesday, which might have resulted in the food poisoning.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Virus acute in 5% patients with respiratory illness||A meeting convened by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with the State-level committee of health experts to study global developments on COVID-19 discussed that the mortality rate among coronavirus patients was high only in the case of those who suffered from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). They constituted 5% of the total patients and needed utmost care, the committee informed Mr. Rao. A release said 80% of the patients did not show any symptoms and required no medical treatment. Another 15% patients suffered from cold, cough, fever, breathlessness and other influenza-like illnesses. But, they recovered in a short time. The virus was acute in the remaining 5% patients affected by SARI. The experts explained that global developments on spread of coronavirus dispelled fears about the disease as various studies and assessment by World Health Organisation showed that a majority of the affected people did not have minimum symptoms even after they were diagnosed positive. The mortality rate at the national level was 2.86% and 2.82% in Telangana. The people who died had other serious complications, it said. A welcome feature was that the virus did not intensify after relaxation of lockdown norms leading to movement of people on roads. On the whole, the situation was not scary but people must be on guard and observe precautions because the vaccine and medicines to treat the virus have not been discovered. Mr. Rao agreed with the observations of experts that the situation was not alarming as there were no symptoms in many of the affected persons. However, there symptoms were visible in some of them and needed medical attention. Those seriously affected should be confined to hospitals. He asked officials to be vigilant towards patients who tested positive but did not show symptoms. He expected the number of positive cases to go up in the country in two or three months. The government was geared to provide treatment to any number of positive patients in the State. The meeting was attended by five Ministers, including K.T. Rama Rao, Chief Adviser to government Rajeev Sharma, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy, Director of Medical Education Ramesh Reddy, Vice-Chancellor of Kaloji Health University Karunakar Reddy and Director of Public Health Srinivas among others.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kondapochammasagar a harbinger of hope||When Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao switches on a motor at Markook pump house to commence the impounding of Kondapochamma reservoir with Godavari water on Friday, the moment would not only bring new hope to farmers of the 2.85 lakh acres of intended ayacut with gravity flow but also create a possibility for 24×7 water supply in Hyderabad. It’s from the Kondapochamma reservoir that the State government plans to take water to one of the two proposed balancing reservoirs outside the city for uninterrupted water supply in future. The reservoir water serves the drinking water storage facility proposed in the northern side of the city with Shamirpet lake as one of the options. On the western side of the city, the government plans another storage facility with water from Palamuru-Rangareddy LI project. Package-14, as part of Link-IV of Kaleshwaram project, has two lifts at Akkaram and Markook village to pump water in two stages to Kondapochammasagar at about 3.5 km away from the first pumping facility. According to officials of MEIL, the executing agency of the two pump houses, lift one near Akkaram has six pumps with 27 MW capacity motors each with a discharge capacity of 35.4 cumecs (1,250 cusecs) each and lift two at Markook has another six pumps with 34 MW capacity each and discharge capacity of 36 cumecs (1,271 cusecs) each. The delivery mains, pipes carrying water from the pump house to the reservoir, of the first lift would run for 2.474 km, while for the second lift, it is 1.084 km. The water would be lifted for 57 metres at the Akkaram pump house, while it would be lifted for another 71 metres at Markook pumping facility. Works pertaining to the two lifts including erection of motors and installation of other equipment have been completed on a fast-track basis. Work on the two electrical sub-stations at Akkaram and Markook were completed earlier this month, after technicians were brought to the sites during the third week of April with special permissions from Maharashtra and Telangana governments with the lockdown on. According to project engineers, it would take at least 23 days to impound Kondapochammasagar at Pamulaparthy village of Markook mandal in Siddipet district from zero to full reservoir level (15 tmc ft capacity) by running all 12 pumps in the two stages (lifts) simultaneously. As part of the redesigning of the earlier Pranahita-Chevella project into Kaleshwaram and Pranahita projects, the capacity of Kondapochamma reservoir was first increased from the original 1 tmc ft to 7 tmc ft and then to 15 tmc ft. The reservoir capacity was increased not only to irrigate more land but also to supply 24x7 water to a dependable water storage facility in Hyderabad.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FCI lauds State’s paddy procurement for Central pool||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has once again commended the State government over paddy procurement for Central pool this season and reasserted that Telangana continued to be at the top in the matter, contributing 52.23 lakh tonnes out of 83.01 lakh tonnes procured at the national level as of last Friday. The procurement was already more than half the targeted 91.07 lakh tonnes in the State. Another 23.04 lakh tonnes was procured in Andhra Pradesh, a release of the chairman and managing director of FCI D.V. Prasad said. It was only a fortnight ago that Mr. Prasad had praised the State’s role in procurement which was acknowledged in a tweet by Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Distribution Ramvilas Paswan. Mr. Prasad said procurement of food grains by government agencies this year had created a record of sorts overcoming all challenges posed by COVID 19. Telangana emerged as a major contributor to nationwide procurement of paddy cultivated in the second crop of 2019-20. The FCI was closely monitoring the procurement, movement and storage operations of foodgrains in coordination with the State government. In view of nationwide lockdown, the Centre had taken measures to ensure food security throughout the country so that nobody, especially, the poor suffered. The Telangana unit of FCI had ensured that 2.87 lakh tonnes of free rice allotted to the State for distribution to 1.91 crore people under Prime Minister’s Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana in addition to regular allotment under National Food Security Act (NFSA) was lifted completely. Also, it was seen to it that 19,162 tonnes of free rice allotted to State under Atma Nirbhar Bharat for distribution to migrant labour was lifted. The FCI was issuing another 1.32 lakh tonnes of subsidised rice to Telangana to benefit 88 lakh people not covered by NFSA. About 13 lakh tonnes of rice by 495 trains, highest till date in a short span of time, was moved to different States from Telangana for public distribution system. The FCI accepted 5.08 lakh tonnes of rice from millers.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown helps SCR in track maintenance||The South Central Railway (SCR) has made use of the lockdown period where the train movement was very much reduced to complete major track maintenance work to an extent of 984 km out of the total 6,336 km railway line under its control this month alone in the last 25 days. This is 10% of the total railway network repairs done during this period and performed the best among all zones, senior officials informed on Wednesday. Track maintenance forms a crucial part of train operations as it has a direct impact on both the safety of tracks as well as in maintaining the maximum permissible speed of the trains and it includes strengthening the railway lines, points, crossings, sleepers and ballast for enhancing the safety, speed and reliability. Modern imported track machines like plain packing machines, turnout packing machines, ballast cleaning machines and others were used extensively to complete the repairs in double quick time and maintaining social distancing as not much labour is used. Work of these machines involves cleaning and packing of the ballast (crushed stones underneath track and sleepers), correcting the alignments at the rail crossings of which are about 496 locations. Maintenance work is also to check the cushioning capacity of the ballast and improve the drainage capacity of which 83 km was done. Worn-out track lines and concrete sleepers were removed and replaced with new ones with the help of the quick relaying system to an extent of 5.37 km, said to be another record, said Chief PRO Ch. Rakesh. General Manager Gajanan Mallya appreciated the coordination displayed by the departments in expediting the track maintenance works by optimally utilising this period of less density of traffic for strengthening the tracks.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||LB Nagar flyover, underpass launch today||Some of the traffic restrictions at the L. B. Nagar junction may be relaxed soon, thanks to the completion of the construction of a flyover and a vehicle underpass as part of the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) by GHMC. The right hand side flyover near Kamineni Hospitals junction, and the underpass near L. B. Nagar junction towards Bairamalguda will be formally launched by Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) K. T. Rama Rao on Thursday. These will be the fourth and fifth structures to be opened to public in this package, after the underpass at Chintalkunta junction, left hand side flyover at Kamineni Hospitals, and the left hand side flyover at L. B. Nagar junction towards Chintalkunta. Constructed with an expenditure of Rs. 43 crore, the unidirectional flyover near Kamineni Junction is 940 metres long, and 12 metres wide. It will facilitate free flow of traffic on the Inner Ring Road from Secunderabad to Owaisi Hospital junction and Srisailam road. Together with the already completed flyover, it will make the junction conflict-free, a statement by GHMC said. The vehicle underpass at L. B. Nagar Junction has been constructed with an expenditure of Rs. 14 crore, with a length of 519 metres and total width of 24.5 metres. Length of the closed box is 72.5 metres. The total package of works for L. B. Nagar had been sanctioned with an expenditure of Rs. 448 crore, and includes structures near Bairamalguda Junction too, besides the right hand side flyover at L. B. Nagar Junction from Chintalkunta side.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A momentous day for Telangana||Friday will mark a historic day for Telangana, when Godavari water would be pumped to the highest level to Kondapochammasagar reservoir. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will unveil the event when water will be lifted to a height of 618 metres. The water from Godavari river, lifted from various stages from the Laxmi barrage (Medigadda), will be pumped into the Kondapochamma Sagar with a capacity of 15 tmc and from there through gravity, water will be supplied to the hitherto arid land that had no irrigation facility till date. Nomenclature Kondapochamma Sagar is named after the popular Kondapochamma temple, 30 km away from the project site, on the borders of united Medak, Warangal and Nalgonda districts. There is another popular temple called Komuravelli Mallikarjuna (Mallanna) in the vicinity. There is a tradition of devotees making sure they visit both the temples once they come here. Thus, Mr. KCR named the biggest reservoir constructed under Kaleshwaram project as Mallannasagar and the reservoir constructed at the highest point as Kondapochammasagar. Kondapochamma temple has the reputation of taking care of devotees’ needs. The CM too, wanted the reservoir to fulfil the irrigation, drinking water and other requirements of the people. Yagams At 4 a.m. on May 29, Chandi Yagam will be performed at the Kondapochamma temple, and Sudarshan Yagam at Markook pump house simultaneously. At 7 a.m., Mr. KCR and his wife Shobha will offer special prayers at Kondapochamma temple with ‘poornahuti’ as part of Chandi Yagam, take ‘teertha prasadam’ offered by the priests and receive blessings from Vedic scholars. From there, the Chief Minister will reach his farm house in Erravelli and inaugurate the Rythu Vedika there as well as at Markook after 9 a.m. Around 10 a.m., he will reach the pump house and welcome Chinna Jeeyar Swamy and participate in ‘poornahuti’ of Sudarshan Yagam. Then, he will switch on the motors at the pump house and release water to Kondapochammasagar and offer prayers to the Godavari with flowers.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Specify action taken against doctors in Gadwal case: HC||Telangana High Court on Wednesday sought to know from the State government what action was taken against the doctors whose inappropriate response eventually resulted in the maternal death of 20-year-old Jenila from Jogulamba Gadwal district. Unending ordeal The pregnant woman was sent from one government hospital to another after she first went to a primary health centre in Rajojli on April 23 with mild abnormal pain. She was referred to Gadwal District Hospital the next day and from there, shifted to the Mahbubnagar district hospital. She was next moved to the Sultan Bazar Hospital, Gandhi Hospital and Petlaburz Hospital where she gave birth to a baby boy on April 26. The newborn died a few hours later. The next day, she too died while undergoing treatment at Osmania General Hospital. Hearing two PIL pleas on her death, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan had issued notices to the government. Meanwhile, the government filed a report in the HC stating that an inquiry committee report had identified six doctors whose inappropriate response resulted in the maternal death. The report said that action was being initiated against the six doctors. The report, however, did not mention precise details of the action to be taken against the doctors. Special Chief Secretary (Medical, Health and Family Welfare) A. Santhi Kumari, who filed the report on government’s behalf, stated that “disciplinary action was being taken against the doctors as per Classification, Control and Appeal (CCA) rules”. ‘Need complete details’ Hearing the two PIL pleas in the case, the bench instructed the government to furnish a fresh report with complete details of criminal cases registered against the doctors responsible for the woman’s maternal death. Referring to the earlier report filed by government, the bench noted that it was silent on the court’s direction to ensure deployment of adequate number of ambulances on State and national highways so that women from rural areas could be easily transported to hospitals. Amicus curiae Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy mooted the idea of appointing retired superintendent of Gandhi or Osmania hospital or retired Medical and Health Secretary as amicus curiae to assist the HC in adjudication of the case. “It is a harsh reality that pregnant women are denied admission and treatment in government hospitals suspecting them to be COVID-19 patients,” the CJ observed. “Mere departmental action against erring doctors is not suffice. Criminal cases should be registered against them for medical negligence so that it becomes a deterrent for other doctors,” the CJ added.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||On third day, 41 flights operated at Shamshabad||There was slight improvement in the flight movement at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) in Shamshabad on Wednesday with about 21 departures and 20 arrivals on the third day of the commencement of domestic operations across the country. The cancellations too continue to be high at about 80 due to the government reducing the schedules and also because of poor patronage. Air India (AI) itself is showing cancellations till the month-end of close to 97 flights and it has already clarified that the tickets purchased during this time will be valid till August 24 at no extra cost. In case of any change in the sector, the rerouting charges will be waived but the difference in fare will be made applicable. However, this is applicable to cancelled flights only “due to unavailability of slots at the major airports”, said an official spokesperson of AI, when contacted. There was no response to such queries from private airlines. On Wednesday, the airport handled about 3,500 passengers from various flights coming in and going out and the entire process was smooth. All arriving and departing passengers are being scanned by thermal scanners as per the safety procedures with adequate social distancing enforced for everyone, informed an official spokesman. Automatic hand sanitiser dispensers at various places, floor markers, staggered seating arrangements, allocation of entry gates and check-in islands for departure passengers have become the new normal.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tankers to supply water to Jawaharnagar||Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, on Wednesday, convened a meeting with Jawaharnagar and Dammaiguda municipal authorities and discussed the measures to be taken to address the drinking water crisis at Jawaharnagar and surrounding areas, besides suppression of stench from the solid waste dump there. A meeting would soon be convened with participation by Minister Ch.Malla Reddy and other public representatives, and GHMC and Ramky delegates to arrive at permanent solutions to the issues. For temporary resolution, drinking water would be provided through tankers, and a survey should be conducted to estimate the number of water connections for below-poverty-line, commercial and above-poverty-line consumers, and submitted to the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board. Health camps would be organised by Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), and equipment for vector control operations would be donated. Sites for alternative dumping yards were being searched to divert part of the 6,000 metric tonnes of garbage generated each day from GHMC. Jawharnagar Mayor M. Kavya, Deputy Mayor R. Srinivas, Dammaiguda municipal chairman Pranitha Goud, GHMC director (EVDM) Viswajit Kampati, additional commissioner (Sanitation) Rahul Raj, and others participated in the meeting.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Abide by HC direction on migrant crisis’||On behalf of the COVID Advocacy Lockdown Collective, women activists from the city have addressed a letter to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, urging him to implement the directions by High Court of Telangana with regard to the migrant workers’ crisis. The High Court had directed the government to identify the number of migrants arriving at Medchal, collect them, and host them in the marriage halls close by, before putting them on the trains and buses, with necessary care. Despite the best efforts by the local administration in Medchal, the crisis on the highway continues, requiring urgent attention of the authorities, the letter mentioned.  Humanitarian work The collective played crucial role in the massive humanitarian work at Medchal junction, which included continuous provision of food and drinking water, medical assistance, and transport of the workers to their destinations by buses . The camp they set up at Medchal ran for 17 days starting from May 10, assisted by various government agencies including Police, Municipality, Medchal district administration, and Women and Child Development department, let alone scores of philanthropists who kept the flow of relief coming continuously. Individuals formed collectives through social media, raised funds through contacts, and made arrangements to send hundreds of migrants to their destinations. More than 10,000 labourers were sent to their respective States from this point, through various modes of transport. Rough estimates suggest that the food camp served at least 2 lakh migrant labourers on their way. As the camp had to be shut down on May 26, the government should take over the responsibility, keeping in view the constant pouring of migrants at the junction, the letter mentioned. Hundreds of workers have been gathering to reach Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, and Bihar, waiting for transport to reach their home States. On Tuesday, there were 800 labourers, and after being provided transport by concerned citizens, their number has come down to 200. Yet, by 1 p.m. on Wednesday, there were 500 migrants at the point, the letter mentioned. Increasing staff There is also a need to increase the staff at the local police station, in order to enable them to make necessary arrangements, the letter said, and added that the police who registered hundreds of migrants for the train journeys on May 23, had not responded to repeated pleas on Tuesday. Migrants to Telangana too are arriving at Medchal from northern States through truck transport, and protocols of both health and travel need to be put in place to receive such groups. The letter was signed by A. Suneetha, Sarath Davala, C.Vanaja, Sujatha Surepally and K. Sajaya among others.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC buses exempted from night curfew||All TSRTC buses from districts will be exempted from night curfew Thursday onwards and allowed to reach Jubilee Bus Station and Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station, Imliban. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao declared that the RTC buses are getting exempted from the curfew restrictions from Thursday. Mr. Rao held a review meeting on the RTC at Pragathi Bhavan here on Wednesday. Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, RTC MD Sunil Sharma, ED Yadagiri and others participated. On this occasion, the RTC officials explained about the situation following revival of bus services. Officials told the Chief Minister that RTC incurred heavy losses due to the recent developments, such as the prolonged strike. “When the problem was solved and the situation was getting back to normal, coronavirus issue came up. Though permission is given for some RTC buses to ply, due to imposition of curfew, the buses are not plying to their full capacity,” they noted. It was pointed out that every day RTC should get Rs. 11-12 crore income. During summer and wedding season the income should be Rs. 15 crore per day. “Now the income is only Rs. 2 crore per day. There is only 39% occupancy in the buses. The main reason for this low occupancy is imposition of curfew in the nights. Passengers going to their destinations are not been able reach before 7 p.m. Since this is peak summer, passengers would like to travel either in the morning or during the nights. Since buses are plying only during the daytime, it has not proved useful to people,” the RTC officials explained.
28 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. power point presentation on water diversion||The Telangana Congress made a power point presentation on the Pothireddypadu project and alleged that diversion of 88,000 cusecs of water from there and 3 tmc from Sangameshwaram to AP would turn south Telangana into a desert. The power point presentation organised by AICC secretary and former Alampur MLA A. Sampath Kumar was attended by TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka and Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, among others. Using maps and details of allocations to both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, Mr. Sampath explained how several districts were likely to go dry and Telangana would lose rights for ever if the AP government decided to go ahead with its new plans. He said that the Telangana government was not taking the issue seriously despite the Congress raising it continuously. Diversion of Krishna water to Andhra Pradesh against the norms of expanding the Pothireddypadu project was a conspiracy by both the Telangana and Andhra Pradesh CMs, he claimed. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy alleged that the conspiracy was jointly hatched by K. Chandrasekar Rao and Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during several meetings held in Hyderabad last year. Despite Mr. Reddy announcing the expansion plans in December last year and Congress leader Nagam Janardhan Reddy immediately reacting and writing a letter to the CM, Mr. KCR did not do anything, he charged. “Since KCR himself was part of the conspiracy, he did not respond and maintained silence,” he claimed. Why is the CM not talking about it, he asked. The TPCC president said that KCR was spending Rs. 1 lakh crore on Kaleshwaram project to only get 2 tmc water while AP was expanding Pothyreddypadu project to take away 7 tmc Krishna water. “More than the people of Telangana, KCR is favouring the contractors by remaining silent,” he alleged. He also said that water lifted from Kaleshwaram by spending huge money could have been drawn through gravity from the SLBC projects but the CM did not complete even the canal works.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||15 police officers test positive for COVID-19||Police received a jolt of sorts when 15 of their colleagues — 12 in Hyderabad and three in Cyberabad police commissionerate offices tested positive for COVID-19. Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar confirmed that nine police personnel tested positive on Wednesday. On Tuesday, three constables working in Shalibanda, Kamathipura and Bahadurpura police stations had tested positive. It is understood that the fresh cases pertain to personnel working in Armed Reserve, East and South Zones. With two constables of the IT cell in Hyderabad commissionerate infected, the entire staff in the multi-storied building had apparently been worried. The top brass decided to be more cautious even with regard to the day-to-day work in the commissionerate building. It suspected that one constable contracted the virus during his visits to a hospital while accompanying his pregnant wife for check-ups. He complained of high temperature a few days ago. On learning that three other constables working in different police stations tested positive, officers persuaded him to go for tests. Reports confirmed that he had indeed contracted the virus. Meanwhile, another constable working in close proximity with him also underwent tests only to be confirmed as a second positive case from the commissionerate building. As regards the three policemen in Cyberabad commissionerate, efforts are on to ascertain how they contracted the virus.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All shops, except malls, to be open from today||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said that all shops except malls will be opened from Thursday. The government said though it allowed opening of shops on alternate days, it was observed that more crowds were gathering at the shops that were open. Thus, it was decided to open more shops and let the crowds disperse. Shop owners and consumers should strictly following COVID-19 guidelines of physical distancing, wearing masks and using hand sanitisers, a release said on Wednesday night. Mr. Rao, at a review meeting, instructed officials to celebrate State Formation Day on June 2 in a simple manner in view of the lockdown due to coronavirus. He said that only paying tributes to the martyrs and hoisting of National Flag alone should be observed and no meetings or conferences should be held. Ministers, people’s representatives and officials should hoist the national flag in their respective offices. The Chief Minister will pay tributes at the Martyrs Memorial and then hoist the flag at Pragathi Bhavan. In the district headquarters with key officials, At Home will be organised on a small scale. The CM said that cleanliness/ sanitation programmes should be organised in all towns and villages from June 1 to 8 to prevent seasonal diseases along with COVID-19.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to continue salary deferment||Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed the officials to adopt a suitable strategy to meet essential expenditure in view of steep fall in revenue in the month of May ,too. The government however has taken some decisions in view of the grim financial situation to continue the deduction of 75% in the salaries of people’s representatives, 60% for All India Administrative Services officers and 50% for government employees. The 10% deferment would also continue in the salaries of outsourced and contract employees and 25% in the pensions of retired government employees. The State’s treasury would be empty if the government paid full salaries to employees and pensions as it alone would cost the exchequer over Rs. 3,000 crore, he said. The government would discontinue payment of Rs. 1,500 to every white ration cardholder from June in the wake of relaxation of lockdown guidelines and workers would be able to find work, he said. However, it decided to pay Aasara social security pensions as it is and give poor 12 kg of rice in June because of lockdown. Chief Minister held a review meeting on financial situation of the State at Pragathi Bhavan here on Wednesday with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Finance Principal Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao, CMO Principal Secretary Narsing Rao and other senior officials. He said against a monthly revenue of Rs. 12,000 crore, State’s revenue fell drastically due to the lockdown. The State earned only Rs. 3,100 crore in May including the State’s share of Central taxes of Rs. 982 crore. Though the government recently relaxed lockdown guidelines, there was not much increase in the revenue from registrations, road transport and other sources which continued to be slack. Thus all requirements have to be met only through the meagre income while loan repayments could not be avoided, said Mr.Rao. He said the State has to pay an interest of Rs. 37,400 crore towards debt servicing per year. The government could not afford to default on monthly repayments. Though the State requested the Centre to reschedule the loans, Centre did not respond . Though the FRBM limit was increased by the Centre, State would not be in a position to avail additional loans because of several conditions imposed by the Centre, he added.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Pass on repo rate reduction to realty sector’||Two days after writing an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his immediate intervention to revive the ailing real estate sector, the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) has written to the RBI Governor for measures to pass on the benefit of reduction in repo rates and reverse repo rates to the real estate sector. The apex developers’ body, representing 20,000 developers across the country, has written to RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das requesting him to pass on the benefit of reduction in repo rates and reverse repo rates to Non Banking Finance Companies and Housing Finance Companies. RBI has announced various measures to infuse liquidity into the system to tackle the crisis caused by COVID-19. However, real estate sector has not been able to leverage the benefits of this reduction in repo rates, said CREDAI chairman Jaxay Shah, president Satish Magar and president-elect Harshavardhan Patodia in their letter on Wednesday. “One of the major restricting factor remains that while the RBI has reduced 2.50% in repo rate since January 2019, the maximum reduction passed on by the bank to the borrowers has been between 0.7-1.3% largely from August 2019 till date, and in some case the benefit has not been passed at all,” they said. Real estate industry was still getting access to finance at much higher rates, therefore, provision of appropriate directions to the banks for percolating the benefits of the rate cuts to the NBFCs/HFCs needed to be made. “For the real estate sector, NBFCs and HFCs are a major source of financing. This will enable NBFCs and HFCs to lend to real estate sector at a lower rate of interest, which will help the survival of crumbling industry,” they urged. Being the second largest employer of the country, the realty sector contributed substantially to the GDP and accounted for almost 11% of banks’ credit besides having backward and forward linkages with almost 250 industries, including cement and steel. “Our survival henceforth becomes crucial for the economy and we appeal for your immediate intervention,” they said. On Monday, CREDAI also wrote to the Prime Minister that the real estate had remained one of the most affected sectors due to COVID-19. Liquidity crunch, stagnant demand and cartelization of the raw material were major impediments to the real estate industry to kick-start, they said and urged Prime Minister’s intervention.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Facilities for bank customers sought||With day temperature soaring and considering the significance of maintaining physical distancing norms, the All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) wants banks to make certain arrangements for customers waiting for their turn at branches. It is important for banks to put up shamiana in front of branches so that customers do not suffer in the heat or tend to violate the distancing norms by crowding at places nearby that offer shade, AIBEA general secretary C.H.Venkatachalam said on Wednesday. In a letter to Secretary to the Centre’s Department of Financial Services and Indian Banks’ Association Chairman, the AIBEA said in view of distancing norms and space available on the premises, customers have to wait for their turn. During the first fortnight of April and May, a large number of customers came to the branches to withdraw COVID-19 relief and salaries. In many places, there was crowding at the entrance. The AIBEA urged the government and IBA to issue an advisory to banks
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad CP to probe custodial death||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday ordered an inquiry into the custodial death of a Dalit in Manthani police station of Ramagundam commissionerate. A division bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy directed Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar to probe the death of Sheelam Rangaiah on Tuesday. The bench instructed the DGP to study the report to be submitted by Mr. Anjani Kumar. “ Take departmental action if any police officials were found to be responsible for Rangaiah’s death,” the direction said. The 52-year-old Dalit was detained by Manthani police on the charge of poaching. After finding him dead, the police registered a case of unnatural death under section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code. A lawyer practising at Telangana HC, P.V. Nagamani, wrote a letter to the Chief Justice stating that the Dalit resorted to the extreme step due to harassment by Manthani police. She requested the HC to order a magisterial inquiry under section 176 (2) of Cr.P.C. Worried of being prosecuted for murder, the police officials were threatening the victim’s family members not to disclose facts, she said in the letter. Taking up the lawyer’s letter as PIL petition, the bench ordered an inquiry into the death. It, however, declined to order re-postmortem, as the victim’s body was already cremated.
28 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sircilla Water Management lessons for IAS trainees at Mussoorie||Trainee IAS officers will learn the water management lessons based on Sircilla experience with the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration in Mussoorie choosing Sircilla Water Management as a topic to train them. The academy has apparently asked the Sircilla officials to document the development activities and send them a report. The officers will study the irrigation projects, Mission Kakatiya, lakes maintenance, harvesting pits, and farm ponds and how Siricilla benefited from them. “The transformation journey of Sircilla from being a drought-hit region to a water-surplus district is now being studied as a model,” said Sircilla MLA and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao, expressing happiness for the recognition. He stated that Telangana policies and models were being praised by everyone at the national level and reiterated the words of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao who had earlier said that the water projects of Telangana would become research topics for many years to come. “The words of CM KCR are now a reality.” The IT Minister said irrigation infrastructure of Sircilla had started bearing fruit and the government would come up with a plan of action to make the most of these projects, to transform Sircilla into a role model district. The water table in the district had increased to six metres He stated that new recreational activities would also be set up near the water bodies.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Foodgrains procurement centres to shut by May 31||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered closure of foodgrains procurement centres in villages on May 31 and asked Agriculture department to focus on the crop season from June 1. At a review meeting on agriculture, Mr. Rao said the agriculture officers must educate farmers on regulated farming finalised by government cluster-wise. The seed for suggested crops should reach all villages by Friday evening. The government had already suggested to farmers to grow crops that were in demand in the market. There will not be much change in the cropping pattern as compared to the corresponding agricultural season last year. The government merely discouraged maize cultivation and instead preferred red gram and cotton. The paddy cultivation will continue over 40 lakh acres as last year. But, farmers were supposed to raise paddy varieties prescribed by government on the basis of demand in market. As regards cotton, the cropped area will increase by 10-15 lakh acres as compared to the previous year. There was no change in cultivation of other crops. Mr. Rao asked officials to despatch details about district-wise clusters and crops to be grown to all villages. The officials should hold meetings to convey the information at district-level on Thursday.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hot weather to continue; rain likely||While the current sweltering heat conditions will continue for the next couple days in the twin cities and across Telangana, there is a likelihood of rain or thundershowers on Thursday and, thereafter, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) here on Wednesday. A trough over Chhattisgarh is moving towards Rayalaseema and Tamil Nadu and this is expected to provide some relief in the form of rainfall at isolated pockets, including Sangareddy, Nagarkurnool, Nizamabad and Kamareddy. Nizamabad recorded 45.4 degree C and Adilabad 45.3 degree . Other hot spots were Ramagundam, 44.6 degree C, Nalgonda 44.2 degree , Mahabubnagar recording 43.2 degree C and Khammam showing slight dip of 42.8 degree C. Hyderabad recorded a maximum temperature of 42.3 degree C - three degrees above normal and minimum of 30.6 degree C. According to IMD meteorologist M. Mukund Rao, partly cloudy sky with chance of rain or thundershowers and temperatures hovering around 42 degree C has been for forecast for the city on Thursday.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CPI urges CM to stop coal block privatisation||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has requested Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to prevent the attempts of the Centre to privatise 11 coal blocks of Singareni Collieries, as part of its stimulus package. In a letter addressed to the CM on Wednesday, State CPI secretary Chada Venkata Reddy said that SCCL was established by the erstwhile Nizams in 1943 and provided employment to about one lakh workers at one time. However, the Centre was conspiring to privatise 50 coal blocks across the country and a Central team was already visiting the coal mines. The Centre, as part of its privatisation plans, had identified 11 coal blocks of Singareni and plans were afoot to hand them over first to Coal India before privatisation.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PJTSAU to set up market research cell on campus||The administration of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) has decided to establish a Market Research and Analysis Cell on the university campus here to advise farmers from time to time on the demand and supply position in the market so that they could take up cultivation of crops accordingly and make the activity remunerative. The decision was taken at the 12th academic council meeting of the university held over video linking on Wednesday. Speaking at the video-meet, Vice Chancellor V. Praveen Rao said the university was expected to play a key role in guiding the farming community on the market conditions and the new cell would work in that direction. According to university officials, the meeting agreed to encourage doctoral research work on the challenges of the farming community.
28 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Couple killed in road accident||A couple were killed after the motorcycle they were travelling on was hit by a car at Pudur in Vikarabad district on Wednesday morning. The victim, Anand (40), and his wife Ushaamma (34) of Dadapur in Doma mandal were going to Somangurthi when the driver of the car coming in the opposite direction lost control and hit their motorcycle moving on the other side of the road around 7 a.m. near Somangurthi village in Pudur mandal, police said.
28 May 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||KMC sets up kiosks to offer Rs. 10-a-mask||As wearing face mask has become mandatory to stem the spread of coronavirus, the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) has set up ten ‘mask kiosks’ here to make available face masks at a nominal price of Rs. 10 each for denizens of the town. Multiple objectives The initiative is expected to serve multiple objectives of strict enforcement of the face mask rule, provide livelihood to the members of women self-help groups engaged in making masks and above all, bolster the collective fight against COVID-19. The members of the town-based women SHGs had produced thousands of cloth masks under the aegis of Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas as per orders placed by the KMC to supply face masks to its sanitation workers and other field staff in the past two months. The move gained significance at a time when the civic body renewed its focus on strict enforcement of the face mask rule and slap the stipulated fine of Rs. 1,000 each on violators of the regulation in public spaces. The timely initiative of the KMC in setting up the mask kiosks at the bus station, District Headquarters Hospital and other public places here earned the praise of Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar. Speaking after inaugurating a mask kiosk near Gandhi Chowk here on Wednesday, the Minister appreciated Collector R.V. Karnan and Municipal Commissioner Anuraag Jayanthi for the multi-pronged initiative. It’s a well intended step to make available face masks at a nominal price to the public, he noted, saying the move will help in effective enforcement of the face mask rule as part of preventive measures to keep the coronavirus at bay.
28 May 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Damaged chilli: drive to inspect cold storages||In the wake of complaints by several aggrieved farmers against a few cold storages over alleged damage of their chilli produce stocked in the refrigerated facilities due to ‘poor maintenance’, the department of agricultural marketing embarked on a special drive to inspect the cold storages to assess the ground reality. There are about 37 cold storages in the district spread in Khammam urban and rural, Madhira, Wyra and other mandals. The sudden closure of the agricultural market yards following clamping of coronavirus lockdown in the midst of the chilli harvesting season prompted many farmers to store their chilli in the cold storages to preserve and sell it later. However, a section of the chilli farmers from Chandrugonda mandal in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district are agitated over the fate of their perishable commodity presently stocked in a cold storage in the town. “I had stocked about 20 quintals of red chilli in a cold storage in Khammam last month till I get a better price,” said S. Narasinga Rao from Gurraigudem in Chandrugonda mandal. “I had come here all the way from my village today to check the condition of the stocked chilli at the cold storage. To my utter shock, I found that the fresh chilli produce, which I deposited here about a month ago, has started showing clear signs of decay,” he rued, finding fault with the refrigeration.
28 May 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Protest over demands of lockdown-hit farmers||In support of their charter of demands, including full loan waiver, to mitigate the hardships of farmers hit hard by the coronavirus crisis, members of various farmers’ bodies staged a demonstration in conformity to physical distancing regulations at Manchikanti Bhavan here on Wednesday. The demonstration was organised in response to the call given by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) to espouse the cause of farmers, agricultural workers and others badly affected by the lockdown. The representatives of the constituent organisations of the AIKSCC took part in the protest by displaying placards highlighting a ten-point charter of demands. Telangana Rythu Sangham vice-president Nunna Nageswara Rao said that the lockdown has aggravated the distress among farmers in the midst of harvesting season leaving them in dire straits. He demanded that the government announce a special package for farmers to compensate their losses, waive all crop loans, sanction fresh loans and supply seeds, fertilisers and other inputs free of cost to all peasants including tenant farmers. The main demands of the farmers’ organisations include raising the income support under the PM-KISAN scheme to Rs. 18,000 per annum, compensation for crop loss, procurement of the entire farm produce including unsold crops at remunerative price by government agencies.
28 May 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Fire at Narketpally electrical sub-station||Clouds of thick black smoke, combined with a pillar of fire, blazed at the Narketpally 220 kV electrical sub-station, located here along the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada), following an equipment blast on Wednesday. The blast, as preliminarily assessed by officials, was caused by sudden showers accompanied by lightning on Wednesday afternoon. There was no loss of life or injury. According to TSTransco officials, the incident was reported around 4.45 p.m., when the breakers on the transformers failed and the oil leaking from them intensified the blaze. Frightening visuals of the sub-station site recorded by motorists on the highway, showed billowing of the thick smoke into the sky, even as blast of another equipment continued in the background. An official speaking to The Hindu said, “The blast was of the 130 kV breakers installed on the transformers. Primary suspicion is that lightning caused the situation, but high temperatures during the week may have also affected the breakers to leak.” Firefighters were soon pressed into action, but the exercise lasted for about an hour till all the blaze was put out. Narketpally sub-station supplies electricity to various sub-units including Nakkalapalle, Eduloor, Nemmani and other villages under it. According to an official estimate, the damage to property was about Rs. 40 lakh.
28 May 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Man sets ablaze mother||A half-burnt body of a 70-year-old woman was found at her residence near here on Wednesday. She was allegedly set ablaze by her son after a dispute over the sale of a property, police said. Tirumala Shantamma of Narsingbatla village was bedridden for the past four years due to a spinal injury. A mother of four, she was being looked after by her son Lingaswamy, 40, a construction worker. Lingaswamy wanted to sell the property and shift to Hyderabad which was opposed by his mother. Police suspect that Lingaswamy doused her with kerosene and set her on fire.
28 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Turmeric BRF||Turmeric sale, which had stopped at the agricultural market yard here due to the lockdown imposed to combat COVID, began after almost two months on Wednesday. On the first day itself, about 8,000 bags of turmeric brought from different parts of the State were sold. The authorities have made foolproof arrangements to ensure online trade. As many as 15 traders took part. Finger variety fetched Rs. 5,100 to Rs. 6,100 while bulb variety Rs. 4,800 to Rs. 5,100.
28 May 2020||Bhopal,||Parts of Raj Bhavan in Bhopal declared as containment area||The Bhopal district administration on Wednesday declared part of the Madhya Pradesh Raj Bhavan as a containment area as six residents of the employees’ quarters on campus have tested positive for COVID-19. “The Governor has tested negative for the illness,” confirmed Ajay Varma, Press Officer to the Governor. “All the caretakers have also tested negative and shifted to guest rooms to break their possible contact with the affected area,” he said. The son of a vehicle cleaner residing on the campus had tested positive two days ago, prompting sampling of others. “Four of his family members, including the father, have tested positive. And another staff member also tested positive,” said Mr. Varma.  Home quarantine The houses of the infected have been declared epicentres, and a containment area thrown around them. All residents within the area have been home quarantined. Only one locality for employees was affected, while the other one was out of the containment area, said Mr. Varma. “The Governor is continuing his daily business following social distancing norms and taking precautions,” he added. District officials have sanitised the campus. Whereas, a survey to detect influenza-like illnesses and severe acute respiratory infections will be undertaken in the area.
28 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Himachal BJP chief resigns from post over ‘health scam’||Days after alleged corruption charges surrounding a deal in the Himachal Pradesh government’s health department surfaced, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s State chief Rajeev Bindal on Wednesday quit from his post on “moral high ground”. Letter to Nadda Mr. Bindal, who was declared party chief in January this year, tendered his resignation to BJP national president J.P. Nadda. “... as I am the State president and we all want an investigation into the alleged corruption without any pressure. Hence, keeping in view the high moral values, I am quitting from the post... I am only resigning on moral high ground,” he wrote in his letter to the national party chief on May 27. “A few days ago an audio of director health services went viral... following which the State government acted swiftly and he was booked and arrested. The vigilance bureau is investigating the matter. In between, a few people pointed fingers indirectly at the BJP. With full confidence I can say that the BJP has nothing to do with this episode. The BJP is absolutely clean,” he wrote. ‘Blaming BJP is unjust’ Mr. Bindal added that pointing a finger at the BJP was unjust and also an insult to the services the State government has delivered during the COVID-19 outbreak. The State’s Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau had on May 20 arrested the then director of health services, Ajay Kumar Gupta, and booked him under Section 7 (public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act) and Section 8 (taking gratification, in order, by corrupt or illegal means, to influence public servant) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Mr. Gupta was arrested after an audio clip based on a telephonic conversation surfaced in which he was purportedly heard demanding a bribe of Rs. 5 lakh against purchase being made by the health department.
28 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||BJP leader booked for attacking interfaith couple||The Punjab police has booked a group of people, led by State BJP unit secretary Sukhpal Singh Sra, in Bathinda for allegedly attacking an interfaith couple with weapons. The police said according to the complaint filed by the victim, a 21-year-old woman, she had willingly married a Muslim man but her family was against it. She alleged that the BJP leader instigated her family members, who earlier this week assaulted her in-laws and threw stones at their house. “Victim’s (woman) family was against the marriage. A few members of her family arrived at her in-laws’ house and attacked them. The victim said her family was provoked by Sukhpal Singh Sra on the grounds that she being a Hindu got married to a Muslim and should be brought back,” Gurvinder Singh Sangha, Superintendent of Police (Investigation) told The Hindu on Wednesday. The police have registered a case against seven people, including Mr. Sra, and the woman’s father, mother and other relatives under Sections 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC among others. “We are investigating the matter and legal action as per the law would be taken. The couple has been provided protection,” said Mr. Sangha. On Tuesday, members of the right-wing outfits, including the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Bajrang Dal, staged a protest in Bathinda against the police case.
28 May 2020||Charmahatpur,||South Bengal severely impacted by COVID-19 and Amphan||For 31-year-old Halima Bibi, a landless sharecropper, survival over the next six months is dependent on help from neighbours and the government. Two of her financial lifelines have gone dry. The COVID-19 pandemic has snapped the allowance Ms. Halima used to receive from Kerala-based husband Alamin Mondal, while Cyclone Amphan ruined her other income source, the paddy spread over an acre in Charmahatpur, a prosperous agrarian village in Nadia district. West Bengal is the highest producer of rice in the country with over half its land dedicated to rice cultivation and Ms. Halima is one of over 1.5 million sharecroppers who lost her entire produce. “The cyclone came when I was about to remove the paddy from the field in [the next] three days,” said the mother of two teenage sons while dumping the moistened crop in front of her damaged house. “ Sob dhan-e kall beriye gechey [The grain has come out of the paddy],” she explained. The soggy rabi crop will produce substandard rice. “Most of it will go towards feeding the cow,” she said. The monthly allowance of around Rs. 5,000 her husband used to dispatch from Kerala stopped coming from early March as the 35-year-old mason went out of work with the arrival of COVID-19. Out of work Mr. Mondal said over the phone from Kayamkulam town in Alappuzha, south Kerala, that he is confused whether to return to Nadia or not though many are boarding home-bound trains and buses. “I do not have any income and there is no job in Nadia. [Now] tell me, why should I return?” But he is aware that his mud house by the Khori river is damaged and the family is without any income. “I am getting some indications from the contractor — with whom I have been working for the last 15 years — that work may resume, which is the only hope left for us,” said Mr. Mondal.  “With COVID-19 and Amphan, the area’s economy is ruined,” said Liakat Ali Jangi, the manager of Dhubulia Krishi Unnayan Samiti, a cooperative society with about 1,000 members. “Most of the farmers are now coming to the society to withdraw deposits from the [cooperative] bank and not to buy fertilizer, pesticides,” he said.
28 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||One drowned, lakhs displaced as floods hit 11 Assam districts||A person drowned in western Assam’s Goalpara district on Wednesday as the number of flood-hit districts in the State increased to 11, displacing 2.72 lakh people. A belated report from Meghalaya said the body of a man who had drowned in an overflowing stream in East Khasi Hills district on May 23 had been recovered on Tuesday. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said heavy, incessant rain has led to the flooding of 321 villages across 11 districts, up from seven on Tuesday. “Most rivers are in spate but the Brahmaputra, Jia Bharali and Puthimari are flowing above the danger mark in Jorhat, Sonitpur and Kamrup districts respectively,” an ASDMA spokesperson said, adding that 16,720 people have been shifted to 51 relief camps in three districts. The other flood-affected people have made their own makeshift arrangements on higher grounds, district officials said. Goalpara continued to be the worst-affected district with 2.15 lakh people displaced and one person — gender not specified — killed by drowning in the Rongjuli area. Nalbari followed with 22,332 people affected, including the inmates of the district jail. ASDMA officials said the flood has so far damaged crop in 2,678 hectares and affected 44,331 domestic animals besides 9,350 domestic fowls. In central Assam’s Dima Hasao district, landslides in three villages destroyed 18 houses, affecting 72 people. Elsewhere, three bridges were washed away and at least 240 km of roads were damaged, blocked or inundated. CM meets Governor Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Wednesday called on Governor Jagdish Mukhi to apprise him of the situation arising out of the dual challenge of combating COVID-19 and floods.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||City sees record 792 new COVID-19 cases||The Capital registered 792 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 15,257, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. This is the biggest single-day jump in cases in the city so far. On May 22, Delhi had seen 660 new cases in just 24 hours. Also, 15 more deaths were reported on Wednesday, taking the total to 303. But all the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. Of the 15,257 cases, 7,264 people have recovered and there are 7,690 active cases. A total of 1,84,362 COVID-19 tests have been conducted so far in the city. The first case of COVID-19 was reported in Delhi on March 2. Till April 30, only 3,515 cases were reported, but then 11,742 cases — or 76.96% of the total cases — were reported in just 27 days in May. Containment zone After the Health and Family Welfare Department of the Delhi government on May 18 raised the issue of decreasing number of containment zones in the city even though the number of COVID-19 cases was increasing, the number of such zones has increased from 73 on May 18 to 96 on Wednesday, according to the bulletin. A containment zone has a stricter form of the lockdown and people are not allowed to enter or leave the sealed off areas.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Safdarjung Hospital releases list of 52 virus-related deaths||Safdarjung Hospital has sent a list of 52 COVID-19 deaths, which occurred at the facility over the past two months, to the Death Audit Committee, said top Delhi government officials. The hospital had been issued multiple reminders to release the data. The hospital’s medical superintendent, Balvinder Singh, said that officials of the Delhi government are constantly changing their data collection teams due to which there has been “miscommunication” among its own staffers. The Delhi government’s health bulletin showed that only four COVID-19 deaths happened at the hospital till May 13. The Delhi government has been facing allegations of under-reporting fatalities. It has said that all hospitals send death reports to an audit panel which sifts through the data and certifies as COVID-19 deaths only those that fulfill criteria mentioned in the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines. The Delhi government has maintained that the mismatch in death figures is due to audit of the data on deaths not sent earlier by hospitals. Meanwhile, the Safdarjung Hospital has filed a police complaint with the Cyber Crime Cell over a viral audio clip of a conversation between two unidentified men who claim that the death count due to COVID-19 at the hospital is much higher than being reported by the hospital. “This is totally fake, fabricated audio clip and is aimed at spreading panic,’’ said a senior hospital official. One of the men in the clip claims he is associated with the Safdarjung Hospital. The hospital authorities added that the exact figures of admissions, in-patients, and the deceased are reported on a daily basis and that there is nothing to hide. “We are a government hospital and have high standards of accountability. Such kind of messages break the morale of the staff who are working under great strain to provide the best care to the infected and other patients,” added a hospital official.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||Assess capacity of COVID-19 helplines: HC to govts.||The Delhi High Court has directed the Centre and the city government to assess the capacity of COVID-19 helplines to adequately deal with the call traffic. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar gave the direction after taking suo moto cognizance of a video clip showing a man struggling to find a hospital bed for his COVID-19 positive mother due to unresponsive helpline numbers. In the video, which has been widely circulated on social media, a man who identifies himself as Dharmendra Bhardwaj says he is standing outside Max Patparganj Hospital, which told his mother to arrange for a ventilator and a bed in some other hospital after she tested positive for the virus. Mr. Bhardwaj claims he visited several hospitals, but to no avail, and that helpline number 1075 was unresponsive. The HC remarked that the “video recording raises serious issues of public concern in the present-day context”. Delhi government standing counsel Rahul Mehra submitted that some of the helpline numbers were found not to be functioning efficiently and instructions have been issued to set the system in order. He added that the helpline number 1075 is managed by the Centre. The Centre’s counsel said that 1075 is an All-India helpline number and about three lakh calls have been received on the number. The HC ordered the governments to “assess the adequacy of the helpline capacity and state whether the same is sufficient to deal with the present call traffic and the traffic expected in the foreseeable future”. The court has asked for a status report on June 3, the next date of hearing.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||Two held after they fail to dispose of stolen phones||Two men were arrested for allegedly snatching mobile phones in the national capital after they failed to dispose them of due to the lockdown, the police said on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as Neeraj (22) and Saddam (22), both residents of Matiala Extension, they said. On May 18, one Roshan, a resident of Mohan Garden, reported that he was robbed of his mobile phone by two men near Shiv Shakti Store, Gurudwara Road when he was returning home, a senior police officer said. During investigation, the police analysed the CCTV footage of the area and identified two persons. Later, the police conducted raids and arrested both the accused persons are from Sainik Nagar jhuggis, the officer said. In need of money Interrogation revealed that the accused had two-three girlfriends and were in need of money. The police said due to the ongoing lockdown, the accused were unable to sell off the stolen items. They were hoping to dispose off the mobile phones after the lockdown ended. Twenty-one mobile phones and one tablet have been recovered from their possession. Both accused were released from jail last year, the police added.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||Post on ‘ground reality’ of health system goes viral||In a social media post, which has been shared over 29,000 times in 30 hours, a person narrated how his COVID-19 infected father-in-law died in Delhi after the family could not find a hospital with a ventilator. The person said that the system is a “complete mess” and that the ground reality is far from what is being projected by the government. “In toto, it’s a complete mess! I am writing this so that this doesn’t happen to anyone else ever! I don’t intend to criticize the govt here, I want them to read this and correct this mess. Ground reality is far from whats being projected !! Stay safe, take full precautions ! Spread this so that it reaches the govt [sic],” Sachan Deep Singh wrote in a Facebook post. Mr. Singh said that his 64-year-old father-in-law developed fever around May 11 and was first tested negative for COVID-19 by a lab on May 19. Due to “heaviness in breathing” he was then shifted to a hospital where he was on ventilator and on May 22, he was tested positive for the virus. “Since he was a COVID positive, the hospital wanted to shift him to a COVID hospital for which they asked “us” to find a hospital. Challenge doesn’t end here, we also needed an ambulance with ventilator which wasn’t there. We tried almost all hospitals including govt hospital LNJP and got only one answer that ventilators are not available [sic],” he further wrote. “We went to the ICU to check on him (on May 22 night) and got to know that we lost him!” he wrote. On Monday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said: “It is the hospital’s responsibility to take a patient (COVID-19 positive) in their ambulance to a private or government hospital (COVID-19 treatment facility).” He had also said that the a system was being set up that will inform a person about the nearest COVID hospital.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||Video shows patients lying on sidewalks||The Delhi BJP on Wednesday released a video purportedly showing patients suffering from COVID-19 lying on sidewalks and being wheeled around Delhi government’s GTB Hospital premises by their own family’s members. It argued that the government’s claim of providing world-class healthcare facilities had been “exposed”. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal reacted to the video on Twitter, promising action and thanking the Opposition for exposing “deficiencies”. “This scene is an embarrassment to humankind where COVID patients are lying on the ground outside the hospital for 16 hours, somewhere a patient’s family is taking a COVID patient on their own on the stretcher,” Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari said. Mr. Kejriwal tweeted from the party’s official handle: “I will get it fixed right now. Thank you very much for explaining our shortcomings. In this terrible tragedy, we all have to serve the people together. Wherever there is any deficiency in our system in Delhi, let us know so that we can fix it. [sic]” Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri urged the Chief Minister to “go and see” how the people of Delhi were dealing with the crisis on the ground and in hospitals.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||BJP asks for a migrants’ welfare board||The Delhi BJP on Wednesday demanded the setting up of a Migrant Workers’ Welfare Board in the Capital on the lines of those in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. In a letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said that a board would have helped alleviate plight of migrant workers. “Clear information about their total number and areas of accommodation would have proved useful for the government, while providing them ration and sending them to their home States,” Mr. Bidhuri wrote.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||ED files cases over seizure of drugs||The Enforcement Directorate recently registered over 20 money-laundering cases in connection with the seizure of drugs by various enforcement agencies in Punjab. The findings may be incorporated in the reports to be shared with key Financial Action Task Force member nations to highlight the issue of narco-terrorism involving elements from Pakistan. It is learnt that the agency is also initiating a probe into the seizure of 532 kg of heroin, worth about Rs. 2,700 crore in the international market, and 52 kg of a mixed narcotic substance by the Customs Department at the Integrated Check Post of Wagah-Attari border on June 29 last year.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||Man mowed down by truck||A 39-year-old man was crushed to death by a speeding truck in west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh, the police said on Wednesday. The victim has been identified as Naveen, a resident of Uttam Nagar. The incident happened on Friday at 5.03 a.m. Naveen’s father Hariraj (65), who called police, said he worked as a vegetable supplier. Naveen was riding his bicycle to Azadpur Mandi with his son when the incident happened. He had stopped down near Rajouri Garden when a speedng truck mowed him down, killing him on the spot. On the complaint of Hariraj, a case has been registered at Punjabi Bagh police station and a probe is under way.
28 May 2020||New delhi,||City riots: Jamia student sent to judicial custody for 30 days||A Delhi court on Wednesday sent Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, to judicial custody for 30 days in a case related to communal violence in north-east Delhi in February. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana sent him to jail till June 25 after the police did not seek his further custody. Tanha, a third-year student of BA in Persian language, was earlier arrested over the Jamia violence during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act in December last year. He was sent to judicial custody on till May 31. The police had told the court that his custody was required in the north-east Delhi riots case to unearth the entire conspiracy. Advocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, appearing for Mr. Tanha, said he was falsely implicated in the case.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tablighis from Port Blair finally head home||Over 20 members of the Tablighi Jamaat from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, who were quarantined in Delhi, took a flight home on Wednesday. Sharfuddin (49) said they will reach Port Blair by Thursday evening. The members had been residing in quarantine centres for nearly two months, even after testing negative for the virus.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||DCP-rank officer infected||A DCP-rank officer in Delhi Police has tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Wednesday. The officer is under home isolation. Contact tracing is being conducted and further steps will be taken accordingly, a senior police officer said.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||Saurabh - IRS||A 57-year-old Indian Revenue Services (IRS) officer was found dead in his house in Chanakyapuri on Wednesday. The police got Information that the victim was taken to Primus Hospital by his family where he was declared brought dead. A note has been recovered from the spot and further probe is under way.
28 May 2020||Alok Deshpande Mumbai,||Governor modifies law on forest rights||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has modified the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, allowing rightful claimants of forest rights to appeal against decisions of the district level committee (DLC). Activists, however, are concerned that this will lead to further delays in implementation of forest laws. A notification issued on May 18, 2020, said the Governor has modified Section 6 of the Act, in its application to Scheduled Area of the State of Maharashtra, in exercise of the powers conferred on him by Schedule V of the Constitution. The Governor’s office said the notification is important to provide justice to tribals whose ‘individual or community forest right’ has been rejected by the DLC, constituted under the Forest Rights Act (FRA). The notification applies to areas covered in the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act in the State and allows appeal provision against the DLC’s decision. The notification states that divisional level committees under the chairmanship of divisional commissioners have been constituted to hear the appeals against the DLC’s decisions. In the case of an order passed by the DLC before commencement of the notification, the appeal needs to be made within six months. However, if an order has been passed after commencement of the notification, the application has to be made within 90 days. Despite a large number of applications being rejected, there was no provision for appeal. Activists fear delays Activists, however, said the notification is a double-edged sword. A tribal farmer will find it difficult to go to the district headquarters, said Milind Thatte, of Vayam, which works with tribals in Palghar. “How can a divisional office or committee be accessible to that farmer? I fear this committee will further delay implementation of FRA. Delay means denial of justice and increased scope for fake claims,” said Mr. Thatte.
28 May 2020||Mumbai,||Pay daily allowance to contractual workers: HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) to extend the regular employees’ daily allowance of Rs. 300 to contractual workers who were also at the forefront of the COVID-19 battle. Justice S.J. Kathawalla, who was hearing a petition by the workers’ union, Samaj Samata Kamgaar Sangh, on behalf of 6,277 people employed with the NMMC, said it would “extremely be unfair and unjust” to differentiate between contractual and regular workers who were risking their lives. The petition said the corporation was extending a special daily allowance of Rs. 300 to its employees and officers but had refused to extend the benefit to contractual workers as they were employed by contractors, and not directly by NMMC. The union informed the court that 3,261 contractual workers were involved in solid waste management, including day-to-day road cleaning and transportation of garbage, 693 workers were employed in the health department, which included duties at four civic-run hospitals and 23 urban health posts across Navi Mumbai. It also stated that 65 workers were employed to clean cemeteries, and all the workers were doing their duty by risking their lives. The petition sought extension of daily allowance and Central insurance scheme to the contractual workers. The NMMC argued that the workers were employed by contractors to carry out the work and that they were not entitled to the benefits of officers or workers employed by the corporation. The court, however, said the risk taken by the workers in carrying out COVID-19-related duties for the corporation cannot be differentiated. “The corporation is seen to be making a tacit statement that the workers, though discharging their duties as the corporation’s own employees, are either not ‘risking their lives’, or despite doing so, need to be paid differently only due to their employer being the contractor and not the corporation. To say the least, this would be an extremely unfair and unjust yardstick to use, to value human lives differently,” the court said. It ordered NMMC to pay certified workers the special allowance and adjourned the hearing to June 12.
28 May 2020||Mumbai,||Flights to Kolkata from Mumbai to begin today||To meet the demand of travellers, Mumbai airport will start operating flights to Kolkata from Thursday as West Bengal opens its airports. IndiGo and SpiceJet will operate one flight each in both directions. On Wednesday, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) handled 4,993 passengers — 3,592 at departures and 1,401 at arrivals. The highest passenger load factor was seen on the Delhi route. Six airlines — Air India, Air Asia India, Alliance Air, IndiGo, SpiceJet and Vistara — connected Mumbai to 14 sectors. Under the temporary domestic flight schedule being followed by all airlines, CSMIA is connected to a set of airports, one or two of which keep getting added or subtracted. The first flight (Air India) on Wednesday departed for Ahmedabad at 6.15 a.m. while the first to arrive (IndiGo) was from Lucknow at 8.20 a.m. As per the flight schedules announced till May 31 by the GVK-led Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL), while IndiGo and SpiceJet are adding the flight to Kolkata, there will be none to Chennai or Goa. Air Asia India will stick to flying to Delhi and Kochi. Air India will operate a flight to Bengaluru instead of Ahmedabad on Thursday. It will however continue its one flight to Delhi. Vistara will fly three flights to Delhi instead of the two it operated on Wednesday. Late in the evening, Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted, “People who were stranded in different parts of the country are now able to fly to be with their loved ones. Till 5 p.m. on day 3 today, there have already been 354 departures and 288 arrivals with a total of 47,917 people at various airports. The numbers continue to grow.” Special flight On Wednesday, KLM operated a special flight from Schipol airport in Amsterdam to Mumbai with 276 fliers, including passengers from Netherlands (168), Mexico (52), Peru (47) and Portugal (8). Indian ambassador Venu Rajamony saw off the passengers at the airport. “There were tears of joy and heartfelt gratitude as the individuals thanked the Embassy for coming to their aid,” the Indian mission said in a statement.
28 May 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Undertrial found dead in Taloja jail||An undertrial at Taloja jail was found dead in the toilet attached to his cell on Wednesday. Balu Gadsinge (33) was in the jail since 2019 in connection with four separate cases. He was arrested for two murder cases by the Beed police and was in Kalyan jail till last year. “He had created some trouble in the jail and was booked twice under Section 353 of the IPC (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty). There were a total of four cases against Gadsinge. Since he was a trouble maker, he was lodged in a separate cell. On Wednesday morning when our guard went for regular rounds, he did not find Gadsinge and started looking for him and found the body in the toilet,” said Kaustubh Kurlekar, Superintendent of Taloja jail. The jail personnel informed Kharghar police who registered a case of accidental death and the body handed over to JJ Hospital. “The reason behind his step is not clear. It could be because his family members, including his wife, had broken of ties with him. He must have been tense because of the murder cases,” an officer from Kharghar police station said. His relative who stays in Kalyan has been informed.
28 May 2020||Press Trust of India Mumbai,||‘News of Army deployment in Mumbai a rumour’||A rumour about deployment of Army in novel coronavirus hotspots of Mumbai and Pune is being “deliberately” spread on social media, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday and added that strict action will be taken against all such rumour-mongers.  “Rumour is deliberately being spread through WhatsApp and other social media that the Army will be deployed in Mumbai and Pune. This is completely false. @MahaCyber1 has initiated action against those spreading such rumours,” Mr. Deshmukh tweeted. He also stressed that the State government has zero tolerance for rumours. Earlier this month, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray too had dismissed similar speculations on Army deployment in Mumbai.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||After Twitter fact-check, Trump threatens to shut social media||U.S. President Donald Trump threatened to “strongly regulate” or “shut down” social media platforms after Twitter identified two of his tweets as making unsubstantiated claims. “Republicans feel that Social Media Platforms totally silence conservatives voices. We will strongly regulate, or close them down, before we can ever allow this to happen. We saw what they attempted to do, and failed, in 2016. We can’t let a more sophisticated version of that happen again. Just like we can’t let large scale Mail-In Ballots take root in our Country. It would be a free for all on cheating, forgery and the theft of Ballots. Whoever cheated the most would win. Likewise, Social Media. Clean up your act, NOW!!!!" Mr. Trump wrote on Wednesday. In a first, Twitter, on Tuesday, had posted a fact check below two of Mr. Trump’s tweets about mail-in ballots. Twitter’s action has potentially large ramifications given the U.S. is months away from a general election and Mr. Trump uses the site several times a day to communicate with his more than 80 million followers. “There is NO WAY (ZERO!) that Mail-In Ballots will be anything less than substantially fraudulent. Mail boxes will be robbed, ballots will be forged & even illegally printed out & fraudulently signed,” Mr. Trump tweeted, singling out the Governor of California [Gavin Newsom]. “The Governor of California is sending Ballots to millions of people, anyone living in the state, no matter who they are or how they got there, will get one. That will be followed up with professionals telling all of these people, many of whom have never even thought of voting before, how, and for whom, to vote. This will be a Rigged Election. No way!” the President wrote. ‘Get the facts’ Twitter reacted with a link that said, “Get the facts about mail-in ballots” that linked to a page titled, “Trump makes unsubstantiated claim that mail-in ballots will lead to voter fraud.” The page included details on the President’s false claims and links to articles from publications, including the Washington Post and CNN. Twitter had announced last year that it would, in some cases, tag notices onto tweets from the verified accounts of government officials, elected representatives and those running for office who had more than 10,000 followers. Mr. Trump has repeatedly made baseless claims on voting by mail and had threatened, earlier in May, to cut federal funding to some states over the issue. On Sunday, several Republican groups had sued California after Mr. Newsom said everyone eligible to vote would be sent an absentee ballot to encourage mail voting due to the pandemic ‘Political bias’ Mr. Trump, reacted by saying Twitter was “interfering” in the 2020 election and “completely stifling free speech” and that as President, he would “not allow it to happen”. His campaign manager, Brad Parscale, accused Twitter of political bias and said the company was trying to interfere with Mr. Trump’s outreach to voters. “We always knew that Silicon Valley would pull out all the stops to obstruct and interfere with President Trump getting his message through to voters. Partnering with the biased fake news media ‘fact checkers’ is only a smoke screen Twitter is using to try to lend their obvious political tactics some false credibility. There are many reasons the Trump campaign pulled all our advertising from Twitter months ago, and their clear political bias is one of them,” Mr. Parscale said in a statement. However, Twitter had said last year that it was not permitting political ads and that “political message reach should be earned, not bought.” Also on Tuesday, Mr. Trump tweeted unsubstantiated claims about television show host and former Republican politician Joe Scarborough, suggesting Mr. Scarborough had a role in the 2001 death of a former employee, Lori Klausutis. Klausutis’s death was caused by a cardiac condition and did not involve foul play, as per the authorities at the time. In a May 21 letter published by the New York Times , Klausutis’s widower , Timothy Klausutis, had requested Twitter CEO Josh Dorsey to take down similar tweets from Mr. Trump from April and May this year. A Twitter spokesperson said the company was “deeply sorry” about the “pain” caused by the statements but said the tweets would remain, as per several U.S. news outlets who reported the reaction.
28 May 2020||Beijing,||‘Hong Kong body will play an advisory role’||A proposed security law could allow Chinese mainland authorities to set up shop in Hong Kong, but their powers would likely be restricted to intelligence gathering and an advisory role, a member of China’s top political advisory body said Wednesday. China’s rubber-stamp Parliament is expected to approve on Thursday a proposal to draft a national security law for the semi-autonomous city, which has sparked fresh protests over fears the financial hub will lose its unique freedoms. British-era agency Daniel Fung, Hong Kong member of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, said the idea is to establish a security agency similar to one that existed when the city was a British colony. “I would expect the powers and duties of this agency to be restricted to intelligence gathering, and playing an advisory role,” Mr. Fung said, while noting its exact functions will have to be set out under the legislation that will be passed at a later date. Enforcement of laws, he added, should remain with the Hong Kong government under the proposal, which would ban secession, subversion, terrorism and foreign interference. Hong Kong has its own legal system and a degree of autonomy through the “One Country, Two Systems” arrangement under which Britain handed Hong Kong back to China in 1997. Under the city’s mini-constitution, local police are responsible for law enforcement but mainland police officials are allowed to operate within the territory. Activists fear the new proposals will end this firewall. Last year’s mass unrest against the government was triggered by a now-scrapped proposal to allow extraditions to the mainland, which many worried would leave Hong Kong citizens at the mercy of China's opaque justice system. No transfer of suspects Mr. Fung, however, said he did not see that happening under the new proposal. “We do not expect the transfer of suspects to the mainland for trial,” he said. Mainland Chinese authorities could join Hong Kong police to investigate criminal suspects under the planned security law, pro-Beijing politician Maria Tam had earlier said. But according to Ms. Tam, who advises China’s Parliament on Hong Kong’s Constitution, police from outside the city would need approval from local authorities to conduct investigations.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajapaksa’s office responds to report||Responding to the report ‘Sri Lanka will not tolerate targeting of war heroes: Gotabaya Rajapaksa' published on May 20 in The Hindu , the office of the President of Sri Lanka, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, has said the article did not reflect “the real situation”. The President’s Media Division, in a written response, pointed to its reference to several Sri Lankan soldiers, especially top officers, being accused of human rights violations during and soon after the war, and said: “In any armed conflict, maintaining human rights of an individual is akin to preventing muddy puddles during rain.” Due to the “volatile” nature of warfare, International Humanitarian Laws are “not a set of clear-cut rules in black and white that one may tick off against.” “Instead, it must take into consideration the principles of distinction and legitimate targeting, military necessity and proportionality to judge a military operation for its action,” the statement said, adding that no official documentation had “proven allegations” of war crimes. On the reference to Mr. Rajapaksa recently pardoning a soldier convicted for the murder of eight Tamil civilians, the statement said, the President had used his powers according to the Constitution. “After taking 13 years to sentence Ratnayake, the court still held reasonable doubts. Sri Lanka pardoned, without trial, 14,500 arrested or surrendered LTTE cadres. Amongst them were those who too had committed similar or worse acts as the one Ratnayake was embroiled. Therefore, for Sri Lanka to pardon Ratnayake also is not unreasonable or unethical,” said the statement. The reference in the report to Sri Lanka’s Army Commander as “a general accused of war crimes” is “very unfair”, the statement said, noting that the allegations are “unsubstantiated and arbitrary”. The National Ranaviru [‘War heroes’] Day “is not just a day to salute the fallen soldier, but to celebrate the peace that their supreme sacrifice ushered into the country”. Pointing to the report’s description of the LTTE as a “rebel” outfit, the statement said it was a “terrorist” group. Further, contesting the reference to an estimated 40,000 casualties during the final phase of the war, the statement said the figure, cited in past UN reports, was a “guess” and “not an estimate”. Denying that militarisation was “a lingering concern in post-war Sri Lanka” as mentioned in the news report, the statement said there were “a number of instances where closely bonded relations between the security forces and people in the area had surfaced.”
28 May 2020||Washington,||U.S. strips Hong Kong of special trading status||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo declared on Wednesday that Hong Kong no longer enjoys the autonomy promised by Beijing, stripping the financial hub of its special status under U.S. law. Hours before Beijing will hold a key vote on a controversial new security law on Hong Kong, Mr. Pompeo sent a notice to Congress that China was not living up to obligations from before it regained control of the territory from Britain in 1997. “I certified to Congress today that Hong Kong does not continue to warrant treatment under United States laws in the same manner as U.S. laws were applied to Hong Kong before July 1997,” Mr. Pompeo said in a statement. “No reasonable person can assert today that Hong Kong maintains a high degree of autonomy from China, given facts on the ground.” Under a law passed last year by Congress aimed at supporting Hong Kong’s pro-democracy movement, the administration has to certify that the territory is still autonomous to enjoy its separate status with the U.S. for trading purposes.
28 May 2020||Paris,||Paris, May 27, 2020 (AFP) -||Quarraisha Abdool Karim, a South African HIV researcher who found that a topical gel could stop many women catching the virus has been awarded one of France’s top science prizes. Ms. Karim won the half a million-euro Christophe Merieux Prize for her work for the Durban-based Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa.AFP
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||A moment to trust the teacher||A public examination in the middle of the novel coronavirus pandemic is hard to imagine. That is what the government of Tamil Nadu has decided. It will conduct the Grade X board examination from June 15. The announcement carries the usual reassurance that all arrangements have been made. Indeed, special arrangements have been made. These include sparse seating to meet the medical requirement of physical distancing between candidates. No more than 10 will sit in a room. To enable this to happen, the number of exam centres has been radically increased from over 3,000 to 12,690. A ritual Nothing in the above paragraph can remind the reader that we are referring to 15-year-old children. In the discourse of public exams, children mutate into “candidates”; their names are replaced by roll numbers, schools become exam centres and teachers turn into invigilators. Every child knows how to behave in the examination hall. All examinations follow a strict ritual that has remained unchanged for over a century. A board exam has little to do with education or learning. The values it encourages children to imbibe are all negative. The prominent ones are fear of failing, sacrifice of joy and selfish competitiveness and submission to an opaque system. The urgency felt by the Tamil Nadu government to take the Class X examination in the middle of a health emergency can only be understood as the expression of a mindset rather than reasoning. The annual exam is seen as the culmination of the academic calendar. The set pattern it follows ensures that the exam questions will have no intellectual substance. They all require rote memory. If there is any real purpose these exams can serve, it is to select a few who can proceed further and eliminate the rest. This objective is attained by dividing students into “‘pass”–“fail” categories and into divisions based on marks. . A middle path to consider This standard argument does not fit the State of Tamil Nadu. The Class X result last year placed more than 95% of the total number of students who took the exam in the “pass” category. In several districts, the pass percentage was close to 99%. So, the exam does not fulfil the structural purpose that other States, especially the northern States, might have, such as reducing the numbers so that the limited infrastructure for the higher secondary or +2 stage proves sufficient. In Tamil Nadu, most children are likely to move on to Grade XI in the same school. This is the main ground for the recommendation made in the National Curriculum Framework (2005) for making the Grade X exam voluntary. This is a middle path that the Tamil Nadu government can consider this summer. Whenever schools reopen, children who want to take the board exam can do so. Others can carry on in the next grade. All that the matriculate exam might achieve in Tamil Nadu is to sort students, on the basis of their marks, into different subject streams. This is hardly a worthwhile reason to risk the spread of the virus or to harass the young. It is a matter of belief that marks attained in the Grade X Board exam are a reasonable basis for judging who should study what. One might consider this as a valid argument if the exam papers and marking scheme of the Grade X exam had some substance. The questions are so uniformly inane, and quite a few so mechanistically silly, that a good or bad score shows little more than preparedness for facing the exam. That is all that the exam judges: Here is a question asked in an earlier exam: “Why is world peace an essential one?” There is a fixed answer to it and the teacher’s job is to ensure that the child gives just that answer rather than say that the question is poorly worded and is, in fact, a bit of nonsense. The meaning of ‘refresh’ It is the job of teachers to ensure that every child is all set for the kind of questions that are asked. Teachers are rightly complaining that the notice period given for the June exam is much too short to “refresh” the children. By “refresh” they mean activate children’s rote memory into performance mode. Classes had to be suspended just when teachers had completed winding up the rote memory key. Three months later, the key has shed its tension. If you want the toy to dance out the programmed steps on the required date and time, give more time: that is what the teachers are saying. Considering their highly compromised professional and intellectual role, they are right. Had they enjoyed some real autonomy in teaching and assessment, they would have told the government not to worry about using exam scores to sort children into subject streams. If you visit the website of Tamil Nadu’s Directorate of Examinations and study last year’s Class X results, you will come across this interesting statement. “The highest pass percentage was recorded in Tirupur district at 98.53 percent, followed by Ramanathapuram with 98.48 percent and Namakkal with 98.45 percent”. When I read this statement, I wondered wherein lay its meaning or significance. The pass percentage of the three districts was almost identical. Moreover, it was so high that the small difference cannot be suspected to carry or convey a message that exam results often carry. No one can convincingly argue that the children and teachers of Namakkal are not as good as Ramanathapuram because the pass percentage of the latter is .03% more. The obvious fact is that all three districts have done well. So, what exactly is the board asking us to notice by highlighting the micro difference in their pass percentages? A similar point can be made about the tag line claiming that “girls outshine boys” just because the girls’ pass percentage is slightly higher. Crisis and change Some disasters teach lessons; the experience of going through a crisis can create the desire for reform. But it is hard to imagine that the novel coronavirus crisis will create energy for examination reform. A system so well-established as the board exam does not easily yield to pressure for improvement. The board system has successfully resisted the criticism and recommendations articulated by countless committees and individuals. Even a minor improvement in the exam system will demand an effort sustained over several years during which a regime may change and the officer-in-charge may get shifted or retire. If we do not wish to feel cynical, a good starting point for change is to think of an alternative name for the certificate a child gets after passing the Class X Board exam: “school leaving certificate”. Once upon a time, the matriculate examination carried a lot of weight and only a handful proceeded towards further education. Today, the overwhelming majority of children do not want to leave the school after Class X. Tamil Nadu is among very few States left where the term ‘school leaving certificate’ is used. Ironically, these are the States with the highest rate of transition from Class X to XI. Let us hope a virulent virus will impel these States to drop an obsolete title. The next step will be to start trusting the teacher and nurture the growth of a school-based system of evaluation. Krishna Kumar is a former Director of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT)
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Enjoying the fruits of their labour||Today, India is a leading producer of a variety of agricultural and allied produce and exporter of some of them. This is due to the relentless hard work and efforts of our farmers against the odds. They are the epitome of the Nishkam Karma philosophy taught by Krishna to Arjuna during the Kurukshetra War: “ Karmanye Vadhikaraste Ma Phaleshu Kada Chana (Do your duty without expecting the fruits of your labour)”. Farmers toil day and night, through winter and summer, whether or not they get adequate returns. But they are not the masters of the price of their toil. As the son of a farmer, I have been witness to the trials and tribulations of farmers. If any class of economic agents of our country has been denied the constitutional right of freedom of trade, it is farmers. They don’t have the freedom of selling their produce even in their neighbourhood. Remunerative price is still a mirage for them. Their farm incomes are at the mercy of markets, middlemen and money lenders. For every rupee that a farmer makes, others in the supply chain get much more. Both farmers and consumers are the sufferers of the exploitative procurement and marketing of farm produce. Despite increasing public investments in irrigation and other infrastructure, the steadily rising institutional credit given to farmers, and minimum support price due to the efforts of various governments over the years, farmers are shackled when it comes to selling their produce. Restrictions on farmers This exploitation has its roots in the Bengal famine of 1943, World War II, and the droughts and food shortages of the 1960s. The Essential Commodities Act, 1955, and the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Acts of the States are the principle sources of violation of the rights of farmers to sell their produce at a price of their choice. These two laws severely restrict the options of farmers to sell their produce. Farmers continue to be the victims of a buyers’ market. This is the principal cause of their exploitation. Renowned farm scientist M.S. Swaminathan has for long argued for the right of farmers to sell their produce as they deem fit. The country is still far from ensuring efficient value chains for farm produce for want of required infrastructure like cold storage, stocking facilities, and transport of perishable commodities. Often, farmers are forced to dump their produce on the roads or offer it to cattle. Farmers are the cornerstone of food security of our country. We have come a long way from the ship-to-mouth existence under the PL480 programme of the U.S. to being the leading producer of many kinds of farm produce. But farmers have not got their due. All that they have been getting are platitudes on ceremonial occasions and in the legislatures during the customary debates on their plight. Farmers were assured that restrictions on the freedom of marketing would be removed, but that assurance was never kept. Despite that, farmers never stopped work and continued to feed the nation. Given the economic disparities in the country, the interests of consumers need to be protected. But should that be at the cost of the producers of the very commodities that the consumers need? For various reasons, a balance in this regard could not be struck. The restrictive trade and marketing policies being practised with respect to agricultural prices have substantially eroded the incomes of farmers. A study on agricultural policies in India by the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations-Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (2018), co-authored by the renowned farm economist Ashok Gulati, was published with startling revelations. It concluded that the restrictions on agricultural marketing amounted to ‘implicit taxation’ on farmers to the tune of Rs. 45 lakh crore from 2000-01 to 2016-17. This comes to Rs. 2.56 lakh crore per year. No other country does this. Much-awaited freedom While all and sundry have reiterated over the years that something must be done for farmers, the first formal actionable announcement on doing away with restrictions on the marketing freedom of farmers came only now. Further to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a Rs. 20 lakh crore stimulus to rev up the economy, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveiled the details of a package for the agriculture and allied sectors. Apart from the approximately Rs. 4 lakh crore support package for farming and allied sectors, aimed at improving infrastructure and enhancing credit support, the most welcome feature of this package is the firm commitment to rewriting the Essential Commodities Act and the APMC laws. The revision of these restrictive laws is long overdue and will remove the hurdles that farmers face in getting a remunerative price for their produce by giving them more options to sell. This long-awaited revision needs to be undertaken with care and responsibility so that no space or scope is left for farmers to be exploited yet again. And this rewrite should be done at the earliest. While allowing several buyers to directly access the produce from the farmers, a strong and effective network of Farm Producers’ Organisations should be created to enhance the bargaining power of farmers. This will ensure that individual farmers are not exploited. An effective law on contract farming is also the need of the hour, to secure incomes of farmers besides enabling private investments. Dr. Gulati, in a recent article, termed this announcement as “a 1991 moment for agriculture”. I can’t agree more with him. It is a major reform. Yet another unique feature of this package has been its comprehensiveness towards improving the incomes of farmers through a range of activities. A study by the National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management has revealed that of the 3,500 farmers’ suicides examined, there was no farmer who had supplementary incomes from dairy or poultry. The huge support to animal husbandry and fisheries in the stimulus package underlines the need for diversifying the income sources of farmers. I recall that in 1977, the entire country was declared as one food zone. This benefited both farmers and consumers. It is time to allow our farmers to sell their produce anywhere for their benefit. All stakeholders should be taken on board while revising restrictive agri-marketing laws. During the pandemic, many are working from home. But farmers have no such option as they have to work in their fields. Despite the lockdown, they continue to sow wheat, paddy, pulses, etc. In fact, farm output is greater than what it was last year. Our farmers, the pride of our country, deserve the long-awaited freedom to market their produce at a place of their choice. It should become a reality at the earliest. M. Venkaiah Naidu is the Vice-President of India
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The echo of migrant footfalls and the silence on policy||When we hear the word migration, we think of Kerala and West Asia, or the United States and the West. However, the number of Indians who have migrated over the past decades to these geographies is minuscule compared to the vastness of the movement within the country. A few years ago, I came across an estimate of over 300 million for the scale of internal migration in India. This is nearly three times the official figures which are being cited now. The number is high because migration also takes place within a State, not just between States or across international borders. The estimate for China at the time was similar. Across the world, every year, people migrate for work, livelihoods, marriage, seeking refuge, business and even peace of mind. A number that is growing Last December, an economist provided figures, based on the 2011 national census, showing that the number of internal migrants had grown by another 100 million. Or that a third of India’s population — one in every three Indians — are migrants. The figures are even more daunting when one realises that many of them are from the poorer States of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha although Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana send substantial numbers while there are smaller groups from the Northeast. Most of them are unskilled, semi-skilled labour or skilled labour. Apart from anecdotal social and political science, the scale of the movement across India, within States, not just across inter-State borders is breathtaking. According to World Bank economist, Supriyo De, “The number of internal migrants in India was 450 million as per the most recent 2011 Census. This is an increase of 45% over the 309 million recorded in 2001. This far exceeds the population growth rate of 18% across 2001-2011. Internal migrants as percentage of population increased from 30% in 2001 to 37% in 2011.” The figure 450 million is more than double the population of Bangladesh, it is under half the population of Europe and more than that of the U.S. These are the people who with their blood, sweat, hands and tears, build this nation. And the central government, many State governments and many of us have let them down horribly. They are the people who were given a four-hour warning of the first lockdown, which has been followed by successive extensions by the Centre. When they found no transport — train and bus —they chose to walk. They walked by day on the highways and they walked by night, they walked on broken roads to avoid police beatings and barricades, they tried to hitch rides on empty trucks and even cement dumpers. They rested by night, under the stars, sometimes on railway tracks. So fearful were they of sarkar and harm that would come to them and their loved ones if they were caught. That is the fear of and loathing for authority that ordinary people nourish in this country. But the love of home was greater than both. Ultimately this desperate longing for home killed a number of them, one group of 14 most violently and tragically on a railway track. Frugal meals of rotis , some vegetables and fruit lay scattered after the dance of death along with their many sandals and clothes after being mowed down by a goods train as they slept the sleep of the exhausted and then the dead. Use of the military It is important to dwell on this because of some extraordinary, publicly expressed opinions by some who have advocated the use of the armed forces to tackle such situations. The idea has been that the military should open up its sprawling and efficient networks, processes and personnel. Such views were being aired even as stand-offs were continuing to take place, and still continue, between Indian and Chinese troops in Sikkim and Ladakh, thousands of kilometres apart, underlining the core tasks before an army. A former Navy chief, advocating the idea the armed forces should be at the heart of a massive relief operation, said that “the armed forces have tremendous resources, they have the organisation and can jump in blind folded and render instant succour.” This is a laudable wish but spoken with casualness for the value of human life. It is not an issue of whether Army personnel have personal protective equipment or not — if they do, and these may be to handle biological attacks, should the Army reveal its strategic arsenal and also expose itself to huge risks? Such remarks reveal the usual knee jerk response to the use of the military during crises, as a first resort and not the last. Not only that it underlines a complete lack of comprehension of the complex dynamics of migration and why people leave or return. As the economist cited earlier, Sudipto De, said, “Internal migration, the movement of people within a country, results in a more efficient allocation of human resources to sectors and regions where they are better utilized.” We have seen too often, and for too long, the cynical use of the Army for dealing with issues arising out of political failure to engage early on in ethnic strife, leading to bloody confrontations and the loss of life of civilians, soldiers as well as armed non-state rebels. We are familiar with the painful history of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act and the way it has been used to tackle insurgencies in the Northeast. This is a time to decentralise political power and arm the States with greater decision-making capacity. India lives in the States, not in Delhi or State capitals. Our States need to be provided more funds; the Centre needs to sustain, support, emulate and reward/award those like Kerala which have done remarkably well in this crisis. It is not a time to concentrate more powers in an already hugely centralised and arbitrary dispensation. There are four things which need to be done, as the flight home, the flight from nowhere, has shown to a waiting, distressed country. One, relearn sustainable economics at the feet of Mahatma Gandhi not the NITI Ayog or the Reserve Bank of India — India still lives in villages and small towns not cities. Second: rebuild the rural economy based on building the household. That is the key and the target. Use the Swachh Bharat network to strengthen cottage industries which have been killed by huge industry (which cannot work at more than nominal capacity); give the latter incentives to buy from rural manufacturers and thus generate rural employment, not migration or distress, so that farm incomes are supplemented. Equip and empower artisans with better skills, design, capacity and technology, access to capital and markets. Have a plan Three: formalise Work from Home and design a Migration Plan — support people to work in their States or near their cluster of villages so that they are not far from home especially after this wrenching experience where employers have dismissed and disowned them, governments have failed them and, for the most, non-governmental organisations and relief workers have come to their rescue Four: Move funding from current planning which benefits corporates to States, panchayats and municipalities; in addition, increase allocation on health, women, children and education to 20% of the national Budget and release these funds to the States. Sanjoy Hazarika is International Director, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI). The views expressed are personal
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Helping supply chains recover||The Indian government has announced a sizeable fiscal stimulus, which some commentators believe can help revive the economy. There are, however, good reasons to doubt this belief. Much of the decline in output is due to supply chain disruptions generated by the lockdown. Government spending can do little to alleviate this. Putting money in the hands of people can increase the demand for goods but cannot increase the supply of goods and services. In modern economies, the production of goods happens through complex supply chains that traverse geographical boundaries. Upstream sectors like ‘mining’ produce metals that are in turn used to produce machines. These machines are used to sow seeds, harvest crops, and transport fuel. Finally, the harvested crops are used by downstream sectors to produce flour and bread. At each step, machines and labour combine to produce goods which are the inputs for sectors further downstream. Reduction in output Under the lockdown, numerous inputs have not moved from their producers to their users. These disruptions may not at first generate a reduction in consumer goods like bread. However, the availability of consumer goods will begin to decline as bakers run out of flour, and mills exhaust their stocks of wheat. And there is no way to guarantee the flow of essential goods while suspending the production of non-essential goods. Automotive spare parts may be non-essential in the short run, but become essential as food-carrying trucks begin to break down. How far is the long run? This is difficult to say; there may be some variation across goods. The supply chain disruptions are going to be amplified by labour shortage as workers remain at home. Countries like India are likely to experience a greater reduction in output on this count than, say, Europe or the U.S. because of the higher labour intensity of production (think of the difference in unloading of goods in the port at Rotterdam and the port at Kochi). Poorer countries are less likely to be able to substitute locked down labour with capital because of the dearth of capital in these nations. As economies emerge out of the lockdown, entrepreneurs, workers, and consumers must adjust to the new reality. The world supply chain must adapt. Firms may, for instance, choose to source inputs from suppliers in their geographical proximity to minimise the risk of future disruptions. This involves building productive capacity at new locations, all of which requires investments fuelled by savings. Furthermore, the investments must be guided by price signals. Within a market economy, the movement of prices provides the incentive and information needed to adapt and grow. As economist Ronald Coase put it, prices are bundles of information wrapped in an incentive. As the prices of some inputs rise, the buyers of these inputs look for alternate suppliers, and firms which did not hitherto produce the good have an incentive to do so. The key to economic recovery lies in millions of such adjustments through which firms locate new providers of inputs, new buyers of their output, and build factories at new locations. Why stimulus packages won’t help Unfortunately, market adjustment processes are likely to be disrupted by government stimulus packages. Governments spend by printing money, raising debt, or increasing taxes. Irrespective of the way in which the expenditure in funded, resources are transferred from private entrepreneurs to government bureaucrats. When governments print money, they draw resources through inflation. Bureaucrats tend to be less efficient than profit-motivated firms in allocating scarce resources. Bureaucrats have little incentive or information to bring about the granular supply chain adjustments necessary to revive growth. As the stimulus package kicks in, economic efficiency is likely to decline and so are the chances of a timely recovery of output. So what can the government do? The experience of West Germany after World War II has a useful lesson. Beginning mid-1944, Allied bombing disrupted the German supply chain by targeting bottleneck sectors like electric power generation. This destruction of the supply chain devastated the German economy. Per person food production fell to about half of its pre-war level. Two years later, this changed after Chancellor Ludwig Erhard lifted price controls and cut taxes. West German entrepreneurs re-established a thriving supply chain through which goods went from upstream sectors to final consumers. By 1950, per capita income in West Germany had reached its pre-war level. The recent supply chain disruptions are likely to last long. The path to recovery lies in cutting government expenditure, removing price controls, and opening up trade. Vipin P. Veetil is Assistant Professor at IIT-Madras and Kumar Anand is an economist based in Delhi
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Of firms and nations||Within just a few days, economics has lost two leading lights. Oliver Williamson, the Nobel Laureate from the University of California, Berkeley, died at 87 on May 21. This was soon followed by the sudden demise of Alberto Alesina, a Harvard political economist, aged 63. I didn’t have the opportunity to be taught by either of them or to do research with them, but in the little work I do, in understanding how regulation impacts firm behaviour and competitive advantage, and how non-market factors here influence this relationship, Williamson and Alesina keep coming back with their influential work. The optimal size Both Williamson and Alesina moved out of the shadows of their advisers over time to carve out their own niche. While this is a noteworthy point in following the scholarly trajectory of both, the other is how between them they spanned two key tenets of an economy. One examined the optimal size of a firm, and the other, the optimal size of a nation. Williamson, in fact, focused his entire body of work on a new unit of analysis. He posited that to understand the optimal size of firms, one needs to focus on transactions and contracts as the unit of analysis. These, he argued, ultimately influences how large or vertically integrated firms became. Meanwhile, Alesina dealt with the question of what is the optimal size of nations. In his book, The Size of Nations, with his co-author Enrico Spolaore, Alesina argued that the optimal size of a country is determined by a trade-off between the benefits of size and the costs of heterogeneity. In a large country, per capita costs may be low, but the heterogeneous preferences of a large population make it hard to deliver services and formulate policy. Smaller countries may find it easier to respond to citizen preferences in a democratic way. In a world where there is, both within and among nations, a heterogeneous quality of responses in dealing with COVID-19, and where we have examples from smaller nations like Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore vis-à-vis larger ones like the U.S., Brazil or India, Alesina’s work rings a bell. Williamson’s thoughts, meanwhile, should also resonate with reshaping of bargaining contracts that employees will now strike with employers in the new ‘work from home’ future that firms are venturing into. Family ties, trust, communism Both Williamson and Alesina were much more than just about the size of firms and nations. Alesina, for example, in a 2010 article titled “The Power of the Family” examined the role of family ties on economic behaviour . He also ventured into whether Americans and Europeans differ in the relationship between inequality and happiness. Economies today grapple with rising populism and misinformation. In 2002, Alesina examined who trusts others and found that recent traumatic experiences, past discrimination, economic success and racial mixing impacted trust. In another 2007 paper titled “Goodbye Lenin (Or not?)”, Alesina examined the role of communism on people’s preferences and found that in Germany after reunification, East Germans were more in favour of state intervention than West Germans. East Germans’ preferences converged towards those of West Germans over two generations. Williamson, meanwhile, deliberated on calculativeness, trust and economic organisation that ultimately related to his pioneering the field of new institutional economics which examines how social and legal norms and rules underlie economic activity and firm organisation. In a world where globalisation, inequality and technology were impacting, till recently, how nations and firms evolve, Alesina and Williamson left indelible imprints in advancing the fields of political economy and new institutional economics. Our current lives with a pandemic shock are going to further reshape firms and nations tomorrow, and the relevance of Williamson and Alesina tomorrow will only deepen. Chirantan Chatterjee is a faculty member at IIM Ahmedabad and Visiting Fellow at Hoover Institution, Stanford University
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The swarm||Just last week, eastern India was battered by one of the most powerful cyclones in decades and now, even as hundreds of lives are lost every day to the coronavirus, another danger lurks on the nation’s west. A burgeoning locust swarm in Rajasthan, Gujarat and even parts of Madhya Pradesh threatens to amplify into an agrarian disaster. The desert locust, as a species, is the bane of agriculture. Monitoring and tackling periodic outbreaks of the marauding insects are among the objectives of the Locust Warning Organization (LWO) in Jodhpur. There were 13 locust upsurges from 1964 to 1997, and after 2010 there was “no large scale breeding” reported. Once a significant outbreak starts, it lasts for about two years, and then there is a quietus for about eight years. LWO officials say that the swarm building up is potentially the “worst in decades”. It is a testimony to its devastating potential that an arcane piece of legislation, The East Punjab Agricultural Pests, Diseases and Noxious Weeds Act, 1949, has a provision whereby a District Collector can “...call upon any male person not below the age of 14 years resident in the district to render all possible assistance ...” and there is potential imprisonment for failure to abide by the law. Antiquated as it may sound, it is a reminder that humanity’s oldest blights — plague, pestilence — will never truly be eliminated. The breeding locusts which threaten farming are an indirect fallout of the warming Indian Ocean, as some meteorologists suggest. Last year, there were fears that the monsoon may fall short because of an El Niño, or warming of the Equatorial Pacific. However there was an extreme flip. By July it was evident that a positive Indian Ocean Dipole, or relatively higher temperature in the western Indian Ocean, was in the works. This led to record-breaking rainfall in India — then a cause for cheer — as well as in eastern Africa. But moist African deserts precipitated locust breeding and favourable rain-bearing winds aided their transport towards India. On the other hand, coronavirus quarantines meant that routine coordination activities involving India, Pakistan and Afghanistan regarding spraying pesticides were halted. While it is some comfort that there is now limited standing crop in India, forecasts are for good rains in Rajasthan, and, paradoxically, conducive conditions for locust breeding during the sowing season. A less highlighted aspect of global warming is that it may link disparate disasters — floods, pandemics and pestilence — amplifying the potency of each. Improved science and technology is only making it clearer that man’s follies transcend borders. This makes it necessary to abandon any territorial blame game and focus on policies that will ensure an equitable, sustainable future.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Rising tide||Protests and violence returned to Hong Kong on May 24. In scenes that became all-too-familiar through much of last year, police used water cannons, tear gas, and pepper spray, as a protest march descended into clashes between protesters and riot police. The weekend’s march had originally been planned ahead of a debate in Hong Kong’s Legislative Council (LegCo) on a new national anthem bill, which would punish anyone who insulted China’s anthem with up to three years in prison. The protest assumed significance when two days before the march, China’s central government stunned Hong Kong’s pro-democracy parties by tabling a new national security bill, as the National People’s Congress met in Beijing. The bill, expected to be passed when the NPC’s annual session ends on Thursday, urges Hong Kong’s legislature to pass national security laws “as soon as possible”. Else, the bill leaves open the possibility that Beijing could bypass LegCo, declaring that the NPC is “authorized to draft laws” on security for Hong Kong. What has concerned pro-democracy activists in Hong Kong is a new provision for China’s national security organs to “set up institutions” in the Special Administrative Region. Under the Basic Law that has governed Hong Kong since 1997, the SAR has a high degree of autonomy “to enjoy executive, legislative and independent judicial power, including that of final adjudication”; only defence and foreign affairs are to be handled by Beijing. Article 23 of the law requires Hong Kong to pass national security legislation, but the law makes clear it is Hong Kong’s legislature that enjoys the power to make and repeal laws — the bedrock of the “one country, two systems” model. In 2003, a national security bill allowing the shutting down of seditious newspapers and carrying out warrantless searches was withdrawn after protests. Beijing now argues that last year’s protests, blamed on “external forces”, underlined the need for a new law to curb “acts of secession and subversion”. The timing of the move may reveal its motivations. Hong Kong’s legislative elections are in September and the pro-Beijing camp fears losing control of LegCo, even if its unusual rules have stacked it with pro-Beijing lawmakers. Only half of the 70 seats are directly elected; the rest are nominated. Yet such is the rising tide of support for pro-democracy parties that Beijing worries it could lose the two-thirds majority needed for any amendments to the Basic Law. The pro-democracy camp swept November’s district council elections, seen as a referendum on the youth-driven protests. A record 70% turnout won the pro-democracy candidates 390 of 452 seats. The elections demonstrated that public support for full democracy is growing. The new piece of legislation is aimed at tightening Beijing’s grip over Hong Kong, but it may well end up having the opposite effect. Hong Kong cannot be won without its people.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Peaceful polling in Ceylon||Polling in the whole of Ceylon to day (May 27), backed up by light security arrangements and an alerted Army, went off peacefully with no major incident reported from anywhere in the island. A record 85 per cent of the island's five and a half million voters were reported to have exercised their franchise in a highly disciplined manner in the keen tussle between Prime Minister Mr. Dudley Senanayake and the opposition leader Mrs. Sirimavo Bandaranaike, to head the government for the next five years. It was officially stated about 50 young persons were put behind the bars during the last one month. They were believed to have connection with an alleged plot by “Che Guevara” type revolutionaries to disrupt the poll by sporadic terrorist raids on polling booths and police stations. Ruling Front and the Sri Lanka Freedom Party-led Opposition circles concede that it is a neck-and-neck race between them.
28 May 2020||Mumbai,||Loans to MSMEs may get ‘risk-free’ tag||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is likely to allow banks to assign zero risk weight for loans that will be extended to the micro, medium and small enterprises (MSMEs) under the Rs. 20 lakh crore economic package announced by the government earlier this month. The Finance Ministry had requested the central bank to make these loans risk free, following an interaction with banks. As a part of the package, a Rs. 3 lakh crore loan for the MSME sector was announced. This will be guaranteed by the National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company Limited (NCGTC) in the form of a Guaranteed Emergency Credit Line (GECL) facility. However, such loans would attract a risk weight of a minimum 20% since these don’t come with direct government guarantee. This facility is similar to the loans that are guaranteed by the Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE). After banks highlighted the issue with the government, the Finance Ministry asked the RBI to waive the requirement of assigning a risk weight to the loans, sources said. “The RBI is likely to waive the requirement of risk weight,” a source said. “The Finance Ministry is expected to issue detailed guidelines on this credit guarantee loan issue,” the source added. Sources also said that the government had factored in less than 15% non-performing assets from this Rs. 3 lakh crore of loans. “The government has said that it has made [available] a corpus of Rs. 41,600 crore for the scheme, which is spread over the next few years. This means the government is factoring in less than 15% non-performing assets, as of now,” said an official of a public sector bank. Other small borrowers Though primarily meant for the MSME sector, other small borrowers including non-banking financial companies can also avail themselves of the scheme, sources said. The scheme will be applicable till October 31, or till an amount of Rs. 3 lakh crore is sanctioned, whichever is earlier. Zero risk would mean that banks will not have to set aside additional capital for these loans. The move is aimed at encouraging lenders to extend credit, as banks have turned risk averse and have been reluctant to lend. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who met chief executives of pubic sector banks last week, said banks had been asked to extend loans automatically to eligible borrowers without fear of the ‘3Cs’ — CBI, CVC and CAG. The tenure of loan under this scheme will be four years, with a moratorium period of one year on the principal amount. The NCGTC will not charge any guarantee fee. The interest rate under the scheme is 9.25% if the loan is extended by banks and financial institutions, and 14% if by NBFCs.
28 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Tata Power plans to add 700 MW in renewable energy||Tata Power has enhanced its renewable portfolio by 7% to 3,883 mega watts (MW) and plans to add 700 MW in the near future to take the capacity to 4,600 MW. More than a third of Tata Power’s portfolio comes from clean energy. Of the 3,383 MW, 932 MW comes from wind and 1,705 MW comes from solar alone. “The company’s renewable energy portfolio stands at 3,883 MW, a 7% increase from the corresponding quarter last year,” said a company statement. “We, at Tata Power, have constantly strived to proliferate the company’s renewable energy portfolio with each passing year. We successfully added a capacity of 312 MW to our TPREL portfolio last year and are in the process of adding another 700 MW. We aim to add a large amount of renewable energy capacity through wind, rooftop solar, solar panels and microgrids to our portfolio every year and scale up our existing portfolio in the next five years,” said Praveer Sinha, MD & CEO, Tata Power. About 36% of the firm’s capacity comes from clean generation sources, and is about 1% of India’s total capacity of 372 GW.  Ashish Khanna, president, Renewables, Tata Power said, “As the nation is gripped by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we have continued to operate nearly 71 of our renewable project sites at optimum capacity owing to the rising power demands from States. The announcement by the [Centre] on must-run renewable energy projects and payments to renewable energy generators to be made on a regular basis by discoms is welcome.”
28 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Mercedes-Benz plans 10 new models to spur demand||German luxury car manufacturer Mercedes-Benz has announced plans to launch 10 new models in 2020 to stimulate demand for its products. The company on Wednesday digitally launched two new models in the high-performance AMG segment. These include the AMG C 63 Coupé priced at Rs. 1.33 crore (ex-showroom India except Kerala) and AMG GT R Coupé priced at Rs. 2.48 crore (ex-showroom India except Kerala). Martin Schwenk, MD and CEO, Mercedes-Benz India, said, “With a strong market presence and a dedicated retail network, our AMG strategy has helped us in cementing our market leadership in the luxury performance car segment.” “The AMG C 63 Coupé and the AMG GT R will continue to create momentum and further expand the segment,” he said.  Skoda unveils 3 models Separately, Škoda Auto India launched three new vehicles — Rapid 1.0 TSI, the new Superb and the all-new Karoq at starting prices of Rs. 7.49 lakh, Rs. 29.99 lakh and Rs. 24.99 lakh, respectively, ex-showroom India. The company has offered 100% funding on the ex-showroom prices of the vehicles at an 8.99% interest rate. Zac Hollis, brand director — Škoda Auto India, said: “The latest Škoda offerings are deemed bestsellers, setting benchmarks for functionality, practicality and spaciousness in their segments.” “In a phased manner, we will resume operations at our dealership facilities in strict adherence to the guidelines issued by the authorities to curtail any potential spread of the coronavirus,” Mr. Hollis said.
28 May 2020||Chennai,||Amalgamations’ auto parts unit to cut pay||The Rs. 1,500-crore auto engineering components division of the Amalgamations Group has proposed a graded, across the board, temporary pay reduction for its executives until it sees some stability, said a top official. “Currently, there is a lot of volatility and uncertainty in the market place. In keeping with the trend in the industry, we have also proposed a graded pay reduction across the board until we are able to see some stability,” said Ram Venkataramani, managing director, IP Rings Ltd., a part of the auto components division of the Amalgamations Group. Asserting that the market downturn and the circumstances surrounding COVID-19 had forced many companies to adopt digital and automation practices that are expected to yield some productivity gains, he said employees have to adapt to the changing expectations from customers and the organisation in order to continue to succeed. The division has about 500 senior level executives and the temporary pay reduction will be in the range of 5% to 20%. Regarding lay offs, he said: “We will try and keep the headcount reduction to a bare minimum except for such areas where inefficiencies are very high. As of now, we are operating with minimum staff.” The company has also put on hold its expansion plans for FY21.
28 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Sensex rises 1,000 points as banking stocks shine||Indian equity benchmarks rose over 3% on Wednesday, with the benchmark Sensex gaining more than 1,000 points during intraday trade, as banking and financial stocks witnessed huge buying interest ahead of the derivatives expiry on Thursday. The 30-share Sensex gained 995.92 points, or 3.25%, to close at 31,605.22. During the day, it touched a high of 31,660.60, up 1,051 points, over the previous day’s close of 30,609.30. Incidentally, the top eight gainers in the Sensex pack were all lender entities, with Axis Bank heading the pack with a gain of 13.46%. It was followed by ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance, Kotak Mahindra Bank, State Bank of India and HDFC. The broader Nifty settled the day at 9,314.95, up 285.90 points or 3.17%. The India VIX index fell nearly 1% to trade around 31 levels; it was trading around 40 a month ago. A positive trend in most leading Asian markets also acted as catalyst even as investor sentiment received a boost with foreign entities turning net buyers in the current month after two consecutive months of selling. While provisional data showed that foreign portfolio investors were net sellers at Rs. 335 crore on Wednesday, they have been net buyers at Rs. 12,741 crore in the current month — a sharp upswing compared to the cumulative selling of nearly Rs. 69,000 crore in the previous two months.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Shiva Texyarn launches reusable ‘Smiley’ masks||Technical textile manufacturer Shiva Texyarn in Coimbatore has launched reusable masks with filters in the domestic market under the Smiley brand. K.S. Sundararaman, MD of Shiva Texyarn, said the Smiley brand masks are of a hybrid variety with two layers of fabric (inner layer is cotton and the outer layer is fine polyester) and a disposable filter. The aim is to keep the masks light so that there is breathability, and also to provide protective features. While the filters can be replaced with new ones, the fabric masks can be washed and reused. The product was launched on e-commerce sites initially and supplied to corporate clients in bulk quantities too. “We will also sell the filters in separate packets,” he says. The current production for the Smiley brand is 10,000 pieces a day, of the total production of 25,000 masks a day under different categories. The market potential is huge the world over for masks, as the usage is high, said Mr. Sundararaman.
28 May 2020||Chennai,||Brookfield invests Rs. 1,225 crore in IndoStar||Brookfield Business Partners L.P., along with its institutional partners, has invested Rs. 1,225 crore in Indostar Capital Finance Ltd., a non-banking financial company (NBFC) promoted by Everstone Group. With the infusion of over Rs. 860 crore through equity and the balance through compulsorily convertible preference shares, Brookefield is set to become a co-promoter along with IndoStar Capital Mauritius and will have the ability to nominate two members on the board. Everstone Group, with about 24% stake, has two directors on the IndoStar board. “This is the first private equity deal by Brookfield in the Indian financial services space. Brookefield will get an equity stake of over 24.6% in IndoStar and this will eventually go up to 40%. The infusion will also trigger an open offer, which would be launched during June/July after receiving regulatory approvals,” said Amol Joshi, CFO, IndoStar Capital Finance Ltd. “This is truly a transformational investment for IndoStar. This not only provides equity funding, but also access to new debt financing via Brookfield’s relationships with financial institutions,” said R. Sridhar, executive vice-chairman and CEO, IndoStar Capital Finance Ltd.  Brookfield will get stake of over 24.6% in IndoStar and this will eventually go up to 40%
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||NTPC eyes majority stake in Delhi distribution cos.||Power giant NTPC has evinced interest in buying 51% stake in Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group’s (ADAG) two utilities in Delhi, BSES Rajdhani Power Ltd. (BRPL) and BSES Yamuna Power Ltd. (BYPL).  In a letter written to Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) on May 26, 2020, the power giant said, “NTPC has decided to foray into power distribution sector and is keen on acquiring the distribution assets (BRPL and BYPL). We have learnt from media reports that ADAG wants to divest its stake in BRPL and BYPL.” “NTPC is keen to explore the opportunities for acquiring 51 per cent stake in BRPL and BYPL, which are on sale, provided that the equity sale is done through a transparent process”.
28 May 2020||Chennai,||Profit of Tube Investments at Rs. 74 crore||Tube Investments of India Ltd. (TIIL) has posted a standalone net profit after tax of Rs. 74 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2020, including an exceptional item of Rs. 22 crore. TII had recorded a net profit of Rs. 55 crore in the year-earlier period. Total revenue from operations slipped to Rs. 935 crore from Rs. 1,224 crore due to a contraction in the auto industry. For the year ended March 2020, higher profitability and lower capital employed enabled the sustainability of return on capital employed to 23%. During the quarter, TIIL implemented a voluntary retirement scheme at a cost of Rs. 22 crore and the same was considered as an exceptional item resulting in profit before tax (after exceptional items) of Rs. 86 crore. The board has planned to raise Rs. 200 crore by way of issue of privately placed, secured non-convertible debentures.
28 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Sun Pharma Q4 profit declines 37%||Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. has reported 37% drop in consolidated net profit for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2020 at Rs. 400 crore as compared to Rs. 636 crore in the same period last year. This is on account of a one-time loss of Rs. 260 crore. Sales from operations at Rs. 8,078 crore was a growth of 15% over Rs. 7,044 crore in same quarter last year. Sales from India operations were Rs. 2,365 crore. Sales for the same period last quarter included a one-time impact of approximately Rs. 1,085 crore related to change in distribution for India business. Adjusted for this impact, the company’s India sales grew 8% y-o-y for the quarter.
28 May 2020||Mumbai,||Leo Puri set to join JP Morgan||Leo Puri, the former MD and CEO of UTI Mutual Fund, will take charge as the chairman of JP Morgan, South and Southeast Asia after Kalpana Morparia retires in 2021. “[Ms.] Morparia, chairman, south and southeast Asia, has informed the firm of her desire to retire. She has agreed to stay with the firm until Q1 2021, and help lead the firm’s efforts in south and southeast Asia as we and our clients adapt to the new economic and work environment,” the New York headquartered lender said in statement. Ms. Morparia will also oversee the smooth transition of her India and south and southeast Asia responsibilities, it said. Mr. Puri will report to Filippo Gori, CEO, Asia Pacific.
28 May 2020||Mumbai,||SBI customers to SMS ‘yes’ for moratorium||State Bank of India’s (SBI’s) customers will be able to avail loan repayment moratorium facility by simply responding to an SMS from the bank, the lender said. The bank will send an SMS to customers, who have given standing instructions, to which they have to respond with a ‘yes’ within five days of the communication if they want to avail the facility. The bank also said it would extend the moratorium by another three months for all 85 lakh eligible customers without waiting for their request.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ola Electric buys e-scooter maker Etergo||Ola Electric Mobility on Wednesday said it had acquired Amsterdam-based electric scooter maker Etergo, while also announcing its foray into the premium electric two-wheeler market. Ola said it would leverage Etergo’s design and engineering capabilities to build its smart electric two-wheeler for international and Indian markets. The firm did not share financial details of the deal but a Reuters report said Etergo was last valued at $92 million. Bhavish Aggarwal, chairman, Ola Electric, said, “The future of mobility is electric, and the post-COVID-19 world presents an opportunity for us to accelerate adoption.”
28 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Fate of T20 World Cup uncertain||The International Cricket Council (ICC) Board is likely to adopt a wait-and-watch approach when discussing the fate of the T20 World Cup, scheduled to be played in Australia in October-November. The COVID-19 outbreak has thrown sports calendars into disarray, and cricket is no exception. The future of the marquee event — set to feature 16 teams — hangs in the balance. There have been murmurs of a postponement, either to 2021 or 2022, but the ICC was quick to clarify on Wednesday that it is going ahead with preparations. Clarification “The ICC has not taken a decision to postpone the T20 World Cup and preparations are ongoing for the event in Australia this year as per plan. The topic is on the agenda for the ICC Board meeting [on Thursday] and a decision will be made in due course,” stated an ICC spokesperson.  The Hindu understands that despite a few constituents of the 18-member Board pushing for rescheduling the event, the ICC is likely to wait for a while, considering multiple factors. With the National Rugby League in Australia likely to receive the go-ahead, with limited spectators in the stands, the ICC would like to monitor developments and delay its decision till the last minute. Besides, the fact that the ICC is set to have a new chief in the annual meeting in the next couple of months also means that outgoing chairman Shashank Manohar would be hesitant to impose his decisions on the new regime. Should Cricket Australia express its inability on Thursday to conduct the event, the ICC will have to schedule it in either 2021 or 2022. India is set to host next year’s T20 World Cup, but is involved in a conflict with the ICC over securing tax benefits from the government. The ICC does not have an event scheduled in 2022.
28 May 2020||CHENNAI,||A paddler on the upward curve||In India, it is unusual to see a male paddler using short pimple on the forehand and anti-top rubber on the backhand, and move up the ranks. Sushmit Sriram has successfully bucked the trend, even beating players he had never overcome before. In the last domestic season, Sushmit reached the final of the South Zone event in Thiruvananthapuram, beating former National champion Sanil Shetty in the semifinal. The 27-year-old also entered the last four in Bhavnagar (Central Zone) and Kolkata (East Zone).  But his claim to fame was when he defeated England's Sam Walker, ranked 86 then, in the pre-quarterfinals of the Commonwealth championship in Cuttack last year. Sushmit has now reached a career-high ranking of No. 5 in the country. Sushmit attributed his gradual growth to playing at the Bundesliga third division league in Germany and stressed on the roles played by local coaches V. Vasu and V. M. Ravi Venkatesh at Maharishi Vidya Mandir Club, Chetpet. “I’ve been playing in Germany since 2016 and it has given me a lot of exposure and experience of playing under pressure in team matches against players with different styles,” Sushmit said. Ranked 406 in the world, Sushmit said that he had to play in more Pro Tours and entire domestic tournaments to get into the top-200 in the world and be a regular part of the Indian team.  “TTFI largely goes by world rankings. I want to be a part of the Commonwealth Games squad [by 2022],” he said. It has been tough for Sushmit without a big sponsor and a steady job. The Airport Authority of India is a sponsor, but more help is always welcome. But his spirits are up, despite the COVID-19 interruption. “I have to start everything from scratch, but I have the confidence,” he said.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hitting the right notes for success||Excellence is rarely achieved in a hurry. The transition from juniors to the professional circuit is a mystery for many, but patience and the belief in the process help the kids find their way. One of the brightest juniors in the country, Adil Kalyanpur, who did well to compete in the UK under-14 tennis championship in Wimbledon and later qualified for the French Open under-18 wild-card event, had the dream experience of training at the Rafael Nadal Academy in Spain for a few years. But bogged down by a string of injuries and perhaps because of the “Spanish style of grinding” in training, Adil lost self-confidence. Family support Luckily, with the support of his parents and renowned doctors Sunita Maheshwari and Arjun Kalyanpur, Adil found his way back from the depressing state of mind. More than his revival with a semifinal entry in Turkey, the 20-year-old Adil was able to highlight the equanimity of his mind, with a robust rap. With a superb beat, “ The captivity of negativity ” explains the maturity of the young man through his hard journey, in about four minutes.  “I wanted to be the best that the world could ever see,” sang Adil, before giving an insight into the stark reality that he faced, in the rap. “We are driven by results, instead of progress... wanna get there fast and so begins the greed.” He hit the nail on the head. Shedding negativity The final advice is to breathe and meditate which would free one from the overwhelming feeling of negativity. With the song in the backdrop, Adil opened up nicely in an Instagram conversation with another talented tennis player Sasikumar Mukund.
28 May 2020||TIRUCHI,||Athletes need to stay motivated, says Annavi||Former international high jumper N. Annavi feels it is imperative not to let fear of COVID-19 affect the performance of sportspersons. “The fear is quite natural and to conquer it is definitely a challenge,” he said, firmly believing that sports psychologists will play a crucial role, facilitating the athletes to remain positive all through. “In addition, the motivation provided by the coaches will put them in the right frame of mind to give their best,” he observed. A coach himself, Annavi said he has been instructing his trainees here through their WhatsApp group on the fitness regimen alongside advising on staying safe.  The former National record holder said a majority of his trainees over the years were identified through the summer athletics coaching camp organised by the Rail Sports Club Athletics Academy here, of which he has been a part. “It is disappointing that the camp, an annual feature for the last 26 years, could not be held this time. Nevertheless, we do have a plan to conduct the camp after normalcy returns,” said Annavi, who is also an athletics coach for Indian Railways. Good samaritans On their part, Annavi and other former sportspersons, along with the Sowdambikaa Group of Institutions, provided groceries and vegetable packs to the ground staff of the Anna Stadium here recently. “Now is the opportunity for us to reciprocate. After all, it is they who work strenuously to keep the ground ready for us.”
28 May 2020||Coimbatore,||BWF extends Tokyo Olympic qualification period into 2021||Badminton World Federation (BWF), on Wednesday, announced an extended qualification period of 17 weeks in 2021 for the Tokyo Olympics. Crucially, it stated that all ranking points earned at tournaments during the original Olympic qualification period (29 April 2019 to 26 April 2020) will also count. Select tournaments BWF was unable to complete the last six weeks of its one-year qualifying period in 2020 due to COVID-19 and the extended period, slated from week 1 to 17 in 2021, will include a select number of tournaments that were postponed, cancelled or suspended. Efforts will be made to hold these events next year in the same corresponding week from 2020. If not, another date will be sanctioned within week 1-17, subject to approval. BWF clarified that tournaments rescheduled for the end of 2020, as per the revised calendar announced last week, will not count towards qualification. Only the 2021 editions of each tournament will. For example, the rescheduled India Open, set to be held from December 8 to 13, will not count, but the 2021 edition, if held in its usual slot in March, will. ‘Limited impact’ “Although we aim to resume international tournaments towards the end of 2020, we have chosen to resume the Olympic and Paralympic qualification process only in 2021 to ensure that travel restrictions and other related impacts of COVID-19 are limited,” a press release quoted Thomas Lund, the BWF Secretary-General, as saying. For the Paralympics, only one tournament within the original Paralympic qualification period was cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic — the Spanish Para Badminton International 2020 — and it has now been included in the adjusted qualification system within a period from January 1 to March 28, 2021. Revised calendar A revised BWF tournament calendar for 2021 with the actual dates for these eligible tournaments will be revealed later.
28 May 2020||Berlin,||Bayern zooms seven clear after Der Klassiker win at Dortmund||Joshua Kimmich described his winning goal as “brutally important” after Bayern Munich took a huge step towards an eighth straight Bundesliga title with a 1-0 win at Borussia Dortmund to leave it seven points clear at the top with just six games left. Kimmich’s brilliant effort came just before half-time behind closed doors at Signal Iduna Park as host Dortmund missed the chance to turn up the heat on the Bavarians without the backing of its huge support. Important “It was brutally important: I looked around to see if everyone understood how important it was,” Kimmich said of his deft chip. Kimmich’s captain Manuel Neuer echoed the defensive midfielder’s thoughts. “That was a very important sign,” said Neuer. Bayern was in control, and Kimmich grabbed what proved to be the winner two minutes before half-time when he chipped Burki from 20 yards.  The results: Borussia Dortmund 0 lost to Bayern Munich 1 (Kimmich 43); Bayer Leverkusen 0 lost to Wolfsburg 4 (Pongracic 43, 75, Arnold 64, Steffen 68).   Eintracht Frankfurt 3 (Silva 35, Kamada 79, Chandler 82) drew with Freiburg 3 (Grifo 28, Petersen 67, Holer 69); Werder Bremen 0 drew with Borussia M’G ladbach 0.
28 May 2020||KOCHI,||Usha’s son Vignesh forges new path||Hockey legend Dhyan Chand’s son Ashok Kumar picked up his dad’s sport and won an Olympic bronze in Munich, 1972. And athletics great Milkha Singh’s son Jeev went on to become one of India’s finest golfers. Many years ago, when P.T. Usha saw her little son Vignesh Ujjwal running around with a nice spring, she felt that he would turn out to be a good athlete. Ujjwal showed early promise, winning 100 and 200m golds in school, but he was never serious about track and field. “When we made him run and conducted tests, he did very well. But he didn’t show much interest in athletics then. I would have loved if he had taken up athletics but we didn’t want to push him,” revealed Usha in a chat with The Hindu . There is an important advice for parents here. Despite being one of the India’s greatest athletes, Usha felt that pushing her son into her sport was not proper. The football link “He showed that he could be good at football. When he joined medical college, he was a striker. Only then, we realised how much he loved the game,” said Usha. Ujjwal, 27, is a doctor and it’s clear that he will not reach the highs his mother did when she ruled Asia in the 80s and came very close to an Olympic medal in Los Angeles 1984. But the young man is slowly getting back to sport in his own way. A few days ago, Ujjawal gained an IOC diploma in sports medicine with distinction. The two-year online course, run by IOC’s Medical Commission, could see him studying athletes closely in the near future. “Sports medicine is different from other branches of medicine, it’s very vast and it’s something I’m very interested in,” said Ujjwal. “Opportunities are vast, you can join a club as doctor or physio, or you can go abroad. Or you can always do research.”
28 May 2020||KOLKATA,||KKR does its bit for Amphan affected||Indian Premier League franchise Kolkata Knight Riders has extended its support to the West Bengal Government in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. Apart from committing to contribute to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, KKR has pledged to work with the local authorities of Kolkata and plant 5000 trees in the city. Besides, KKR has decided to send out Sahayata Vahan vehicles “to go around West Bengal and help affected people in satellite towns and districts. Ration and essential hygiene items to be distributed to the needy across four most affected regions — Kolkata, North and South 24 Parganas and East Medinipur.” KKR has said that its trained volunteers would follow social distancing norms to avoid the spread of COVID-19. They will use all necessary safety equipment, such as masks, gloves and sanitisers, while serving in the cyclone-affected areas.
28 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Netaji’s volleyball club bears the brunt of Amphan’s wrath||The volleyball club that was established by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose 90 years ago suffered extensive damage in the havoc wreaked by cyclone Amphan. The Bijoyee Sangha was established in 1930 by Bose at the historic Shraddhananda Park after he became the general secretary of the Indian National Congress. As Bose became the key figure in the country’s quest for freedom, the club hosted many important political personalities and meetings apart from promoting sports. “As kids we grew up listening about how the club became central to the freedom movement after Netaji established it with the aim to attract the local youth to sports,” said Prasenjit Dutta, a former senior national player who currently coaches at Bijoyee Sangha. “As Netaji’s stature grew in the national freedom movement, the club hosted leaders like Mahatma Gandhi and many others whenever they came for meetings at the Shraddhananda Park. “The club is surrounded by some very old trees and three huge trees, which were more than 50 years old, were brought down by the cyclone. The trees fell on the courts uprooting posts and electrical connections. It also caused enough damage to the club building. We may have lost some valuable documents and memorabilia that were preserved in the club,” said Dutta.  Ashutosh Roy Chowdhury, who did pioneering work in getting women to play volleyball in the mid-60s, is still an active member at the age of 93. “He ignored his frail health conditions and came down to the club personally to see the damage caused by the cyclone,” said Dutta reflecting the attachment of the club members.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||SAI opens training at Patiala and Bengaluru||Olympic-bound athletes cloistered at the National Institute of Sports, Patiala and the Centre of Excellence, Bengaluru finally got the go-ahead to resume training starting Wednesday. A day after opening its stadia in Delhi to trainees, the Sports Authority of India cleared sporting activities for elite athletes, subject to ministry, SAI and NSF Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). While Patiala has athletes and weightlifters, Bengaluru has the men's and women’s hockey teams and a few athletes. However, only elite athletes either already qualified for the Olympics or part of the national camp and on the verge of qualifying would begin in the initial stage starting Wednesday evening. Equipments would be self-sanitised by athletes after use, maintain social distancing and follow the staggered schedule provided for training. The athletes have been stuck indoors for almost two months with nationwide lockdown amidst the COVID-19 pandemic.
28 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sponsors hit the pause button||Leading brands of sports gear have made it clear to badminton players not to expect any sponsorship fees till November. A letter to one Asian-level shuttler said in view of COVID-19, the effect it has had on the market and companies’ revenues, it is not possible to fulfil the commitments made earlier for the next three months. These commitments range between Rs. 11,000 per month to young, up-and-coming talent and significantly bigger amounts to those who have made a mark at the Asian and Commonwealth level. “Normally, they pay this amount every month and also provide the kit to my child,” said a parent. “Now, in this crisis, even this is ruled out. This move may not affect the big players, but lesser-ranked players who are targeting improved performances in the post-lockdown scenario at the international level will be badly hit.” Brands have also stopped scheduled shoots of some of the top players due to the lockdown and are waiting to see the economic scenario once it is lifted. However, some of the big guns have been assured that their interests will be taken care of when situation improves.
28 May 2020||Melbourne,||‘India’s Australia Test series from Dec. 3’||Cricket Australia has locked in four venues for the financially crucial Test series against India and the first match is tentatively set for a December 3 start in Brisbane, as per local media reports. Two Australian media outlets — 7news.com.au and Sydney Morning Herald (SMH) — reported that the schedule for the four Tests has been finalised. According to reports, CA Chief Executive Kevin Roberts will make it official on Friday and the plan does not include any quarantine hub or “bio bubble” for the visitors. “Cricket Australia (CA), on Wednesday, ticked off on the Test series beginning in Brisbane on Dec. 3 before heading to Adelaide from Dec. 11 and Melbourne and Sydney for the traditional Boxing Day (Dec. 26) and New Year Tests (Jan. 3),” 7news.com.au reported. It is expected that the second Test in Adelaide will be a day/night affair as BCCI president Sourav Ganguly had committed earlier. SMH reported: “Perth is scheduled to kick off the Australian Test summer with a pink-ball match against Afghanistan but Brisbane has won the right to host world powerhouse India in the season’s marquee series.” According to SMH, “CA will, on Friday, announce the international schedule for the 2020-21 season, which will feature as many as five international men’s sides, though this will be subject to change due to the global health crisis.” The 7news.com.au report stated: “With Australia’s coronavirus situation easing, the series looks certain to go ahead without the need for a quarantine hub. “The entire tour taking place in one city had been a possibility but the biggest question is whether — or how many — fans will be allowed to attend matches.”
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen meets Nakamura in semifinals||For the second time in three days, Magnus Carlsen dismissed Wesley So’s challenge 2.5-0.5 and set up a semifinal-clash with Hikaru Nakamura in the $150,000 Lindores Abbey Rapid Challenge. Carlsen won both games with black and, in between, drew with white, in the second of the best-of-four mini-match. Later, Sergey Karjakin rallied from 1-2 to win 3-2 over Russian teammate Daniil Dubov and draw level after two mini-matches. Much like the all-China encounter involving Ling Diren and Wu Yangyi, the Karjakin-Dubov match will also be decided following a third mini-match.  The results: Quarterfinal (second mini-match): Carlsen (Nor) bt So (USA) 2.5-0.5; Karjakin (Rus) bt Dubov (Rus) 3-2 .
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Also on the agenda||The other important issues that will come up for discussion when the ICC Board meets on Thursday: Chairman election The procedure and timelines for electing Shashank Manohar’s successor as ICC chairman will be formalised. At the moment, England’s Colin Graves and Singapore’s Imran Khawaja are the contenders, with BCCI president Sourav Ganguly a rank outsider. Standoff with BCCI The ICC had set a deadline of May 18 for the BCCI to obtain an assurance from the Central government on tax exemptions for the 2021 T20 World Cup. The BCCI has sought an extension, citing the pandemic; it will be interesting to see if the ICC takes the event away from the BCCI.
28 May 2020||Kolkata,||Mirabai Chanu recommended for Khel Ratna||The Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF) has nominated former World champion S. Mirabai Chanu for the Arjuna Award. Mirabai, who won the World title in 2017, is one of the rare athletes who bagged the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award in 2018 even before getting the Arjuna Award. After winning the 2018 CWG gold, she claimed gold medals in three Olympic qualifying events — EGAT Cup, Commonwealth championships and Qatar Cup — last year. The IWLF has also recommended the names of 2018 Commonwealth Games gold medallists R.V. Rahul and Punam Yadav for the Arjuna Award.
28 May 2020||Mumbai,||Truecaller data for sale on dark web is from 2019 leak||A day after data of 4.75 crore Indian Truecaller users was found to have been offered up for sale on the dark web, Truecaller on Wednesday stated that the data seemed to be from a set leaked in May 2019. Researchers from Cyble Inc, the U.S.-based cyber intelligence firm that found the leak, confirmed the same. Meanwhile, the same threat actor also put up a whopping 600 million other data sets for sale on Wednesday. The Truecaller data, which is of users from all over the country and is classified into folders, was being offered for a mere $1000 (about Rs. 76,000). A spokesperson from the company said on Wednesday, “There has been no breach of our database and all our user information is secure. We take the privacy of our users and the integrity of our services extremely seriously and we are continuously monitoring for suspicious activities. “We were informed about a similar sale of data in May 2019. What they have here is likely the same dataset as before. It’s easy for bad actors to compile multiple phone number databases and put a Truecaller stamp on it. By doing that, it lends some credibility to the data and makes it easier for them to sell. We urge the public and users not to fall prey to such bad actors whose primary motive is to swindle the people of their money.” Cyble founder Beenu Arora said that it was confirmed that the data was a subset of the 2019 leak. Cyber threat The 600 million other data sets posted for sale belongs to Chinese and Taiwanese companies as well as individuals. The data has been put up by TooGod, the same entity responsible for the Truecaller data posting. “The Truecaller leak, in contrast, is minor in nature considering that the actor has now leaked over 600 million records, including from China, Taiwan etc. TooGod is not the biggest worry from my perspective, as the actor is just another wholesaler in the dark web market. There are other active groups, who are continually targeting large organisations as well as growing start-ups,” Mr. Arora said. He added that the average user is advised to stay alert to suspicious text messages, phone calls and emails, regularly monitor banking transactions for any potential anomalies or suspicious activities, use complex passwords and multi-factor authentication where possible and opt for data breach monitoring and notification services that tell users if their information is exposed.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Life, a sacrifice||The Isa Vasya captures the ideal way of life an individual should adopt during his tenure in this world and adds that such a person may be content to live a hundred years and attain Brahman. ‘He is indeed blessed when he lives life without attachments and does his duty in earnest without desire and without yearning for its fruits.’ This kind of orientation towards perceiving life as a sacrifice, meaning, living an austere life with the aim to get liberated eventually is central to the teaching in the Upanishads, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. They also teach many powerful mantras that can be meditated with faith and practised with dedication to attain goals, worldly and spiritual. In the Chandogya Upanishad (III-16), for instance, there is a mantra that prays for one’s own long life when there is a likelihood of it being cut short owing to sudden sickness or disease. This prayer is connected with the Gayatri mantra, a powerful mantra which is capable of protecting everything existing in this universe. “The Gayatri is what the earth is, for, on it everything here that has come to be. is established.” The idea is that the spiritual aspirant wishes to complete the rituals and duties and seeks protection from untimely death that might overtake him. He is engaged in the performance of the morning, midday and evening libations with the Gayatri hymn. The verse says that in the event of any sickness overtaking him during the three periods of his libations, which metaphorically is taken to be his life span of a hundred and sixteen years, he prays to the respective deities to grant him extension of time to complete the rituals successfully. The symbolic implication is that this mantra has the power to ward off premature death and to grant one long life so that he can strive to get liberated.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 11:17 IST,||Sudoku - May 28, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Spokes of change||Sumati Prabhakar and her husband MA Prabhakar were in need of help during the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown in Bengaluru. The elderly couple could not step out of their home. But they were hardly discomforted. Groceries were delivered at doorstep. Medicines reached them on time. Even a drainage problem was fixed swiftly. Sumati thanks Relief Riders, a group of 200 plus cyclists who support the city’s senior citizens during the lockdown. The volunteers are a part of the #CycleToWork campaign that Bengaluru’s bicycle mayor, Sathya Sankaran launched in 2018. He is a part of BYCS, a Dutch social enterprise that heads a worldwide network of international cycle mayors. The organisation’s 50by30 mission envisions making half of the world’s city trips by bicycle, by 2030. Sankaran and other bicycle mayors of India believe the COVID-19 lockdown could catalyse this movement. “Public transport is going to be less secure,” says Sankaran, “So, using individual motor vehicles seems like the easy alternative. Normalcy doesn’t have to necessarily mean going back to our old ways. We can practise a sustainable way of life.” Seeking support Sankaran along with Dr Arvind Bhateja, a neurosurgeon and a cyclist, have come up with the #ResetWithCycling campaign that brings together citizens, doctors, environmentalists, urban planners and the Government to revive cities’ transport after the lockdown. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao said in support of the campaign, “I am urging you to come out and ride our cycle for your own interest and the interest of the city. Spread the word in the community, make it a bigger group.” Bicycle mayors from other cities are following suit. Felix John in Chennai has written to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister seeking better infrastructure for cyclists. “We are usually considered a nuisance to motorists on roads,” he says, “Now is a good time for the authorities to experiment with cycle corridors on commercial roads like OMR.” In Pune, Abhijeet Kupate wrote to the city’s Mayor and Police Commissioner. The city’s civic body, Pune Municipal Corporation, has a ‘comprehensive bicycle plan’ to develop cycle tracks and design parking spaces among others. Despite this, Abhijeet says, “There’s a lack of strategy and planning. I haven’t received any responses from the authorities that I wrote to.” Guwahati’s bicycle mayor, Arshel Akhter, has also requested the Assam Government to make the city’s roads bike-friendly. He says, “The Government, however, seems reluctant to implement such projects. Maybe it is not focusing on these things now. But it will benefit a lot of people. Most people who cycle to work belong to low-income groups.” Feasibility in India The Energy and Resources Institute’s (TERI) report from 2018, Benefits of Cycling in India, estimates that 50% of Indians walk or cycle to work (excluding agriculture and household industries). In urban areas,after walking, workers are most dependent on two-wheelers. It estimates India can save Rs. 27 billion in fuel and Rs. 241 billion due to reduced air pollution if 50 % of two-wheeler and four-wheeler trips (within eight kilometres) are substituted by cycle journeys. The report adds, “If bicycles were to substitute the two-and four-wheelers used for short-distance trips, it can result in an annual benefit of Rs. 1.8 trillion.” “India’s the world’s diabetic capital. More than a 100 million are affected by obesity. This can all be reduced if people switch to cycling. The endorphins, a cycle-ride helps release, is good for your mental health,” says Dr Bhateja. But can India redesign its cities to accommodate cyclists? Sonal Kulkarni, an urban transport policy planner, says it can. “Our cities are similar to the ones in Europe, which are more conducive to cyclists. If it were like the ones in the US, it might have been difficult. If the people and the Government cooperate, we can reinvent the way we commute .” She adds, “The Government should recommend cycling in their guidelines and incentivise cyclists. We can get used to the changes now and it will be the new normal after the crisis is over.” Even if the Government implements cyclist-friendly measures, two- and four-wheeler owners might hesitate to switch to a bicycle. Hot summers, dusty roads with potholes and physical exertion are potential deterrents. Of this, Dr Bhateja says, “Of course, a change such as this is going to be difficult. But at some point, we need to think of the greater good as well.”  Gaining momentum Wuhan,the city where the pandemic began, delivered necessities during a two-month lockdown to stranded residents on bicycles.  The United Kingdom’sTransport Secretary Grant Shapps announced a £2 billion plan to boost cycling and walking after lockdown.  Parisintroduced 650 kilometres of cycleways — including a number of pop-up ‘corona cycleways’.  Milanhas made 35 kilometres of its city streets more accessible to pedestrians and cyclists — a change that will continue even after the lockdown.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The way home||“Migrant workers have helped build our roads, homes and offices. We cannot stand and watch them be homeless,” says actor Sonu Sood. Each day since the the COVID-19 lockdown began, the actor has been organising buses for migrant workers to travel from Mumbai to their respective hometowns.  As part of his ‘Ghar Bhejo’ campaign, he has helped approximately 12,000 migrants reach home, and arrangements have been made for another 45,000. He responds to questions over a voice note, amid what he calls a ‘crazily busy schedule’. Each day, at least around 45,000 people are provided food and water as well.  Hands-on effort Popular for his antagonist roles in blockbusters such as Dabangg (Hindi), Arundhati and Dookudu (Telugu), and Chandramukhi (Tamil), among other films, off-screen, Sonu has the reputation of being amiable. His team has set up a toll-free number (18001213711), and he also looks into requests that pour in through social media. “Initially, I spoke to some of the migrants here. They were in tears, and their kids were in bad shape. I requested some of them to wait for a day or two, stating that I will try to help,” he recalls. He contacted friends who could help him reach out to the transport authorities, police officials and State Governments of Maharashtra and Karnataka to get the required permissions. “The logistics and paper work took effort; we obtained clearances and with all medical safety precautions in place, we managed to send 350 migrants to Karnataka. That was the first step,” he elaborates. Since then, buses from Mumbai have plied to Karnataka, and permissions were also obtained for migrants to travel to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, and Rajasthan. Requests to travel to other states are also coming in. Sonu is eager to help those who want to travel to Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, but complies with the rules of the respective State Governments. “Since the number of cases is very high in Maharashtra, some Governments like Telangana haven’t been very forthcoming. We have been plying buses only to those States that have given us permissions,” he says.  The Shramik trains that ply migrant workers across the country, agrees Sonu, have helped address the crisis to an extent. But there is still demand for buses. “A lot of small things require coordination, like deciding who travels on which bus at what time. Some of my friends also pick up migrants stranded in different areas of Mumbai and drop them off at the buses,” he says. The actor calls it a team effort and says the film fraternity has also pitched in to help. He mentions how director Farah Khan calls on a daily basis to know the requirements and helps with organising water for everyone involved. Though Sonu does not disclose how much he has spent over the last few weeks, reports indicate that buses cost anywhere from Rs. 65,000 to Rs. 2 lakh for hire. Sonu began hiring them at his own expense, and as the word spread, people have come forward to do their bit for food, water and other requirements.  In the meantime, Sonu also opened the doors of his family-owned Shakti Sagar Hotel in Juhu, Mumbai, named after his father, to shelter paramedical staff and doctors: “Health workers are the wall between us and the virus. We are happy to provide them food and a place to rest, before they resume their work the following day.” It is a huge challenge and responsibility, admits Sonu: “God is making it happen and we have been chosen as tools. There are miles to go and the journey will continue.”
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Can you hear me now?||‘Zoom fatigue is real.’ Type in Zoom on Google, and this is what it is likely to auto-complete. Sadiq Ahmed* realised this after spending eight hours in work video meetings in a single day. He works in the mental health space as a counsellor in London, and his company had been restrategising its work to suit physical distancing norms. Even today, he attends video meetings for nearly six hours every week. When the world first started physical distancing, we jumped quickly on to the many video platforms as if they were life rafts, promising employability and friendships. Zoom in the mornings with workout buddies, meeting co-workers via Teams in the day, friends on HouseParty in the evenings and WhatsApp video calls with family at night. Soon, we found out that video calls were not a replacement for real-life meetings. “Lethargy is the best way to put it,” he says, when asked how he was dealing with constant screen time. While on the one hand, he wants to “communicate more fluidly, naturally, than possible through messages” — which he had hoped video calls would do — on the other hand, he feels “fatigue from constant calls, with their inevitable technical issues”. Split screens and lags “Can you please call before 19.30, I have a group video call then,” Pournima Nair texts in response to our request to talk. Student of Politecnico di Milano, where she studies Sustainable Architecture, Pournima is currently in Thiruvananthapuram. Their designing work, she explains, would normally involve the group to sit around a common sheet and scribble on it, brainstorming ideas. “It is difficult to translate this to video calls. Even if we take control of each other’s screens, it doesn’t happen in real time, and that lag of five seconds between voice and video can get very tiring.” The main issue, explains Dr Manoj Kumar Sharma, is the increased cognitive focus that video calls demand. Founder of the Services for Healthy Use of Technology (SHUT) clinic in Bengaluru, he has long been advocating against the addictive nature of screens. “The physical outcomes of excessive use, such as mental fatigue, tired eyes, lack of sleep, are beginning to show. Video calling requires your constant attention, and though there haven’t been empirical studies yet, cases tell us that your blinking rate also reduces, which creates more fatigue.” Picture it: you have multiple boxes on one screen and you are dividing your attention among all of them, noticing their facial expressions, the tone of their voice, their backgrounds. Every time there is silence, you are worried whether it is a natural lull or a glitch at your end. Najib Khan*, on the other hand, cheekily admits to using a data limiter when it’s meeting time, such that he is able to hear everyone properly, but has an excuse to not engage visually. “That’s for four hours of meeting every day, which means I am saving myself eye strain for 20 hours in a week.” Rupasree Rajendran, a course director at Alliance Francaise de Trivandrum, downright refuses to join a video call now, be it from family or friends. She has been holding online sessions since April 6. “I am honestly so tired of seeing myself on screen that I prefer catching up with people over voice calls.” For Pournima, it is all about the formality of the call. She and her team sometimes keep the video call running in the background. It takes her back to Milan when they would sit together and listen to music, while working. “This is the only way to do that now.” Names changed on request. With inputs from         Liza George     Give it a rest Remember to blink, move your head and relax your shoulders to avoid strain. Prop up your screen at eye level instead of holding it in your hand. If you do hold it, switch from one hand to another every five minutes. Avoid multi-tasking on the phone while on a video call, switch off notifications for that period. Keep aside 40 to 120 minutes per day for recreational activities that do not involve the screen. Boredom and loneliness go hand in hand, and both lead to distress.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The writing life||Stories based on pandemics and their aftermath have opened the chapters of many a literary masterpiece. The outbreak of COVID-19 boosted sales of books like Stephen King’s The Stand , Margaret Atwood’s The Year of the Flood and Ling Ma’s Severance . In the past, from Homer and Shakespeare to Albert Camus, Daniel Defoe, Thomas Mann, Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Jose Saramago have written about epidemics in famous works that have stood the test of time. Indian literary greats such as Rabindranath Tagore, Premchand, Thakazhi Sivasankara Pillai and Nirala have also written poems, stories and novels about the effects of epidemics that affected people. In the same way, the word and the world will reflect the ripple effect of COVID-19 and the lockdown. MetroPlus speaks to popular authors who emphasise that this too shall pass, and though the world as we know it will certainly change, stories and storytellers will continue to enthral us.  (With inputs from Akila Kannadasan, Deepa Alexander, Harikumar JS, Saraswathy Nagarajan and Sunalini Mathew)   Online holds the key Perumal Murugan I have attended so many literary meets, despite not stepping outdoors. I even inaugurated a literature festival from home. Over the past several years, I have been hosting Koodu literary meetings in the terrace of my home in Namakkal. It is attended by students, teachers, readers… we discuss books, have read-ups, and book introductions by guests. It is a monthly event, and so far, we have had around 60, with 70 people attending each of them. Over two months in lockdown, we have already had 28 Koodu meetings on Zoom. Three of my students facilitate them and we meet for 40 minutes every evening. Even those who did not come for any of our previous meetings are attending these. I expect a lot of changes post the lockdown, most of them to do with how we meet people. Book release functions and literature festivals will be held online. Although I enjoy travelling to these functions, I end up spending a day or two on travel alone, which can get exhausting. So, having them online may be better in a lot of ways. Literature is changing too. I am seeing an upsurge of online literary magazines in Tamil. Print will be back, but for now, even the chiefly print ones, such as Kalachuvadu , have gone completely online in the last two months. Tamil writers are putting out their stories on social media, and this trend has given rise to micro-stories that are 50 to 100 words long; these are much smaller than short-stories that can run up to 500 words. A lot of changes are set to happen, and it is best we make up our minds accordingly. Tamil writer Perumal Murugan’s latest book is Amma      The return of wonder Tishani Doshi Throughout this lockdown, I have been veering madly between being pessimistic and optimistic about how we will emerge from this. As a poet, I’m used to holding the light and dark, to taking the bombardments on the chin, but also, to drawing beauty from the world around as an act of resistance. On my best days, I like to think that we will emerge from this pandemic as a society that’s more tender and equitable. That somehow this reset button will slow things down to make us prioritise what kind of environments we want to live in. Some of us might begin to grow our own vegetables and become obsessed with soil. Empathy will be manifold. People will get involved in communities in inventive ways. Artists will continue to create. Pets will become paramount company. We may go back to wearing hats and gloves and cover all our skin to create protective sheaths for our bodies. We will be more discreet with touch. Species will recover. People might not get paid outrageous amounts of money to play with a bat and ball in a stadium that is empty, but instead, it might be decided on the evaluation scale, that healthcare workers, teachers, and transportation workers deserve more. The notion of celebrity might get an overhaul. Carbon footprints will shrink, and once again, when a child sees an aeroplane in the sky, it might be cause for such excitement that they have to run into the street to marvel at this metal bird in the sky. In short, wonder, may be reinstituted. Most days though, I understand that until there’s a vaccine, there are going to be huge restrictions on movement, privacy and freedom. People will die alone and away from loved ones. There will be increased government surveillance through the use of health apps. There will be a lot of fear. All around the world there will be greater patrolling of borders, an increase in nationalism, economic recession, debt, unemployment, displacement. It will be sad, and the only solace will be our gods and the Internet. Tishani Doshi is the author of the novel,  Small Days and Nights
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Starting from scratch||Not too long ago, we were grumbling about overtourism. In 2020, thanks to COVID-19, the travel and hospitality industry seems to have receded into the background; Indian tourism, in particular, has descended into the red due to the ban on domestic and international air travel in summer, when it is the peak of business. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) estimates that Indian commercial airlines are likely to suffer losses of $11.2 billion due to the temporary grounding of operations. But India is not alone. Nearly every country exposed to the virus is facing a similar conundrum: figuring out a way to ease back into solvency. “The travel sector will have to reinvent itself in what will be a ‘new normal’, requiring a meaningful transformation,” says Tiffany Misrahi, vice-president of policy, World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC), UK, adding, “We expect to see significant transformations around health security and hygiene, sustainability, digitisation, the future of work and in terms of consumer demands and expectations.” Health concerns WTTC is devising the new Safe Travels protocols, following close consultation with its members as well as industry associations like Airports Council International (ACI), Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA) and IATA, to bring confidence back and set clear expectations of what travellers may experience in their next trip. Contactless travel, especially by air, could perhaps be the most significant change. In a report titled The Rise of Sanitised Travel , airline marketing strategy firm SimpliFlying highlights at least 70 areas in which the flight experience is going to change. Among the new requirements would be an ‘immunity passport’ for passengers, which confirms the presence of COVID-19 antibodies. Instant health checks inside the airport will become common and travel agents will have to issue seating to optimise in-flight distancing. More importantly, without a vaccination, long-distance travel could be difficult. On the other hand, some countries like Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, where the recorded number of COVID-19 infections are low, have also created the Baltic Travel Bubble that allows one another’s citizens to travel without the need for quarantine. “It is too early to talk about resuming business after the lockdown, because tourism depends on business activity that gives extra cash flow in hand,” says Pronab Sarkar, president, Indian Association of Tour Operators (IATO) in Delhi. “The travel industry will have to keep this in mind before it can restart.” At a webinar organised recently by Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) to discuss the rebooting of the Indian travel industry, Dipak Deva, managing director, Sita, TCI and Distant Frontiers, suggested that the Government should consider supporting stores that had issued vouchers for booking a holiday in the future. Catering to the new normal, The Leela group of hotels is currently offering bookings at its properties in Delhi, Gurugram, Chennai, Bengaluru, Udaipur, Mumbai and Goa through its ‘Memorable Moments’ programme that will be valid till September 30, 2020, with guaranteed upgrades and meal credits of Rs. 1,000 per day, as it reopens for business after lockdown. However, pre-booking may not work for mid-budget and business properties, feels Amitava Roy, CEO, The Great Indian Hotels and Resorts. “Travellers are unsure if they will be able to have a vacation after six months. One or two places have sold holidays like this, but you need to be sure about the arrangements being in place at the time you advertise,” he says. Intra-industry unity is important at this time as a lot of livelihoods are at stake, believes Vinod Kannan, chief commercial officer, Vistara Airlines. “This pandemic has brought the whole world together and is helping everyone appreciate things that we may otherwise take for granted,” he says, adding, “This would also bring about positive changes in the travel behaviour of passengers and make them appreciate the efforts that airlines, airports and other relevant stakeholders are putting in for their comfort.”  The new normal Museums and cultural centres in Europe are reopening, but with higher stress on safety and social distancing. For example, wearable devices like physical transponders will warn visitors when they get too close to each other in Florence’s Cathedral of Santa Maria del Fiore (the Duomo).
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Dressed to kill||He is a heartthrob during daytime, but has a sinister side to him at night. A man of dual nature, he wears bright disco shirts with large collars and a matching pair of bell-bottoms; he carries a red rose and an infectious smile that left women swooning. But as the night falls, you get to see his darker side aptly reflected through his costume — a stylish leather jacket with a newsboy cap and aviators, sending chills down your spine. He is Dileep from the iconic Sigappu Rojakkal (1978), who was brought to life by Kamal Haasan. Did you know that American serial killers Ted Bundy and ‘Boston Strangler’ Albert DeSalvo were the inspiration for Kamal’s looks? Did you know that the black leather jacket worn by Kamal was inspired by Alan Arkin’s outfit from Wait Until Dark (1967)? In an Instagram page (@kh_thestylemanifest), costume designer Amritha Ram has been sharing interesting ‘behind-the-scenes’ stories of the actor’s fashion sense starting with Sigappu Rojakkal , which, according to many, is believed to be one of the earliest films that saw Kamal upping the fashion game. “It’s not a manifesto but a manifest,” says Amritha Ram with a laugh, in a phone conversation. Patron of style A self-confessed fan, Amritha says that the idea to start an Instagram page chronicling Kamal, the fashion icon, was an afterthought that was born out of the ‘in-between shots’ conversations she had with him about the way he used to groom himself in the ’70s and ’80s. In her first post, she offers a sneak-peek into how Dileep was etched in Kamal’s mind. She did not want the page to look like a fan account, so she brought in illustrators to sketch the characters, highlighting the costumes and colour palette for readers. “For Sigappu Rojakkal , Kamal sir told me that Bharathiraja gave him a free-hand. Sir was in Singapore and knew the story before. So, he went on a shopping spree,” she says, “They both wanted to give an urbane look to the character.” From the horse’s mouth Amritha does not share a single post without Kamal’s approval since “it is not a designer’s page and is all about him”. “That’s what makes it special, right? You get to hear about these stories from the man himself,” she adds. The process typically involves Amritha dialling Kamal, politely asking him to share anecdotal references to his characters. She takes notes and send them back, after which he sends corrections, if any. Kamal Haasan is compulsive about “what suits him best”. That is what Amritha’s second post on Raaja Paarvai (1981) deals with. Amritha’s favourites, however, are Sathya (1988) and Thevar Magan (1992). “The former is about an angry young man. But he has a clean line of clothing that is in contrast to his personality. Likewise, in Thevar Magan , sir had to deal with characters belonging to two different worlds. But he carried it with pomp and style,” she says, adding, “You won’t think of these little things that add value to the character, unless you’re extremely passionate about cinema.”
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||A pocketful of memory||At first glance, it looks like the torso of a suit of armour — finely made, sturdy and rustic. However, this relatively unknown apparatus is actually used by tree climbers across villages in Tamil Nadu. Colloquially known as a petti , it is a wearable pocket, handmade and used as a handy storage box in which tree climbers keep their equipment. Apart from its utility, there is an artistic quality to a petti , which is exclusive to the State. That, and the exhaustive process that goes into its making should qualify it to be displayed in museums according to Chennai-based photographer Amar Ramesh. He chanced upon one while socially isolating in his farm in Cheyyur. He says that although he has seen them on multiple occasions, now seems the perfect time to display it to the world. So, he took to Instagram. Along with pictures, Amar also put up an announcement that these instruments, which also could work as memorabilia in urban homes, will be up for sale. Proceeds will be sent directly to the tree climbers whose livelihoods have taken a hit following the COVID-19 lockdown. For the last decade, Amar has been travelling in and around Tamil Nadu extensively. Over the course of his journey, he says he has seen many such items of utility, slowly vanishing from the State.   The petti is made out of paalai , a part of the coconut tree which holds the coconuts together, when they bloom as a bunch. “The paalai is shaped into the form of a pocket by filling it up with sand and poking it into shape. This is left to dry in the sun for three to four days. After that, they insert a metal contraption which holds it together. Climbers say that they end up using the same petti up to even 10 years!” says Amar. A petti is more than just a climbing aid for them — climbers consider it sacred, for it ensures one’s safety. “This is an instrument that has been passed on through generations. The most unfortunate fact is that we don’t know if our children will even get to see it,” says Amar. There are only a handful of people across the entire State who still make these. So far, Amar has managed to collect 20 pieces. And on an order-basis, he is planning to get more created.  Each petti is priced at Rs. 1,200. Message @amarramesh or @kadambavanam.farm on Instagram.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Friends with the flute||The story of upcoming Bollywood flick Bansuri: The Flute did not incubate in the filmi circles of Mumbai. It was born somewhere near a drama stage in Chennai’s Mylapore, where Tamil playwright Augusto was staging a play titled Vanavillin Ambbu . “I’ve known him (Augusto) since childhood and I heard a few story knots from him,” recalls director Hari Viswanath, who stepped into the spotlight in 2015 with the critically-acclaimed Tamil flick Radiopetti , “When I listened to the basic storyline of Vanavillin Ambbu, I had a gut instinct that it would click with a universal audience.” The one line from that tale that haunted Hari was the image of a young boy asking: ‘What’s in my blood?’ It would inspire him to take the storyline, revolving around an eight-year-old boy’s hopes and dreams, to a national level: the project subsequently saw the likes of Anurag Kashyap and Rituparna Sengupta being roped in. “She (Rituparna) was the first person to come on board; she speaks a smattering of Bengali in the film as well.” Hari was clear from the start that the project would be in Hindi, a language he was not actually too comfortable in. “I can read and understand, but I cannot speak fluently. It was an opportunity for me to come out of my comfort zone. Also, OTT players prefer English or Hindi projects over regional subjects,” says Hari, who describes the film as the result of a five-year journey that included multiple trips to Kolkata, where his producers were based in, and Mumbai.  Bansuri: The Flute is unique, for it is a story translated from the stage to the screen, a trend that was popular in Tamil cinema in the Seventies. “The core question of my play, Vanavillin Ambbu, is: is art something that one is born with or can we master it,” says Augusto, who has staged the award-winning play multiple times. The question is put forth by an eight-year-old boy, who suddenly discovers that he can play the flute with elan, and wonders how. “Wherever we have staged it, the response has been overwhelming.” When Bansuri: The Flute releases sometime in the next few months, the strains of the flute would have been heard wide and far.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Devi gets a facelift at 50||The buzz surrounding OTT platforms is getting stronger, and with theatres being shut this entire lockdown, the future might look bleak for some screens. But not for Devi Cineplex, a favourite with Chennai’s movie-going audiences. Celebrating 50 years of its existence (the theatre opened on May 23, 1970), the people behind the theatre have used this lockdown to spruce it up. “Like a professional pro sportsman who is injured but not out, we (Devi Cineplex) will bounce back and always entertain film lovers with our upgraded technologies,” reads a press statement from the theatre’s management. The theatre has now been equipped with the top-of-the-line Barco Series 2 Projector. With new additions in the screen and sound department, the cinema hall — which boasts four screens — seems to be looking to carry on, despite the advent of OTT platforms. Situated in the heart of the city, the theatre has a rich cinematic history: the first screening held here was on May 23, 1970, for the film Sweet Charity (70 mm), a musical directed by Bob Fosse.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The rarest of them all||Farmer KR Jayaprakash does not know how the mango sapling first arrived at his farm near Mamallapuram. “I have only one tree of the variety,” he says. The fruit, no bigger than a gooseberry, is sweeter than the sweetest mango he has ever tasted. “It is called sakkarakutti (meaning ‘small sweet one’) and yields every two or three years,” he says, adding, “The skin is green even if the fruit is ripe; we will have to pop it in as a whole and chew. It is a rare mango.” Jayaprakash grows a variety of mangoes in his farm, including the regulars such as Banganapalle , senthooram , neelam , ottu pazham , kili mooku , and imam pasand . But this year, only 30% of his mango trees have yielded, and as a result, Jayaprakash says that even the more common ones such as imam pasand are not easy to come by. Among the rare varieties, according to him, is the kesar from Andhra Pradesh. “It has a unique flavour to it, apart from being sweet and fragrant. Then there are cheruku rasam (meaning ‘juice of sugarcane’) and chinna rasam . These are not easily available in the markets. If you want to eat them, you will have to reach out to growers in Rajahmundry,” he adds. “Very few people know of the fruits’ existence.” These two command a certain eating etiquette. “They are not to be cut,” explains Jayaprakash. For, the flesh is fibrous and not easily explorable with a knife. “The best way to eat them is to cut a tiny portion of the skin from the top and suck the juice out.” Apart from mangoes, Jayaprakash also grows watermelon, coconut, groundnut, and paddy. While he sells most of his produce, he does not share the sakkarakutti’ s fruit with anyone.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Heralding summer||Its drooping clusters of bright fragrant yellow flowers with five petals and characteristic cylindrical fruits, the Amaltas is known by so many names — Indian Laburnum, Golden Shower, Purging Fistula, Pudding-pipe tree, Girmala, Rajbrikh, Alash, Kiar, Kirwara, Ali — showing us how common and loved it is. It is both the national tree and the national flower of Thailand and is also the state flower of Kerala. The Amaltas ( Cassia fistula linn ), native to South-East Asia is one of the most widespread trees in India and South-East Asia, with their presence both in cities as well as in moist and dry forests. The tree is mostly known to be ornamental and few know of its benefits as a medicinal plant, and one that’s loved by some mammals, bees, and butterflies (it plays host to the Lemon Emigrant). This middle-sized deciduous tree is leafless only for a brief time, between March and May. The new leaves are glossy, a trait that they lose on maturing, and are mostly bright green, though sometimes a rich copper too. It flowers from April to June, partly alongside the emergence of new leaves, but it’s not uncommon to find the Amaltas in flower as late as September. The bark is yellowish at first, slowly coarsens with age and turning dark grey. The naturalist in me made me open one of the seed pods that ripen in April, only to discover the seeds in small compartments surrounded by a strong-smelling pulp, which was sweet to taste. Considering the fruit’s hard exterior (someone jokingly threw it at me once!) what bewildered me, when I was a young naturalist, was how the seeds were dispersed. The answer came much later, when I read British forestry expert Robert Scott Troup’s book Silviculture of Indian Trees (published in 1921). He had carried out an interesting experiment in 1911, around pollination of the Amaltas and jackals in the vicinity. He merely collected ripe fruit pods from the tree and placed them at a plot picked randomly. These were discovered by a pack of jackals a week later, who were found trying to get to the sweet pulp inside the pod. With the natural reproduction of the tree being somewhat of a mystery, Troup went to the length of stating that “the reproduction of Amaltas is effected mainly, and perhaps entirely, through the agency of animals like monkeys, jackals, bears, pigs and a few others, that break open the pods to eat the pulp and thus scatter the seeds or swallow them and disseminate them via their excreta.” Troup worked at what was then the Imperial Forest Research Institute and College at Dehradun ( now Forest Research Institute, Dehradun). Later in 1920, he returned to England to join the University of Oxford as the Chair of Forestry. His book, in three volumes, containing detailed silviculture accounts of several important trees of the Indian Subcontinent. Considering the dearth of jackals in the city, I have only observed Neelgais feeding on the leaves of the tree, but not the fruit. I’ve observed several specimens of this tree (Aravalli Biodiversity Park, Vasant Kunj) with chew and nibble marks around the lower end of the bark near the roots, suggesting porcupine presence. The bark is used to make dye and the pulp in the fruit pod also serves as a strong purgative agent, which also helps animals that feed on it. A medicinal preparation with the roots of the tree is used to cure leprosy and skin diseases and the leaves are used to get rid ulcers, in traditional medicine. Many years ago, when I had spoken to villagers on the outskirts of Delhi, they told me that they place these seedpods in the house to keep bedbugs and insects at bay, though we have no scientific evidence of this. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The writing life||Stories based on pandemics and their aftermath have opened the chapters of many a literary masterpiece. The outbreak of COVID-19 boosted sales of books like Stephen King’s The Stand , Margaret Atwood’s The Year of the Flood and Ling Ma’s Severance . In the past, from Homer and Shakespeare to Albert Camus, Daniel Defoe, Thomas Mann, Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Jose Saramago have written about epidemics in famous works that have stood the test of time. Indian literary greats such as Rabindranath Tagore, Premchand, Thakazhi Sivasankara Pillai and Nirala have also written poems, stories and novels about the effects of epidemics that affected people. In the same way, the word and the world will reflect the ripple effect of COVID-19 and the lockdown. MetroPlus speaks to popular authors who emphasise that this too shall pass, and though the world as we know it will certainly change, stories and storytellers will continue to enthral us.  (With inputs from Akila Kannadasan, Deepa Alexander, Harikumar JS, Saraswathy Nagarajan and Sunalini Mathew)
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Starting from scratch||Not too long ago, we were grumbling about overtourism. In 2020, thanks to COVID-19, the travel and hospitality industry seems to have receded into the background; Indian tourism, in particular, has descended into the red due to the ban on domestic and international air travel in summer, when it is the peak of business. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) estimates that Indian commercial airlines are likely to suffer losses of $11.2 billion due to the temporary grounding of operations. But India is not alone. Nearly every country exposed to the virus is facing a similar conundrum: figuring out a way to ease back into solvency. “The travel sector will have to reinvent itself in what will be a ‘new normal’, requiring a meaningful transformation,” says Tiffany Misrahi, vice-president of policy, World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC), UK, adding, “We expect to see significant transformations around health security and hygiene, sustainability, digitisation, the future of work and in terms of consumer demands and expectations.” Health concerns WTTC is devising the new Safe Travels protocols, following close consultation with its members as well as industry associations like Airports Council International (ACI), Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA) and IATA, to bring confidence back and set clear expectations of what travellers may experience in their next trip. Contactless travel, especially by air, could perhaps be the most significant change. In a report titled The Rise of Sanitised Travel , airline marketing strategy firm SimpliFlying highlights at least 70 areas in which the flight experience is going to change. Among the new requirements would be an ‘immunity passport’ for passengers, which confirms the presence of COVID-19 antibodies. Instant health checks inside the airport will become common and travel agents will have to issue seating to optimise in-flight distancing. More importantly, without a vaccination, long-distance travel could be difficult. On the other hand, some countries like Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, where the recorded number of COVID-19 infections are low, have also created the Baltic Travel Bubble that allows one another’s citizens to travel without the need for quarantine. “It is too early to talk about resuming business after the lockdown, because tourism depends on business activity that gives extra cash flow in hand,” says Pronab Sarkar, president, Indian Association of Tour Operators (IATO) in Delhi. “The travel industry will have to keep this in mind before it can restart.” At a webinar organised recently by Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) to discuss the rebooting of the Indian travel industry, Dipak Deva, managing director, Sita, TCI and Distant Frontiers, suggested that the Government should consider supporting stores that had issued vouchers for booking a holiday in the future. Catering to the new normal, The Leela group of hotels is currently offering bookings at its properties in Delhi, Gurugram, Chennai, Bengaluru, Udaipur, Mumbai and Goa through its ‘Memorable Moments’ programme that will be valid till September 30, 2020, with guaranteed upgrades and meal credits of Rs. 1,000 per day, as it reopens for business after lockdown. However, pre-booking may not work for mid-budget and business properties, feels Amitava Roy, CEO, The Great Indian Hotels and Resorts. “Travellers are unsure if they will be able to have a vacation after six months. One or two places have sold holidays like this, but you need to be sure about the arrangements being in place at the time you advertise,” he says. Intra-industry unity is important at this time as a lot of livelihoods are at stake, believes Vinod Kannan, chief commercial officer, Vistara Airlines. “This pandemic has brought the whole world together and is helping everyone appreciate things that we may otherwise take for granted,” he says, adding, “This would also bring about positive changes in the travel behaviour of passengers and make them appreciate the efforts that airlines, airports and other relevant stakeholders are putting in for their comfort.”  The new normal Museums and cultural centres in Europe are reopening, but with higher stress on safety and social distancing. For example, wearable devices like physical transponders will warn visitors when they get too close to each other in Florence’s Cathedral of Santa Maria del Fiore (the Duomo).
28 May 2020||May 28 2020 00:00 IST,||This Delhi doctor’s message went viral||At about the same time that Dr. Ambarish Satwik’s largely medical messaging was taking place this week, there was another, put out by Kent for their atta and bread maker. It enunciated the classism that many RWA groups have reflected over the past few weeks, in keeping domestic workers away from their jobs. While the primary aim of Dr. Satwik’s seven-point WhatsApp message, shared on his Gulmohar Park residents group, was not to tackle the discriminatory practice, it was in part, meant to remind people to avoid being prejudiced against someone who got the COVID-19 virus. “You can’t stigmatise this particular family; you can’t stop walking down a particular street,” he says, of a person being detected with the virus in his locality. “There was a lot of misinformation and speculation about what to do next,” he says, of discussions everywhere, including on family WhatsApp groups. While the phone-typed message itself was over 1,000 words long, it was just meant as a neighbourhood note, and Dr. Satwik had no idea it would go viral. “It was meant to just give the residents the lay of the land: what to expect and what they should do,” he says, following the initial panic of the pandemic and later that of the colony finding one of their own with the virus. He’s understanding of the panic: “You’d expect stuff like this — nobody quite knows where this is going, what the chances of acquiring the infection are, so you try to theorise.” His patients though, have been resigned to the situation, “submitting themselves to treatment”. Dr. Satwik, who works as a vascular and endovascular surgeon in Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, is part of a family of physicians. For doctors, things haven’t been easy, despite the fact that he says Ganga Ram has been especially proactive with precautions to make it COVID compliant, to prevent as much as possible, the chances of cross infection. They’ve retrofitted air-conditioning, and been actively fogging and fumigating the premises, but it’s not just another day at the office. “Pandemics are always different. One should just process this rationally, be stoic about it and trudge along. I don’t think any of us will abandon out post,” he says of his family, his mother a pathologist, his father a general physician, and his partner, a gynaecologist. His hope is that our leadership spend broadcast time on messaging, talking of the risk increasing even as the lockdown eases up. It may help in containing the spread of COVID-19, the panic associated with it, and in its de-stigmatisation. While he’s been a part of the editorial working group of the previously-in-house, now peer-reviewed Current Medicine Research and Practice , for about 10 years now, he rarely writes for a lay audience on medical themes. In 2007, Penguin published his book Perineum: Nether Parts of the Empire , a work of historical fiction. He has also written on the cultural and political subjects for several publications, including for The Hindu Business Line .  The main takeaways from his WhatsApp message Community transmission of COVID-19 is properly underway and the epidemic is just about taking off in Delhi. There is no evidence whatsoever that any medicine or therapeutic intervention can prevent or treat COVID-19 infection. In the absence of a drug or a vaccine, most of us are going to get infected over the next few weeks / months...That said, COVID=19 isn’t the plague or Ebola. In about 80% cases this infection would be completely harmless. Even in the elderly, getting COVID-19 isn’t the equivalent of getting a death sentence. About 70% of us will have to get infected for the community to acquire herd immunity. No matter who you are and how old you are, do not step out without a mask. A simple mask is good enough, an N95 is even better, but please do not use N95 masks or Vogmasks with exhaust valves... Make sure the mask covers your nose and mouth. It’s instructive to note that even if you’re in the presence of a COVID-19 infected individual and they’re masked and not coughing and you are yourself masked, the probability of you getting the infection is minuscule. Learn optimal mask hygiene. Consider the outer surface of your mask contaminated and carrying the virus if you’ve been in close proximity of other people. Do not touch the outer surface of the mask. Remove the mask by disengaging the earloops without touching the outer surface and discard it (if disposable) or wash it immediately on return. Treat every individual you meet as an asymptomatic COVID-19 carrier. Treat every surface you touch as potentially contaminated. That is the meaning of community transmission. Carry a sanitiser on your person. Frequently sanitise your hands after touching surfaces or objects… Avoid stepping out, as much as possible, particularly for non-essential activities. Give Delhi’s healthcare apparatus a fighting chance.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||IGI Airport sees less chaos as States come up with clear travel protocol||With individual States coming out with a clear protocol on domestic air travel, the scene at Delhi airport on Wednesday was a lot less chaotic compared to the first day when there were several last-minute cancellations. Nervous about flying during a pandemic, several passengers purchased full Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits being sold in kiosks at the terminal. Priced at Rs. 840, the kit contains overalls, mask, gloves, sanitiser and a protection for the eyes. Several passengers were seen alighting from their cars, purchasing a kit and putting it on before joining the queue to enter the terminal. Passengers, however, complained that in the summer heat, the PPE kit was not a comfortable thing to wear but it put their minds at ease during the journey. Archana Rao who arrived from Raipur in a full PPE kit along with her daughter said that it was not very comfortable flying wearing it as it was dehydrating but hoped it had protected her in case she came in contact with the virus. “I had to make up a game so that my daughter would not take it off. I told her that we had dressed up as superheroes and that we were fighting a bad virus,” Ms. Rao said. ‘Careless passengers’ She added that even though airlines were taking all precautions, there were a handful of passengers on her flight that were being careless and not listening to instructions. For Pradyumna Das, who was taking a fight for the first time, the journey was bittersweet. “I have always wanted to fly but never thought my first time would be under such circumstances,” Mr. Das said. Not allowed inside Many passengers, outside the terminal, complained that they were being made to wait in the heat as they were not being allowed into the terminal until three hours before their flight. “We arrived from Rewari to catch out flight to Lucknow. Unsure of the various checks on the way, we reached early and had to spend five hours outside the terminal. It is 45° Celsius and there is not even a fan. With a mask on, it is very uncomfortable,” said Ankint Tiwari. Another passenger, Karuna Pandey said,“There are social distancing marking on the floor but there is hardly anybody following it or enforcing it. If this is the situation outside, imagine what it may be like once inside the aircraft,” he said.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||Strict vigil at Delhi-Ghaziabad border leads to traffic snarls||The Delhi-Ghaziabad border witnessed traffic congestion on Wednesday as Ghaziabad district administration and police maintained a strict vigil allowing movement of only those vehicles possessing e-passes and engaged in essential services. This comes after the Uttar Pradesh district administration sealed its border on Monday night to check the rising graph of COVID-19 cases in the district. Due to checking of commuters’ passes, the traffic moved at a slow pace, said Ghaziabad Deputy Superintendent of Police Rakesh Mishra. “Those trying to cross the border without valid passes were not allowed to enter Delhi,” he said. In Delhi, the police said people engaged in essential services were being allowed to move with authentic passes. Doctors, police personnel, paramedical staff and media persons are also being allowed to move across the borders with their ID cards. Challans issued “We are issuing challans to commuters who do not have valid movement pass and are sending them back. Challans have also been issued to those who have movement passes but are not putting masks on their faces,” traffic inspector-2 Ghaziabad B.P. Gupta said. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed on both sides of the border as motorists waited for more than half an hour to cross the border. The police said it has been done to stop unnecessary movement of people from Ghaziabad to Delhi.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Heatwave continues to scorch city but respite expected soon||The heatwave continued in the city on Wednesday with the mercury settling at a maximum of 45.9 degrees Celsius, which was five degrees above normal. The minimum was 28.4 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees above normal. Wednesday’s maximum temperature was 0.1 degrees lower than that on Tuesday — the hottest May day recorded in the past 18 years. The last time the mercury touched the 46-degree mark at the Safdarjung weather station was on May 19, 2002. Palam was the hottest place in the Capital on Wednesday with a maximum of 47.2 degrees Celsius. Weather stations at Lodhi Road, Ayanagar and Najafgarh recorded highs of 45.5°C, 46.7°C and 45.3°C, respectively. Humidity hovered between 14% and 47%. The forecast for May 28 reads “partly cloudy sky with heatwave conditions at isolated places. Possibility of thundery development towards evening/night accompanied by gusty winds. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 44 and 28 degrees Celsius respectively. The Met Department has forecast that the the city will receive respite soon. “Under the influence of a western disturbance and an east-west trough in lower levels and likely occurrence of rain/thunderstorm between May 28 and May 30, maximum temperatures over north India are likely to recede from May 28 onwards,” the Met Department said.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nizamuddin event: 15 more chargesheets against foreigners||Delhi Police filed a second set of chargesheet before a court on Wednesday against 294 foreign nationals from 14 countries for attending a religious congregation in Nizamuddin here by violating visa conditions, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines issued in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak in the country. The police have filed 15 chargesheets against the foreign nationals belonging to 14 different countries, including Malaysia, Thailand, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and several African nations. Metropolitan Magistrate Saema Jamil has posted the matter for further hearing on June 17. The police had on Tuesday filed 20 chargesheets against 82 foreigners from 20 countries in the case. According to the fresh chargesheets, besides flouting of visa rules and government guidelines, the foreign nationals have been booked for violating regulations of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. They have also booked been for offences under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code. The foreign nationals have not been arrested yet.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||Bring back minor girl from Nepal: HC to Centre||The Delhi High Court has directed the Centre and the Delhi government to take steps to bring back a minor girl who was taken to Nepal by a man after allegedly marrying her despite being already married. “The State is, therefore, directed to take steps to get back the minor, and prosecute [Vinay] at the earliest. The State shall initiate steps in coordination with Ministry of External Affairs, without any delay,” a Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar said. The court’s order came on a habeas corpus plea moved by the girl’s mother who had alleged that no satisfactory action was taken by the police after registration of the FIR on March 1. The High Court also noted that “considering the fact that the petitioner’s daughter is a minor, and evidently, [Vinay] is already married, it appears that the case involves several crimes of which he [Vinay] may be guilty”. In the status report filed by the Delhi police, it was stated that on May 25, Mr. Vinay’s brother Vinod Thapa disclosed that he had on May 10 received a telephonic communication from his aunt from Nepal and was told that Mr. Vinay had gone to his village Gulmi, PS Tambas, Char Pala, Nepal, along with a girl and that he claimed that he had solemnised marriage with that girl. The report further stated that Mr. Vinay had sent a photo to Mr. Vinod on WhatsApp and the same was shown to the mother who claimed that girl in it was her daughter. The police said that to get the victim back in India and to prosecute Mr. Vinay, a correspondence will be made at the earliest through the External Affairs Ministry.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Why were DU principals repatriated in a hurry?’||Governing body members of Aurobindo College and Delhi College of Arts and Commerce wrote to the Delhi University Vice-Chancellor questioning the recent move to repatriate officiating principals of these colleges and called for the decision to be quashed. They also requested that the matter be referred to governing bodies of the colleges. In a sudden move on Sunday night, principals of the two DU colleges were issued notices through university representatives to be removed from their post and repatriated. Anupam Kumar and Jaitender Mathur, governing body members of the two colleges respectively, in two similar letters to the V-C questioned the “hurry” with which the order was executed on a holiday. They demanded to know as to why the entire governing body of the colleges were not taken into confidence.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Construction damaging trees at St. Stephen’s’||Forest Department officials on Wednesday said that roots of around 10 trees at St. Stephen’s College here were found to be “exposed” due to construction activities and that the department would file a complaint with Delhi Police to lodge an FIR against the principal. On Wednesday morning, officials went to the college following a tip-off that a tree on the campus that was around 100-year-old was being felled. They were denied entry. In the afternoon, they were allowed inside. They found out “damaged” roots and a tree that was pruned “without permission”. Principal John Varghese did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment on the matter. Meanwhile, 13 teachers wrote to Mr. Varghese demanding construction activity being carried out without the approval of the college’s governing body since May 22 be immediately halted.
28 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sisodia interacts with principals on reopening of schools||Interacting with over 1,000 Delhi government school principals, Education Minister Manish Sisodia asked them to start the planning process for re-opening of schools while keeping in mind the problems raised due to COVID-19. “It is not just about social distancing or sanitisation or calling one set of classes to school and not the others. Any decision will have far-reaching implications on children and their families because school is an integral part of our social life,” Mr. Sisodia said. Principals were asked to reach out to students and check if they were able to use online classes, SMS/IVR and take feedback from them. Mr. Sisodia asked every head of school to come up with a micro plan on how to lead the transition when the time comes. “We cannot have a common plan for all schools this year as the context of every school is different,” Mr. Sisodia said.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||Farmer buys flight tickets for 10 migrants||For 10 migrant workers, their dream of returning home in Bihar is all set to take wings after two months of lockdown, thanks to their employer, a Delhi farmer, who bought their flight tickets. Their flight to Bihar’s Patna is at 6 a.m. on Thursday and the men, who had planned to go home in April, can’t believe that they are finally going to their villages in Samastipur — not on foot or by cycling thousands of km, or by scrambling for a seat on a crowded bus or train, but on a plane.    Lakhinder (50), who has been working for mushroom farmer Pappan Singh for 27 years, said the farmer has been taking care of their food and accommodation since the lockdown began on March 25. Mr. Pappan said he has booked tickets worth Rs. 68,000 and is also giving each Rs. 3,000 in cash so they do not face problems when they reach their home State. He would also drop his workers at IGI Airport on Thursday adhering to social distancing norms.
28 May 2020||New Delhi,||CCTV in kitchens: treat plea as representation, says HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to treat as a representation a petition for installation of CCTV cameras in the kitchen and food preparation areas of restaurants to check on cleanliness and hygiene to contain the spread of COVID-19.
