28 July 2020||JAIPUr,||Rajasthan Governor gives nod to House session but with riders||After an impasse lasting four days, Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Monday allowed the State Cabinet’s demand for holding an Assembly session, while insisting that the government give a “clear notice” of 21 days for calling the House and provide a written undertaking that the agenda would include seeking a confidence vote to prove its majority. “The government’s statements to the media have made it clear that it wants to move a confidence motion in the Assembly, but the Cabinet advice has not made any mention [of this],” Mr. Mishra said in a statement released by the Raj Bhavan. This could be a basis for summoning the House on short notice, he said. Fresh queries Though he returned the Cabinet note seeking the Assembly sitting from July 31 with fresh queries for the second time, the Governor insisted that the Raj Bhavan had “no intention” not to call the session and it only wanted to act as per the procedure laid down in the rules and regulations framed under the Constitution. “There are clear provisions in Article 174. My advice falls within its ambit,” Mr. Mishra said. The file on the Cabinet note was sent to the Parliamentary Affairs Department with the advice to address three specific aspects of calling the House and give a response to the Raj Bhavan. The points were 21 days’ notice to enable all MLAs to attend the proceedings, video recording and live telecast of the floor test and precautions against the spread of COVID-19 during the sitting. Congress sources said the Cabinet would meet later in the evening to discuss the issue. Opinion in the party was split on the next move. A section felt that the government should insist on a short session and stick to the July 31 date, while mentioning a confidence vote in the agenda. The government could decide its strategy after the Governor responds. Another view was that the government should accept all the points raised by the Governor, comply with his directions and not rush to the court for a floor test. This could help deal with the turmoil created by former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot’s rebellion.
28 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||‘Floods, COVID-19 slowed down speed of development’||Stating that the BJP-led government had done well in fulfilling the promises it made to the people of the State and in addressing the development needs, Minister for Large and Medium Scale Industries Jagadish Shettar, however, said that floods last year and the pandemic now had brought down the speed of development. After taking part in an online interaction with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa organised to mark the first anniversary of the BJP government in the State, Mr. Shettar, who spoke to presspersons in Dharwad on Monday, said that the government had done enough to meet the aspirations of the people. The Minister said that that flash floods last year posed a challenge to the government and it took immediate remedial measures to mitigate the sufferings of the people. It was the first to announce compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to owners of houses that were damaged completely. Already 99 % of the beneficiaries had received compensation. Mr. Shettar said that although several investors who had taken part in the Investors Meet held in Hubballi had signed memorandums of understanding to invest in the region and were keen on going ahead with the investment plans, the pandemic put a brake to it and the government had to focus its entire machinery to fight COVID-19. He, however, clarified that things had already moved a bit with regard to the government’s plan to setting up FMCG (Fast Moving Consumer Goods) cluster in Dharwad district and for the purpose, a vision group, headed by Joint Managing Director of Jyoti Laboratories Ulas Kamat, had been formed. Mr. Shettar said that considering the development potential and the availability of necessary infrastructure, Hubballi-Dharwad had been identified as a growth-centre. The new industrial policy too was in tune with the government’s plan to develop tier II and tier III cities, he said. 30 more ventilators On the fight against the pandemic, Mr. Shettar, who is also the district-in-charge Minister, said that the district had already procured 40 ventilators out of which 17 were being used at present. “However, considering the surge in the number of fresh positive cases, the government has sanctioned 30 additional ventilators,” he said. Earlier, at the Zilla Panchayat hall, the venue for the online interaction with the Chief Minister, Mr. Shettar released a booklet on the progress report of the State government and special editions of Janapada and March of Karnataka magazines published by the Department of Information and Public Relations. Durugappa Hanumanthappa Chikkatumbal, a painter from Bhairidevarakoppa in Hubballi, spoke during the interaction and thanked the Chief Minister for the assistance extended under COVID-19 relief package. A host of elected representatives and beneficiaries of various government schemes were present.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||Time to focus on reviving Delhi’s economy, says CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday appealed to citizens to play their part in reviving the economy of the city while taking adequate precautions against COVID-19. He also announced the launch of a job portal intended to bridge the gap between potential employers and employees in Delhi. The ‘Rozgaar Bazaar’, he said, could be accessed on j obs.delhi.gov.in and is particularly aimed at helping those who lost their jobs and businesses due to the novel coronavirus pandemic and successive lockdowns. According to data from the employment department, 51,403 jobseekers had registered on the portal by the end of the day while 1,071 employers had posted 18,585 vacancies. The Chief Minister cited latest numbers to suggest that the Capital was slowly turning the tide in its COVID-19 fight. Delhi’s recovery rate, he said, was 88% and the rate of active cases only 9%, which meant that out of every 100 novel coronavirus-infected people in Delhi, only 9 were currently infected and 88 had recovered; around 2-3% had succumbed to the virus. ‘Successful fight’ “The people of Delhi have successfully fought coronavirus in the last three months. Now we have to move to the next stage. During the pandemic, people lost their jobs and shops and factories were shut down. People suffered huge losses, and many suffered from hunger. Now, we all need to pay attention to the economy,” he said at a digital briefing. “We are hearing that several cities are rushing to impose lockdowns ranging from 2-10 days, but I am happy that there was no need to reimpose lockdown in Delhi. Now we have to work together to improve the economic situation. Many migrant labourers had left Delhi in the last three months. They have started coming back in huge numbers now. I want to appeal to the rest: it is your Delhi,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The Chief Minister said the portal would allow employers to post jobs citing position, designation, desired qualifications and experience. Those seeking jobs can also register on the website citing the experience they have, their academic qualifications and the field they want jobs in, such as tourism, hotel industry, construction, among others. Labour Minister Gopal Rai said anyone could apply and the service was free. A person can apply for multiple jobs as well. “I request all the businessmen, industrialists to come forward and register here. I also request the government skill centres as well as the organisations that are associated with government construction on a contractual basis to register, besides others,” Mr. Rai said.
28 July 2020||Pune,||Now, Maharashtra records highest recoveries - 8,706||Maharashtra reported 7,924 new COVID-19 cases on Monday to take the State’s total cases to 3,83,723. However, the surge was more than offset by a record-high discharge of 8,706 patients, as the cumulative number of recoveries rose to 2,21,944. With 227 more deaths, the State’s fatality toll has reached 13,883. While the reported spike in fresh cases is the lowest single-day jump since July 15, only 39,000 samples have been tested in the last 24 hours, as opposed to the 50,000 samples tested daily over the last week. The State has been recording more than 9,000 cases every day since July 21. Of the total case tally, 1,47,592 are active ones, State Health Department officials said. “Till date, of a total 18,25,399 laboratory samples, 3,83,723 (19.92%) have been tested positive with nearly 39,000 samples across the State tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s recovery rate had marginally risen to 57.84% while its case fatality rate had marginally reduced to 3.62%. With 1,021 new cases reported on Monday, Mumbai’s total cases have touched 1,10,182. However, the number of active patients has come down to 21,812. As many as 39 more deaths have pushed the city’s fatality figure to 6,132. Pune district reported more than 3,000 new COVID-19 cases and 45 more deaths as its total case tally surged to 78,130 while its death toll reached 1,838. As per the district administration, the number of active cases stands at over 25,500. Raigad district saw a high fatality spike of 28 deaths taking its total death toll to 175. Jalgaon district, a major hotspot in north Maharashtra, reported 419 new cases as its total tally reached 9,503, of whom 2,637 are active. Six new deaths saw its cumulative death toll rise to 482. Cases and fatalities continued to mount in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, with Thane recording 522 fresh cases as the district’s total cases crossed the 32,000 mark. As many as 13 fatalities saw the district’s death toll climb to 942. Kalyan-Dombivli civic body reported 343 new cases, taking its total case tally to 21,401. As many as 11 more deaths were reported, as the death toll rose to 388. Navi Mumbai reported 332 new cases, taking its total cases to 15,570, with seven more fatalities pushing the civic body’s death toll to 409. Panvel reported 175 fresh COVID-19 cases and 19 more deaths, as its total case tally reached 6,579 while its death toll touched 154. Raigad district reported 230 new cases as its total tally touched 8,403. Aurangabad in the Marathwada region saw a big spike of 310 cases as its total case tally reached 12,122. Of them, 4,906 are active ones. With five deaths reported across the district on Monday, the death toll has risen to 449.
28 July 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal case tally crosses 60,000||West Bengal on Monday recorded 2,112 new cases of COVID-19, taking total cases in the State past the 60,000 mark to hit 60,830. The State also recorded 39 more fatalities, taking the death toll to 1,411. The number of active cases in the State remained at 19,502. Of the 39 deaths, 14 deaths were recorded in North 24 Parganas and 10 in Kolkata. Three people succumbed to the virus in Hooghly and two each in Howrah and South 24 Parganas. Kolkata has recorded the highest death toll in the State with 696 persons succumbing to the contagious viral infection while North 24 Parganas has recorded 288 deaths so far. Providing some consolation, the number people discharged during the day exceeded the number of infections on Monday. A total of 2,166 people were discharged, taking the recovery rate to 65.62%. More beds occupied While the high discharge rate in the State is a welcome sign, the bed occupancy ratio for COVID-19 patients has climbed to 42.04%. The State has increased the number of samples collected for testing to around 17,000 a day. On Monday, 17,005 samples were tested, taking the total samples tested so far to 8.22 lakh.
28 July 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata asks PM to release State’s dues for COVID-19 battle||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release more funds to contain the COVID-19 situation in the State. “I would request the Prime Minister that about Rs. 53,000 crore is pending with the Centre. I have been trying this for six months. If you can release the funds of the State pending with the Centre, then we can work well,” she said. During the videoconference in which state-of-the-art COVID-19 testing facilities were inaugurated in Kolkata, Mumbai and Noida, Ms. Banerjee said the financial burden on West Bengal was growing. She said the State had already spent Rs. 25,000 crore to combat the pandemic, and from the National Health Mission (NHM), the State had received Rs. 125 crore.  GST share The Chief Minister said the State’s GST share of compensation (for April to June) of Rs. 4,135 crore had also not been released. Ms. Banerjee also raised the issue of FRBM relaxation from 3 to 5%. She pointed out that 0.5% was without any conditions and the remaining 1.5% was conditional. “We request that the FRBM relaxation of remaining 1.5% may also be made automatic and unconditional and released to the States in next three quarters,” Ms. Banerjee said. UGC directive The Chief Minister raised the issue of the University Grants Commission directive of having terminal examination for final year students and said that in such a situation students would be under stress. Ms. Banerjee reminded the Prime Minister that she had written a letter to him in this regard on July 11. She thanked Mr. Modi for opening the test facility and added that the State needed more such labs. The Chief Minister said the State was doing 16,000 tests a day and wanted to increase it to 25,000 tests a day by August 15.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Eight more succumb to COVID||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana reached 55,532 as 1,473 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. Eight moreCOVID-19patients died. The new cases include 506 from GHMC limits, 168 from Rangareddy and 111 from Warangal Urban. Out of the total 55,532 cases, 12,955 are active cases, 42,106 have recovered, and 471 COVID patients have died. On Sunday, 9,817 samples were tested which is one of the lowest in a day after Rapid Antigen Tests were introduced in the State from July 8. A total of 36,3242 samples were tested till July 26. The cumulative Test Positivity Rate is 15.28%. Meanwhile, officials from the State Health Department said that an online application to register suspects for Rapid Antigen Tests is being tried. “COVID suspects will receive an OTP which will be used to register for the tests. But there are some teething problems in the app. It has to be worked out,” an official said. Training of medical officers, lab technicians, on how to use the app has already begun. People complained that the Health department officials or staff did not initiate contact tracing after a person tests positive for COVID. “After I tested positive, no one visited our home to check if any of my family members developed symptoms or needs a test, which is a basic follow-up procedure. Besides, we did not receive Home Isolation kit,” said a person who tested positive.
28 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State COVID cases surpass the one-lakh mark||Exactly 138 days or 19.5 weeks after a foreign returnee youth tested positive for COVID-19 in Nellore district, the State on Monday surpassed the one-lakh cases mark with 6,051 new cases reported in the past 24 hours. During the same period, the State witnessed 49 deaths. The death toll increased to 1,090 and the tally of cases surged to 1,02,349, according to the Health Department bulletin. With this, Andhra Pradesh became the third State in the country (other than Delhi) to see one lakh cases. Maharashtra crossed the one-lakh mark in 96 days, while the neighbouring Tamil Nadu saw one lakh cases in 118 days. Andhra Pradesh now accounts for 7.13% of the country’s 14.35 lakh COVID cases. The State's first COVID case was confirmed officially on March 12, and after 105 days, the State’s tally crossed 10,000-mark. It took only 33 days to witness the remaining 92,000 cases, and during the same period over 44,000 patients have recovered. The first 53,000 cases were reported in 130 days and remaining were reported in the last five days. There are 51,701 active cases and 49,558 patients have recovered so far putting the recovery rate at 48.42% and the death rate at 1.06% is one of the lowest death rates in the country. The cases confirmed per million ratio is at 1,918 considering the State population of 5.34 crore. In other words, 1,918 persons in every 10 lakh or one person in about every 521 persons have tested positive for the virus so far. The tests per million ratio is also one of the highest in the country at 31,581. So far 16.86 lakh samples were tested comprising the 43,127 tests done in the past day. The positivity rate has further increased to 6.07%. However, after witnessing the highest single-day tally of 8,147 cases on July 24, the daily new cases dipped slightly over the past three days. Most of the new cases were reported in East Godavari (1,210, 7 new deaths), Guntur (744), Kurnool (664, 2) and Visakhapatnam (655, 8). They are followed by Anantapur (524, 3), Nellore (422), West Godavari (408, 9), Chittoor (367, 7), Kadapa (336, 1), Prakasam (317, 1), Vizianagaram (157, 4), Krishna (127, 5) and Srikakulam (120). Of the total, 97.17% are local cases and only 2.83% are imported cases. Five worst-hit districts including East Godavari (14,696 cases), Kurnool (12,234), Guntur (10,747), Anantapur (10,247) and West Godavari (8,820) account for more than 50% of the cases while the remaining account for the other 50% cases.
28 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State government fixes rates for rapid antigen tests at labs||The State government on Monday ordered that the rate for rapid antigen testing of private samples in Indian Council of Medical Research-approved and private NABH/NABL-accredited laboratories should not be more than Rs. 750 per test, including the rapid kit cost and PPE and manpower costs. Once the result is known for symptomatic negative cases, samples should be collected using viral transport media and sent to tied-up VRDLs for retesting by the RT-PCR machine.In such cases, the patients should not be charged in excess of Rs. 2,800 per sample. All institutions which intend to conduct rapid antigen tests have to tie up with ICMR-approved VRDLs. Login credentials It was mentioned in G.O Rt No.336 that the ICMR had authorised the testing of rapid antigen test kits for identifying COVID-19 in addition to various existing methods, liberalised the testing and generated five common login credentials for each such district. The GO had been issued keeping in view the ICMR guidelines and the recommendations of the CEO of the YSR Aarogyasri Health Care Trust to ensure that the public should be provided better access to COVID testing. The GO said interested private NABH hospitals and NABL laboratories must apply to the State nodal officer for testing (ceoap@ysraarogyasri.ap.gov.in and ap_c405@ysraarogyasri.ap.gov.in) permission and ICMR login credentials. Rate display The approved hospitals and labs had been instructed to display the rates in a visible manner to the public. Besides, the State government had directed the district medical and health officers to strictly monitor the rapid testing process in the private hospitals and labs and to ensure that no extra charges were levied on the patients.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||No relief in sight for deceased constable’s wife||It’s been nearly three months since Delhi police constable Amit Kumar died of complications related to COVID-19, the first death due to the virus in the force, but his family is yet to receive ex gratia compensation of Rs. 1 crore announced by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Efforts were made to seek the response of Delhi government spokespersons on the relief but they remained unavailable for comment. Kumar’s wife Pooja, who is four months pregnant, has also lost her job as a teacher at a municipal corporation school because her contract has not been renewed. She and her three-year-old son had also tested positive for the virus a couple of days after Kumar’s death and had to be admitted to a quarantine centre. It was there that Ms. Pooja learnt about her second pregnancy.  ‘All papers submitted’ Speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Pooja said the police department has been extremely helpful in completing their document file. “In May, after I returned from the quarantine centre, my father-in-law and I submitted all the documents they had asked for, including cheque book, passbook and Aadhaar card ,” she said. A few weeks later, a police officer called and asked for another certificate, which they promptly arranged and handed over to the department. “We had a word with the officer about 15 days ago and he told us that the file has been submitted,” said Ms. Pooja, adding that they were also informed that a “death audit committee” is yet to take action. “Recently, a civil defence volunteer, Arun Kumar, died after contracting COVID-19. We are very happy that his family has already received the amount. We are just wondering why nothing has happened in our case,” Ms. Pooja’s brother Ravi said. Police sources said that a few queries had come which were attended to and the required documents have been submitted to the government department concerned. On May 7, two days after Kumar’s death, the Chief Minister had tweeted: “Amit ji did not care for his life and kept serving us Delhi people. He got infected with corona and passed away. I pay homage to his sacrifice on behalf of all Delhi people. An ex gratia of Rs one crore will be given to his family.” Ms. Pooja said her contract as a teacher in a North MCD school expired on May 10. “I was hopeful that it will be renewed, but other teachers tell me that they have been informed that their contract is over because of funds paucity,” she said. Ms. Pooja is worried about her children’s future. She is currently living with her parents in Sonipat. “They are taking care of our needs at the moment. But I get scared thinking about our future.”
28 July 2020||GUNTUR,||Conservationists elated as tiger count is up||The tiger is burning bright in Andhra Pradesh and the rising number of adult and sub-adult big cats during the last five years has filled conservationists in the country with satisfaction. Of the 3,980 tigers left in the world, India, with 2,226, accounts for 75 %. The magnificent animal is at the top of the food pyramid and is vital to maintain the ecosystem. A massive conservation effort spearheaded by the Forest Department and many global NGOs has started showing results as is evident from the tangible increase in the population of tigers. The Nagarjunasagar Srisailam Tiger Reserve (NSTR) is the largest one in the country and it is here the number of big cats is on the rise. According to the Tiger Census carried out by the Wildlife Institute of India and the National Tiger Conservation Authority (2018) and released on July 29, 2019, A.P. has 48 adult tigers and Telangana 26, in comparison with 68 (2014), 72 (2010) and 95 (2006). Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Head of Forest Force, N. Prateep Kumar told The Hindu that the department has conclusive proof of the presence of 60 big cats in the NSTR, an increase of about 12 (adults) over the last one year. Camera trap images “We have camera trap images of each of 60 tigers. The remarkable rise in numbers is due to the persistent efforts of the department through the local community, intense patrolling and conservation methods,’’ Mr. Prateep Kumar said. He said NSTR provides stock benefit of Rs. 50,130 crore and flow benefit of Rs. 16,202 crore which comes to Rs. 4 lakh per hectare. The annual tangible and intangible benefits of NSTR are valued at Rs. 76.7 crore and Rs. 66,354 crore respectively. Forest Department role In spite of limited support, the Forest Department has fared well in tiger conservation by engaging local tribal people numbering 500, undertaking active surveillance by using sensor-based camera traps and ensuring 24 X7 patrolling by department personnel.
28 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||702 new cases, 2 deaths in State||Kerala’s engagement with COVID-19 is not likely to end in a few weeks or months and, hence, the State is bracing itself for the long haul by preparing long-term plans for disease containment as well as health system capacity building, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The State reported 702 new cases and two deaths on Monday. Even though there seemed to be a slight let-up in cases in the State, with 745 recoveries also being reported on the same day, all indications pointed to a likely increase in disease transmission in the coming days, Mr. Vijayan said. Clusters a concern Briefing the media here on Monday, he said while disease transmission within clusters seemed to go up on the one hand, on the other, many clusters seemed to be expanding too. Epidemiologists were being given the task of studying about these clusters and possibly mapping out the clusters where disease transmission was likely to occur. Locally acquired infections accounted for 536 of the 702 cases reported on Monday, with authorities unable to link the infections to a particular source in at least 35 cases.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,||HC clears OBC quota in AIQ seats in State govt.-run medical colleges||The Madras High Court on Monday ruled that there was no constitutional or legal impediment to extending the benefit of reservation to Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in medical and dental seats contributed to the All India Quota (AIQ) by State government-run medical and dental colleges every year. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy rejected the contention of the Medical Council of India that AIQ in non-central institutions was created at the instance of the Supreme Court in 1984, and hence only the latter could order OBC reservation under that quota. The verdict was delivered on a batch of writ petitions filed by the Government of Tamil Nadu and a host of parties, including the AIADMK and the DMK, seeking 50% reservation for OBCs in 15% of undergraduate and 50% of postgraduate seats under AIQ in government-run colleges. The judges directed the Centre to constitute a committee to fix the percentage and other terms for OBC reservation from next year. The court did not want to disturb the admission process this year. Listing the reasons for not accepting MCI’s contention, the Division Bench said the objective behind the Supreme Court’s 1984 order was that there should be a national pool of medical seats filled purely on the basis of merit, instead of every State admitting students to medical colleges on the basis of domicile. However, that order had been modified from time to time by the Supreme Court itself which, in 2007, ordered grant of reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Further, the Centre too had passed a law in 2006 and began providing 27% reservation for OBCs as well in medical and dental colleges run by the Centre. Therefore, not finding any reason for denying such reservation for OBCs in non-central institutions alone, the Bench said the issue of merit had now been taken care of with the introduction of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and the imposition of a stipulation that only those who clear it would be entitled to reservation. Authoring the verdict, the Chief Justice said the stand taken by the MCI was also not in consonance with a counter-affidavit filed by the Centre, which had expressed its willingness to provide even “State specific” reservation for OBCs, with a rider that the overall reservation should not exceed 50% of AIQ seats in non-central institutions. The Division Bench also pointed out that Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, in a letter to DMK Rajya Sabha member P. Wilson on December 18, 2019, had said that State governments would be at liberty to frame special provisions by law to provide reservation for SCs, STs and OBCs with respect to seats contributed to AIQ. In so far as Tamil Nadu was concerned, it already had a law in force. The Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of appointments or posts in the Services under the State) Act of 1993 provides for 50% reservation for OBCs, 18% for SCs and 1% for STs. Nevertheless, the dispute was whether the State law, providing as much as 69% of the overall quantum of reservation, could be applied to seats contributed to the AIQ, especially when the Centre had insisted that overall reservation should not exceed 50% of total seats. Further, the Centre’s inclination to grant reservation for OBCs had not crystalised into a legal right. At the same time, the Centre’s inclination was “not an elusive proposal and rather is a positive indication of a competent legal resolve for implementing the reservation in favour of the OBCs vis-à-vis the UG/PG seats. This stand does not therefore qualify as a mere anticipation and tends to move a step forward for crystallizing a legitimate expectation of reservation,” the Bench said.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Cases breach 1-lakh mark in State||Nearly five months after recording its first COVID-19 case, Karnataka has breached the 1-lakh mark. The State now has 1,01,465 cases, as 5,324 persons tested positive on Monday. This is the highest single-day increase so far. With 61,819 active cases, Karnataka is now second in the country after Maharashtra. Fuelled by a rise in cases in Bengaluru, the situation in Karnataka took a turn for the worse since the beginning of July, breaching the 2,000 mark per day initially, and now clocking over 5,000 cases daily for the fifth consecutive day. With 75 new fatalities, the death toll also touched 1,953 on Monday. This is apart from eight non-COVID deaths. Since the beginning of July, the pandemic has claimed 1,707 lives across Karnataka and 822 in Bengaluru Urban, compared to 246 and 95, respectively, as of June 30. The State’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) now stands at 1.92%. This month alone, the State added 86,223 cases and Bengauru Urban accounted for over half of that with 46,923. With 12,189 patients discharged, the active cases in Bengaluru Urban are not 33,816. On June 30, the total cases in the State was 15,242, and Bengaluru Urban had 4,555. On Monday, Bengaluru Urban recorded 1,470 cases, and Ballari and Kalaburagi also saw a record jump with 840 and 631 respectively. While Mysuru and Udupi recorded 296 and 225 respectively, eight more districts recorded over 100 each. With 1,847 patients discharged, the total recoveries in the State is now 37,685. As many as 598 patients, including 329 from Bengaluru Urban, are being monitored in the ICUs of various designated hospitals. Karnataka has so far conducted 12,05,051 tests, including 71,268 rapid antigen tests. In the last 24 hours, 28,224 have been conducted, which includes 9,708 rapid antigen tests. With 12 ICMR-approved labs on April 12, the State’s testing infrastructure grew to 86 in June. The State now has 90 labs, including 46 private ones. The State recorded the first 1,000 cases on May 15, which is two months and six days after the first case was detected on March 9. Thereafter, it doubled to 2,000 on May 24. And, in a month it crossed 10,000 on June 24. Subsequently, in six days another 10,000 were reported taking the total to 21,549 on July 4. It touched 31,105 on July 9; 41,581 on July 13, and 51,422 on July 16. Now, in a span of 10 days, the caseload has breached the 1-lakh mark.
28 July 2020||Staff ReporterVIJAYAWADA,||Schools begin admission process||With officials of the School Education Department giving permission to begin new admissions, the process for admitting students in schools has started in the State from Monday. However, only parents should go to schools for admitting their wards by following the COVID-19 protocol, and no student would be allowed in the institutions. Commissioner (School Education) Chinna Veerabhadrudu released the calender for the academic year 2020-21 and directed the managements to follow the rules strictly. Categories “Students should be divided into three groups. Accordingly, students having online facility will come under ‘Hi-tech Category’, children having television or radio facility should be treated as ‘Low-Tech’ and those not having mobile phone, computer, radio and television shall be treated as ‘No-Tech’,” the orders said. Plan for students Mr. Veerabhadrudu directed the managements not to conduct online classes for pre-primary class children, and teachers were instructed to prepare a plan for students, based on the category they belong to. Online classes The officials said that period of online classes should not exceed 45 minutes. Teachers should conduct online class for students studying 1 to 10th class, but in a phased manner and no examinations should be conducted, the orders said. School managements should issue Transfer Certificates (TCs) to the parents on demand, if they want to shift or admit their ward in other institution. Children of migrants should be given liberty to education without insisting for any documents, the Commissioner said. No rush However, no rush for admissions were seen at schools on the first day on Monday. Empty office rooms were witnessed in government, aided and private schools and only staff were seen. In some institutions, the managements opened the doors and kept the staff, books and uniforms ready for students. But, no parents were seen at the schools due to fear of COVID-19.
28 July 2020||MANGALURU,||Meeting tomorrow to decide resumption of fishing||With this year’s 47-day deep sea fishing holiday coming to an end this month, fishermen representatives in Mangaluru will hold a meeting on Wednesday to decide whether to sail out on August 1 or to delay it in view of the COVID-19 situation. Mangaluru Trawl Boat Owners Association president Nitin Kumar told The Hindu that representatives of purse seine boat owners and other stakeholders will decide the future course of action at the meeting. Mr. Kumar, a former chairman of Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation (KFDC), said that Mangaluru had 1,200 fishing boats. Of all workers involved with them, nearly 4,000 are from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal and Jharkhand. The issue of quarantine will arise when they return to work. Resuming deep sea fishing operations also involves maintaining social distancing at the fisheries harbour. Though the State government is unlikely to extend the fishing holiday, fishermen will have to take care to ensure that COVID-19 did not spread. The meeting will discuss whether it is advisable to postpone the operations for some more days, he said, hinting that resuming deep sea fishing might be delayed. Mr. Kumar said that of the 1,200 boats, a majority of them, 900, are trawl boats employing eight to 10 fishermen each. These boats are engaged in deep sea fishing for about 10-11 days. Mangaluru has nearly 100 purse seine boats each one of which has 25-30 fishermen. They sail out daily and return the same day. About 200 other mechanised boats each one of which has four-five fishermen spend about three days in shallow sea waters for fishing, he said. He said that once the catch landed on port, there are issues related to transportation to be addressed in view of COVID-19 restrictions. This year, the State government reduced the ban on deep sea fishing from the earlier 61 days to 47, from June 15, due to the hardship faced by fishermen in view of the lockdown and the COVID-19 situation. Usually, fishing holiday is scheduled from June 1 to July 31. The main objective of banning deep sea fishing during June and July is to protect fish wealth as commercially important species breed during this period. It is to prevent fishing of juveniles and also excessive fishing. Mechanised boats fitted with inboard or outboard engines of 10 hp and above are banned from carrying out fishing activities during the holiday. However, fishing boats fitted with engines of up to 10 hp are allowed to carry out fishing during the period.
28 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||Pvt. hospital dedicated to COVID-19 patients||In a new initiative, seven private hospitals in Dharwad district have come together to set up a private hospital dedicated to treating COVID-19 patients. At a time when private hospitals have been reluctant to treat COVID-19 patients and finding excuses to avoid following government guidelines, this development is considered a welcome move. The seven private hospitals that have jointly set up the COVID-19 Unity Hospital at Irakal Complex located opposite the District Court in Dharwad, have handed over the dedicated hospital to the Dharwad district administration. The hospital, set up through an initiative taken by Shreeya Hospital, Shravya Hospital, Dr. S.R. Ramangoudar Hospital, Amarajyoti Hospital, Amrut Nursing Home, Dr. Galgali Nursing Home and Mangala Maternity and Surgical Home, has a capacity to treat 65 patients. The private hospitals have decided to treat COVID-19 patients at this dedicated hospital for the pandemic and treat non-COVID-19 patients in other hospitals. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil, who welcomed the move, has said that steps would be taken to ensure immediate certification for the hospital under the KPME Act. The administration will ensure that the hospital was given trade licence and also NOC from the Pollution Control Board for disposal of bio-medical waste. The dedicated private COVID-19 hospital will be registered under Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST) so that treatment for COVID-19 positive patients would be as per the stipulated tariff.
28 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Somu Veerraju is State BJP president||In a significant development that is expected to lend a new direction to the Bharatiya Janata Party in the State , MLC Somu Veerraju was on Monday appointed the party's State unit president in place of Kanna Lakshminarayana. BJP national general secretary Arun Singh said in the organisational appointment letter that national president J.P. Nadda had appointed the outspoken MLC as the State party president with immediate effect. Mr. Veerraju's promotion follows the recent appointment of Bandi Sanjay as Telangana BJP president. The change at the State party’s helm of affairs came just over two years after Mr. Lakshminarayana replaced the then Visakhapatnam MP K. Haribabu and six months of the BJP's patch-up in January 2020 with the Jana Sena Party (BJP). The leadership change has potential ramifications for the alliance (BJP-JSP) which put up a spirited fight against the YSR Congress Party government, particularly over the proposed breaking up of the Capital into executive, legislative and judicial capitals. Mr. Lakshminarayana has played an aggressive role in cornering the Jagan Mohan Reddy government on a host of its policies but all is said to be not well within the party.
28 July 2020||KALABURAGI,||Ballari reports 840 cases||Ballari reported 840 new COVID-19 positive cases on Monday. The district also reported seven deaths, taking the toll to 82. The total number of positive cases in the district included the deaths and 1,670 patients discharged upon recovery. Kalaburagi reported 631 new cases on Monday, taking the total number of infected persons to 4,495. It also reported two deaths, taking the total number of such fatalities to 66.
28 July 2020||Belagavi,||Covaxin trials may begin by next week in Belagavi||Human trials of Covaxin, the vaccine invented by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech pharma company, could begin in Jeevan Rekha Hospital in Belagavi by next week. The Drug Controller General of India has issued licence to the company to conduct human trials. Jeevan Rekha was among the 12 hospitals and research centres in the country to hold the trials. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which has allowed the trials, had said that the trials would start by July 15 so that the vaccine could be available to the people by August 15. The trials began at AIIMS Patna and PGIMS Rohtak on July 15 and July 17, respectively. It began in AIIMS Delhi on July 25. Jeevan Rekha Hospital will conduct phase one and phase two of the trials as per ICMR protocol, hospital director Amit Bhate said. “We have gathered 200 volunteers aged between 18 and 55. Their throat swab samples have been collected and sent for COVID-19 tests. The test dose of the vaccine would be administered only to those who test negative,” he said. Once the intravenous vaccine is administered, the volunteers will be allowed to go home. They will not be admitted to Jeevan Rekha hospital. Volunteers will have to report to the hospital every two days or other periods fixed as per ICMR norms. He hoped the process would begin in a week. Meanwhile, the news of the vaccine trial created a hankering for trial vaccine among some persons, whose relatives or acquaintances had tested positive. Social media platforms witnessed a clamour from those wanting to be part of the trial. Many persons wanted to get the contact details of the hospital as they wanted the test dose. However, Dr. Bhate said that volunteers were selected strictly on the basis of ICMR norms. “COVID-19 patients cannot be volunteers and their relatives could carry the virus. We test the volunteers and give them the vaccine only if their test results are negative,” he said. According to him, the hospital did not accept payment from any volunteer.
28 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘Gear up to bring BJP back to power in Maharashtra’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J.P. Nadda on Monday appealed to party workers in Maharashtra to get ready to bring the party back to power on its own might, hinting at permanently parting ways with its former ally, the Shiv Sena. In a meeting with State party leaders, Mr. Nadda called for efforts to strengthen its IT cell and expose the failures of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Mr. Nadda said, “The Maharashtra government has failed to tackle the COVID-19 crisis. We have to reveal the government’s failures in front of the people in an effective manner.” The BJP chief also said the people of Maharashtra have realised that the State government’s motive is to make profits and further its selfish goals. “There is a shameless government in power in Maharashtra filled with internal squabbles and inter-party fighting,” he said.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC gives UGC 48 hours to reply to pleas on exams||The Supreme Court on Monday gave the University Grants Commission (UGC) 48 hours to respond to a series of petitions filed by students challenging the Commission’s July 6 circular directing varsities and colleges to complete the final exams by September 30 amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The court refused to stay the circular but granted an early hearing on July 31. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, senior advocate A.M. Singhvi said the circular gave the States no discretion to take a call on the exams even as COVID-19 cases were increasing every day. “This is unreal, forced and harsh. Many States are opposed,” he submitted. Early hearing request Advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava called for an early hearing this week as students were left in a state of uncertainty. The court had initially fixed the hearing on August 10. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the UGC was providing several alternatives for the students, including taking their exams online. “Students can also have a mix of both online and physical exams, wherein 10 students will sit in each room. There are also special exams for those who have been left out,” he said.  The court asked Mr. Mehta to file a detailed affidavit by Wednesday. Shiv Sena’s youth wing Yuva Sena has also challenged the July 6 circular. Maharashtra has already cancelled the final examinations for professional and non-professional courses.
28 July 2020||Kolkata,||Printed study material to bridge digital divide||In a novel way to minimise the digital divide in imparting education to students during the COVID-19 pandemic, teachers of around 600 madrasahs in the State have been distributing printed study material and assignments to parents, an official said on Monday. Teachers are handing over study material to parents when they visit madrasahs to collect non-cooked food for the mid-day meal scheme, West Bengal Madrasah Board President Sheikh Abu Taher Kamruddin said. They have been asked to return the assignment papers, completed by their children, to the teachers on a particular date. As educational institutes are closed since March, the authorities had started live classes on television channels and digital platforms, besides uploading study material on WhatsApp. But these measures were not reaching students hailing from poor socio-economic background, Mr. Kamruddin said. “We then decided that teachers will prepare subject-wise study materials and assignments for all classes and respective madrasah management would distribute these among parents and guardians. The assignments include home tasks and periodic examinations,” he said. Guardians have been asked to return completed assignment sheets on designated day slots during the first two weeks of August, he said. “The objective of the project is to involve students for better studying and establish a routine by giving them activities while they are forced to stay at home,” he said.
28 July 2020||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao’s family turns to Deshmukh||After writing to the National Human Rights Commission, the family of poet Varavara Rao (81) has requested Maharahstra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh to ensure that they get regular updates on Mr. Rao’s health. Mr. Rao is admitted to Nanavati Hospital. His wife Hemalatha and daughters Sahaja, Anala and Pavana have claimed that they have been denied information about his health condition or treatment at the hospital for the last 12 days. “We are writing to you since he is lodged in a jail under your ministry as an under-trial prisoner and it is your bounden duty to look after his well-being,” the letter to Mr. Deshmukh said.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Rafale roars||
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC allows Speaker to withdraw plea||The Supreme Court on Monday found “no problem” in allowing Rajasthan Speaker C.P. Joshi to withdraw his petition challenging the State High Court’s “interference” in the disqualification proceedings against former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other dissident Congress legislators. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra, senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Sunil Fernandes said they had been instructed by their client, the Speaker’s office, to withdraw the case from the Supreme Court. ‘Case infructuous’ Mr. Sibal said the case had become “infructuous” with the Rajasthan High Court, on July 24, passing a detailed order, effectively deferring disqualification action against Mr. Pilot and the other MLAs for an indefinite period.
28 July 2020||bengaluru,||Major cut in school syllabi||The Department of Public Instruction on Monday announced a 30% cut in syllabi from classes 1 to 10. Among the lessons truncated or dropped are those on Tipu Sultan, and aspects of the Constitution.
28 July 2020||bengaluru,||Row over appointments||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa appointed heads of boards and corporations to mollify some ministerial aspirants. However, some refused to climb down from their wish to be made Ministers and aired their disappointment, forcing the government to withdraw four appointments.
28 July 2020||Kolkata,||No relief for elderly victim for 14 hours||The family members of an elderly COVID-19 patient have claimed that his body lay unattended at their residence in South 24 Parganas for over 14 hours, no one responded to distress calls, despite repeated attempts. The man, in his mid 60s, died around midnight on Sunday. The family members — three of whom have also tested positive for the disease — said, they tried contacting the local councillor several times, but all calls went unanswered.
28 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Breather for accused in 17 Kapu stir cases||The government on Monday issued a GO for withdrawing the prosecution of the accused in 17 cases booked during the agitation for Kapu reservation at Tuni. It was mentioned in the GO issued by Principal Secretary (Home) Kumar Vishwajeet that orders were issued on December 17, 2019, to withdraw the cases registered in connection with the protests at Tuni. Accordingly, prosecution of the accused in 51 cases registered at Tuni was withdrawn through a GO issued in March, 2020 of the total 69 cases. The cases were booked under IPC, Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1932, and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Festival season fuels hopes among traders||Merchants and traders of various markets in the city are hoping that the State government will allow them to reopen and do business, especially with the festival season round the corner.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC urged to withdraw action against Bhushan||A group of prominent citi-zens, including retired judges and activists, have urged the Supreme Court to reconsider its decision to initiate suo motu contempt proceedings against lawyer Prashant Bhushan and to withdraw it at the earliest, in the interest of justice and fairness.
28 July 2020||Patna,||26 booked for protesting against cremation||The Bihar police on Monday lodged a case against 26 persons – six named and 20 unnamed – for protesting against the cremation of COVID-19 victims at Bansghat ground in Patna. Residents of north Mandiri area had on Sunday held a protest, complaining that they too would contract the virus.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||Glitches mar DU online mock exams yet again||Scores of Delhi University students appearing for online mock tests on the first day of the second attempt at the exercise on Monday complained of technical problems. Earlier, the university had conducted mock tests on July 4, which too were marred by delays.
28 July 2020||Kolkata,||’Sacred’ soil, water from Bengal to be sent to Ayodhya for Ram temple ‘bhoomi pujan’: VHP leader||Sacred soil from major temples in West Bengal and holy water from ‘sangam’, the confluence of the Ganga with other rivers, will be sent to Ayodhya for bhoomi pujan (groundbreaking ceremony) of the Ram temple on August 5, Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) leader Sourish Mukherjee said on Monday. The August 5 ceremony will mark the beginning of the temple’s construction.
28 July 2020||Kolkata,||Rajasthan crisis: Congress protest demonstration in front of Kolkata Raj Bhavan||Alleging that governors are acting as agents of the Bharatiya Janata Party in installing saffron party governments in States ruled by opposition parties, West Bengal Congress workers staged a demonstration in front of the Raj Bhavan on Monday. Congress activists, as part of a nationwide protest, staged a sit-in demonstration before the north gate of the Raj Bhavan.
28 July 2020||Kolkata,||Elephant found dead in West Bengal’s Jalpaiguri district||A full-grown elephant was found dead in Jalpaiguri district on Monday, less than a week after carcasses of two elephants were discovered, a senior forest official said. Chief Wildlife Warden Ravikant Sinha said the elephant was found near a tea estate in Nagrakata area. He said it was a male elephant of around 30 years of age. Prima facie the death of the elephant seemed to be natural.
28 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||Dharwad records 193 new cases||Dharwad district recorded 193 fresh COVID-19 positive cases on Monday. It also recorded eight deaths. Meanwhile, Belagavi recorded 155 cases followed by Vijayapura and Davangere with 110 each, Gadag 63, Chitradurga 51, Uttara Kannada 32, Bagalkot and Haveri with 27 each. Belagavi recorded six deaths, Vijayapura and Bagalkot two deaths each, Gadag, Davangere, Uttara Kannada and Haveri recorded a death each.
28 July 2020||Mumbai,||First Mumbai nearby||Days after social activist Saket Gokhale alleged links between members of the former BJP government and a firm which was awarded a contract to handle social media for the office of the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Maharashtra during 2019 Assembly polls, the latter has denied sending any report linking any political party to the Election Commission of India (ECI).
28 July 2020||Pune,||Second Mumbai nearby||In the wake of the grim COVID-19 situation in Pune, Deputy Chief Minister and district Guardian Minister Ajit Pawar on Monday directed the district administration to set up three jumbo facilities by the end of August. The facilities are collectively proposed to have 1,800 oxygenated beds and 600 ICU beds.
28 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Third Mumbai nearby||The Mumbai Crime Branch has arrested four people for allegedly trying to steal from the bank accounts of an 82-year-old man, who died of COVID-19 on June 20, an official said on Monday. The victim owned Arlabs Limited and Prabhav Properties Private Limited and an employee hatched the plan along with his friends.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. govt. issues SOP for bringing migrant workers||The government has issued a Standard Operating Procedure for companies and agencies bringing in migrant workers. “Every company/manpower agency, which wants to bring the guest workers to Tamil Nadu, shall apply to the Collectors through TN e-pass, ” said a government order.
28 July 2020||Chennai,||6,993 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in T.N.||Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of COVID-19 cases increased to 2,20,716, with 6,993 more persons testing positive on Monday. Of the new infections, Chennai and its nearby districts of Chengal-pattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur accounted for 2,422 cases, while the remainder was spread across other districts.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,||CM inaugurates projects worth Rs. 3,185 crore||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday laid the foundation stone for eight projects entailing investments of Rs. 2,368 crore. He also inaugurated 11 projects worth Rs. 3,185 crore that will provide jobs to more than 6,000 persons.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka too crosses one lakh cases mark||Karnataka breached the one lakh mark on COVID-19 cases on Monday, nearly five months after recording its first COVID-19 case. The State had 1,01,465 cases, as 5,324 persons tested positive in a fresh single-day high. With 61,819 active cases, Karnataka was in second position after Maharashtra. Fuelled by a rise in cases in Bengaluru, the situation took a turn for the worse in July. After 2,000 cases per day initially, it began clocking over 5,000 cases, now for the fifth day. There were 75 new fatalities and the death toll touched 1,953 on Monday. From the start of July, the pandemic had claimed 1,707 lives across Karnataka and 822 in Bengaluru Urban. The State’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.92%. From July 1, the State added 86,223 cases while Bengaluru Urban accounted for 46,923. Active cases in Bengaluru Urban were put at 33,816. Apart from Bengaluru Urban that recorded 1,470 fresh cases, Ballari and Kalaburgi also saw a record jump: 840 and 631 cases respectively. Mysuru and Udupi recorded 296 and 225 cases respectively. Andhra Pradesh also passed the one-lakh cases mark on Monday, with 6,051 new cases. On the same day, 49 more deaths were recorded. The death toll rose to 1,090 and case tally to 1,02,349, the Health Department said. There were 51,701 active cases. So far 16.86 lakh samples were tested, 43,127 in the past day. The positivity rate rose to 6.07%. The cases confirmed per million ratio was at 1,918. Most new cases were in East Godavari (1210, 7 new deaths), Guntur (744), Kurnool (664,2) and Visakhapatnam (655,8). They were followed by Anantapur (524,3), Nellore (422), West Godavari (408,9), Chittoor (367,7), Kadapa (336,1), Prakasam (317,1), Vizianagaram (157,4), Krishna (127,5) and Srikakulam (120). Total cases in Telangana touched 55,532 as 1,473 more tested positive as of Sunday. Eight more patients died. The new cases included 506 from Greater Hyderabad, 168 from Rangareddy and 111 from Warangal Urban. Out of the total, 12,955 were active cases and 471 patients died. On Sunday, 9,817 [RT-PCR] samples were tested, representing a sharp reduction after Rapid Antigen Tests were introduced on July 8. The cumulative Test Positivity Rate was 15.28%. Kerala’s was preparing long-term plans for disease containment and capacity building, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. The State reported 702 fresh cases on Monday. Disease transmission within clusters seemed to go up and many clusters were expanding, he said. Locally acquired infections accounted for 536 new cases, with 35 having no recognised source. Two deaths were reported in Kozhikode and Kottayam, taking the total toll to 63.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus)
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||Congress warns of Constitutional crisis||Former Law Ministers in the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government Kapil Sibal, Ashwani Kumar and Salman Khurshid on Monday wrote a joint letter to Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra to remind him of his oath of office, and asserted that his reluctance to follow the State government’s advice to convene an Assembly session would result in a “Constitutional crisis”. The Governor has since agreed to convene the session, subject to a few conditions. At a press conference, former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram accused Governors “appointed by the BJP since 2014 of repeatedly violating the letter and spirit of the Constitution”, and appealed to the President to intervene and instruct the Rajasthan Governor to hold a session. Asked about rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot, whom he had tried to placate, Mr. Chidambaram said, “To me, he seems to be in a tight embrace of the BJP”. He cited three landmark judgments of the Supreme Court when “the Governors concerned had acted in gross violation of the Constitution in Arunachal Pradesh (2016), Uttarakhand (2016) and Karnataka (2019) and the Supreme Court settled the matter.” Mr. Chidambaram said, “It is settled law that the Governor shall act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. The Governor has no discretion. The fundamental basis of a parliamentary democracy is a functioning legislature. If the executive government wants the legislature to meet, it has the absolute right and authority to call a session. The Governor is only a formal instrument to sign and issue the summons to the MLAs. He [the Governor] must remember that he has no other masters except the Constitution and the law.” Asked if the President of India need to consult the Central government before intervening on the matter, he said, “As far as I can see, the President can advise the Home Ministry to instruct the Governor... He can also pick up the phone and tell the Governor that the law is very clear, please call the session.” ‘Will of the people’ On a day when the Congress protested outside Raj Bhavans across the country on the alleged partisan attitude of Governors, the former UPA Law Ministers said in their letter, “As holder of high public office you are well aware that the Constitutional functionaries are charged by their oath of office to vindicate the Constitution in letter and spirit. This obliges the Governor, in accordance with the established parliamentary and constitutional democracy, to defer to the wishes of an elected government that expresses the will of the people in an parliamentary democracy”. Mr. Kumar told The Hindu, “The Congress will politically resist all attempts to subvert the Constitution, destabilise a duly-elected government and undermine democracy. The matter is now in the people’s court.” D
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||31,991 discharged in 24 hours||India’s COVID-19 case fatality rate is progressively falling and currently it is at 2.28%, making it one of the lowest in the world, said a statement issued by the Union Health Ministry on Monday. Continuing the streak of more than 30,000 recoveries a day for the fourth successive day, 31,991 patients were discharged in the past 24 hours. This had taken the total recoveries beyond 9 lakh and the number currently stood at 9,17,567. The recovery rate was now 64%, the Ministry said. Medical attention was being provided to all active cases in hospitals and home settings. The Central government attributed the falling case fatality rate and growing recovery rate to focused efforts on early detection and isolation through aggressive testing and efficient clinical management of hospitalised cases by it, the State governments and the Union Territory administrations. Data released by the Ministry said that during the pandemic, through the Ayushman Bharat Health and Wellness Centres (AB-HWCs), in the last week, 3.83 lakh individuals were screened for hypertension, 3.14 lakh for diabetes, 1.15 lakh for oral cancer, 45,000 for breast cancer and 36,000 for cervical cancer. “The AB-HWCs have been very useful in the pandemic as their population-based screenings for non-communicable diseases have provided the State health authorities a list of those with chronic diseases and the vulnerable, co-morbid population which has to be protected from COVID-19 on priority,” the Health Ministry said. It added that in the week starting from July 18 to 24, a total of 44.26 lakh people have benefited from the health and wellness services being provided by the AB-HWCs. The cumulative total footfall among the HWCs since their inception (i.e. April 14, 2018) consequently rose to 1,923.93 lakh. Responding to the Central government’s action to counter the COVID-19 outbreak that prompted disruptions in import of bulk drug and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) to India, S. Sridhar, chair, FICCI Pharma Committee, and MD, Pfizer, said that the government’s Rs. 10,000-crore pharma package to boost manufacturing of APIs and reduce import dependence had come at a very right time. “We believe that this is a first step towards what must be a sustained effort to help create a thriving API industry in the country. In subsequent phases, we hope to see measures that enable access to easier loans, enhanced taxation benefits, priority issue resolution across Ministries and further improvement in access to infrastructure,” he said.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||5 Rafales make home run from France||Five Rafale fighter jets took off from France on Monday morning for induction into the No. 17 Golden Arrows squadron of the Indian Air Force (IAF) at the Ambala airbase on Wednesday. The immediate focus is on getting the aircraft operational at the earliest, which has gained urgency with the tensions with China on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. “All five Rafales have landed safely in the Al Dhafra airbase in the UAE after a sortie in excess of seven hours,” the IAF said on Monday evening. The jets were accompanied by mid-air refuelling aircraft of the French Air Force on the first leg of the visit from the Merignac airbase at Bordeaux in France to the UAE. After a night halt in the UAE, the jets will take off on Tuesday to their home base in Ambala, covering a total distance of close to 7,000 km. “These five include three single-seater and two twin-seater aircraft. The aircraft are likely to arrive at the Air Force Station, Ambala, on July 29 subject to weather,” the IAF said in a statement. The Air Force had stated that the final induction ceremony would take place in the second half of August. Air power “This is going to add a great deal of strength to our air power and defence preparedness. But it is also a powerful symbol of the strategic partnership between India and France,” said India’s Ambassador to France Jawed Ashraf before the jets took off. “Our pilots, who I just spoke to, are very excited. They are very proud to be flying the machines to India. It is going to be a long flight. It is a remarkable symbol of their professionalism, endurance and the skills that they have acquired during their training that they be able to do this with mid-air refuelling and just a single stop en route to India which is actually quite a long distance,” he said. The Indian Embassy in Paris said in a statement, “Delivery of 10 aircraft has been completed as per schedule. Five will stay back in France for training mission. Further batches of IAF personnel will continue the training over the next nine months.” Delivery of all 36 aircraft would be completed as per schedule by 2021-end. Formal delivery In October 2019, on a visit to France for the second India-France ministerial-level annual defence dialogue, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh took formal delivery of the first Rafale jet built for India, and IAF pilots have since been undergoing training on the jets there. During the defence dialogue, the French side agreed to consider the Indian request for 8-10 Meteor missiles to be given to India by 2020 with the first four aircraft. The introduction of Meteor Beyond Visual Range air-to-air missile, widely recognised as a game changer in air combat with a range of over 150 km, the SCALP long-range stand-off attack air-to-ground missile and the MICA multi-mission air-to-air missiles  into the IAF’s inventory will give the force an edge in the neighbourhood. In addition to these, with the ongoing border tensions, the IAF has decided to procure HAMMER (Highly Agile Modular Munition Extended Range) medium-range air-to-ground missiles for the Rafales. “The IAF is looking at these weapons as they are already integrated [on Rafale]. While SCALP has much larger range for strategic level targets, the HAMMER is below 100 km,” a defence source said. These procurement are being done under the emergency powers given by the Defence Ministry to the armed forces recently for off-the-shelf purchase of weapon systems up to Rs. 300 crore. IAF aircrew and ground crew have undergone comprehensive training on the aircraft and are fully operational now, the Air Force had stated. The five jets are part of the 36 Rafales contracted from France in fly-away condition with 13 India-specific enhancements (ISE) under a €7.87-billion Inter-Governmental Agreement signed in September 2016. However, as reported by The Hindu earlier, the Indian-standard Rafale with all ISE is operationally expected to be ready latest by the second half of 2021.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Uddhav’s concerns are fake: VHP||Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) acting president Alok Kumar on Monday said Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray’s suggestion that ‘Bhoomi Poojan’ (ground-breaking ceremony) for the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya scheduled for August 5 be performed via videoconferencing was a “sign of the great fall of a once great Hindutva party”. “‘Bhoomi Pujan’ is an essential and sacred ritual. Before starting any construction work, we worship Mother Earth, seek Her permission to dig and construct structures and obtain Her blessings for the mission. Obviously, this cannot be done by e-conference. The country is going through its normal activities with all precautions relating to COVID-19. The Supreme Court permitted the symbolic taking out of Shri Jagannath Rath Yatra. The rituals of Shri Amarnath Yatra have all been performed though the yatra is not permitted this year,” he said. “The VHP has always made it clear that the ‘Bhoomi Poojan’ will be done by restricting participation to 200 persons and complying with all health and security advisories. In this situation, the concern about public health expressed by Shri Thackeray are only false pretensions,” he said. The ceremony has been scheduled for August 5 in Ayodhya with the attendance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Sharad Pawar, leader of the Nationalist Congress Party, which is an ally of Mr. Thackeray in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, has taunted the government for going ahead with the ceremony in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, saying the function should be held via videoconference without much fanfare. The Shiv Sena has, in the past, admitted to being part of the “kar seva” that led to the destruction of the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||Hiding truth is anti-national: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, in his latest video blog post on Monday, said he would not lie even “if his whole career goes to hell”, as hiding the truth about China occupying Indian territory was ‘anti-national’. Mr. Gandhi said his blood boiled “to see another nation come into our territory”, and added that he was convinced that the Chinese had occupied Indian territory after “seeing satellite images and talking to ex-Army people”. ‘People should know’ “The Chinese have occupied Indian land. Hiding the truth and allowing them to take it is anti-national. Bringing it to people’s attention is patriotic,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted, along with his short video. “If you want me to lie that the Chinese have not entered this country, I’m not gonna [going to] lie. I simply will not do it. I don’t care if my whole career goes to hell. I’m not going to lie. So, frankly, I don’t care if it costs me politically. I don’t care if I have no political career at all after that. But I’m going to say the truth as far as Indian territory is concerned,” Mr. Gandhi said in his video. Plank of nationalism The latest video is an attempt by the Congress leader to take on the BJP on its nationalism plank and target Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the India-China face-off on the Ladakh border. Before the 2014 Lok Sabha election, the BJP and Mr. Modi had attacked the Manmohan Singh’s government’s ‘inability’ to deal with China with a strong hand. However, after the Galwan Valley clashes between Indian and Chinese troops, the Congress has stepped up its attack on the Modi government. Asked about his questions to the Prime Minister on China “weakening” India, the Congress leader responded, “As an Indian, my number one priority is the nation and its people”. “I think the people who are lying about Chinese entering our country are the people that are not nationalistic. I think the people who are lying and who are saying the Chinese are not in India, they are the people who are not patriotic,” Mr. Gandhi said.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Rally to Raj Bhavan by Cong. stopped midway; several leaders detained||Scores of Congress leaders, including former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar and others, were prevented from taking out a rally to Raj Bhavan. They were detained by the police at Balekundri Circle, and bundled into buses. The Congress leaders were taking out a rally to submit a memorandum to the Governor to be forwarded to President Ram Nath Kovind against Operation Lotus of the BJP. According to Mr. Shivakumar, the Governor had given them an appointment at 4 p.m. However, police personnel prevented the rally from proceeding at Balekundri Circle. The Congress leaders and party workers sat in an impromptu protest at the circle, protesting against the ‘high-handedness of the government’. Addressing reporters, Mr. Siddaramiah said the BJP was making attempts to dismantle non-BJP governments in various States. “The BJP did that here in Karnataka. They did it in Madhya Pradesh and are trying the same thing in Rajasthan,” he charged. He also said Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra should have given a chance to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot to prove majority. “Instead, he has become a puppet of the Narendra Modi-led government. The Cabinet had already decided to prove its majority on the floor of the Assembly. He does not have the moral right to continue in that post,” he said. Meanwhile, Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar tweeted that the Congress leaders and party workers had thrown to wind all precautions mandated to check the spread of COVID-19, especially maintaining social distance, during the protest.
28 July 2020||KOCHI,||Merchants’ union not to stop fish sale across Kerala||The All Kerala Fish Merchants’ and Commission Agents’ Association has said that it is withdrawing an earlier decision not to sell fish in the State till August 2 so as to contain the spread of COVID-19.The Ernakulam district president of the association A.R. Bijukumar said the decision was withdrawn after talks with fishers’ unions across Kerala, who said that they would be in serious financial trouble if fish sales were stopped in the entire State. The State government had issued a set of instructions to the community on fishing expeditions as well as sales. The auction system was stopped in May so as to prevent gatherings of people at fishing harbours and landing centres. However, over the past one month, fishers have been using the online system as well as an informal fixing of prices ahead of landing of boats to sell their catch. ‘Spread not uniform’ P.V. Jayan, a representative of traditional fishermen, said that though lockdown had been imposed on a large stretch of coast, in other areas, fishing activities had not been curtailed. The coast of Thiruvanathapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, and Ernakulam was facing severe spread of COVID-19. However, coastal regions in the northern districts, as well as parts of Ernakulam, had been relatively disease-free and in these areas fishing should be allowed, said Mr. Jayan. Markets closed While local fishermen were not being allowed to sell their catch in some areas, fish from other States was being sold without hindrance. Arrival of lorries from other States without proper testing of their drivers posed a health threat, he said. Mr. Bijukumar said fish merchants had decided not to sell consignments from other States to prevent spread of COVID-19. Ernakulam district’s major markets like Champakkara and Varappuzha have been closed down to slow down the disease transmission.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||Two CPI(M) MLAs will back Gehlot govt., says Yechury||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Monday accused the Congress of working in tandem with the BJP to destabilise the Left Front government in Kerala. At the same time, he said that two CPI(M) MLAs in Rajasthan would vote to “defeat the BJP’s machinations to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in the State”. At a virtual press conference at the end of the two-day meeting of the CPI(M) Central Committee, Mr. Yechury said the assaults on the State governments had taken another dimension. “The efforts to destabilise the State governments have, in fact, intensified during the pandemic. We have seen how the BJP has engineered the governments in Goa, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and now what they are doing in Rajasthan,” he said. He also hit out at Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra for not abiding by the constitutional principle. “Despite the Council of Ministers seeking a vote of confidence in light of the efforts to topple the government through large-scale horse-trading of MLAs, the constitutional authority — the Governor — is not abiding by the constitutional principle that he will work on the basis of the advice of Council of Ministers,” Mr. Yechury said. Horse-trading He clarified that both the CPI(M) legislators in Rajasthan would adhere to the party line. “We are very clear. We thoroughly oppose this plan of BJP through large-scale horse-trading. Both our MLAs are adhering to this understanding. Whenever the question arises we will take a position to defeat the BJP’s machinations,” Mr. Yechury said. Gold smuggling case Similar efforts to target the Left Front government in Kerala were going on using the excuse of the gold smuggling case, he said. The case was currently with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) after demands for investigations by a Central agency were made by Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Appropriate action would be taken against the guilty, he said. “At a time when we should be working together to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, the opposition led by the Congress is working in tandem with the BJP using disruptive politics to destabilise the Left government but people of Kerala will never allow it,” he said.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Israeli team arrives for trials of rapid tests for COVID-19||An Israeli team, led by a “high ranking” research and development (R&D) defence official, arrived in Delhi on Monday with a multi-pronged mission, code-named “Operation Breathing Space”, to work with Indian authorities on the coronavirus response, said a statement issued by the Israeli Embassy in Delhi. Amongst the plans for the team, which will be coordinated by Israel’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA), and Indian Ministry of Defence (MoD) and the Ministry of Health, are four different kinds of rapid tests, which will be jointly developed after trials on Indian COVID-19 patients, as well as high-tech equipment to minimise exposure of medical staff to the virus, advanced respirators and special sanitisers developed in Israel. Possible game changer “If even one of the tests proves to be effective in testing for coronavirus in 30-40 seconds, this could be a game changer for the whole world and how we behave, at least until we have a vaccine,” Israeli Ambassador Ron Malka, who also flew to Delhi by the special flight from Tel Aviv with the team and medical equipment aid, told The Hindu on Monday. “Imagine how much easier it will be to operate flights, schedule conferences and meetings, if we can test so easily and quickly,” he explained. The tests that the Israeli teams will be conducting trials for include an audio test, a breath test, thermal testing, and a polyamino test which seeks to isolate proteins related to COVID-19, said officials. In the audio test, a patient’s voice would be recorded and evaluated through artificial intelligence and machine learning, while the breath test would involve making the patient blow into a tube, which would be analysed through specialised “high-frequency” methodology. The simple tests have been tried on a small sample of Israeli patients, and now would be tried in the next stage on a larger sample of Indian patients, after which they would be recalibrated depending on results, using “big data” analysis. “These are not experiments on patients. We are just testing using samples from patients. They are completely safe and are not invasive, and will follow international standards and practices,” Mr. Malka said, adding that the trials in Israel thus far had yielded positive results. The cooperation between Indian and Israeli scientists will also include sharing the most effective treatment protocols for COVID-19 patients. The team, which will work initially at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), has also brought robotic equipment, and wrist monitors that will help doctors and nurses monitor a patient without increasing risks of infection to themselves. In addition, the team has brought 83 “advanced respirators” to help patients with severe symptoms. These have been banned for export in Israel, but have been allowed for Indian use by a special waiver, said the Ambassador. The decision to cooperate on COVID-19 research and development, and to allow the Israeli team to conduct trials in India was decided between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Premier Benjamin Netanyahu, who have spoken thrice since the pandemic broke out. On Sunday, Israeli Foreign Minister Gabi Ashkenazi called External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar to brief him on details of the team’s plans in India.
28 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Fighting a virus and social boycott||Stigma, ostracism, innuendo and ill-treatment are just a few of the societal hurdles that COVID-19 patients are facing in Hyderabad. As the Telangana government has chosen home-quarantine as a preferred option for discharging hundreds of patients, there are thousands of COVID-positive persons scattered throughout the city. “As good citizens, we disclosed the COVID status [to our resident welfare association] when one person in our family tested positive. We had to face nasty WhatsApp messages. We were barred from taking our dog out. Even the delivery personnel were stopped for a while,” says R. Natasha who lives in an apartment block in Begumpet. “Our gate was bolted from outside in the night after the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation staff sanitised the surroundings of our home. The neighbourhood grocery store refused to deliver milk, although he leaves the packets outside the gate,” says another resident in Radhakrishna Nagar in the southern part of Hyderabad. Even the domestic staff of a well-known politician who tested positive had to face ostracism as the neighbourhood shops barred them from coming into the Nallakunta area. Horror stories like these have become the norm as resident welfare associations and neighbourhoods are shutting out and shunning COVID-19 positive persons and their families. While the Telangana State’s medical bulletin presents a rosy picture of a disease that is plateauing, data from Aarogya Setu app shows a different picture. In Nalanda Nagar, the number of COVID-positive persons in 500-metre radius is 23, in 1 km radius 94, in 2 km radius 189, 5 km radius 689 and in 10 km radius 3,760. And 2 km from that location in Hyderguda, the numbers change to 500 metres 38 cases, 1 km 98 cases, 2 km 227 patients, 5 km 793 cases and 10 km 3,507 cases. The data about patients and where they stay has been kept a secret by the GHMC as homes of COVID-19 persons are being declared as containment zones. The result is inconvenience at every level, including access to bottled drinking water, vegetables, milk and other daily needs. Earlier, when the State followed a containment zone policy, a nodal officer was appointed for each containment zone and officials from all other utilities as well as ASHA workers were involved. Every aspect, from milk supply to electricity, was taken care of. But with this tweak in the policy of containment zones, patients and their families are being left to the mercy of RWAs and neighbourhoods.
28 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala to promote adoption, foster care||The Women and Child Development Department has launched a programme for deinstitutionalisation of children living in child care institutions in the State. Nearly 20,000 children are living in 817 child care institutions registered under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) of Children Act, 2015, in the State. The Act states that a child should be placed in institutional care only as a last resort. The Supreme Court too has directed that State governments should consider deinstitutionalisation as a viable alternative. It calls for options such as adoption and foster care. However, say officials, the State has a large number of institutions, and institutionalisation of children in need of care is usually the first resort, even by the government machinery. The institutions, however, lack facilities, and do not follow a child rights-based approach. Many of the resident children have one or both parents. Four phases The programme will be implemented in four phases. In the first phase, a meeting of superintendents of these homes will be conducted by district child protection officers (DCPOs). The number of children in each institution will be calculated. The district women and child development officers will organise a workshop for DCPOS, social workers and so on to prepare of a social investigation report of the child. The report has to be given to the child welfare committees (CWCs), based on which they will take action. The government, had in May, issued orders that after examining the report, the CWCs should consider a child for alternatives such as adoption, foster care, or sponsorship. Awareness In the third phase, the institution superintendents or allied officials will visit the houses of children living in the child care institutions to create awareness among the parents of deinstitutionalisation. In the last stage, a follow-up of the project will be taken up with the help of rescue officers of Sarana Balyam project, school counsellors, and so on. Priority for parents The government has given administrative sanction for the project in all districts. Officials say priority should be given to placing children with their biological parents. . Sponsorship programmes such as Vijnjana Deepthi have been devised with the goal of deinstitutionalisation. Under it, children who cannot continue their studies owing to financial difficulties will be given Rs. 2,000 a month for education.  A child should be placed in institutional care only as a last resort.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP has revealed its true mindset, Priyanka tells Omar||“Lost in translation.” That is how Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra reacted on Monday to a tweet by National Conference leader Omar Abdullah, who had commented on an earlier statement of Ms. Vadra about the BJP trying to topple the Rajasthan government “during pandemic”. “You’re absolutely right @omarabdullah. What I actually said was that leadership becomes evident during a crisis, and while the pandemic is on, the nation needs a leadership that works in the interest of its people. However, the BJP government has been busy trying to topple democratically elected governments, revealing its true mindset and character,” Ms. Vadra replied to the former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister. “It seems my point got lost in translation!” she said. Late on Sunday, reacting to a report about Ms. Vadra’s remark, Mr. Abdullah tweeted, “I don’t get the whole “during pandemic” argument. As though somehow toppling an elected government would be less reprehensible if we weren’t battling a health crisis. IMHO [In my humble opinion] it’s wrong regardless of COVID”. On Sunday, as part of the Congress’s Speak for Democracy campaign on social media platforms, Ms. Vadra tweeted: “Leadership is recognised in times of crisis. During the national corona crisis, the country needs a leadership that works in national interest. But the BJP government at the Centre is trying to topple governments,” Ms. Vadra tweeted.
28 July 2020||Panaji,||Goa Assembly passes Rs. 21,056 cr. budget||The Goa Assembly passed the budget on Monday amid noisy scenes after an adjournment motion brought by the Opposition was not admitted by the Speaker. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat moved the adjournment motion to set aside the business of the day to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the State. When Speaker Rajesh Patnekar refused to admit the motion, Opposition MLAs stormed to the well of the House. Even as MLAs from the Goa Forward Party (GFP), the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), the Congress and an Independent legislator demanded that the adjournment motion be allowed, the Rs. 21,056 crore budget, tabled during the last session on February 6, was passed. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said a discussion on COVID-19 can be taken up after the business of the day was completed. Mr. Sawant said the budget tabled in the House was an estimated one, and it had to be passed considering the requirements to tackle the pandemic. Mr. Sawant said that he was optimistic the economic situation would be back to normal soon. The members of the House then passed several Bills by voice vote. Later, Opposition MLAs met Governor Satya Pal Malik and requested him not to give assent to the business transacted on the floor of the House during the one-day session on Monday. Mr. Kamat, GFP chief Vijai Sardesai, MGP MLA Sudin Dhavalikar and Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte submitted a memorandum to the Governor, which termed the passing of the State budget “murder of democracy”. The memorandum stated, “We request your immediate intervention on above issues and urge you not to give your assent to the business transacted in the Goa Legislative Assembly today.” The MLAs demanded that a full-fledged Assembly session be convened to discuss issues of “prime importance such as COVID pandemic, financial status of the State, economic revival plan and the environment”. The MLAs said the government passed 86 demands, 11 Bills, including the Goa Appropriation Bill, and supplementary demands for grants for the year 2020- 21 in record time in a day without any discussion.  We urge you not to give your assent to the business transacted in the Goa Legislative Assembly today Memorandum submitted to Governor by Opposition MLAs
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Activist Rehana moves SC against HC’s denial of bail||Activist Rehana Fathima has moved the Supreme Court against a Kerala High Court order denying her anticipatory bail in cases concerning an edited video on social media allegedly of her minor children painting on her semi-nude body. Ms. Fathima raises two questions of law concerning the application of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and the provisions of the Information Technology law against her. She said the cases against her violate her fundamental right of life, liberty and dignity under Article 21 of the Constitution. Ms. Fathima has questioned “whether female nudity [even when not visible] per se constitutes obscenity?” and “whether children painting on their mother’s body can be concluded to be ‘sexual gratification’ and ‘child abuse’ under these stringent laws?” The petition in the top court said “there can probably be nobody except a pervert who would be aroused to sexual desire by seeing the nature of the work. In addition, the petitioner’s message accompanying the uploaded edited video makes it clear that she intended to normalise the female form for her children and not allow the distorted ideas of sexualisation to pervade their minds.” “Goddesses in Kerala are frequently depicted in idols and murals with bare breasts. When one prays at the temple the feeling is not of sexual arousal but one of divinity,” the petition noted. It said Ms. Fathima has fully cooperated in the case.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||MPs oppose exemptions under data protection law||At a meeting of the Joint Committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, Opposition and BJP members opposed certain sections of the legislation that can be invoked to exempt government agencies, such as the National Investigation Agency (NIA), from the provisions of the law. According to the sources, the Union Home Ministry made a presentation on Monday to the committee explaining that agencies including the NIA, National Crime Record Bureau, Narcotics Control Bureau and Registrar-General of India should be exempted from the provisions under Section 35 and Section 36 of the data protection law . Of civil liberties It is learnt that BJP MPs S.S. Ahluwalia and P.P. Chaudhary among others, BJD MP B. Mahtab, Congress MPs Manish Tewari and Gaurav Gogoi, among others opposed the provisions, saying that these are in violation of civil liberties of an individual. The Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 was introduced in Lok Sabha by Minister of Electronics and Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad on December 11, 2019. It seeks to provide for protection of personal data of individuals, and establish a Data Protection Authority for the same. The data can be anything from traits or attributes of identity, financial or biometric data, caste, religion or even political beliefs. Section 35 of the law says that “in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order” all or any provisions of this Act shall not apply to any agency of the government. And as per Section 36 of the law the “safeguards for an individual can also be suspended in the interests of prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of any offence or any other contravention of any law for the time being in force”. The members, sources said, demanded that both these clauses of the law need to be revisited. They also argued that the government does not have a clear justification for seeking these exemptions. “This law flows out of a Supreme Court judgment which upheld privacy as a fundamental right. These clauses allow the state instruments to remove safeguards provided to an individual, thus completely diluting the essence of the law,” one of the members said, calling it a direct assault on civil liberties. Since the law only mentions any government agency, the exemptions could practically be extended to any government body, another member said.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Can affidavits of apology be used, asks SC||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the government whether a mechanism can be devised by which nine foreign citizens facing trial for allegedly violating lockdown norms to attend a gathering in the national capital can file “affidavits of apology” as a precondition to close the cases against them. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar said the court would give priority to their right of liberty. The nine are the only ones left facing trial among the total 34 foreigners who had moved the Supreme Court. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said that of the 34 petitioners, two have no cases against them and had approached the apex court owing to some “misconception”. Trial was over for 23 of the remaining 32 of the petitioners. All the 23 had pleaded guilty under the plea-bargaining process and were set free by the magistrate court after paying a fine. Only these nine were left. Senior advocates C.U. Singh and Menaka Guruswamy said the nine were compelled to face trial because conviction or pronouncement of guilt, even by plea-bargaining, would visit them with serious consequences in their native countries. Justice Khanwilkar asked Mr. Mehta to respond to this suggestion, saying “we will prioritise the liberty issue. We will also address the issue of plea-bargaining having serious consequences [for the nine petitioners]”. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had clarified in an affidavit that visas of 2,679 foreigners were cancelled on a “case-to-case basis”.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||UGC given 48 hours to respond to pleas||The Supreme Court on Monday gave the University Grants Commission (UGC) 48 hours to respond to a series of petitions filed by students challenging the Commission’s July 6 circular directing varsities and colleges to complete the final exams by September 30 amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The court refused to stay the circular but granted an early hearing on July 31. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, senior advocate A.M. Singhvi said the circular gave the States no discretion to take a call on the exams even as cases were increasing every day. “This is unreal, forced and harsh. Many States are opposed,” he submitted. Advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava called for an early hearing this week as students were left in a state of uncertainty. The court had initially fixed the hearing on August 10. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said the UGC was providing several alternatives for the students, including taking their exams online. “Students can also have a mix of both online and physical exams, wherein 10 students will sit in each room. There are also special exams for those who have been left out,” he said. The court asked Mr. Mehta to file a detailed affidavit by Wednesday.
28 July 2020||KOCHI,||NIA questions Sivasankar for nine hours in Kerala gold case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) interrogated M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, for nearly nine hours at its office here on Monday in connection with the probe into the smuggling of gold into the country through air cargo shipments addressed to the consulate of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in Thiruvananthapuram. The second round of interrogation, which began around 10 a.m., was wound up by 7 p.m. The NIA has issued notice to Mr. Sivasankar to reappear for further questioning at 10 a.m on Tuesday. The investigating team was tight-lipped on whether the agency had given a clean chit to him. Mr. Sivasankar’s lawyer in Kochi termed the continuing interrogation as a routine investigative practice to ascertain the facts in the case. Mr. Sivasankar, who had left his home in Thiruvananthapuram early morning, reached the NIA office at Kadavanthra by 9.30 a.m. The agency had questioned the bureaucrat for four hours at the police club in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday. Speculations were rife about his possible arrest by the NIA on the alleged charge of abetment to smuggling. Mr. Sivasankar had told both the NIA and the Customs that that he knew Swapna at a familial level and had no knowledge of the crime or other aspects of her character. For clarification It is learnt that the NIA wanted further clarification from Mr. Sivasankar on whether he was aware of the role played by the key accused, including Ms. Swapna, P.S. Sarith and Sandeep Nair, in the gold smuggling. He came under the radar of the agency and the Customs following his alleged association with Ms. Swapna, a former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Mr. Sivasankar was suspended from service “in view of the wider ramifications of the case.” An inquiry by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta had found that he had “made a reference to appoint a person (Swapna),” working at the time as secretary to the Consul General, UAE, as Operations Manager, Space Park. The committee had also pointed out that “such association and frequent contacts with a foreign consulate official” violated the All India Service Conduct Rules, 1968.
28 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala Cabinet moots stricter curbs, no Statewide lockdown||The government has tasked the State police with imposing the COVID-19 health protocol without any dilution, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Wearing of masks, observing curfew hours, abiding by restrictions on travel and shopping and physical distancing had become legally enforceable norms, Mr. Vijayan said on Monday. He was speaking to the media here after chairing a special Cabinet session via videoconferencing. Any breach of the regulations would attract arrest and open the door for criminal prosecution. The government was not inclined to impose a Statewide lockdown for now. However, it would impose strict curbs on travel, retail trade, and socialising in critical containment areas and at a lesser degree in buffer zones. The authorities would shut down localities where large community clusters and new flare-ups had popped up. Grim scene in capital The strategy was to prevent the contagion from radiating out from hotspots to neighbouring localities. The pandemic situation in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation continued to be grim. The city would remain under lockdown until further notice. A committee headed by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta would evaluate the situation and decide whether to relax lockdown regulations in the capital from Wednesday. Flak and praise Mr. Vijayan appeared to obliquely criticise K. Muraleedharan, MP, who had expressed regret for having attended a marriage function that caused 40 participants to contract the virus. He said persons who should lead by example should conduct themselves responsibly. Mr. Vijayan showcased the example of Jinil, a political activist, who rushed a snakebite victim, a child, who was in quarantine in her house in Panathoor in Kasaragod district, to the hospital. He also reserved high praise for Mary Anitha, a doctor, of Kochi for having taken care of an infant when its parents were under COVID-19 treatment. Order to prosecute Mr. Vijayan ordered the police to prosecute a group of persons who had prevented the relatives of a COVID-19 victim from cremating the body at Muttambalam in Kottayam. He lambasted the BJP councillor who led the protest. A digital first Officials said the Cabinet meeting was conducted online, arguably for the first time, since the worrying pandemic situation had forced several Ministers to remain in their home districts to manage the outbreak. Hence, the Chief Minister had abandoned a conventional face-to-face cabinet meeting for a secure web conference. A few Ministers in the capital, including Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan and Health Minister K.K. Shylaja, participated in the meeting in person.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India is elated at Bangladesh’s transformation, says Jaishankar||India-Bangladesh relationship is a role model for good neighbourly relationship in the South Asian region, said External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Monday. Speaking on the occasion of the handing over of 10 broad gauge locomotives to Bangladesh, he acknowledged the progress the neighbouring nation had made over the years. And the Bangladesh representatives said Dhaka was eyeing the “bigger picture” that connected the South Asian region with East Asia. Mr. Jaishankar said, “Our two countries continue to script shonali adhyay , guided by the progressive vision of Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Sheikh Hasina. As your close friend and neighbour, we are indeed happy to witness the transformative growth in Bangladesh. We have seen impressive growth rates in the last few years and your achievements across all socio-economic indicators have set new benchmarks.” The handing over of the locomotives under grant assistance was agreed upon during the October 2019 visit of Ms. Hasina to India.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC urged to withdraw action against Bhushan||A group of prominent citizens, including retired judges, former bureaucrats, lawyers and activists, have urged the Supreme Court to reconsider its decision to initiate suo motu contempt proceedings against lawyer Prashant Bhushan and to withdraw it at the earliest, in the interest of justice and fairness and to maintain the court’s dignity. In a statement, they expressed concern over the initiation of contempt proceedings against Mr. Bhushan, in respect of two of his tweets. “Mr. Bhushan has been a relentless crusader for the rights of the weakest sections of our society and has spent his career in pro bono legal service to those who do not have ready access to justice. He has fought cases at the apex court on issues ranging from environmental protection, human rights, civil liberties, corruption in high places and has been an outspoken champion for judicial accountability and reforms, especially in the higher judiciary,” it said. The signatories said in the past few years, serious questions had been raised about the “reluctance of the Supreme Court to play its constitutionally mandated role as a check on governmental excesses and violations of fundamental rights of people by the State.” “These questions have been raised by all sections of society — media, academics, civil society organisations, members of the legal fraternity and even by sitting and retired judges of the Supreme Court itself,” the statement said. “The initiation of contempt proceedings against Mr. Bhushan, who had articulated some of these concerns in his tweets, appears to be an attempt at stifling such criticism, not just by Mr. Bhushan, but by all stakeholders in the Indian democratic and constitutional set-up.” Among those who have endorsed the statement are retired Supreme Court Judge Madan B. Lokur and retired Delhi High Court Chief Justice A.P. Shah.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||CPI opposes DD telecast of temple ceremony||A live telecast of the foundation laying ceremony for the Ram temple at Ayodhya, scheduled for August 5, by national broadcaster Doordarshan is “contrary to the accepted norms of national integrity,” CPI MP Binoy Viswam said in a letter to Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar. Mr. Viswam, opposing the move, pointed out that the Prasar Bharati Act, which governed the functioning of Doordarshan, in Section 12 2(a) clearly states that its objective is ¨upholding the unity and integrity of the country and the values enshrined in the Constitution.” “As the national broadcaster for a country founded on the principles of secularism and religious harmony, the use of Doordarshan to broadcast the religious function at Ayodhya on August 5 is contrary to the accepted norms of national integrity,” he wrote. He also sought to remind Mr. Javadekar that in a secular democracy, the state practice and organisations must be kept devoid of religious inclinations and attempts must be made to ensure that the religious sentiments of all communities are respected.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||India in better position in fighting COVID-19: Modi||India is in a much better position than other countries in the fight against COVID-19 as a result of “right decisions taken at the right time”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, asserting that the country has expanded its health infrastructure at a rapid pace to deal with the pandemic. Speaking after virtually launching COVID-19 testing facilities in Noida, Mumbai and Kolkata, Mr. Modi said that in the fight against the virus, India had come to a point where it did not lack in awareness, its scientific data were expanding and resources were also increasing. The deaths due to COVID-19 in India were much lower than many big countries, he said. Noting that India’s recovery rate was also higher than other countries and was improving on a daily basis, Mr. Modi said the total number of people recovered was about to reach the 10 lakh mark. The virtual launch event was attended by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and the Chief Ministers of Maharashtra, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh — Uddhav Thackeray, Mamata Banerjee and Yogi Adityanath. The country now had more than 11,000 COVID facilities and more than 11 lakh isolation beds, Mr. Modi said.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear on Sept. 1 pleas against Maratha quota||The Supreme Court on Monday listed for hearing on September 1 petitions challenging the legality of a Maharashtra State law providing reservation for the Maratha community in government jobs and education. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao refrained from passing any orders for stay on the implementation of the the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act providing 12-13% quota to Maratha community, saying the State had already issued a government order on May 4 that there would be no regular appointments made for the time being. Constraints cited The court had in the last hearing posted the case for July 27 to hear arguments on merits. But lawyers involved in the case have been repeatedly highlighting the constraints posed by the virtual court system on effectively arguing a complex case. The court on Monday decided to wait till September 1. The court refused to intervene in the post-graduate exams due on July 31, but said it would look into the undergraduate exams due on September 30. The court, however, said it will hear on August 25 several applications filed to refer the challenge to Maratha reservation — which takes quota percentage in the State over the 50% mark declared by a nine-judge Bench of the Supreme Court in the Indira Sawhney case — to a numerically superior, possibly 11-judge Bench, of the top court. The appeals have been filed by individuals from all walks of life and NGOs against a High Court decision upholding the Maratha law. They have argued that the decision is seriously erroneous as the State law has breached the 50% cap on reservation fixed by a Constitution Bench in the Indira Sawhney judgment. In 2019, the top court had refused to stay the State law but directed the State of Maharashtra to refrain from implementing the quota with retrospective effect from 2014.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Agents flag denial of cashless treatment||Flagging complaints of insured COVID-19 patients being denied cashless treatment by hospitals, a body of general insurance agents has urged the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) to take up the matter with State and Central Health Ministries. Alleging that the corporate hospitals were also demanding cash settlement of the bills, the General Insurance Agents’ Federation Integrated (GIAFI) said “depending on the severity of the patient’s condition, they are asking for huge sums as cash advance”. This was resulting in policyholders losing confidence in the insurance system and the companies. The agents were also at the receiving end with some customers getting into arguments.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Will not detain Bar chief after Aug. 6: J&K govt.||The J&K administration on Monday informed the Supreme Court of its intention to not detain Jammu & Kashmir Bar Association president Mian Abdul Qayoom any further after August 6. Mr. Qayoom’s detention period under the J&K Public Safety Act expires on August 6. He has been in detention for a year since the abrogation of the special rights of the Kashmiri people under Article 370 in August 2019. Mr. Qayoom’s lawyers, senior advocate Dushyant Dave and advocate Vrinda Grover, urged for his immediate release, more so because the administration does not intend to detain him any further. They said his detention was illegal. The court asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to take instructions on whether an immediate release on bail would be possible. The court agreed to hear the case next on July 29. In the last hearing, the court had asked the J&K administration to explain the basis for detaining the erstwhile State’s High Court Bar Association president for a year. “He is 73. We want to know on what basis you like to detain him in Tihar (Jail). His detention as per the order has already expired,” a Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul had said. Mr. Qayoom has been detained under the PSA since August 7 last year. His petition said he was taken to Agra Jail without “prior intimation”.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Re-examine protocol for disposal of bodies of COVID-19 patients’||Pointing out various anomalies in guidelines related to disposal of dead bodies of persons either tested positive or suspects of for COVID-19, the Karnataka High Court on Monday directed the State government to re-examine the guidelines and protocol for disposal of bodies to modify them keeping in mind the rights of the dead and their family members. A special Division Bench passed the order while hearing PIL petitions on issues related to COVID-19 health management. The Bench said that the government and its authorities must come out, with emphasis, on dignity of the dead person and the manner in which bodies are cremated or buried in a dignified way giving due respect to their religious and traditional practices. While referring to the interim guidance on Infection Prevention and Control for the safe management of a dead body in the context of COVID-19 of the World Health Organisation, the Bench noted that WHO’s guidance states that “the dignity of the dead, their cultural and religious traditions, and their families should be respected and protected throughout.” However, as per the present protocol, the Bench pointed out that women from a community, which restricts them from going to crematorium or burial ground, would not be able to see the spouse or close relative as the bodies are not permitted to be taken to their houses. Also, the guideline does not deal with the specification of keeping unclaimed bodies of COVID-19 patients for certain periods, the Bench noted. On death certificates, the Bench expressed concern over the protocol that states that “exact cause of natural death could not be concluded due to COVID-19 pandemic” even if a patient’s report turns out to be negative for COVID-19 after the death. The present protocol requires re-examination, the Bench said, as it states that the death certificate of a person, who tested positive for COVID-19, dies of a natural death, would still carry a remark that the person tested positive for COVID-19 along with other comorbidities. The question is mentioning of COVID-19 positive status in such cases where cause of death is not COVID-19 comes in the way of dignity of a dead person, the Bench pointed out.
28 July 2020||Hyderabad,||TV channel chief held on cheating charge||Guthula Prashanth, the chairman of a television channel, was arrested by the Cyberabad police on Monday for cheating people on pretext of facilitating allocation of houses under the State government’s prestigious double bedroom flats scheme. A resident of Nadimilanka in East Godavari district, the 28-year-old, who also impersonated as sub-inspector in Hyderabad and Cyberabad police commissionerates to evade payment at toll gates using a fake identity card, was arrested by the AP police in June. Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar said that Prashanth collected huge amounts from people claiming that he would facilitate allocation of double bedroom houses being constructed by the government for media personnel at Nizampet and Kaithalapur. “As such, he collected from 35-40 people photocopies of Aadhaar cards, passport size photos, electricity bill of present address and Rs. 1.55 lakh to Rs. 1.70 lakh each. “After 10 days he gave fake allotment order copies by forging the signature of the section officer in Medchal. On a tip-off, the accused was apprehended by the Special Operations Team of Madhapur zone.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Former MLA of CPI(M) dies of COVID||A former MLA of CPI(M), M. Narasimha (45) died of COVID-19 during treatment at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences on Sunday midnight. He is survived by his wife and two sons. He was admitted to hospital after he tested positive for the virus 10 days ago and his blood sugar levels shot considerably on Sunday, sources said. Narasimha represented Ibrahimpatnam constituency in Rangareddy district from 2004 to 2009 while serving as district president of Telangana agricultural workers union, a party arm. He was a native of Chintulla village of Yacharam mandal near Ibrahimpatnam. He was attracted to Leftist ideology during his student days when he played an active part in Students Federation of India and later, Democratic Youth Federation of India. He won the student union elections in the government junior college at Ibrahimpatnam and was later elected as Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituency member of Chintulla in 1994. He lost ZPTC elections in Yacharam in 2000 by a narrow margin. As DYFI district secretary and CPI(M) district committee member, Narasimha got a big break to contest Assembly elections in 2004 when the Congress, Left parties and TRS forged an alliance. Ibrahimpatnam was left to CPI(M) in the seat adjustments. Narasimha won the elections with a majority of over 67,000 votes. Owing to differences with the party leadership in 2009 Assembly elections, Narasimha left CPI (M) and joined the CPI. He rejoined the party in 2015 and functioned as State committee member of agricultural workers union. 40 cadets positive Forty constable cadets undergoing training at Police Training College, Karimnagar, tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. All the cadets were allotted to Cyberabad Police Commissionerate and are in isolation.
28 July 2020||KOCHI,||Two more arraigned as accused in the case||The Customs has arraigned Faisal Fareed of Thrissur and Rabins K.H. of Muvattupuzha as accused in the case relating to the smuggling of gold into the country through air cargo shipments addressed to the consulate of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in Thiruvananthapuram. It moved an application on Monday before the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences), Ernakulam, stating that the role of Faisal and Rabins came to light during the interrogation of those already arrested. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had earlier requested the Interpol to issue a blue corner notice to extradite Faisal, suspected to be a key link in the gold smuggling case, from the UAE. Customs sleuths said that inquiries in and around Muvattupuzha had revealed that Rabins was also in the UAE. Arrest recorded The NIA has recorded the arrest of K.T. Rameez of Malappuram, who is suspected to be the mastermind behind the gold smuggling. The arrest was recorded after the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences) sent him in judicial custody for 14 days. The customs had produced him before the court after his custody period ended on Monday. The NIA will now seek his custody before its trial court here.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Supreme Court allows Speaker to withdraw plea||Mr. Sibal said the Supreme Court had not stayed the High Court proceedings, leading to the latter court’s order on July 24. “We want to withdraw,” Mr. Sibal said. “We have no problem,” Justice Mishra followed with a short order allowing the Speaker to bow out. Mr. Sibal withdrew the petition with liberty to file a fresh appeal and “keeping all the grounds open”. On July 23, the Supreme Court declined Mr. Joshi’s plea to stop the High Court from deciding the validity of the anti-defection notices he had issued to Mr. Pilot and the 18 dissident MLAs. The Supreme Court, however, on July 23 said the High Court order the next day would be subject to the final decision of the Supreme Court on the Speaker’s petition. The Speaker had come to the top court against a July 21 order of the High Court to defer the disqualification proceedings till July 24. The Justice Mishra Bench on July 23 scheduled the hearing on Monday to look into the “larger question” as to whether a legislators’ “voice of dissent” can be “shut down” with the threat of disqualification. Can expressing dissent amount to “voluntarily giving up the party membership” under Paragraph 2(1)(a) of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution and invite anti-defection proceedings? “Can the voice of dissent [of MLAs] be shut down like this in a democracy? This is not a simple matter. These are people elected by the public. The larger question is about democracy and how it will survive like this... This, for us, is not about the disqualification of some people,” Justice Mishra addressed Mr. Sibal on July 23. “If these MLAs have to voice their dissent, let them do it in their party meetings. The disqualification petition before me says they did not attend party meetings, they attempted to destabilise their own government, they are sitting incommunicado in a Haryana hotel and making demands for a floor test in the media...” Mr. Sibal responded to Justice Mishra. He said the July 14 notice issued by the Speaker was an opportunity for the MLAs to explain their conduct.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Governor gives nod to session but with riders||At a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) on Monday, Mr. Gehlot said he had spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the deadlock between the Governor and the State government and apprised him of Mr. Mishra's conduct. “I also talked about the letter I wrote to him last week on the horse-trading attempts being made in Rajasthan,” he said. The Governor had earlier raised objections to the previous recommendation on July 24 and asked about the need for calling the session when the government already had the majority as well as about free movement of MLAs and the disqualification matter then pending in SC. In his previous note to the government, Mr. Mishra had said no one was above the constitutional dignity and no “pressure politics” should be resorted to while making a recommendation. The Governor’s observations came in the wake of a five-hour-long sit-in staged by the Congress MLAs, led by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, on the lawns of Raj Bhavan on July 24 pressing for a Assembly session. Note to President While the Congress MLAs organised a prayer meeting at the luxury hotel where MLAs supporting the government have been staying since the crisis began, the CLP sent a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking his intervention in the matter. The CLP memorandum said the “Governors of several States” were violating constitutional provisions at the instance of the ruling party at Centre without regard to the dignity of the gubernatorial office. AICC general secretary Avinash Pande, who is in Jaipur as a central observer, told reporters outside the hotel that it was surprising that the Governor was “putting obstacles” in the government's attempts to find solutions to people’s issues and provide relief during the pandemic through debates in the Assembly. While affirming that the Ashok Gehlot government enjoyed full majority, Mr. Pande said several dissident MLAs stated to be in the Pilot camp were in touch with the Congress. “They have struggled to strengthen the party in Rajasthan. Their support will be very important for us,” he said. Meanwhile, the Rajasthan High Court on Monday dismissed a petition filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar challenging the merger of six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs with the Congress party after the 2018 Assembly election. The court said the plea about the Assembly Speaker not deciding his petition for disqualification of the MLAs had become infructuous.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||None His equal||The name Viratah in the Vishnu Sahasranama is in praise of Rama’s detachment, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. Even the prospect of ruling Ayodhya did not lead to any change in emotion in Rama. And when He was asked to leave for the forest, again He was unemotional. The name Maargah in the Sahasranama means that Rama is one who is sought after. Rama is Neyah, says the Sahasranama, which means He is controlled. But Rama has such valour and strength, that none can conquer Him. That being the case, how can it be said that He can be controlled? The answer to this question is that yes, He can be controlled, but only by His devotees. Those who bear no love for Him have no hold over Him. He is Nayah, because everyone is drawn towards Him. Rama is Anayah, which means He cannot be carried away. Although He willingly allows His devotees to control Him, the same is not true in the case of those who are opposed to Him. In the battlefield, Lakshmana is hit by the weapon known as Sakthi. Ravana tries to carry away Lakshmana, but is unable to do so. The asura, who lifted mountains with ease, could not lift Lakshmana. But Hanuman could easily lift him, as if he was as light as a flower garland. When Ravana could not even lift Lakshmana, could he have lifted Rama? But the same Lakshmana is lifted by Hanuman, because he was a devotee of Rama. Rama is praised as Virah. Vaishnava Acharya Vedanta Desika wrote an entire work celebrating Rama — the brave warrior. He gave the work the title Mahaveera Vaibhavam, although it is popularly known as Raghuveera Gadyam. Rama is Saktimataam Sreshtah — he is the best among the powerful. There is none superior to Him in strength or courage. He is unbeatable on the battlefield.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,||High Court unhappy over failure to set up panels||The Bench expressed serious displeasure over the conduct of the State government for not setting up expert committees to inspect and supervise dedicated COVID-19 private and government hospitals even more than month after the Supreme Court’s directions in this regard. Also, the Bench pointed out that the government, despite the High Court’s direction, had not yet compelled private hospitals to submit availability of COVID-19 beds at a given time everyday. The government had also not submitted documents to show machinery to ensure that private hospitals don’t deny admissions. The Bench said the government must monitor services provided by the private hospitals.
28 July 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra CEO rebuts activist’s allegations||Days after social activist Saket Gokhale alleged links between members of the former BJP government and a firm which was awarded a contract to handle social media for the office of the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Maharashtra during 2019 Assembly polls, the latter has denied sending any report linking any political party, to the Election Commission of India (ECI). Mr. Gokhale had raised objection over the company run by an office-bearer of the ruling party getting the contract to run social media of the CEO, Maharashtra, alleging conflict of interests. The Congress too had demanded an inquiry. Following Mr. Gokhale’s allegations, the ECI had sought a report from the CEO, Maharashtra on the issue. Earlier reports had claimed that the CEO’s office in the report to the ECI had said the company was hired by the Directorate General of Information and Public Relation (DGIPR), Maharashtra, which was under Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis. In a series of tweets, the CEO Maharashtra said: “It is categorically denied that this office has sent report to ECI saying any political party related IT company was appointed for social media campaign. This is totally false and misleading.”
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Key Swacch Bharat official quits govt.||Parameshwaran Iyer, key player behind the Centre’s flagship Swachh Bharat Mission, has resigned as Secretary of the Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation at the Jal Shakti Ministry. The Appointments Committee of Cabinet accepted his resignation with effect from August 21, according to an official statement on Monday. Mr. Iyer’s colleagues at the Ministry said he had quit for personal reasons to spend time with his family who are in the U.S. Some officials expressed surprise at the timing given that he had received a one-year extension of his contract until April 2021. Mr. Iyer led the effort to build more than 10 crore toilets across rural India, in time to declare the entire country open-defecation free on October 2, 2019.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘PM-CARES funds cannot go to NDRF’||PM-CARES Fund is a “public charitable trust” to which “anyone can contribute”. It is a “misconception” that contributions received by a public trust like PM-CARES can be transferred to a statutory fund like the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF), the government maintained in the Supreme Court on Monday. The government was responding to a bunch of petitions, including one from the Centre for Public Interest Litigation, represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave and advocate Prashant Bhushan, to transfer funds from PM-CARES to the NDRF to help fight the pandemic. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, Mr. Dave argued that PM-CARES is not subject to audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General. Contributions to it are “100% tax free”. The court reserved the case for judgment.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India bans 47 more Chinese mobile apps||Nearly a month after banning 59 Chinese mobile applications, the Union government has banned 47 more that included TikTok Lite, Helo Lite and Shareit Lite. The order was issued on Friday. While there has been no official communication on the matter, government sources said the newly banned apps were mainly clones of the banned 59. The Ministry of Electronics and IT banned the 59 apps, including popular ones such as TikTok, Shareit, Mi Video Call, Club Factory and Cam Scanner, citing threat to national security and sovereignty. The announcement, which came amid tensions between Indian and China in Ladakh, had stated, “... in view of the emergent nature of threats, [the government] has decided to block 59 apps... in view of information available [that] they are engaged in activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order.”
28 July 2020||Mumbai,||Aishwarya, daughter test negative||Actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and her daughter were discharged from Nanavati Hospital on Monday after having tested negative for COVID-19. Tweeting about the discharge, the actor’s husband Abhishek Bachchan said, “Thank you all for your continued prayers and good wishes. Indebted forever. Aishwarya and Aaradhya have thankfully tested negative and have been discharged from the hospital. They will now be at home.” “My father and I remain in hospital under the care of the medical staff, he added. Ms. Aishwarya and her daughter tested positive on July 12. They were in self-quarantine at home and were admitted to the Nanavati Hospital on July 17.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,||‘You’re free to probe charges against us’||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Monday asked the State government to investigate corruption allegations in projects implemented by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government. “Since you [BJP Ministers] have said that the corruption has taken place during our time, investigate them. We have no objection nor will we try to stop it,” he said, speaking to reporters here. “When you [Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa] were in Opposition, you had sought investigation and we got it done. Why don’t you also do it now? You are seeking our cooperation. Are you seeking cooperation for your corruption?” he asked.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Amid the greenery||
28 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Crematorium stir: BJP man, 50 others held||A day after the local people near a public crematorium in Kottayam stopped the cremation of a COVID-19 victim, the police on Monday booked the local ward councillor and 50 others in connection with the incident. Officials said cases had been registered against the protesters for rioting and traffic obstruction and also under relevant sections of the Kerala Epidemic Disease Ordinance 2020. T.N. Harikumar, a BJP councillor who led the protests, was arraigned as the first accused in the case. The case pertained to a blockade put up by the residents on the road leading to the municipal crematorium at Muttambalam on Sunday to stop the cremation of an 83-year-old man, who became the first causality of COVID-19 disease in Kottayam. They feared that infection could spread among the local people due to the cremation. Despite attempts to convince the protesters, they refused to pay any heed. Following this, the cremation was put off. But as the crowd dispersed, a police team led by Additional Superintendent of Police A. Nazim returned to site with the dead body and carried out the cremation by around 11.15 p.m. . “The police team reached the spot by foot while the ambulance carrying the dead body entered the residential area after turning off its headlights. By the time the people knew of it, we commenced the cremation proceedings and it faced no disruptions despite resistance outside the cremation ground,” said a top official. Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan, MLA, expressed dissatisfaction over the district administration’s action.
28 July 2020||Lucknow,||Impose President’s Rule in Rajasthan: BSP||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Sunday said President’s Rule should be imposed in Rajasthan in view of the political crisis and COVID-19 situation in the State. Party’s national general secretary Satish Chandra Misra said: “Notices have been issued to the six Rajasthan BSP MLAs [who joined the Congress last year], stating that since BSP is a national party, there cannot be any merger at the State level at the insistence of the MLAs. If they violate it, they will be disqualified.”ANI
28 July 2020||Ranchi/Patna,||Lalu tests negative for COVID-19; three of his attendants diagnosed with disease||Jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who is undergoing treatment at a Ranchi hospital for multiple ailments, has tested negative for COVID-19, a senior doctor said on Monday. Three of his attendants, however, had tested positive, said Dr. Umesh Prasad of the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences. The samples were checked as a precautionary step. The former Bihar CM is serving jail sentences in the Rs. 900-crore fodder scam.PTI
28 July 2020||Srinagar,||Will not contest Assembly polls in J and K till full statehood is restored: Omar Abdullah||Upset over downgrading of Jammu and Kashmir to the status of a Union Territory following abrogation of Article 370, former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah on Monday said he will not contest Assembly elections till its statehood is restored. Mr. Abdullah, a former Union Minister in the Vajpayee government, said he would continue to work for his party, the National Conference, and people.PTI
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||More time for hallmarking of gold jewellery||In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the government has extended an earlier deadline for mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery and artefacts by four months to June 1, Consumer Affairs Minister Ramvilas Paswan said on Monday. Last November, the Consumer Affairs Ministry set the deadline for January 15, 2021. Till now, gold hallmarking, which is a purity certification of the precious metal, was voluntary.
28 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Covaxin human trial begins in Odisha||The city-based Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital began human trial of the much-awaited vaccine against COVID-19 on Monday. Covaxin, the vaccine being developed by Bharat Biotech, was administered to several persons here. Those who had volunteered and undergone a rigorous screening procedure were administered the vaccine, said Dr. E. Venkat Rao, principal investigator of the trial process. According to Dr. Rao, the participants were kept under observation after the administration of vaccine. They were absolutely fine.
28 July 2020||Srinagar,||Karan Singh worried over COVID-19 situation in J&K||Dr. Karan Singh, MP, on Monday expressed concern over the alarming rise in the number of COVID-19 patients in J&K. “I am deeply concerned and distressed over the growth of the coronavirus and the increasing number of unfortunate deaths in the valley and the Jammu region. I hope that the administration has ensured enough designated beds for such patients in both the capitals and the district headquarters along with sufficient ventilators. This needs to be done on an emergency basis,” he said in a statement.
28 July 2020||Srinagar,||Sale of sacrificial animals allowed, congregational prayers barred on Id||The J&K administration is setting up special sale points of sacrificial animals for the August 1 Id-ul-Azha in the Valley but has decided to disallow congregational prayers because of the pandemic. “Sixteen locations across Srinagar have been designated for buying sacrificial animals for Id-ul-Azha. Several locations in other towns of Kashmir division have been designated for it,” a government spokesperson said. The markets will be allowed to open from July 28 till July 30.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Akola-Akot railway line ready||South Central Railway (SCR) has announced commissioning of the new broad gauge non-electrified railway line between Akola -Akot stations for a distance of 44 km as a part of gauge conversion works between Akola - Khandwa section. It is the metre gauge railway line in SCR jurisdiction and as a part of ‘uni-gauge’ concept, gauge conversion project was sanctioned between Akola- Khandwa section for 175 km in 2008-09 at Rs. 2,067 crore. From this the first section between Akola - Akot for a distance of 44 km has been completed in all aspects and formal authorisation has been given for running the trains. Other remaining sections are: Akot - Amlakhurd - 77 km and Amlakhurd - Khandwa - 54 km. Akola station yard has been modified with one new loop line in addition to the existing three lines. General Manager Gajanan Mallya, in a press release, said the project will enhance train connectivity between Vidarbha region of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh besides providing shortest path for the people of Marathwada region to reach Khandwa and other parts of MP.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records all-time single-day high of 6,993 cases||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 case tally increased to 2,20,716 on Monday, with 6,993 more persons testing positive for the infection. At 1,138, Chennai accounted for less than 20% of the fresh cases. A majority of the fresh infections were reported from the rest of T.N. The State’s daily tally exceeded 6,000 for the fifth consecutive day, with Monday marking an all-time high. As of date, 54,896 persons are undergoing treatment. As many as 5,723 persons were discharged, taking the total figure to 1,62,249. Another 77 deaths (50 at government hospitals and 27 at private hospitals) were recorded in the bulletin issued by the Health Department. This took the toll to 3,571. As Chennai’s overall tally surpassed 95,000 cases, Madurai became the fourth district to have more than 10,000 cases. Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur account for 12,717 and 12,320 cases, respectively. The share of districts in the fresh cases has been on the rise in the past few weeks. On Monday, Tiruvallur reported 474 cases and Chengalpattu 448. Kancheepuram had 362 cases, while Thoothukudi reported 349 infections. In Virudhunagar, 338 persons tested positive, and Coimbatore reported 313 cases. Six districts reported more than 200 cases each: Theni-280, Ranipet-273, Tiruvannamalai-262, Madurai-249, Kanniyakumari-239 and Kallakurichi-238. Nine other districts reported over 100 cases each. These included Salem-190, Tiruchi-188, Tirunelveli-185 and Vellore-184. Returnees’ count Besides the indigenous cases, 37 persons, who returned from abroad and other States, tested positive. Of the 77 deaths, 21 died in Chennai. Chengalpattu, Madurai, Tiruvallur, Vellore and Virudhunagar districts recorded six deaths each. Five of them were aged between 25 and 39. Among them was a 26-year-old man from Chennai. He had anaemia and tested positive on July 9 at a private medical college. He was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on July 23 and died on July 26 owing to anaemia, hypernatremic encephalopathy, COVID-19 pneumonia and acute necrotising pancreatitis. A 31-year-old man with hypertension was admitted to the RGGGH on July 18. He tested positive on July 3. He died on July 26 owing to hypertension, hypernatremic encephalopathy, leg hygroma, central pontine myelinolysis, COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 31-year-old man from Tiruvallur who had diabetes and systemic hypertension also succumbed to the infection at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on July 26. He died of respiratory failure, bronchopneumonia, acute kidney injury and COVID-19. The State tested 63,250 samples in the last 24 hours. A private laboratory — Huma Specialists Hospital and Research Centre, Chennai — was approved for testing.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. streamlines response system||The Greater Chennai Corporation has decided to strengthen its patient transportation system by increasing the number of ambulances by 40 and take steps to reduce the response time to less than five minutes. At present, the city has a fleet of 80 ambulances, which would be increased to 120 in three or four days, officials said. Many patients with severe acute respiratory illness and breathlessness had reportedly died because of the delay in taking them to hospitals. Nearly 500 residents died because of such delays, the officials said. The city has so far reported 2,032 deaths due to COVID-19. Stressing the need for a proper transportation system during the pandemic, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Monday held a meeting with representatives from other agencies, including the Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project. The civic officials advised those in charge of ambulance service to take action against drivers who delayed transporting patients to hospitals. Residents have been requested to call Corporation volunteers, sanitary inspectors or the zonal assistant health officials to transport patients with breathlessness. The volunteers, led by sanitary inspectors and ward-level officials, will coordinate with ambulance workers and arrange transport. Residents can also call 108 to seek transportation of patients to hospitals, said a senior official of the Corporation’s health department. The residents have been requested to call Ripon Buildings control room numbers such as 044-46122300 to report any delay during the pandemic. At the meeting on Monday, senior officials managing 108 ambulance services confirmed that they had increased the number of ambulances with oxygen support system to 70 as against 40 earlier. All the ambulances in the city would get oxygen support system by Tuesday, the officials said. Oxygen support Many residents had complained of lack of oxygen support in ambulances during the pandemic. Till recently, over 50% of the ambulances did not have oxygen support, the officials said. Mr. Prakash has asked them to strengthen the fleet of vehicles meant to transport patients to 24 COVID-19 care centres and the seven screening centres, the officials added.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PWD rigging up oxygen pipelines in taluk hospitals||To provide COVID-19 patients in rural areas with better access to healthcare, the Public Works Department (PWD) is providing oxygen pipelines at taluk hospitals and upgraded primary health centres (PHCs). The PWD has taken up the work under the third phase of the project on requests from hospital officials and the Collectors. Nearly 70% of the Rs. 140-crore project has been completed as emergency works because oxygen is vital for COVID-19 patients. PWD officials said this would enable patients in rural areas to get quick access to healthcare facilities. Nearly 100 taluk hospitals and 300 upgraded PHCs would be provided with oxygen pipelines and vacuum and compressed air pipelines/drop points. “The hospitals and the PHCs have been identified to facilitate medical help within a 30-km radius for COVID-19 patients. This will prevent...travel to the district headquarters. In a facility with 30 beds, about 10 would be provided with oxygen pipelines,” said an official. Moreover, the oxygen storage capacity at 31 government college hospitals would be increased as they received more patients in need of oxygen support. For instance, the Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital at Omandurar Estate now has an increased oxygen capacity of 20 kl. It would be upgraded further. Besides the additional oxygen pipelines, oxygen manifold rooms, which are the central supply rooms with control panels for a larger capacity, are being provided at these government college hospitals.  Nearly 100 taluk hospitals and 300 upgraded PHCs would be provided with oxygen pipelines
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates 11 projects, lays stone for 8 more||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday laid the foundation stone for eight projects entailing investments to the tune of Rs. 2,368 crore. He also inaugurated 11 projects worth Rs. 3,185 crore that will provide employment to over 6,955 persons in the next few years. In a live streaming session, N. Muruganandam, Principal Secretary, Department of Industries, said the MoUs for all these projects were signed during the first and second editions of the Global Investors Meet (GIM) and some were signed during other occasions. Industries Minister M.C. Sampath and Neeraj Mittal, MD and CEO, Guidance, Industries Department, were present and industrialists from across the State joined in through a Zoom call to watch this event. Key projects Some of the key projects for which the foundation stone was laid include International Tech Park Chennai (ITPC) promoted by the CapitaLand group. This is a Rs. 1,500 crore project. The firm will commence construction for the first phase of the 23.3-acre IT park. ITPC, Radial Road, has 4.6 million sq. ft. of development potential for premium Grade A office space. Vinamra Srivastava, CEO, Business Parks, CapitaLand India, said: “Chennai is one of our key markets for growth. We have invested in IT parks, industrial townships, warehousing and lodging in the city. With both operational CapitaLand IT parks in Chennai – ITPC at Taramani and CyberVale – fully occupied, our ITPC, Radial Road, will offer more options for IT and IT-enabled services companies to expand their businesses in the city.” Another key venture is from Tata Chemicals, which has proposed to establish a project for manufacturing Silica in SIPCOT Industrial Park, Cuddalore, with an investment of Rs. 350 crore. Foundation stone was laid for Nissei Electric, Japan, which will manufacture electric and electronic components entailing investments worth Rs. 105 crore. The Chief Minister also laid the foundation stone for Usui Susira, Japan (Rs. 100 crore); Dinex (Rs. 100 crore); Steel Shoppe for manufacturing steel parts for the automobile industry (Rs. 150 crore); MRC Mills textile project in Sipcot Industrial Park, Cuddalore (Rs. 47 crore); and Sri Raajarajeshwari Life Care (Rs. 16 crore). COVID-19 drug Sri Raajarajeshwari Life Care has conveyed that it is planning to manufacture COVID-19 drugs in this facility in Kambur Village, Viluppuram. Foundation stone was laid for the AEROHUB – Advanced Computing and Design Engineering Centre for Aerospace and Defence Industries — at the upcoming Aerospace Park in Sriperumpudur, established by TIDCO in a joint venture with TIDEL with a Rs. 250 crore investment. Some of the projects that were in pipeline for the last few years also went live on Monday. They include TPI Composites, USA (Rs. 730 crore); Glovis Hyundai, Korea (Rs. 608 crore); Sojitz Motherson, Japan (Rs. 500 crore); Rajapalayam Mills (Rs. 350 crore); JMatadee (Rs. 80 crore); Hibrow Healthcare (Rs. 75 crore); Mahindra Steel Services (Rs. 75 crore); Gulf Oil (Rs. 220 crore); TCS (Rs. 24 crore) ;Teemage (Rs. 47 crore) and Mothi Spinners, Lucky Yarn Tex and Lucky Weaves (Rs. 451 crore). Last week, the State government had signed a series of MoUs in various sectors. In the first round, eight MOUs worth Rs. 10,399 crore with an employment potential for over 13,507 people were signed. Three days later, 16 more MoUs worth Rs. 5,137 crore that will create employment opportunities for over 6,555 people were signed by the Chief Minister.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||School students host cultural events online||The annual cultural events is an integral part of any senior student’s final years in schools across the city. But the restrictions brought about COVID-19 pandemic meant many students in Class 12 this year will have to forsake hosting and participating in cultural programmes and competitions. “We didn’t want our batch to miss out on hosting or organising competitions which is why we came up with ‘Creed 2020’, a cultural festival organised completely online,” said Adhershya Vijay, a Class 12 student. She along with her friends Arhaam Atiq and Namritha Yokesh are the chief organisers of the online cultural festival, which has a host of competitions from July 24 to 30. The online cultural festival has attracted nearly 350 students from schools across the city to participate in Shipwreck, meme making, block and tackle, dance, art therapy and other competitions. The response to the events has been overwhelming, say the students who have planned and conducted the festival all by themselves. As is the norm with cultural events on campuses, Creed 2020 will conclude with a closing ceremony in which winners and participants will be given awards and online certificates. Dance and music showcases by students through videos will be part of the valedictory.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMC goes for non-invasive ventilation to treat severe cases||Christian Medical College (CMC) has opened an exclusive ward to manage severe cases of COVID-19 with a non-invasive respiratory support method. Under the non-invasive ventilation (NIV), oxygen is delivered under high pressure to the patient by a ventilator using a snugly fitting face mask or a helmet interface. The hospital has set up a 14-bed high-dependency area for NIV through the helmet interface. So far, 10 patients have been treated in this ward. Four of them improved and were shifted to the step-down ward. The others are still under treatment and improving, according to CMC Director J.V. Peter. “We have already treated over 100 patients with the standard face mask interface in the regular intensive care units. There are clear protocols under which patients would be suitable for this type of NIV. The helmet interface is used for patients with a severe breathing difficulty,” he said. In a press release on Monday, Dr. Peter said the lung was the primary organ that was affected by COVID-19. Some patients required oxygen supplementation, and when the lung was severely damaged, patients would require ventilator support. This was normally provided by the insertion of a tube in the windpipe, under sedation, and the patient is connected to a ventilator. “Evidence from various centres across the globe suggests that in these patients who go on to require invasive mechanical ventilation, the outcome may not be very good. There is now evidence that some of these patients can be managed by NIV. This is different from invasive ventilation in that oxygen is delivered under high pressure to the patient, by a ventilator, using a snugly fitting face mask or a helmet interface,” he said. The advantage, he said, was that the patients did not require sedation and were able to speak and take intermittent feeds. “Although there were initial concerns over the safety of healthcare workers in areas where this is provided, it is now evident that with the adequate use of personal protective equipment and increased frequency of air exchanges, there is no added risk to healthcare workers in these areas,” he added. The ward was manned round the clock by therapists, nurses and doctors from the Departments of Pulmonary and Respiratory Medicine.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches free face masks scheme||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday launched a scheme for distribution of face masks free of cost through ration shops. Under the scheme, two reusable face masks each would be distributed to 6.74 crore persons attached to 2.08 crore ration cards across the State. The Chief Minister also unveiled the foundation stone for a drinking water scheme at Tiruvallur district at a cost of Rs. 109.68 crore. Mr. Palaniswami also inaugurated through video conference new buildings for Greater Chennai Corporation constructed at a cost of Rs. 18.24 crore. Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, Food Minister R. Kamaraj, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju, Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, Rural Industries Minister P. Benjamin, Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture K. Pandiarajan, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and senior officials attended the event.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pharma unit discharging chemicals near Vedanthangal’||The Chennai Climate Action Group (CCAG) has said that a field study done by it downstream of the Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. unit near the Vedanthangal bird sanctuary found traces of four industrial solvents in groundwater and in the soil. The industrial solvents, commonly used in pharmaceutical manufacturing — dibromocholoromethane, dichloromethane, tetrachloroethane and toluene — were found in the water and soil samples taken by CCAG and Community Environmental Monitoring on July 10, less than a day after heavy rains in the locality. “While dibromochloromethane and dichloromethane were found in all three water samples, including one from an irrigation well, tetrachloroethene and toluene were found in the water sample taken from a pond downstream of the factory and a stream carrying rainwater run-off from the plant,” CCAG said. The toxic discharge flows via ground and surface water through a small pond called Sitheri to the Pudupet Thangal and Hanumanthakuppam Eri before reaching the Madurantakam lake. Company denies charge The company said: “Sun Pharma plant at Sathammai village in Madurantakam has zero liquid discharge system with state-of-the-art waste treatment facility. We have a solvent recovery plant on the premises for recycling of solvents.”  The toxic discharge flows via ground and surface water through small pond Chennai Climate Action Group
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City hospital treats Russian boy||A three-year-old Russian boy underwent an artificial heart implant in the city recently. The ventricular assistive device will help the patient, Lev Fedorenko, lead a near-normal life until he receives a heart transplant. The procedure was done in MGM Healthcare on May 25, in the midst of COVID-induced lockdown. K.R. Balakrishnan, chairman and director of cardiac sciences at the hospital, said it was a challenging procedure for the medical team. Lev exhibited generalised swelling in his sixth month and did not gain weight. Doctors in Russia diagnosed his condition as restrictive cardiomyopathy, wherein the lower chambers of the heart (ventricles) are unable to expand and receive blood. The family approached many hospitals until it was referred to Dr. Balakrishnan. “The child came to us almost a year ago and was on medical treatment. Unfortunately, two months ago he suffered two cardiac arrests and we had to revive him by cardiac massage for almost 7-8 minutes,” he recalled. It was decided to implant a paediatric biventricular pump. The ventricular assistive device consists of two artificial heart pumps to support right side and left side of the heart. At the time of the surgery, Lev weighed only 10 kg, making the procedure that much complex. A team comprising Dr. Balakrishnan, Suresh Rao K.G., co-director of the Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory and head of cardiac anaesthesia, and surgeons V. Srinath and S. Ganapathy, performed the procedure, which lasted seven hours. Dr. Balakrishnan said this was the first such procedure to be done in South East Asia, West Asia and Africa. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami praised the medical team and the hospital for taking up a challenging case and showcasing the State’s capabilities in healthcare to the world.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State govt. issues SOP for firms bringing in guest workers||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued a Standard Operating Procedure for companies and agencies bringing in guest workers from other States. The guest workers should remain in ‘room quarantine’ for 14 days. “Every company/manpower agency, which wants to bring the guest workers to Tamil Nadu, shall apply to the Collectors through TN e-Pass, furnishing the details of all the guest workers, including their names, residential address, Aadhaar number, mobile number, proposed address of workplace, details of vehicles, proposed place of quarantine, etc.,” said a government order issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam. The Collectors would examine the requests and grant approval online. The workers would have to be transported at the cost of companies/manpower agencies by bus or van. “All the individuals must be thermally screened before they board bus or van,” the order said. On arrival in the State, these workers would have to be tested through the RT-PCR method at the cost of companies/manpower agencies. “All the individuals who test positive shall be sent to hospital for treatment. All the individuals who test negative shall be sent for ‘room quarantine’ for 14 days at a suitable place identified by the contractors/manpower agencies and approved by the district administration.” During these 14 days of quarantine, if any individual developed symptoms, they must be tested for COVID-19. All the individuals, who are asymptomatic and who have completed 14 days of ‘room quarantine’ could be deployed at work sites with due adherence to hygiene practices. “Every day all workers must be thermally scanned at work site. Guest workers must be imparted health education using the appropriate language by the companies/ manpower agencies...,” it said.  The workers would have to be transported at the cost of companies/manpower agencies by bus or van
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Students get option to write varsity exams||Though semester exams have been cancelled for all but final year students in arts and science, engineering and MCA courses in Tamil Nadu this year due to COVID-19, students have been given the option of writing the exam if they are not satisfied with the methodology of assessment. Following the recent announcement by the Chief Minister, the Higher Education Department has issued a Government Order (G.O.) cancelling the semester exams for all but final year students in the various degree and diploma programmes at the State-run universities. The students will now be assessed based on their performance in the previous year. However, the G.O. has given the option to students to appear for the exams if they are not satisfied with the mode of assessment. According to the committee under the chairmanship of Higher Education Secretary Apoorva, the decision on assessment and non-conduct of exam was based on the guidelines provided by UGC and AICTE. Students in undergraduate programmes in the first and second year in arts and science colleges and polytechnic courses; those in the first, second and third year of engineering programmes; and the first year students of two-year postgraduate programmes; and the first and second year students of three-year PG programmes will not have to take exams this semester. The assessment will be based on students’ performance in the previous semester and the internal assessment marks in the just concluded semester. The assessment will include 30% of the scores obtained in the external exam of the previous semester and 70% of the scores in the internal assessment in the just concluded semester. This will apply for core subjects and languages. For ancillaries and allied subjects, the assessment will be based on internal assessment. If practicals had not been conducted, the weekly assessment of the students’ record notebooks would be used. Students who have arrears will have to take the exams at a later date.  The students will now be assessed based on their performance in the previous year
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DCPs to hear grievances biweekly on WhatsApp||Members of the public can contact Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs) in the city through WhatsApp video call for grievance redress. On Monday, Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal launched the new facility which will begin from Tuesday in the Greater Chennai Police jurisdiction. Soon after assuming charge, Mr. Aggarwal introduced the facility of public grievance redress through WhatsApp video call. Encouraged by the good response, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had instructed the Commissioner to extend this facility to all. The Greater Chennai City Police have 12 law and order districts each headed by a DCP. During 10 sessions held by Mr. Aggarwal, 188 grievances were heard and 129 issues addressed. All DCPs will hear grievances of the public through WhatsApp video call every Tuesday and Friday between noon and 1 p.m. Launching the facility and addressing the DCPs through video call, Mr. Aggarwal said, “After starting this service was intrdouced, there were about 700 to 800 calls from every centre. They can be easily resolved by Deputy Commissioners concerned.” A few changes have been made in the video call grievance redress system of the Commissioner of Police to make it more effective. The public have been requested to give a brief account of their grievance through a WhatsApp message (ph: 6369100100). After scrutiny, a video call will be arranged with the Commissioner of Police where necessary. All other matters would be referred to the DCP concerned. The following are the phone numbers for WhatsApp video call of DCPs: DCP, St. Thomas Mount 7010110833; DCP, Adyar 8754401111; DCP, T. Nagar 9003084100; DCP, Mylapore 6381100100; DCP, Triplicane 9498181387; DCP, Kilpauk 9498010605; DCP, Flower Bazaar 9498008577; DCP, Washermenpet 9498133110; DCP, Madhavaram 9498181385; DCP, Pulianthope 6369423245; DCP, Anna Nagar 9176426100; and DCP, Ambattur 9176427100
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam custodial death: family member gets government job||J. Persis, daughter of trader P. Jayaraj and sister of J. Benicks — the victims of alleged police custodial torture in Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district — has been offered a job as Junior Assistant in the Revenue Department. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami handed over the appointment order at the Secretariat here on Monday in the presence of Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and Thoothukudi Collector Sandeep Nanduri and senior officials. “The government has given this job for me so that our family could come out of the grief because of the incident. The Chief Minister has regretted the incident and promised to get punishment to those responsible for the incident,” Ms. Persis told reporters. She expressed her gratitude to the State government, the people of Tamil Nadu, all political parties, social organisations, traders’ associations and the media for their continuous support to her family after the deaths of her father and brother. “The CBI probe is on now. We are hoping that the judiciary will give us justice. We also hope that the State government would also stand by us,” she said. Last month, the family of the victims received a solatium of Rs. 20 lakh.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Karuppar Koottam, Hindu Peravai members held under Goondas Act||The city police has invoked the Goondas Act against Surendran of Karuppar Kootam and S.J. Gopal of Hindu Tamilar Peravai. Both were arrested for allegedly circulating defamatory content on religions on social media. Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal issued orders in this regard. Surendran alias Nathigan, 33, is a prominent anchor of Karuppar Koottam, a Tamil YouTube channel which uploaded malicious content on the popular Tamil hymn Kandhar Shasti Kavasam . He was arrested in Puducherry by the Cyber Crime Cell of Central Crime Branch. S.J. Gopal alias Mount Gopal, 46, of Hindu Tamilar Peravai was arrested by Conventional Crime Unit of the CCB for circulating defamatory content on prophet Muhammad on social media following a complaint from the Welfare Party of India. Both were booked in two cases under Sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153 A(1)(a)(Promoting enmity between different groups), 295(A)(Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings), 505(1)(b)and other provisions of the IPC.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retired Chief Secretaries granted servant allowance||All retired Chief Secretaries and Additional Chief Secretaries of the Tamil Nadu government will now be entitled to employ a servant at home by paying a salary of Rs. 10,000 per month. Though Indian Administrative Service, Indian Police Service and Indian Forest Service officers while in service in the State are entitled to an allowance of Rs. 12,000 per month for paying Residential Office Assistants to work at home, the post-retirement benefit has been extended only to retired Chief Secretaries and Additional Chief Secretaries. It has not considered retired Director-General of Police and Principal Chief Conservator of Forest rank officers, who belong to the same pay scale, in the All India Service. In an order the Government said the former president of the IAS Officers’ Association and other retired Additional Chief Secretaries had requested that the facilities given in neighbouring States to retired bureaucrats be extended to them as well. They even submitted an order of the Karnataka government in which Servant Allowance to the tune of Rs. 10,500 per month had been sanctioned to retired Chief Secretaries and Additional Chief Secretaries apart from telephone and medical reimbursement allowances. The government said a decision was taken to permit the appointment of one Nominal Muster Roll (NMR) through the Public Works Department, similar to the arrangements made with respect to the retired judges of the Madras High Court. In the case of those appointed on re-employment basis in any government sector or in statutory commissions, wages will have to be claimed from the organisation concerned with whom they are re-engaged.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC disposes of PIL||The Madras High Court on Monday disposed of a PIL petition after recording the DGP’s submission that 159 cases had been booked against 356 people for spreading fake news against Muslims linking them with the spread of COVID-19. It, however, granted liberty to the petitioner, ASA Umar Farooq of SDPI to pursue other legal remedies if he had any grievance.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Providing eggs to schoolchildren every day not feasible during lockdown’||The State government on Monday told the Madras High Court that it had ordered for provision of 16,138.69 tonnes of rice and 5,207.84 tonnes of dhal to 42,61,124 schoolchildren who had missed nutritious meal due to closure of schools during the lockdown to fight COVID-19. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha were informed that a Government Order had been issued on July 2 to provide dry rations to 23,71,316 children in Class I to V and 18,89,808 students of Class VI to VIII at their schools and under the supervision of the headmasters concerned. Though rice and dhal might not match the nutritive value of eggs provided in schools every day, they certainly match the Centre’s norms on the quantum of calories and proteins required to be provided to primary and upper primary school children every day, the government said. The submissions were made in a counter affidavit filed in response to a public interest litigation petition preferred by advocate R. Sudha who sought to fulfil the nutrition requirement of schoolchildren besides seeking a direction to provide boiled eggs at Amma canteens. Social Welfare Secretary S. Madumathi told the court that the government was actually providing nutritious meal to 48,56,783 students including 5,90,913 studying in Class IX and X. “Due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, providing eggs along with dry ration was analysed by the government and due to its perishable nature, children/parents can’t be gathered to provide eggs daily. Also purchasing and transportation at this period is not advised,” the counter read.  After taking the counter on file, the judges adjourned the case to Thursday for hearing.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Parties hail judgment on OBC quota||The ruling AIADMK’s co-coordinator Edappadi K. Panneerselvam and co-ordinator O. Panneerselvam, who are also the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister, in a joint statement hailed the High Court’s ruling on reservation for Other Backward Classes in the all-India quota of medical seats in non-central institutions. “It is a reward to the policy of the AIADMK which is for striving for the progress of all sections of society, while adhering to social justice,” the two leaders said. Golden day: Stalin DMK president M.K. Stalin has said that July 27 was a golden day and a day of historical significance. “The judgment has put an end to the injustice caused by the combination of the Medical Council of India (MCI) and the BJP-led government at the Centre in the last four years. It has proved that Tamil Nadu is a land enriched by the idea of social justice,” he said in a statement. He said the BJP government should abide by the order of the court and constitute the committee in three months to ensure 50% reservation in medical, dental and post-graduate courses. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri echoed his views on forming a panel. He said the Centre and the MCI must take steps to quickly implement the order. No compromise General secretary of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, T.T.V. Dhinakaran, too wanted the committee constituted without fail. Calling upon the State government not to compromise itself on the issue, he urged the government to ensure that 69% reservation was followed with regard to seats provided by Tamil Nadu to the all-India pool of seats in medical courses. Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi president Thol Thirumavalavan also welcomed the verdict. Mr. Thirumavalavan urged that the legislation also remove the confusion over reservation for SC/ST students. ‘Form panel’ PMK founder S. Ramadoss urged the Centre to immediately form a panel and not to appeal against the verdict. In a statement, he termed the verdict a significant progress and a victory for the party’s fight for social justice. However, Dr. Ramadoss alleged that the Tamil Nadu government and other political parties took a contradictory stand on the issue, which would delay the reservation by three months. He urged the Centre not to wait for three months and immediately consult the State government and form the panel and issue an order on OBC reservation by following all procedures. BJP State president L. Murugan welcomed the judgment and said the Centre was a party to the case in the Supreme Court and the Madras HC and it argued in favour of reservation. He alleged that the DMK-Congress alliance in the State was spreading falsehood about their role in the case. “Instead of impleading themselves in the Saloni Kumar case in the Supreme Court in 2015, and watching it silently, they sought a stay now. This is nothing but a political drama,” Mr. Murugan said. Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan urged the State government to put pressure on the Centre to implement the verdict.  BJP government should abide by the order of the court and constitute the committee in three months   M.K. Stalin DMK president
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK-led meet demands withdrawal of EIA draft||A meeting of fraternal parties convened by the DMK on Monday condemned the Draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, alleging that its objective was only to satisfy the corporate houses. A resolution adopted at the meeting alleged that the public hearing on the draft was nothing but eyewash. “When the Environment Policy, 2006, is under criticism on the ground that it has failed to protect natural resources and people’s livelihood, the new draft is an atrocious act,” it said. The meeting was chaired by DMK president M.K. Stalin. The meeting demanded that the draft be withdrawn and the existing policy strengthened. Another resolution accused the BJP of trying to destroy the pluralistic nature of Tamil Nadu and seeking to appropriate the media in its favour before the 2021 Assembly election. “The BJP is trying to bring under its control the anchors of debates and other journalists in the satellite television news channels...,” it said.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Court refuses to restrict online classes||The Madras High Court on Monday refused to direct all private schools to restrict their online classes to two hours a day until the State government comes up with guidelines. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha turned down such a request made by advocate J. Ravindhran on the ground that the court could not issue such directions. They also granted a week’s time for framing of guidelines after Special Government Pleader C. Munusamy informed the court that the State government was studying the Centre’s draft guidelines and required some more time to take a final decision. Making it clear that the guidelines should be finalised by Monday next, the judges said they should address issues such as the time gap between two sessions, Internet connectivity issues and gadgets required for connecting to those classes. Mr. Ravindhran told the court that the government had been taking adjournments time and again, though the cases against online classes were filed in May.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plus Two exams held for absentees||The Directorate of Government Examinations conducted the final set of Plus Two exams on Monday for candidates who had missed it out on March 24. Some students could not make it to the exam centres on the final day because of the restrictions imposed to curb the spread of COVID-19. The Tamil Nadu government then announced that the exams would be held for the absentees on July 27. As many as 175 students and 673 private candidates had registered themselves for the chemistry, accountancy and geography exams on March 24. 519 candidates On Monday, 519 candidates sat for the exams across 293 centres. “The answer scripts will be evaluated on Tuesday and we will shortly announce the results for these candidates,” a senior official said. For around 7.99 lakh students, the results were declared on July 16. The Directorate of Government Examinations had said those who could not write the final set of exams, the results of all the papers would be announced together.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Policeman ends life at VHP office||A reserve sub-inspector (RSI) ended his life at the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) office in T. Nagar here on Monday. The name of the police officer was given as Sekar, 50. He had been the personal security officer to senior VHP leader Vedhandam for 10 years. Senior police officers reached the spot and conducted inquiries. Those with suicidal tendency can contact the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Community college begins admissions||The Greater Chennai Corporation Community College in Alwarpet has begun admissions for the 2020-21 academic year. According to a release, the college offers one-year programmes, which include IMA-certified diploma for persons training to become health assistants, OT technicians, dialysis technicians, radiology technicians and lab technicians. Candidates who have passed Class 10 can apply. For students who have either cleared or not cleared the Class 10 exams, the college offers part-time courses in basic communication skills in English and computer software, along with Tally ERP9. For details, call 9840393630.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Protest against check dam at fishing harbour||Fishermen across the State have planned a black flag agitation on Friday demanding removal of a check dam in the Thengaipattinam fishing harbour in Kanniyakumari district. They said that the dam being constructed to prevent salt water intrusion had led to sand accretion at the mouth, which resulted in deaths of several fishermen. “In the past few weeks alone two men died in separate incidents,” said A. Sesadimai, president, Thoothur Deep Sea Boats Association.
28 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. brings in labourers from Rajasthan for Vellalore bus stand work||The Coimbatore Corporation has brought in 40 labourers from Rajasthan for the Vellalore integrated bus stand project. Sources in the Corporation said more than a fortnight ago, the Corporation, through the contractor tasked with executing the project, brought in the migrant labourers in a bus. After finding out through the manpower contractor if the labourers were willing to return to Coimbatore, the contractor informed the civic body, which through the district administration arranged for e-pass. The labourers travelled by road for three days to reach the construction site, where, after preliminary medical screening, they spent 14 days in quarantine. They were now ready to resume work. The Corporation felt the need to resume work on the project because it had accorded high priority setting a target of one year for completion. The Corporation had planned to build the bus stand on a 61.62 acre land near its dump yard in Vellalore at Rs. 168 crore. The bus stand would have 140 bays for outstation buses, 112 idle parking lots, 18 disembark points, 33 bays for town buses among other facilities. Following on the success in bringing in migrant labourers, the Corporation was also looking at the manpower shortage in other projects, the sources said. The Corporation through Suez India Pvt. Ltd., the company that is executing the 24x7 drinking water supply project in 60 of the 100 wards, was taking steps to bring in labourers for the project, which was already six to eight months behind schedule. The company was in need for around 200 labourers, most of who were from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. The sources said the Corporation was similarly in need of 100-plus labourers to complete the lake development project. The labourers from Bihar and neighbouring states who had initially stayed put in the city left after the Central Government launched special trains. Now, it was taking to the project contractor as well as manpower contractor to see if it could bring back the labourers but they seemed reluctant. As for the multi-level car parking project, under way on D.B. Road, the contractor had labourers housed at the site. And, as a result, work was in progress as scheduled, the sources added.
28 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police arrest persons who painted Lord Murugan’s spear on roads||The police arrested at least 13 persons who painted Lord Murugan’s vel (spear) on roads in various parts of the district in protest against a video posted on the YouTube channel Karuppar Koottam , which according to them portrayed the Hindu God and the hymn in praise of him, Kandha Sashti Kavacham, in poor light. Those involved in the act were booked under Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and under provisions of the Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act. Lockdown violations Coimbatore rural police arrested eight persons on charges of violating the lockdown regulations and drawing spear on roads at Kavundampalayam and Thadagam. They were released on bail. The drawings were erased from roads. 50 cases booked A senior official of Coimbatore city police said that nearly 50 cases were registered against persons who drew the spear on roads and other public properties on Saturday, Sunday and Monday. Kuniyamuthur station police arrested five persons and released them on bail. Members of various Hindu organisations staged a protest in front of the police station on Monday condemning the arrests. The police held talks with leaders of various organisations for amicable resolution in the issue.
28 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. designates Athupalam crematorium for COVID-19 victims||The Coimbatore Corporation has designated the Athupalam electric crematorium to cremate COVID-19 victims. Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath said the relatives should cremate the deceased only at the crematorium and nowhere else in the city. For people whose custom was to bury the deceased, they could do so at any place of their choice provided they followed the State government-prescribed protocol. To ensure that the protocol was being followed either at cremation or burial, the Corporation’s health inspectors would be present at the spot and the civic body had engaged on contract 32 persons with the requisite qualification for the purpose. The health inspectors would also follow up health and sanitation work at places with COVID-19 positive persons, ensure that there were no COVID-19 precautionary guideline violations at containment zones, and coordinate with all private health establishments in the city that deal with the positive persons or test samples. Mr. Jatavath said the Corporation felt the need to engage health inspectors because it had assessed a gap in coordination among various players combating the spread of COVID-19 and also to strengthen contact tracing. The civic body had also engaged on contract 54 lab technicians who would be a part of the medical teams conducting fever clinics across the city. They would collect swab samples from persons who report with fever to the clinics and who the doctors at the clinics suspect of being COVID-19 positive. In the absence of the lab technicians, the Corporation was forced to send its lab technicians who would be deployed elsewhere or go in search of the persons from whom it wanted to lift samples. The fever clinics had proved useful in that the Corporation was easily able to identify persons with fever and influenza like infection (ILI). For the public too, the clinic proved helpful as otherwise they delayed going to a neighbourhood clinic or hospital for fever to try home medication first. Sources in the Corporation said the fever clinic had shown that 20% of the persons who showed up the clinic had ILI and of those two or three persons turned COVID-19 positive.
28 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Officials take stock of situation in Coimbatore||The Coimbatore Corporation on Monday held a meeting involving officials from various other departments to take stock of the COVID-19 situation in the city. Officials from the Revenue Department, Coimbatore City Police, Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, Department of Public Health and the civic body took part in the meeting. The officials decided to increase the number of beds at the COVID-19 Care Centre at the Codissia Trade Fair Complex, stringently enforcing wearing of mask and observing physical distancing and intensify spraying of disinfectant, said a release from the Corporation. The Corporation on Monday slapped a fine of Rs. 20,000 on a textile showroom and Rs. 15,000 on another – both on Cross Cut Road – for violating COVID-19 safety guidelines.
28 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Perur temple elephant likely to be relocated||As the COVID-19 cases continue to be on the rise in Coimbatore, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department has been mulling the possibility of relocating the temple elephant of Perur Pateeswarar temple. An HR&CE official privy to the development told The Hindu on Monday that the temple authorities sent a letter to R. Senthilvelavan, HR&CE Joint Commissioner for Coimbatore Zone, regarding the possibility of the relocation of elephant Kalyani. This was done in the wake of one of the mahouts being unable to attend to the elephant as the area was declared containment zone on Friday, the official said. The 28-year-old female elephant is living in the elephant shed near the Perur Padithurai, where the second mahout is looking after it. “Nothing has been decided regarding the relocation yet,” the official said. Kalyani is healthy and has been participating in the temple rituals. The temple continues to remain closed as part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures.
28 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman stabbed to death by grandson||A 75-year-old woman from Peelamedu died after she was stabbed by her grandson when she intervened in a quarrel the youth had with his brother-in-law on Sunday evening. The deceased has been identified as M. Kannaiammal, a resident of Duraisamy Layout near Peelamedu. The police said that Kannaiammal was living with her daughter Thulasiammal and latter's son Karthi (23). On Sunday, Karthi and his brother-in-law Dharmaraj were in the house as it was complete lockdown in Coimbatore. The duo had a quarrel at the house around 5.45 p.m. and Karthi assaulted Dharmaraj with a glass frame. Karthi, who was recently released on bail in another case, further tried to assault Dharmaraj with a piece of broken glass. Kannaiammal suffered a fatal stab on the neck when she and Thulasiammal intervened and tried to stop Kathi. She died on the spot. The police arrested Karthi for offences under Section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC. He was remanded in judicial custody today.
28 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Issue e-pass for migrant labourers willing to return to Coimbatore: MDMK||The Coimbatore urban unit of the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) has urged the district administration to issue e-pass for migrant labourers willing to return to Coimbatore. In a resolution passed at a meeting held here recently, the party said that as and when the labourers applied for e-pass, the district administration should approve of those without delay. The party appealed to the Railway Ministry to consider the demand for more trains from and to Coimbatore once situation returned to normality. The party had sought a night train from Coimbatore to Bengaluru, Coimbatore-Rameswaram express, Coimbatore-Tirunelveli express and extension of the Tirunelveli-Madurai passenger train to Coimbatore. It was given to understand that the Southern Railway had forwarded its demand to the Railway Board.
28 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Road safety awareness||Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India organised a digital road safety awareness programme to 270 COVID-19 frontline workers from Coimbatore recently. Police officials, doctors, nurses, ambulance drivers and security drivers participated in the ‘Honda Road Safety E-Gurukul’ event, a release said.
28 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||UNEP accredits Isha||United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) recently accredited Isha Foundation with Observer status to the United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA) and its subsidiary bodies. In September 2019, it was also accredited by the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) to its Convention of Parties, a release said. Accreditation allows NGOs to participate in meetings of global groups and interact with representatives of governments, according to the release.   The Art of Living organised a Kanda Shasti Kavacham online recitation event on Sunday, which saw the participation of thousands of volunteers from its Coimbatore Chapter. A release said that the participants were from across Tamil Nadu and even from Malaysia and Singapore.   Thirumuruganpoondi police on Monday arrested a 35-year-old man on charges of abducting and sexually harassing a 14-year-old girl. T. Prabu from Pappireddipatti in Dharmapuri district allegedly abducted the victim on Friday. A special team arrested the accused and rescued the girl from Dharmapuri district on Sunday, a release from Tiruppur City Police said. He was booked under provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and remanded in judicial custody.
28 July 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Vriddhachalam Sub-Collector infected||Vriddhachalam Sub-Collector K.J. Praveen Kumar has tested positive for COVID-19. Confirming this, a senior official of the district administration said that Mr. Kumar and his younger brother, who was staying with him, had tested positive. Their throat swabs were lifted on Sunday and the results returned positive. They are asymptomatic and currently under home quarantine. Their condition is stable and they are being monitored by a team of doctors, he said.
28 July 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic takes a huge toll on Chinnalapatti weavers||The raging pandemic has doomed the future of weavers in Chinnalapatti and for many survival has become a big challenge. On the one hand, there is no work and, on the other, the finished goods have been languishing in their homes for at least 100 days. The weavers have no money, but merchants who supplied raw material such as yarn are pestering them for payment. Close to 5,000 residents out of a total population of 40,000 in Chinnalapatti have been dependent directly on weaving from time immemorial. The town is famous for its superior texture and top class finishing of sungudi and kora saris, which are most sought after by customers even in far off locations such as Mumbai and Uttar Pradesh. There are about eight societies in which weavers are members. Every week or fortnight, the societies give them yarn and they, in turn, weave the saris and give the finished products and receive payment depending on the quality. After the pandemic broke out and governments declared lockdown from March 25, things slipped from bad to worse and survival has become a big question mark. “Restarting our work is still far away. Getting a gruel to keep ourselves alive is tough,” they say. Confined indoors for long days without any job, they have no clue when normalcy will be restored. In normal times, Cooptex procures sungudi saris from the weavers and dispatches them to different cities and other States. Likewise, many private textile chain stores and showrooms in Chennai and Kancheepuram also buy the kora and sungudi saris. “This is Adi and we would have sold at least one lakh saris as womenfolk going to temple festivals during this month purchase them. With temples closing down, there has been no orders,” says K.R. Parameswaran, a weaver and member of Anjugam Weavers’ Society. The closure has not only hit weavers but even those dependent on the business. For instance, the saris cannot be transported even to other districts within the State due to restrictions in obtaining e-passes, says Asokan, a weaver with Kamala Nehru Weavers' Society. He weaves Amman model saris for customers in Kancheepuram district. Washermen have also been hit badly, as they supply starch, he points out. Customers from Coimbatore, Udamalpet, Tirupur, Palani and other towns are fond of Amman saris, which is printed with red and yellow borders symbolising the colours and idols of shrines. The orders that are placed around March never came this year, resulting in terrible loss, he adds. DMK MLA I. Periasami, who represents Athoor Assembly Constituency, has appealed to the State government and the Ministry of Handlooms at the Centre to grant monetary assistance of Rs. 10,000 to each weaver through societies. The State government must also lift the saris from weavers and release payment, which will give them a much-needed breather, Mr. Periasami says.
28 July 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||5-foot-long drumsticks harvested in Dindigul||Drumsticks measuring up to five feet in length are being harvested at a farm in Chinnalapatti here, reaping good profit for the farmer. K. Chakkarapani, a farmer from Chinnalapatti, had cultivated hybrid drumsticks on five acres of farmland on the road connecting Ambathurai with Chinnalapatti. He had opted for Israel farming technique and organic farming to cultivate the drumsticks. The drumstick plants were planted six months back and the crop was being harvested for the past one month. The harvested produce was sold at markets in Dindigul, Oddanchatram and Madurai. A kilogram of drumstick was sold at Rs. 35 to Rs. 40, reaping good profit for Mr. Chakkarapani. He had earlier received an award for successfully cultivating tomatoes and onions through poly greenhouse and drip irrigation method.
28 July 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Be cordial and friendly towards public, says Dindigul DIG||Imposing fines against motorists should not be the objective of police personnel, said Deputy Inspector General of Police (Dindigul Range) M.S. Muthusami here on Monday. He was speaking at a three-day training programme for police personnel from Dindigul and Theni districts on police-public relations and stress management. Police exposed themselves to infection when the entire community stayed indoors, he said and commended them for their services. At the same time, people were also under pressure. Hence, police had a larger role to play in society’s well-being. They must treat people in a cordial and friendly manner. They must be polite and, at the same time, they should convey the message on safe practices to be adhered to by road users during the pandemic. He urged them to show swiftness in disposal of petitions received in police stations in a fair and transparent manner. The programme would be conducted in batches of 20 till August 14. DSP Ponnivalavan, Dr. Jayanthi and other resource persons would handle the sessions.
28 July 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Quack held||In a joint raid by health and police officials, a quack was arrestedon Monday. Joint Director of Health Sivakumar and a posse of police raided the ‘clinic’ in Sedapatti near Athur. Perumal, who was running it, was arrested.
28 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Withdraw cash on doorstep through postmen||The Department of Posts has asked people to utilise the cash withdrawal facility on their doorsteps through postmen using Aadhaar number and fingerprint. A press release said that the banking service is provided through India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) using the Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS) services as the account holders need not visit ATMs for withdrawing cash.  Toll numbers People in villages, particularly receiving old age pension, workers under MGNREGS, receiving subsidy for LPG cylinders and other assistance under the Central and State government schemes should call the IPPB, Erode at 1800 1807 980, 86757 18768, 86681 53730, 98436 98811 or 98405 96804 and provide the necessary details for registration. People can also visit the nearest major post offices for registration or download the Post Info App and register under Service Request – Financial Services – Aadhaar Enabled Payment. The person should provide his Aadhaar number linked to his bank account and he or she will receive OTP in mobile phone which they should disclose to the postman. After entering the Aadhaar number, the customer has to place the finger on the biometric device to authenticate their identity after which they will be permitted to withdraw the money. For further details, call the Senior Superintendent of Posts, Erode Division at 0424-2258066.
28 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to underground cabling works, power supply will be disrupted from 9.30 a.m. to 6 p.m. on July 29 in the Narayanavalasu electric line at Karuppanna Gounder Thottam, Nasiyanur Road, Sanjai Nagar, Manickampalayam Housing Unit, Indira Nagar, Nalli Thottam, Vettukattu Valasu, Kamadenu Nagar, Manickampalayam, Vakkil Thottam, Gandhi Nagar, Sakthi Nagar and Amman Nagar.
28 July 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 control room in Krishnagiri Collectorate shifted||The COVID-19 control room at the Collectorate here was closed after four members of the medical team including a doctor tested positive for COVID-19. The control room that was operating out of the Collectorate’s Grievance Day Programme hall on the ground floor has been shifted to the second floor to a temporary room and its staff strength decreased to 12 per shift. The ground floor room was closed and disinfected. The area was closed as a containment zone after the doctor, two health inspectors and a data entry operator tested positive. An official told The Hindu the entire control room workforce of 25 members were tested after the doctor turned out to be a contact of a COVID-19 positive person, who was his relative. The control room has been in the frontline of contact tracing and information coordination from containment areas, receiving and transmitting information and grievances from containment zones. The arrival of persons and their quarantine was tracked by the control room since the onset of the pandemic here.
28 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Farmers await release of water for ‘kuruvai’ crop||With almost two months behind schedule for raising ‘kuruvai’ paddy on the double crop area, farmers in Madurai district are anxiously awaiting release of water for irrigation for the first crop from the Vaigai dam. Water for irrigation for 45,000 acres of ayacut of double crop area in Dindigul and Madurai district usually begins in the first week of June as and when the combined Periyar credit touches 4,000 mcft. However, scanty rainfall in the catchment areas of Periyar dam and consequent poor storage of water in Periyar and Vaigai dams are causing the delay in release of water, say officials of the Public Works Department. The water level in Periyar dam was 114.65 feet on Sunday with a storage of 1,668 mcft. Acknowledging the need to release water for ‘kuruvai’ cultivation, the Agriculture department had recently written a letter to the PWD enquiring about the date of release of water for irrigation. T. Vivekanandan, Joint Director of Agriculture, said farmers of Madurai East, Madurai West, Alanganallur, Vadipatti and Melur blocks - all double-crop areas - were totally dependent on water from Periyar dam. While the target area of cultivation under kuruvai season this year was 3,300 hectares, the area under cultivation was less than 1,000 hectares. Through well irrigation, paddy was being raised in Chellampatti block, he added. “We have been suggesting farmers to opt for alternative cultivation of pulses. However, many farmers are unable to follow it due to ambiguity about the time of release of water for paddy irrigation,” he added. M. Murugan, president of Periyar Single Crop Area Farmers’ Association, said water is released for irrigation on June 1 every year when the combined storage in Periyar credit and local system tanks was above 4,000 mcft. However, for the past six years, there has been a delay owing to scanty rainfall, said Mr. Vivekanandan. “Last year too, water was released in the last week of August. As a result there was a reduction in paddy cultivation area,” he said. In various double crop areas between Peranai and Kallandiri, farmers were able to grow only a single crop owing to delayed release of water, he added. Other problems Concurring with this viewpoint, Mr. Murugan said that due to delayed release of water, the crop was harvested during the rainy season. “Hence, many farmers complained about pest attack and crop damage,” he added. Many tail-end areas also do not receive sufficient water when there is a delay in release of water, said N. Palanichamy, president of Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers’ Association. “Already many farmers were financially struggling due to COVID-19 pandemic. With delay in release of water, many of them have lost their livelihoods,” he added. A PWD official said that currently it was even challenging to supply drinking water to Madurai Corporation as the level in Vaigai dam was lower at 31.10 feet. The storage in the dam was 415 mcft on Sunday. “So we are prioritising the supply of drinking water. Only if we receive good rainfall in the catchment areas of Periyar dam, resulting in increased Periyar credit will we be able to release water for irrigation,” said the official.  In various double crop areas, farmers were able to raise only a single crop owing to delayed release of water  T. VivekanandanJoint Director of Agriculture
28 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers against Electricity Bill||Members of the All India Farmers’ Protest Coordination Committee, a platform of farmers’ associations affiliated to several political parties and others, held black flags and protested against the Centre, here on Monday, opposing the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. One of the representatives, N. Palanichamy, a sugarcane farmer in Madurai district said that farmers and micro, small and medium industrialists were dependent on the electricity subsidy provided by the Tamil Nadu government. If the direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme is introduced, farmers will have to pay the bill for the power consumed for agriculture purposes after which the subsidy will be credited to their bank accounts. A meter would be installed on every individual tubewell. Mr. Palanichamy said it may be hard for farmers to pay the amount upfront and then wait for the subsidy amount to be transferred to their account as they may not be making as much returns. The protesters also raised slogans against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020 which has been given a nod by the cabinet without concurring with farmers associations. “Under this ordinance, the Centre, in cahoots with corporate companies, will decide which crops to sow as farmers would undertake contract farming. The Centre is making it seem like all market risks will be transferred to corporates,” he claimed. “However, we all know that in case the corporates refuse to pay us, we would have to fight it in court. Farmers do not have the money, muscle power nor strength,” he said. He added that the amendment to the Essential Commodities Act would lead to high prices of essential goods and promote hoarding by the rich, leaving the poor impoverished. The members called for a discussion between the Centre and Kisan associations across the country before making a decision. Virudhunagar Farmers and cadre of various opposition political parties took part in the State-wide protest. Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam district functionary, A. Vijayamurugan, who participated at the protests near Sattur, said the bill would eventually pave way to give up free power for pump sets meant for lift irrigation. “If agricultural produce is removed from essential commodities list, it would lead to hoarding. Neither the farmers will get a remunerative price nor the common man get food grains at an affordable rate,” he said. CPI district secretary P Lingam took part in a protest held at Seithur.
28 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Lift lockdown, allow vehicular movement’||With the lifting of the lockdown on July 31, all restrictions must be lifted and unrestricted vehicular movement permitted across districts in Tamil Nadu, said senior president S. Rethinavelu and president N. Jegatheesan of Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry . A statement said that the lockdown which lasted over 130 days had caused extensive economic impairment. It has also caused substantial loss of employment. Businesspersons need to be able to travel across districts to get orders. However, restrictions can be in place where people gather in large numbers. “Hotels with accommodation and malls should be allowed to function. General public can avoid using them, since the choice is theirs. However, opening of schools and colleges may be deferred as students’ attendance is compulsory,” the press release stated. People are sensitised about adhering to standard operating procedures to safeguard themselves against COVID-19, including wearing face masks, keeping physical distances and frequently washing their hands. Since there is more awareness, restrictions must be lifted, the statement said.
28 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||15 write Class 12 re-exams||Fifteen students who missed their final Class 12 State board examinations took their re-examinations at 12 centres across the district on Monday. The re-examination was held for absentees who were unable to write the final exam for the subjects - Chemistry, Geography and Accountancy - on March 24, due to restrictions there were in place for lockdown. The total number of attended students included eight private students. An official from the School Education department said that out of the total 21 students who had applied for the examinations, six of them were absent.  Provisional marksheet Schools across the district have also started issuing provisional mark sheets for students who have cleared Class 12 exams, so that they can start applying for their college admissions. District Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan said schools had been instructed to follow the standard operating procedure while issuing the provisional mark sheets from July 24 to 30. K. Nagasubramanian, Headmaster of Madurai Labour Welfare Association Higher Secondary School, said they allocated separate days for students to collect their provisional marksheets based on their subject streams. “All students were asked to wear face masks. Their temperature was checked before entering the school and they were also given sanitisers. While collecting marksheets, six feet distance was maintained among the students,” he said.
28 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Third KV for Madurai soon||The Ministry of Home Affairs has leased out a portion of land from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police camp at Idayapatti here to set up the district’s third Kendriya Vidyalaya school. Su Venkatesan, MP, who made efforts to expedite the setting up of the school, said permission for starting the school was received around 10 years back. “However, when I enquired about the delay, I came to know that the Ministry of Home Affairs had not leased out the land to start the school,” he said. Hence, the MP, who is also a Standing Committee Member of Human Resource Development, wrote to the Centre and spoken several times to lease out the land. “Since the land has been leased out now, I have written to the HRD Ministry and the Commissioner of Kendriya Vidyalaya, requesting them to start admissions from this academic year without further delay. A Central government school in the region will benefit the students a lot,” he said. P. Selvaraj, principal of Kendriya Vidyalaya in Narimedu, said work would start after receiving final approval from the HRD Ministry. “A temporary building has been allotted there for starting the school,” Mr. Selvaraj said.
28 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||10,000-mark reached in Madurai district||The overall tally of cases in Madurai district crossed 10,000 as 249 people tested positive on Monday. The tally stands at 10,057. All the cases were indigenous according to the State Health bulletin. A total of 166 people were discharged raising the total number of discharged to 7,809. The total number of active cases as on date were 2,032. The death toll rose to 216 as there were six deaths recorded. Virudhunagar The upward trend of positive cases and deaths in Virudhunagar district for the last couple of weeks continued on Monday. The district recorded six deaths and 338 fresh COVID-19 positive cases. With this the total number of deaths in the district has gone past 60 and stood at 63. Similarly, the total number of positive cases in the district has crossed 6,000-mark at 6,302. As many as 628 patients – the highest number of single-day discharge till date – got discharged from various hospitals, the total number of patients who have returned home has increased to 3,918. Meanwhile, the total number of active patients stood at 2,321. Tirunelveli Even as Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts’ COVID-19 tally is nearing 4,000 mark, Thoothukudi district, which is struggling to contain the spreading of viral infection, is inching towards 6,000-mark. After adding 349 fresh COVID-19 positive cases on Monday, Thoothukudi’s tally touched 5,896 and the number of active cases stood at 2,439 as 229 cases were discharged from various hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. The district has lost 29 lives to the viral infection so far. With 3,963 COVID-19 cases, Tirunelveli district, which added 191 cases on Monday, stands second among the southern districts in the list of infections. The district, which has witnessed the loss of 25 lives to the pandemic, has 1,438 active cases after the discharge of 153 cases. Neighbouring Kanniyakumari district had 239 fresh cases on Monday that took the district’s tally to 3,849 and the number of active cases to 1,853 after 167 cases were discharged. The district has lost 32 patients to COVID-19 so far. Tenkasi district added 112 new cases on Monday that jacked up the tally to 1,794, and the number of active cases to 910. The district has lost 15 persons to the viral infection. Theni Theni saw 280 new cases, which took the tally to 4,053 - 58 people were discharged. The district health authorities had taken samples from 1301 persons for COVID-19 virus. The day's cases were reported from Periyakulam: 78, Theni: 61, Cumbum: 24 and Chinnamanur: 47. Dindigul tested 133 fresh cases which had the total positive cases to 2,451. There were nine people discharged from the hospital. Ramanathapuram had 54 new cases taking the tally to 3,094. Government hospitals discharged 57 people on a single day. Sivaganga had 44 new cases, which took the total positive cases to 2,123. The hospital had discharged 171 people and the total number of discharged persons stood at 1,586.
28 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||The COVID-19 pandemic has taken a punishing toll on this tribal community||Many families belonging to a nomadic tribal community going by the name of ‘Saatai Adippavar’, who whip themselves to earn money, have remained penniless for five months. At least 150 such families are living in an impoverished state in the Sakkimangalam area in the periphery of Madurai district. M. Babu, a 40-year-old member of the community, who has three sons and a daughter, says that before the COVID-19 outbreak, he used to travel to the southern parts of Tamil Nadu as well as areas like Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Erode to eke out a living. During the summer months, when it is too hot to travel, Mr. Babu, along with many others in his community, work at wedding halls and hotels to earn money. Now, having been cut off from both sources of income, Mr. Babu says he is dependent solely on ration rice to satiate his hunger. “The women from our community are scared of COVID-19. They have been going door-to-door in the city, begging for alms. Many of them could be found near Teppakulam. They cannot even sit in a single place and beg. The police kick them out,” he says. Savings gone Like Mr. Babu, his brother Ramar too says his life has somewhat come to a standstill. Many in the community have sold whatever little jewellery they had to sustain themselves. All their savings have been wiped off. E. Anandan, one of the few persons in the community who have completed college, says they are completely dependent on daily wages. “We have seen our fathers whip themselves and earn Rs. 150 or Rs. 200 [for such performances], but have been told not to get into their line of work. We understand the value of money. But without any job, most of us have no idea where to go and what to do,” he says. He adds that a small section of his community has taken to traditional tattoos or pacchai kutharadhu as a means of earning an income. However, their earnings are barely enough. Both Mr. Babu and Mr. Ramar say all members of their community are ready to do any kind of work if people are willing to train them. “We never thought it would come to this,” Mr. Babu says. Mr. Anandan says it would also be easier for children to pursue higher education if they are given community certificates in the ‘ST’ category. Most people in the community, he says, do not have these certificates. “I wrote entrance exams in the open category. If we want to boost education among the community, the least we could do is level the playing field,” he says.
28 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks status report on progress of convention centre at Tamukkam||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the Madurai Corporation to file a status report on the progress of the convention centre being constructed on Tamukkam ground in Madurai. Disposing of a public interest litigation petition, a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam observed that the Corporation must ensure qualitative work and the project should be completed on time. The Corporation submitted that the project was taken up under the Smart Cities Mission and nearly 40% of the works was complete. This included all basic amenities and ample parking space. The Tamukkam ground had an area of 9.65 acres and in 1962, a kalaiarangam was constructed to hold various events and meetings. Since the building had become old and dilapidated, a new building was being constructed in its place. The new convention centre is being built on an estimate of Rs. 45.55 crore. There will be no change in the usage of the ground and the remaining 5.60 acres will remain vacant. This area will be used for open air exhibitions, the corporation said. The Corporation said that the Tamil Annai Statue and other statues on the premises would not be disturbed. The petitioner, C. Nethaji Karthikeyan, had sought a direction to restrain the Corporation from going ahead with the construction on Tamukkam ground.
28 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Need to regulate online gaming’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday asked the State government to consider passing a suitable legislation to regulate and control online gaming, through licence, be it in real or virtual world. Justice B. Pugalendhi observed that the court was not against virtual games, but there should be a regulatory body to monitor the legal gaming activities. The court observed that online games were mushrooming and the advertisements on social media were aimed to induce unemployed youth into playing these games. The youth took to these games on the pretext of earning money comfortably from their home, the judge said. The court was hearing the petition filed by a school teacher who sought to quash the FIR registered against him by the Tirunelveli police. The police had booked him and his friends under the Tamil Nadu Gaming Act after they were found playing cards. The court quashed the FIR registered against the petitioner.
28 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID probe sought into Tenkasi farmer’s death||The wife of Anaikarai Muthu, a farmer from Tenkasi who died in the custody of Forest Department personnel, has filed a petition before the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court seeking a CB-CID probe into her husband’s death. In her petition, Palammal said the family was engaged in agriculture. On July 22, her husband was picked up by forest officials for inquiry at about 11 p.m. It is said that Anaikarai Muthu was picked up by the officials on the charge of erecting an electric fence around his farm by drawing power illegally. The petitioner said other family members also left for the forest office. On their way, they saw a jeep belonging to forest officials come from the opposite direction. Anaikarai Muthu was in the jeep in an unconscious state and they, along with the officials, took him to the nearby government hospital. The farmer was then rushed to Government Hospital in Tenkasi where he was declared brought dead. The petitioner alleged that she suspected that her husband was tortured by the forest officials in custody. She sought appropriate action against those involved in the alleged custodial torture and transfer of the investigation into the case from Tenkasi police to CB-CID.
28 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||IGNOU begins online admission||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has commenced online admission for various certificate courses, diplomas, postgraduate diplomas as well as undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes offered through the open and distance learning mediums, for its 2020 session. The courses are available athttps://ignouadmission.s amarth.edu.in/and the last date for submission of online applications is July 31. IGNOU offers fee exemption to Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) students who are unemployed in 100 programmes of study.  Interested candidates can visitwww.ignou.ac.infor more details and those with query related to admission can emailrcmadurai@ignou.ac.in.
28 July 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA tests positive||Nagercoil MLA N. Suresh Rajan of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday and was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital. Mr. Suresh Rajan, the Kanniyakumari east district secretary of the party, is the second MLA from the district to test positive after Congress MLA S. Rajesh Kumar.
28 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Concentrate on areas where crimes against children happen’||Collector P. Uma Maheswari on Monday said that instructions had been given to officials to identify areas where sexual assaults on girl children were reported in the district and pay more attention at those places to prevent such crime. The Collector said instructions have also been given to form committees at the panchayat level as well to create awareness among the general public on a host of aspects such as the role of parents in ensuring safety of their wards; sensitising children to good touch and bad touch, problems faced by children and the special schemes for children. The officials have been asked to prepare a detailed action plan on the ways to curb the problems faced by children and execute them. Anganwadi workers have been asked to interact with parents in their respective areas and drive home the importance of ensuring safety of their wards. Parents should remain extremely vigilant and pay special attention in ensuring safety of their wards as the problems faced by children occurred mostly from known persons and relatives, Ms. Uma Maheswari further said. Warning that stern action would be initiated against those indulging in crimes against children, Ms. Uma Maheswari said information relating to problems faced by children could be conveyed to the toll free number 1098 or to the District Child Protection Officer or at the Anganwadi centres. Ms. Uma Maheswari on Monday chaired a special meeting of the Children Protection Committee at the Collectorate which was attended among others by the Superintendent of Police, Pudukottai L. Balaji Saravanan, District Revenue Officer P.V. Saravanan, District Social Welfare Officer Renuka and District Child Protection Officer Ilayaraja.
28 July 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Remembering A.P.J. Abdul Kalam||When compared with the end of June and the beginning of July, the rate of positive cases appear to be declining now, said Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao on Monday. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Rao said that out of 3,040 cases reported in the district till July 26, 795 were active. The remaining have been discharged. So far, 27,000 tests have been conducted. The number of tests have been enhanced by three times when compared to the number taken in April. The number of fever camps have also increased from 18 to 42, he said. Early screening has helped contain the spread to a great extent and the State has been insisting that people wear masks, adhere to physical distancing and step out of their dwellings only when essential. So, cooperation of the public was vital to beat the virus, Mr. Rao said. Remembering Kalam Marking the fifth death anniversary of A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, the Collector paid tributes at the former President’s memorial in Peikarumbu near Rameswaram. He said as a fitting tribute, the administration was planting saplings across the district’s public offices in association with the Department of Forests and a few non-governmental organisations. The Collector said Kalam was an inspiration to the youth in the country and the ideals he left behind should be taken forward. On the occasion, 20 members from Kalam’s family visited the memorial, including his grandnephew A.P.J.M.J. Sheik Saleem, and paid their respects. Officials said the memorial, which was dedicated to the nation in 2017 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has been visited by 95 lakh people so far. Waiting hall opened DIG of Police N.M. Mylvaganan inaugurated a waiting hall for visiting public at the District Police Office in the presence of Superintendent of Police V. Varun Kumar. In a brief address, the SP said 1,200 saplings would be planted today across all the police stations, offices of the DSPs and other residential campuses in the district as a mark of respect to Kalam. Earlier, police officers paid their respects at the Kalam’s memorial.
28 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘Draft EIA notification anti-farmer’||Farmers of Pullavari here staged a protest against the Environment Impact Assessment draft, Electricity (Amendments) Bill and other amendments proposed by the Centre in some of the essential Acts. The farmers, who are members of the anti eight-lane expressway movement holding black flags condemned the Centre for proposing the Bills which are against the interests of the common man and farmers in particular. The farmers demanded that the Centre withdraw the Bills at the earliest. R.Mohanasundaram, one of the farmers, said EIA draft would mean easy implementation of projects like the Salem-Chennai green corridor without any proper environmental clearance. “The new draft proposed by the Centre is pro-industry and anti-farmer. The Centre has proposed the draft only considering the benefits of corporates. The new draft would lead to exploitation of our natural resources, forests and farm lands”, he said. He said that the Electricity (Amendments) Bill would mean loss of subsidies provided by the State government for farmers. “Farmers today are dependent on borewells for irrigation and the new Bill would take away such waivers offered to farmers by the State government. We strongly condemn it”, Mr.Mohanasundaram said. He also said that changes in Essential Commodities Act would also lead to the hoarding of essential commodities by corporates to create artificial demand, thereby increasing the cost of commodities. In Erode, farmers under the banner of Erode District Free Electricity Rights’ Protection Joint Movement hoisted black flags atop their houses and staged a protest on farm lands, across the district urging the Centre to withdraw the draft electricity (amendment) Bill and also the amendment of Essential Commodities Act (ECA).
28 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 500 fine for spitting in public: Salem Collector||The district administration said on Monday that as part of COVID-19 prevention measures a fine of Rs. 500 would be imposed on persons spitting in public places. Disease spread District Collector S.A. Raman stated in a press release that medical experts suggested that COVID-19 could spread easily through the droplets released while coughing, sneezing and spitting. Mr. Raman said officials from civic bodies would take stern action against persons spitting in public places and the levying of fine would be done under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Mr. Raman also said that all the staff and customers at commercial establishments should wear masks and ensure physical distancing. Hand sanitising facility must also be ensured.
28 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DMK alleges irregularities in procuring safety gadgets||In a petition to Salem Collector S.A. Raman on Monday, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam councillors in Omalur Panchayat Union alleged irregularities in procuring disinfectant and safety gadgets such as masks and gloves for the Union. The councillors alleged that the Panchayat Union informed the members that Rs. 11.55 lakh was spent between March 25 and May 22 on purchasing these items. The petitioners said that they purchased these items for a lesser price from the shop mentioned by officials of the Panchayat Union. The officials were not willing to reveal which village panchayats these materials were given to, the councillors said, and demanded an inquiry.
28 July 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) flays containment plan for Srivilliputtur||The CPI(M) has flayed officials for forcing all shops and commercial establishments in Srivilliputtur to close down without any rationale or Government Order. The party’s Virudhunagar district secretary, K. Arjunan, wondered why the Local Incident Commander of Srivilliputtur taluk, R. Murugan, announced through the media that the entire town would be a containment zone for eight days from July 26. “Virudhunagar Collector has announced that the number of containment zones in the district was only 166 and out of which only six wards of the municipality were declared containment zones,” Mr. Arjunan said. Against the backdrop of “an unofficial” declaration, police personnel forced closures of shops that were opened after Sunday’s complete lockdown. “When there was no legal order for containment zone, how can the authorities force shopkeepers to close down the shops?” he asked.  A team of party functionaries, including Srivilliputtur town secretary, V. Jayakumar and union secretary S.V. Sasikumar, met the Incident Commander and asked him to stop the police from forcing closure of shops. “The Incident Commander has said that closure of shops was totally voluntar,” Mr. Arjunan said.
28 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Check for novel coronavirus’||The Health Department has called upon the persons who had visited institutions whose staff have tested positive for COVID 19 to come forward to undergo the test to check for novel coronavirus, if needed. In a call made to the people of Kumbakonam and surrounding areas where some of the staff working in private bank branches have tested positive for COVID-19 symptoms, the Health Department has urged those who had visited such institutions in the recent past to volunteer themselves for COVID-19 screening test if had symptoms of the disease. Till July 26, 2.55% of 80,377 persons, who have undergone the swab and blood sample tests, had turned positive in the district. Of this, 1,064 persons had been discharged after treatment as on July 26. As far as the asymptomatic persons were concerned, 1,049 remain under home isolation and 1,218 have been lodged in the public quarantine facilities at different parts of Thanjavur district, sources said. The number of deaths due to COVID-19 virus in the district was just 18 out of 2,045 persons who have tested positive for coronavirus till July 26. Fever camps were being conducted at the places where there has been an increase in positive cases in the recent past. The objective of conducting the fever camp was to diagnose whether senior citizen and people with low-immune have contracted the virus or suffer due to influenza-like illness (ILI) or severe acute respiratory infections. Detection of such low-immune cases with COVID-19 virus infection at the initial stages would help save the life of a maximum number of co-morbidities patients infected with corona virus, officials said.
28 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||7 students appear for re-exam||Seven out of 10 students, who were not able to appear for the last examination in the Plus Two examinations held in March this year in Thanjavur district due to COVID-19 pandemic, sat for re-examination on Monday. The remaining three students who were held up other in districts such as Kallakuruchi and Karur were allowed to sit for the examination at the centres where the re-examination was held in those districts. In Tiruvarur, three students out of 10 who have registered their names for the re-examination have failed to turn up for the examinations. While six students took up the examination at Tiruvarur, one was allowed to appear for the examination at Salem where he was held up, sources said.
28 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Office temporarily shifted||The Kumbakonam Taluk Office has been shifted to the Revenue Divisional Office, Kumbakonam, temporarily as one of the taluk office staff tested positive for COVID-19 virus infection on Sunday. While the functioning of taluk supply office and social security scheme office on the first floor of the taluk office have been temporarily suspended, the taluk office was shifted to the RDO office complex on Monday. Sanitisation was done at the taluk office complex and the government staff attached to the offices functioning in the taluk office complex were being subjected to COVID-19 test, sources said.
28 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||566 more test positive for COVID-19 in central region||The central region on Monday saw a slight dip in fresh COVID-19 cases with 566 patients testing positive. Two deaths were recorded — one each in Tiruchi and Nagapattinam. In Tiruchi, a 79-year-old man died of respiratory failure at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital while a 60-year-old man with type-2 diabetes and severe hypertension died at the District Headquarters Hospital, Nagapattinam after suffering from respiratory failure. Of the 566 who tested positive, 188 hailed from Tiruchi, 115 from Thanjavur, 98 from Pudukottai, 67 from Tiruvarur, 48 from Ariyalur, 22 from Nagapattinam, 21 from Perambalur and seven from Karur. In Tiruchi, of the 188 patients who tested positive, many hailed from existing containment zones. The patients have been admitted to the Tiruchi MGMGH for treatment. In Thanjavur, of the 115 patients, some hailed from the Kumbakonam municipality while the remaining were primary and secondary contacts of patients who had tested positive earlier. The patients have been admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital for treatment. Meanwhile, a total of 111 patients were discharged from the TMCH and returned home after recovering from the infection. A total of 98 patients tested positive in Pudukottai while 67 tested positive in Tiruvarur. In Ariyalur, 48 patients, including an 11-year-old girl, tested positive for the viral infection. While one patient had returned from Bihar and another from Singapore, the remaining were all primary or secondary contacts of patients who tested positive earlier. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district is 875, of which 725 have been discharged. A total of 21 villages in Ariyalur have been declared containment zones as on Monday. Health officials have also lifted 279 new throat swab samples from patients and have sent it to the lab for testing. Perambalur recorded 21 new COVID-19 cases, including a five-year-old boy and a five-year-old girl. While 12 have been admitted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital, three have been admitted to the Ariyalur GH and six to a private hospital in Tiruchi. In Nagapattinam, of the 22 patients, two travelled from Tiruvarur, one from Pondicherry and two from Chengalpattu. Meanwhile, six patients living near the Tamil Nadu Fire & Rescue Service Station in Kuttalam tested positive. Three pregnant ladies and few local contacts have also tested positive. Karur recorded seven cases, including six men aged 49, 52, 71, 25, 21 and 55 and a woman aged 50. The patients have been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital.
28 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Smart cards for garbage collection in Ponnamaravathi panchayat union||Ponnamaravathi panchayat union in Pudukottai district has introduced smart cards to facilitate garbage collection on a trial basis in one ward. The initiative will be adopted across panchayats in Pudukottai soon, officials said. The initiative, led by Executive Officer V. Dhanushkodi, mobilised funds by donors in Ponnamaravathi to purchase smart cards along with colour-coded dustbins for 150 houses in ward number 2 . Sanitation workers have been provided with scanners and instructed to ask house owners to scan the smart card against the hand-held devices each time they hand over waste. “This helps us keep track of the garbage collection, and also helps the residents stay alert and ensure that they hand over the garbage regularly,” Mr. Dhanushkodi said. The groundwork for the initiative began with data collection, he said. A list was made of the house owners names, door numbers, mobile number, ward number and street name. The data was fed to the scanners and also to the smart cards, he said. Colour-coded garbage bins , one for biodegradable and another for non-biodegradable waste,were given to all 150 houses. “The initiative, which began 10 days ago has been running smoothly. We have noticed that the residents are focusing on segregating waste after using the separate bins,” Mr. Dhanushkodi said. The sanitation workers collect waste from 6 a.m. to 11a.m. Once the collection is done, the scanner is connected to a computer at the panchayat union office and the data on the garbage collection is taken. “An SMS will immediately be sent to registered mobile numbers of all residents who did not hand over their garbage on that day,” he added.
28 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Private lab barred from conducting COVID-19 test||A private medical diagnostics centre in Woraiyur was barred from conducting tests for COVID 19 by the district administration citing violations under Tamil Nadu Public Health Act on Monday even as the Tiruchi City Corporation authorities sealed the premises for building plan violations. The Doctors’ Diagnostics Centre was the first private laboratory in Tiruchi to receive approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research for conducting the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, used to detect the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes COVID-19. The district administration, however, said discrepancies had been detected in the results uploaded to the ICMR website and what was communicated to a patient. “This caused confusion while referring the patient, as per the ICMR/RT-PCR website list, to follow-up treatment,” Collector S. Sivarasu said in a press release issued later in the day. “The test results were not given to 29 patients in time deliberately and with an ulterior motive. In some cases, the delay was up to 20 days,” the Collector said. Such actions had triggered apprehensions among the people. Hence the centre has been barred from conducting COVID 19 related tests under Sections 14,59,62,72, and 83 of the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act 1939. Besides, a penalty of Rs. 5 lakh has been imposed on the centre for “causing the spread of the disease and apprehension.” The penalty should be paid to the Corporation, failing which the civic body would initiate appropriate action, the release added. Meanwhile, the civic body sealed the premises citing deviations from building plan approval and violations of the provisions of Town and Country Planning Act. “The waste generated was not being managed and disposed of properly. We sent several notices but there was no response,” said S. Sivasubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner. However, P.K. Rath, Managing Director, DDC, alleged that the reasons for sealing the premises were not clear. The ICMR website was either too slow or was not functioning and so the uploads were delayed, he claimed. Complaints were also raised after some patients’ COVID-19 test taken at DDC returned positive, and when the government lab took it, the result was negative. “We have been doing RT-PCR tests since 2004 and are not new to it. Sometimes, the test comes negative if the swab is not lifted from the nasal passage carefully. We were blamed for what it is not our mistake at all,” he claimed.
28 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers sceptic about effectiveness of online teaching-learning process||Private schools in and around the city where the students are predominantly from a higher socio-economic background are apparently banking heavily on the virtual platform for keeping pace with the portions for this academic year. But, teachers don't seem to have a definite answer to the question whether they have a sense of job satisfaction. Teachers of very many private schools who have been handling classes online for students for more than a month now are not able to say with a sense of certainty about the effectiveness of the virtual mode of teaching. There are more reasons than one. Technology compatibility of devices utilised at the teaching and learning ends is one major factor that has been glossed over by the institutions, teachers observe. For instance, the the poor receptivity with devices supported by 3G connectivity is a distracting factor, according to a teacher who says that it would be a wishful thinking to believe that the intended teaching-learning impact has been created through the virtual platform. "At the most, the online platform of teaching suits not more than 20 % of the students. Unlike in the classroom situation, there is no way to know if the students are really following the concepts," a teacher handling Physics in a private school said. The teachers say they feel frustrated, especially in the light of indications that most number of students pay lip-service to their responsibilities, and turn their devices in the mute mode. The school heads are not entirely oblivious of the state of affairs. "It is plain knowledge that there cannot be a substitute for the classroom atmosphere. But, there is no alternative. We need to go by the adage that 'something is better than nothing'. We simply cannot afford to be idle. We have been asking parents to prevail upon their wards not to shirk their learning responsibilities," a school head said. Some of the schools say they find a via-media approach workable. For instance, the method of uploading downloadable video lessons in the school website is working well for some schools in Karaikal. “The method works better since there is no need for the students to feel bothered about the time factor. We make sure that our children download and view the video lessons and complete the daily assignments in the evening hours under our monitoring,” Mahalakshmi, a parent, said.
28 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic leaves domestic helps high and dry||Domestic workers in Tiruchi face severe livelihood crisis as most of them are yet to be called back by their employers in view of the persisting spread of COVID 19. According to a rough estimate by public welfare entities, there are about 10,000 domestic workers in Tiruchi alone. The workers, who mostly live in urban slums, go for domestic works in affluent and well developed residential colonies and flats in Thillai Nagar, Cantonment, Periar Nagar, Srirangam, Woraiyur, K.K. Nagar, Kattur, Kumaran Nagar, Ramalinga Nagar, Karumandapam, BHEL township and many other localities. Depending upon the nature of works, they get monthly wages ranging from Rs. 1000 to Rs. 5000. There are also domestic helps who earn up to Rs. .10,000 a month for carrying out all types of household works. But, the spread of COVID 19 and thelockdown has dealt a severe blow to them. The employers, who fear that the domestic workers might be the carrier of the virus, refuse to employ them. Only a small section seems to attend their duties after convincing the employers that they would fully comply with social distancing norms. “I used to go for work in four houses daily. Now, I work only in one house. It has really made my life difficult,” says Kalyani, a domestic worker in Cantonment. Most of the workers had lost their jobs suddenly. Despite seeking employment, no one was really interested. The surge in number of cases had complicated the issue, she said, adding that the workers were not sure about when they would be called back for the jobs. S.Sridhar, State Committee member, Communist Party of India (CPI-M), Tiruchi, said that his party was in the process of evaluating the impact of lockdown on domestic workers. According to a rough estimate, nearly 60 to 70 percent of domestic workers in Tiruchi had lost their jobs. It had posed a severe livelihood crisis for them. The State government should come forward to enumerate the details of domestic workers and they should be paid Rs. 5000 a month until the situation improves, he said.
28 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Last phase of electrification may be over by December||The ongoing overhead electrification works on the final stretch of the mainline section from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur have gathered momentum during lockdown with labour shortage having been overcome. Having suffered a setback in executing the overhead electrification project for nearly two months due to the lockdown imposed in late March, the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) has now targeted to energise the remaining 68-km stretch from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur via Kumbakonam well before the end of this year. Thanks to the relaxations announced by the State government and support from the district administration of Thanjavur and Nagapattinam coupled with adequate workforce at the project sites, the overhead electrification works has gathered momentum since last week as the labour shortage issue has also been overcome now, a senior RVNL officer told The Hindu on Monday. The project suffered a setback for nearly two months as several labourers hailing from various North Indian states who were engaged for the project had returned back home during the lockdown period by Shramik special trains. Following relaxations announced by the State government subsequently, the project resumed in a slow place in June with available labour force. More than 100 labourers from North Indian states had come as a replacement for those who had already left earlier. All those who had come now were all subjected to medical examination for COVID-19 and kept under quarantine. Around 400 labourers including those from North Indian states were engaged at various sites along the stretch at present. The mast foundation works were completed last Saturday and simultaneously installation of electrical masts were also on. Nearly 90 % of the total 1, 700 electric masts required for the stretch from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur have been erected, the officer said. Overhead wiring works had been completed in the portion from Mayiladuthurai to Aduthurai with works under way in the other locations. In some locations, work of chopping the branches of trees along the stretch had to be carried out ahead of taking up the overhead wiring works. The project has gathered pace in the last one week and the target was now to energise the last and final stretch of the mainline section from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur before December, the officer said. The RVNL was entrusted with the task of electrifying the 228-km mainline section from Villupuram to Thanjavur via Cuddalore, Chidambaram, Mayiladuthurai and Kumbakonam at an estimated cost of Rs. 300 crore. The organisation had already energised the stretch from Villupuram to Mayiladuthurai in phases. A traction substation being constructed as part of the project at Mayiladuthurai was expected to be completed by August. The RVNL has already paid an amount to the Tangedco for supplying power after laying the transmission lines up to the traction substation.
28 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Laser leveller comes in handy for farmers||The Vazhavanthankottai Farmers Producers Group in Tiruchi district has acquired a laser leveller, which helps machine planting with ease, utilising the subsidy extended under the Collective Farming Scheme of the state government. The FPG had purchased the laser leveller at a cost of Rs. 4.17 lakh from the Rs. 5 lakh advanced to the group. Given the labour shortage and high wages, machine transplantation is an in thing these days. But proper levelling of the field is important for using the machines. Uniform levelling of the field would also help in reducing water consumption, say Agriculture Department officials. “The cost of transplantation manually is very high these days and machine planting is the best option. But for that, the field has to be properly levelled. The laser leveller helps to level the field perfectly,” according to Sakthivel,a member of the FPG. The FPG charges Rs. 1300 per acre for levelling. It takes about 60 to 90 minutes to level an acre. Farmers would incur much higher costs to carry out the work by hiring labourers, even if available. The FPG already has farmers on wait to hire the laser leveller to level their fields, officials said. P.Sankaralingam, Additional Director of Agriculture, on a recent visit to the city, inspected the Laser Leveller at work at field. Mr.Sankaralingam said that the mechanisation would help achieve the food grain machine target of 137 tonnes in the state, an Agriculture Department press release said. He also inspected a groundnut field if Swaminathan, a farmer in Vazhavanthankottai, where a rain gun has been installed. S.Shanthi,Joint Director of Agriculture (in-charge), S.Esther Premakumari, Assistant Director of Agriculture, Tiruverumbur, and other officials accompanied Mr.Sankaralingam.
28 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Private bus operators not keen on resuming services with occupancy restriction||Private bus owners operating stage carriers in the State are not too keen on resuming services until they are allowed to operate to full capacity of seats and on inter-district routes. The bus operators say that the lockdown has pushed them into a crisis situation and despite not being able to operate buses, they have had to pay road tax, salaries to staff and ensure proper maintenance of the vehicles. Many of them say that they have been paying at least 50% salaries to retain experienced staff and crew. “As things stands now, we are prepared to wait till the government decides to allow 100% occupancy and inter-district public transport. We have conveyed our sentiments to the government orally,” said a private bus operator, who claimed that at least three states in the country have allowed bus services with full occupancy. He observed that operating with restricted seat occupancy would not be economically viable, given the cost of fuel and other overheads. “Considering the political sensitivity of the issue, a fare hike is ruled out, next year being an election year.” he said pressing for government support in other ways. Conceding that bus operators were under severe financial strain, D.R.Dharmaraj, Secretary, Federation of Bus Operators Associations of Tamil Nadu, observed that government support was essential to bail out the operators. The 2000-odd members of the federation operate about 4,600 stage carriers in the State except in a few districts such Chennai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. He pointed out that the price of diesel, which was around Rs. 65 prior to the lockdown, has now risen to Rs. 80 a litre. “The fuel price has to be brought down by reducing the excise duty,” he said. Many operators, he said, would not be in a position to pay the road tax for the second quarter of the year. “We have paid the tax for the first quarter even though the buses were off the roads for 75 days initially from March 25 and filed stoppage reports with the transport authorities. We resumed service on June 10 with restricted occupancy but most private buses went off the roads again soon as the government decided to allow services only within zones,” he pointed out. With the omni bus operators, who operate services as contract carriages, taking the issue to the court, all private operators are hoping for a favourable verdict. While the six-month moratorium on loan repayments is welcome, the additional interest that is sought to charged for during the period is another worrying factor. “The government should ensure that we are not forced to pay any additional interest on the outstanding for the extended term,” said Mr.Dharmaraj. The association has also been lobbying with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority and insurance companies for extending the insurance cover on the vehicles corresponding to the number of days the buses were off the roads. Waiver of toll fee for six months has been another important demand put forth by the association.
28 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||SBI to function from today||The State Bank of India, Cantonment branch, which was closed on Monday, will be reopened from Tuesday onwards, officials said. The bank was closed after 19 employees tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. However, after keeping the premises closed for three days, including Saturday and Sunday, it will be opened on Tuesday, said S. Sivarasu, Collector. All the patients who tested positive were asymptomatic and had not come into contact with any customers who visited the bank. “Even if they had met one or two customers, there was always a minimum of seven feet distance between them, so there is nothing to worry about,” the Collector said. However, to dispel fear, at least 240 samples were taken from customers who had visited the bank over the last week on Monday. The customers voluntarily approached the fever camps and Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital where throat swabs have been lifted and sent for testing at K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College.
28 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||No decision yet on hostel accommodation||Principals of arts and science colleges are unable to decide whether or not to provide hostel accommodation to freshers this year. While colleges have started receiving applications online from students, their managements are understood to be in an ambivalent situation as most applicants from distant locations will have nowhere to go if they are not accommodated in hostels. Against the backdrop of some of the colleges in Chennai making it known in clear terms that no hostel accommodation will be provided for first-year students, institutions here are also prepared to follow suit, but apprehend that such a measure will be detrimental for second and third year students. “It does seem logical that social distancing norm can be adhered to in hostels in a better way by closing hostel admission for first-year students. But then, it will also mean that the expenses for second and third year students will shoot up under the dividing system in hostels,” a principal pointed out. In the absence of clarity on hostel accommodation, the colleges will face a hitch in releasing the list of selected candidates.
28 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Chapter formed||Thirty-two young leaders from diverse business backgrounds in Karur have got together to form the 50th Chapter of Confederation of Indian Industry’s Young Indians (Yi). The chapter was launched in a virtual event held last week. Vengat Raghavan, Partner, TRV Jewellers, was nominated as the Chair for CII Yi, Karur Chapter, and Raghul Subramanian, Executive Director, RK Exports (Karur) Pvt Ltd, was nominated as the Co-Chair. Karur was the 9th Yi Chapter in Tamil Nadu, according to a press release.
28 July 2020||TIRUCHI/THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Protest staged against central laws||Members of various Opposition parties and farmers associations organised under the banner of All India Farmers Struggle Coordination Committee in Tiruchi and delta districts on Monday in protest against the amendment to the Electricity Act and certain other Central ordinances, which, they said, would affect the agriculture sector adversely and favour the corporates. The agitators contended that the amendment to the Electricity Act would lead to the withdrawal of free power to farm connections. The committee also opposed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance 2020 stating that they would only favour big businesses and corporates. They held black flags and staged the protest in front of the Communist Party of India office at Periya Milaguparai. In Thanjavur, the demonstrators, assembled near the Thanjavur Railway Junction and raised slogans demanding the withdrawal of what they termed as “corporate-oriented” Acts which would pave the way for the corporate companies to take over the agriculture sector. They also demanded the amendments to the Electricity Act, which, they claimed resulted in the withdrawal of free farm power supply implemented by some State governments, including Tamil Nadu. Similar demonstrations were organised by the committee at 100 places in Thanjavur district and various centres in Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts. Members of Left parties, the DMK, Congress and other friendly parties participated. A group of people staged a symbolic demonstration by organising the `cremation’ of farm equipment at Thirupoonthuruthi near Thanjavur.
28 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur Corporation demolishes building on its land||Following an October 2019 court verdict, the Tiruppur Corporation demolished a building on its land that was used by a private school at Valipalayam on Monday. Corporation sources said that in 1970, the then Tiruppur Municipality, which was a part of Coimbatore district, constructed a vegetable market on a 15.5 cent in Valipalayam. The land adjoining the vegetable market was leased to the management of a private school in 1975. In 1982, Municipality officials asked the school management to vacate the land and cancel the lease, following which the school officials moved the Madras High Court against Tiruppur Municipality. The three-decade-long case was transferred to Additional Sub-Court in Tiruppur, which pronounced the verdict in favour of Tiruppur Corporation on October 4, 2019. In the meantime, the school stopped functioning in Valipalayam allegedly due to internal issues in 2015, sources said. After seeking legal advice and sending a notice to the school management, Corporation officials went ahead with the demolition on Monday. Assistant Commissioner (in-charge) of Zone-III S. Subramani supervised the demolition as per the orders of Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar.
28 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Minister chairs meeting||Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan chaired a meeting of the City Level Advisory Forum regarding the progress of Smart Cities Mission works by the Tiruppur Corporation. After the meeting, he told mediapersons the works had been “highly satisfactory.” As the Old Bus Terminus was currently being renovated, buses would be operated from a temporary terminus set up at Kovilvazhi. The Daily Market would be shifted to Cotton Market Complex, the Minister said. He said the COVID-19 spread in Tiruppur district was under control.
28 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Public appeal against proposed hydroelectric project in Nilgiris||Around 400 conservationists, scientists, people’s groups, members of Non-Governmental Organizations and the public have together signed an appeal to the government to scrap the proposed Sillahalla pumped hydro-electric storage project (PHESP). In the appeal made to the Expert Appraisal Committee for River Valley Projects, it was pointed out that the Sillahalla PHESP was one of two major pumped hydroelectric projects planned to be constructed in the Nilgiris, with another project — the Kundah PHESP already in its incipience. Potential impact Explaining the potential impact of the project, the signatories pointed out that “The Kundah watershed region in the Nilgiris supports important last remaining vestiges of the Shola-grassland mosaic vegetation, which is one of the most endangered vegetation types in India. This region has crucial amounts of green cover in terms of forested tracts (plantations) which have been naturalised and serve as important habitat and corridors for endangered populations of wildlife.” The proposed Sillahalla project, once implemented, will result in the construction of an upper and a lower reservoir along the Sillahalla stream and also past the existing Kundah Palam dam, and could lead to the direct submergence of 170 hectares of land. The appeal outlines fears that the Sillahalla PHESP project could have a drastic impact on more than 10,000 families whose livelihoods depend on the land which will come under submergence because of the project. This project could have huge social ramifications, the activists fear. “The Nilgiris has already seen several layers of social unrest and injustice due to forced evictions, improper, and failed compensations for resettlements,” the authors of the appeal note, adding that the Kundah and Sillahalla PHESPs are being pushed through without adequate consultations with local stakeholders. Ancestral lands Gokul Halan, from the Keystone Foundation in Kotagiri, said that the lands which are being considered for the project are ancestral lands of the Todas, an indigenous tribal community in the Nilgiris. “Once more they stand to lose their cultural and sacred territories if this project is approved,” he said. Godwin Vasanth Bosco, a restoration ecologist from the Nilgiris, and one of the signatories, said that not only was the project extremely harmful to the fragile Nilgiris ecosystem, but is also highly inefficient. “Not only are we destroying ecosystems, but are also implementing projects which will bring no discernible benefit in terms of availability of power,” said Mr. Bosco. “A much simpler, effective solution will be to simply upgrade the existing infrastructure at the powerhouses, and better power resource management,” he said. Chequered track-record Another Nilgiris-based conservationist, N. Mohanraj, said that PHESPs have a chequered track-record. “These power plants are operated to meet peak demand, which means that even if they meet their targets, it would mean that there is a net loss in power in the grid,” said Mr. Mohanraj. “Moreover, there is no excess water in any of the dams in the Nilgiris except during the monsoon. The construction of these two projects could lead to a lack of water in the entire watershed and exacerbate droughts during low rainfall seasons,” he added. “The Nilgiris is home to a variety of endemic, endangered plants and wildlife, and requires protection. We need to be mindful of these aspects as well,” said Anita Varghese, deputy director of the Keystone Foundation.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees yet another single-day spike with 313 cases||Coimbatore district on Monday reported yet another single-day spike of COVID-19 cases with 313 persons testing positive. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district increased to 3,775. Of the 313 cases, 243 were from the Corporation limits. The cases were reported from places including Selvapuram (20), Siva Sakthi Colony near Ganapathy (10), Peelamedu (9), Mahalingapuram near Vellalore (6), Pollachi (6), Malumichampatti (6), Kuniyamuthur (5), Gandhipuram (4) and Ondipudur (4). As many as 202 persons including 85 from ESI Hospital were discharged on Monday.  RMS office fumigated The Rail Mail Service (RMS) office located on the Coimbatore Railway Station premises remained closed for fumigation on Monday after one of its employees tested positive. Railway officials said the office would open on Tuesday. Two more employees, aged 32 and 59, working in the Electrical department at the coaching depot behind the railway station tested positive. The depot would remain closed on Tuesday and Wednesday for fumigation, officials said. The depot was closed on July 22 and 23 also after an employee from the Carriage and Wagon Department tested positive. Salem district saw 190 new positive cases, 184 of which were indigenous. Five persons returned from Vellore, Kalakuruchi and Cuddalore and one from Karnataka. In Namakkal, 38 cases were reported, of whom four returned from Tiruchi, Erode and Madurai districts and one from Karnataka. Over 30 patients were contacts of previous cases. Krishnagiri recorded 61 cases, taking the district’s tally to 776. The number of active cases was 416. Nine persons were discharged on Monday. With the spike in the number of cases, the district administration had adopted blanket rejection of e-pass applications from red zones, especially Maharashtra, an official told The Hindu . The State Bank of India branch near the market was closed after six employees tested positive. The branch will remain closed for a week. In Dharmapuri, 31 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 732. The number of persons under treatment was 372. The Nilgiris district reported 39 fresh cases, 35 of them were local residents, three from other districts and one was from outside Tamil Nadu. Of the total 731 cases, 514 had recovered and 215 people were under treatment. Tiruppur district saw 39 fresh COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking its overall tally to 737. The cases included a 34-year-old ambulance driver from Dharapuram Primary Health Centre. Health Department sources said that he recently visited Kancheepuram for a COVID-19 camp. Among the other cases were three children – a three-year-old girl from Ganapathipalayam in Palladam Block, a five-year-old boy from Senthil Nagar in Tiruppur Corporation limits and a 12-year-old from Sirupooluvapatti. The oldest case was an 86-year-old man from Kumaran Colony in Tiruppur Corporation limits, sources said. Out of the total 737 COVID-19 cases in Tiruppur district, 387 have recovered and 343 were active cases. The district reported seven COVID-19 deaths as of Monday. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said in a tweet that 761 swab samples were lifted across Tiruppur district as part of contact tracing and that seven patients from the district were discharged on Monday. Erode reported 27 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 645. While 17 cases were reported in the Corporation limits, six were in Modakurichi, three in T.N. Palayam and one was in Chennimalai. Ten persons were discharged on Sunday and 184 were under treatment.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘No impediment to OBC quota in AIQ medical seats’||The court did not want to disturb the admission process this year. Listing the reasons for not accepting MCI’s contention, the Division Bench said the objective behind the Supreme Court’s 1984 order was that there should be a national pool of medical seats filled purely on the basis of merit, instead of every State admitting students to medical colleges on the basis of domicile. However, that order had been modified from time to time by the Supreme Court itself which, in 2007, ordered grant of reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Further, the Centre too had passed a law in 2006 and began providing 27% reservation for OBCs as well in medical and dental colleges run by the Centre. Therefore, not finding any reason for denying such reservation for OBCs in non-central institutions alone, the Bench said the issue of merit had now been taken care of with the introduction of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and the imposition of a stipulation that only those who clear it would be entitled to reservation. Authoring the verdict, the Chief Justice said the stand taken by the MCI was also not in consonance with a counter-affidavit filed by the Centre, which had expressed its willingness to provide even “State specific” reservation for OBCs, with a rider that the overall reservation should not exceed 50% of AIQ seats in non-central institutions. The Division Bench also pointed out that Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, in a letter to DMK Rajya Sabha member P. Wilson on December 18, 2019, had said that State governments would be at liberty to frame special provisions by law to provide reservation for SCs, STs and OBCs with respect to seats contributed to AIQ. In so far as Tamil Nadu was concerned, it already had a law in force. The Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of appointments or posts in the Services under the State) Act of 1993 provides for 50% reservation for OBCs, 18% for SCs and 1% for STs. Nevertheless, the dispute was whether the State law, providing as much as 69% of the overall quantum of reservation, could be applied to seats contributed to the AIQ, especially when the Centre had insisted that overall reservation should not exceed 50% of total seats. Further, the Centre’s inclination to grant reservation for OBCs had not crystalised into a legal right. At the same time, the Centre’s inclination was “not an elusive proposal and rather is a positive indication of a competent legal resolve for implementing the reservation in favour of the OBCs vis-à-vis the UG/PG seats. This stand does not therefore qualify as a mere anticipation and tends to move a step forward for crystallizing a legitimate expectation of reservation,” the Bench said.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Desilting of Kannadiyan channel gets under way||Farmers are happy that the Kannadiyan Channel, one of the seven major watercourses under the Tamirabharani irrigation system in Tirunelveli district, is being thoroughly desilted for 22 km to benefit 5,601 acres of land. Interestingly, the major project, which should have been completed by the Public Works Department before release of water from reservoirs for kar season paddy cultivation, is being executed by the district administration with the help of Anna University and Nam Tamirabharani movement. After successfully carrying out desilting of Maanur Channel, Pallamadai Channel, Chittar watercourse and over a hundred tanks — all with public contribution over the past two years — they have joined hands once again to give a new look to Kannadiyan Channel extending from Chinna Sankarankovil to Gopalasamudram near here. While the district administration, besides granting permission for the work, has found sponsors for equipment, Anna University is sharing its technical expertise. The Nam Tamirabarani movement comprising mostly retired government employees also identifies sponsors. Five earthmovers were pressed into service when work began at Vellankuzhi on Friday last and the exercise is continuing rapidly to complete it up to Mela Seval before July 30. “We expect water to be released in the channel during this week and, hence, we are working overtime to complete the work within the next 48 hours or so,” says G. Sakthinathan, professor, Anna University, Chennai. Since he hails from Tirunelveli and has successfully completed earlier projects he and his team have taken an active part in this project. Members of public have profusely thanked Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, who managed to mobilise sponsors for earthmovers for the desilting estimated at Rs. 5 lakh. Since five earthmovers have been involved in the work, the desilting operation starts at 7 a.m. The silt, water weeds, waste and thousands of empty liquor bottles are removed in tractors. Agriculturists having their farms between Vellankuzhi and Mela Seval eagerly await release of water in the channel to start kar paddy cultivation with new vigour.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Only 105 students appear for Plus Two re-exam in five districts||Only 105 students appeared for Plus Two re-examinations in five districts on Monday. In Coimbatore, 18 candidates appeared for Accountancy, Chemistry and Geography at 14 centres. Private candidates appeared for the examination in centres where they had appeared for their previous examinations. As part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures, all centres were disinfected and the candidates were screened prior to the commencement of the examination, according to Education Department officials. The candidates as well as staff members wore masks. In Tiruppur, 30 candidates wrote the re-examination at 12 centres. Officials from Tiruppur district said that 44 candidates comprising students and private candidates were supposed to take up the examination, out of which 14 were absent on Monday. Among the 44 candidates were three private candidates, who gave their previous examinations in the Nilgiris district and moved to their hometowns in Tiruppur district prior to the lockdown. Accountancy saw the maximum number of candidates followed by Chemistry, officials said. In Salem, 23 students attended the examination. According to officials from education department, the re-exam was held at 18 centres. T.Ganesh Moorthy, Chief Education Officer, said, “about 1,678 students were absent for Accountancy, Chemistry and Geography.” In Namakkal, P.Iyyannan, Chief Education Officer, eight students wrote the re-exam at five centres. In Erode, 26 students appeared for Chemistry and Accountancy examination at 13 centres across the district. Officials said that five students failed to appear for the exam on Monday. With results of other students published already, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan had said that the exam results of students who appeared on July 27 would be published by this month end.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Decomposed body retrieved||A highly decomposed body, suspected to be of a missing fisherman, was retrieved near Thaengaaipattinam on Monday. Two fishermen went missing last week near Thaengaaipattinam fishing harbour after their boats capsized due to rough sea. Antony, 68, of Mulloorthurai, who was returning to the shore on his catamaran on Thursday evening, drowned near the entry point of the harbour. Other fishermen tried to rescue him, but the rough sea and falling light made the task difficult. The next day, Shibu, 25, of Marthandanthurai drowned when the fiberglass boat in which he was returning to the shore along with four others overturned near the same point. Even as the fishermen were searching for the two men on Monday, a body decomposed beyond recognition was retrieved and brought to Thaengaaipattinam shore. Though it was suspected to be that of Antony, a DNA test would be conducted to confirm the identity. Search for the second body did not yield any result. The family of the victims forwarded a petition to the Chief Minister through the district administration seeking compensation of Rs. 20 lakh each and government job. The fishermen alleged that failure to remove silt accumulated near the entry point of the harbour led to the mishaps.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||4 deaths in western region||The death toll of Coimbatore district increased to 42 with the Health Department on Monday declaring the deaths of three more COVID-19 patients. The media bulletin issued by the Department said a 75-year-old patient, who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), died in the early hours of July 24. Two patients, a man and a woman aged 62, died at CMCH and the ESI Hospital on July 25. In Salem, a 43-year-old woman died on Sunday. According to officials, the swab samples collected after her death returned positive on Monday. According to officials, the woman, a native of Kallakuruchi, was undergoing treatment at a private hospital here and was shifted to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital where she died within a few hours of admission. The patient was suffering from kidney ailments and respiratory issues, the officials said.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man’s death sparks row||Tension prevailed in Naduvaikurichi near here after relatives of a labourer, who reportedly died in a road accident, accused the police of beating him to death. Sources in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital said Shanmugam, 40, a contract labourer at Thoothukudi railway station from Naduvaikurichi near Palayamkottai, and Ayyappan, sub-inspector attached to the Economic Offences Wing, were admitted to TVMCH on Saturday night after their bikes collided accidentally. While Mr. Ayyappan suffered injury to the chin and other bruises, Shanmugam sustained head injury. Even as they were undergoing treatment, Shanmugam died on Monday. Accusing the police of beating up Shanmugam to death and showcasing it as an accident, relatives of the deceased blocked North High Ground Road–Tirunelveli Medical College Road junction in the afternoon. Police denied the charges, saying it was a case of road accident in which both Shanmugam and Ayyappan were injured. They held talks with the protestors in vain. Since Shanmugam’s kin refused to accept the body, tension prevailed at Naduvaikurichi.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Unbridled joy||
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till July 27   Persons tested +ve so far: 3,775 Indigenous cases: 3,737 Imported cases: 38 Active cases: 1,602 Persons recovered: 2,131 Deaths: 42    Home quarantined: 3,037 Domestic cases: 729 (39 new cases on Monday) Imported cases: 8 Discharged: 387 Active cases: 343 Deaths: 7
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sudden jump in cases in police force||The city police, at the frontlines in the battle against COVID-19 and most susceptible like other corona warriors, have been hit by a spike in cases with 68 personnel reporting positive on Monday. The bulk of the cases (48) came from City Armed Reserve (CAR). But what is bringing relief is that the recovery rate of the city police is high at 64.6% as on Monday evening. Of the 1,233 COVID-19 cases reported till date, 797 were discharged while 427 are under treatment. Nine personnel have died. “The number of cases reported every day from the city police had come down to single digits in the last couple of weeks. We seemed to have turned the tide. But the spike in cases at CAR is worrying, and will be suitably tackled,” said Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao. There had been a similar outbreak in the Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP), which was successfully handled. “In reserve police forces, most of the men stay in barracks, which leads to fast spread of the virus,” a senior official said. But for the spike in CAR, the city police seem to have battled COVID-19 with moderate success in recent weeks. “Our personnel are at the frontlines more than anyone. While medical professionals have personal protective equipment, the police are fighting only with masks. But the success of the last few weeks seems to suggest ways of controlling the spread of the virus,” a senior police official said. Mr. Rao attributes the success to stringent precautionary measures taken by every person in the force and the new Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs) introduced in policing. “While wearing masks, head shields and gloves have become the norm in the force, other measures like drinking boiled water and, in some police stations, immunity boosting kashaya every few hours have also helped,” he said. Moreover, the indiscriminate entry of public into police stations has been checked and help desks have been put up at the entrance of most police stations. People being let in only when absolutely necessary, after thermal screening and other precautionary measures. Another senior official said the recovery rate had gone up and fatality rate had dropped even as random testing was ramped up. The key was early detection and initiation of treatment protocol for the personnel. “Being at the frontlines, police are a vulnerable group. We have ramped up random RT-PCR tests, which have helped detect cases early and isolate them, preventing further spread within the force. This has also led to early treatment protocols, which have reduced the fatality rate and helped us achieve a high recovery rate,” the official said.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lessons on Tipu Sultan, Constitution truncated||Lesson units that deal with Mysuru ruler Tipu Sultan and some sections on the Indian Constitution are among the casualties as Department of Public Instruction has reduced syllabi by 30% on Monday, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and disruption in the 2020-21 academic calendar. The reduced and revised syllabus has been uploaded on the Karnataka Text Book Society (KTBS) websitehttp://www.ktbs.kar.nic.in/reduction-en.asp. The syllabus has been reduced to 120 working days for Classes 1-10, assuming that schools are going to reopen by September 1. Among the lessons truncated in Social Studies are Chapter 5 of Class 7 that deal with Haider Ali, Tipu Sultan, historical places of Mysuru, and the administration of Commissioners. Citing reasons, the document says that it has been ‘limited’ as the the unit requires ‘no separate class, and they can be introduced through assignments, PPTs regarding the same can be made’. Again, in Chapter 4 of Class 10, units on Haider Ali and Tipu Sultan, Rebellion of Halagali Bedas and Rebellion of Kittur Chenamma-Rayanna are said to be taught through ‘project and chart preparation’. Earlier, the Department had set up a committee to study the possibility of dropping lessons on Tipu Sultan, following a demand by a section of BJP leaders. However the committee had overruled this. Chapters on the Drafting Committee of the Constitution and salient features of the Constitution have been dropped for Class 7 as ‘pupils will study the same in Class 9’. Also ‘entire lessons’ on Jesus Christ and Prophet Mohammed have been dropped in Class 6 since they are taught in Class 9. According to the uploaded documents, chapters, units and sub-units have been dropped or limited taking various factors into consideration. Some chapters have been dropped as students study them in the higher classes, some have been dropped as they will be given as home assignments. Alternate methods to make up for the loss of learning deleted chapters or units have also been mentioned. M.P. Made Gowda, MD, KTBS, said the decision had been taken after interactions and deliberations with members of the textbook committee, subject experts, DSERT officials and teachers. Criticism Some experts are not happy with the reduction of 30% syllabus for all classes and are also not happy with a few omissions and cutting down. V.P. Niranjan Aradhya, fellow, Centre for Child and the Law, National Law School of India University, Bengaluru, expressed concerns over 120 working days for all the classes. “They should have considered more hours for higher primary and secondary classes as we have time till May 2020. It is not that the exams should get over in March itself,” he said. He said that a blanket 30% reduction across all classes was “unscientific and illogical.” “They should have had a proportional cut in syllabus for primary, higher primary and high school with 30%, 20%, and 10% respectively as higher school students can cope,” he said. “Learning is not independent but continuous. If students are not given proper basics, then they will not be able to critically analyse it in higher classes,” he said.
28 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa’s attempt to mollify MLAs triggers a controversy||Flexing muscles on the occasion of the first anniversary of his government, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa began spadework for ministerial expansion on Monday by appointing as chairpersons to various boards and corporations those who are unlikely to make it to the Cabinet. Soon after the completion of a programme organised to mark the government’s first anniversary, the State government released a list of 24 MLAs from the ruling party who have been appointed chairpersons. However, this paved the way for heartburn among several ministerial aspirants who vented their ire in public. It resulted in the government hurriedly withdrawing four of the appointments within hours of issuing them. This included appointment of Kapu MLA Lalaji Mendon as chairperson of Karnataka Backward Classes Commission which demands certain technicalities in terms of qualification and eligibility. The other three were G.H. Thippa Reddy, (Devaraj Urs Backward Classes Development Corporation), Paranna Ishwarappa Munavalli (Karnataka State Financial Corporation), and Basavarj Dhadesur (Karnataka State Social Welfare Board). Apart of them, Mudigere MLA M.P. Kumaraswamy and Dattatreya Patil Revoor too have expressed displeasure over being given these posts instead of ministerial berths. Sources in the BJP said that this is an indication of things to come when the Chief Minister takes up ministerial expansion. “Only six berths are vacant in the ministry. Even among these, priority would be given to those who came from other parties such as R. Shankar and either N. Nagaraju (MTB) or A.H. Vishwanath or both. In addition to this, newly nominated MLC C.P. Yogeshwar too is a strong aspirant while those from the party cadre, including Arvind Limbavali and Umesh Katti, cannot be ignored,” said a senior party leader. “A section of the MLAs is feeling that they are being ignored by the Chief Minister in the last one year. Hence an effort is being made to placate them,” said a party observer, while indicating that it is an exercise by Mr. Yediyurappa to stabilise his own position.
28 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Let’s learn to live with COVID-19, focus on development without lockdown’||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who just completed one year in office, has said that we should learn to live with COVID-19 and focus on development along with the pandemic, rather than opt for lockdown. He was addressing a programme organised to mark the first anniversary of his government. “We need to learn to live with COVID-19. Instead of talking about lockdown as an option to tackle it, we must focus on development along with the pandemic,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. “I appeal to all the Ministers, legislators, MPs, and officials to help stop pilferage, raise resources, and focus on development.” The 77-year-old Chief Minister, who came to power by toppling the erstwhile JD(S)-Congress coalition government with a promise of good governance, said: “It brings me tears when I think that we could have achieved more development if COVID-19 had not hit us. The pandemic has obstructed development.” However, hoping that a good monsoon could contribute to robust agrarian economy, he said: “The State is witnessing good rainfall and 90% of farmers are involved in farming.” He said that his intention was to ensure that all poor families in the State have shelter in the next three years. He defended the sweeping changes brought about to the Land Reforms Act and APMC Act through Ordinance route. He pointed out that only 2% of farmland has been used for industrial development so far. “We want to fight unemployment by increasing the share of industrial land,” he maintained, and urged the Opposition to refrain from “misleading” people. Similarly, the amendments to the APMC Act would help farmers to sell their crops anywhere and get remunerative prices, he claimed. Mr. Yediyurappa said he had never indulged in politics of vendetta. “I respect even those who criticise me. My intention is to develop the State with the cooperation of everyone,” he said. Blueprint for Bengaluru Mr. Yediyurappa has said that his government had prepared a blueprint for developing Bengaluru as a global city in the next three years. “We will take up development of civic infrastructure in a manner that will surprise everyone,” he said. The government was already in the process of implementation of suburban rail system, which was a dream of BJP leader the late Ananth Kumar, he said. A book containing achievements of various departments in the last one year and another one that has a collection of articles by authors from different fields were brought out on the occasion. BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel was among those present.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||4,000 citizens volunteer||Nearly 4,000 persons had volunteered as ‘civil police wardens’ during the recent one-week lockdown after Commissioner Bhaskar Rao sought help from citizens. “While over 13,000 people had applied online, nearly 4,000 of them turned up for work during the lockdown. The programme has been a success,” Mr. Rao said, adding they had now decided to continue to use their services till the city tides over the pandemic. “These volunteers are posted only for soft duties, like manning help desks at police stations, and, in some cases, at barricades and to maintain social distancing. As the police will continue to be short of personnel, the wardens will continue to help us,” he said. The volunteer force was a “good bridge” between the police and the citizens. They are acting as effective communicators and force multipliers on the ground.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Old pete shops reopen||Months after being closed following the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, a few shops in Chikpete area reopened on Monday. This was after the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) allowed traders in the old pete area, including Chikpete, B.V.K. Iyengar Road, N.T. Pet, Avenue Road, A.S. Char Street, Balepet, Mamulpet, to reopen after adopting an odd-even formula i.e. shops will be allowed to open on alternate days. This, however, is subject to some conditions. According to an order issued by the BBMP, a detailed action plan for each street should be worked out by the local association. All shops are required to have just 50% of their staff. Religious places, liquor shops and flower market will remain closed. The order mandates maintaining physical distancing, wearing of mask and following respiratory etiquette, apart from staggering of visitors. The order mandates sanitisation of the premises with particular focus on lavatories, drinking and handwashing stations. The zonal joint commissioners have been directed to ensure these directions are followed. Prakash Mandoth, president of Federation of Bangalore Traders’ Association, said that the traders too have given in writing about following all the standard operating procedures and guidelines to check the spread of COVID-19. “We thank Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for coming to the aid of the traders, who are struggling, by allowing reopening of the wholesale hub in the old pete area, especially ahead of the festival season. This is a primary market catering to hundreds of secondary markets and citizens,” he said. Many shops reopened for spring cleaning after having being closed for months. “We expect business to resume to some extent in a couple of days,” he added.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pensions: HDK hits out at government||The cash-strapped State government has not released social security pensions for the last five months, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy hit out at the government on Monday on this issue. “For the past five months, disability, old age and widow pensions have not been released. I urge the government to immediately direct for the release of these,” he said. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar also slammed the government on the issue at a press conference on Monday.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||What triggered the sudden appointments||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi’s sudden trip to Delhi and a Union Minister from the State believed to be lobbying with party MLAs for their support, in case of a leadership change in the State, seem to have set the cat among the pigeons on Sunday in political circles. It is speculated that this spurred Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to hurriedly draw up the list of 24 MLAs to be appointed to boards and corporations, as a fire-fighting exercise. Senior party leadership was reportedly kept in the dark on these appointments and the order came as a surprise to both the party and the MLAs appointed. Mr. Savadi met Governor Vajubhai Vala on Saturday, termed a “courtesy call”, and flew alone to Delhi on Sunday night. While he met Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday for “official purposes”, speculation was rife that it may be part of deliberations on leadership change in the State. Meanwhile, a Union Minister from the State has been camping in the city and allegedly lobbying hard with party MLAs, multiple sources in the party claimed. “The Minister has been trying to drum up support for either himself or for a former Chief Minister to replace the incumbent,” a senior functionary said.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Traders hoping for revival||Merchants and traders of various markets are hoping that the government will allow them to reopen, especially with the festival season round the corner. Since the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has ordered closure of many markets, especially Kalasipalyam and Sri Krishna Rajendra (SKR) Market. This, the traders point out, had affected the livelihood of several merchants and traders. Many are hoping that the civic body will allow them to reopen ahead of the festival season that begins with Varamahalakshmi (July 31). G.M. Divakar, president of SKR Market Flower Merchants’ Association, said that the market was closed on March 21 and reopened in June. However, after the number of COVID-19 positive cases spiked, the market was again closed on June 22. “It has remained closed since. The State government has lifted most restrictions for other sectors. Why are markets closed?” Nearly 60,000 people were dependent on the SKR Market directly and indirectly. R.V. Gopi, president of Kalasipalyam Vegetables Wholesale Market Association, said traders were going to petition to the government to allow reopening of the market. “The traders were allotted space in Singena Agrahara. However, eight traders who contracted COVID-19 there passed away. There were no cases in Kalasipalyam market,” he said and added that traders would propose to allow only the wholesale market to function from 8 p.m. to 9 a.m. Though there are no restrictions on Russell Market, traders have abstained from opening their shops. According to Mohammed Idrees Choudhury of the Russell Market Traders’ Association, of the 475 shops in the market, hardly a dozen have reopened.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lorry owners seek relief||The Federation of Karnataka State Lorry Owners’ and Agents Association has urged the State government to fulfil its various demands to tide over the crisis. President G.R. Shanmugappa, in a release, said since the pandemic broke out, lorry owners have been in a financial crisis due to the lockdown. Though lorry owners and drivers have worked as corona warriors, the State government has neglected their demands, he said. Mr. Shanmugappa has urged the government to exempt tax up to September 30, as the respective RTOs are demanding penalty for the quarterly tax where there was no sufficient movement of materials in the market. He also said toll is being collected on State and National Highways. As a precautionary measure, collecting toll fees has to be stopped on the National Highways. Mysore Hunsur Road toll has been sealed, after a toll staff was found to be COVID-19 positive, he added. Despite the RBI issuing a moratorium period on vehicle loan till August 31, 2020, private companies have been harassing and torturing lorry owners and imposing huge penal interest for the moratorium period. The government should immediately intervene in this issue and settle it, he added. Further, Mr. Shanmugappa stated that if their demands were not fulfilled before August 3, an emergency meeting would be called and they would take further action.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BIEC CCC inaugurated||The COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) was inaugurated on Monday. In a press release, the BBMP said that 1,536 beds have been made available. Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan and Revenue Minister R. Ashok were present. Mr. Ashok said that in the first phase, the centre will have 5,000 beds, and gradually this will be increased depending on admissions. The dining hall can hold 350 people at a time. Food will be provided as per the government circular.
28 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Book on justice system||DAKSH is releasing its third volume on judicial system, ‘Justice Frustrated: The Systemic Impact of Delays in Indian Courts’, on Tuesday at 5.30 p.m. The book address effects of judicial delay on society bringing to light the socio-economic impact on various categories of litigants as well as on different types of cases.
28 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Body found in water tank||The body of a woman was found in the water tank of an apartment complex in Yelahanka New Town Police Station limits. The police believe that she is aged 50. ( Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help )
28 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Free Ayurvedic medicine to fight COVID-19||All residents of Shivamogga city will get Ayurvedic kits that will help avoid contracting COVID-19 infection, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa said in Shivamogga on Monday. As many as four lakh individuals would get free medicine, approved by the Ministry of AYUSH, worth Rs. 4 crore, he told a press conference. Mr. Eshwarappa said that 85,000 families would get the kits, each one consisting of three types of medicine, in the first phase.
28 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Koravi passes away||The former municipal councillor and former chairman of Hubballi Dharwad Development Authority and social worker Moorusavirappa Koravi breathed his last in Hubballi. The funeral took place on Sunday. He was 81. He is survived by his wife, a daughter and three sons, including Janata Dal(S) leader and the former councillor Rajanna Koravi. Moorusavirappa Koravi, who served as municipal councillor, was also chairman of the Hubballi branch of KCC Bank. He was also a trustee of Unakal Siddappaja Mutt Trust.
28 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Ramadurg dies of heart attack||The former municipal councillor and theatre enthusiast Raghavendra Ramadurg, who had won the battle against COVID-19 at the age of 68, breathed his last on Sunday following a cardiac arrest. Ramadurg, who was considered an active BJP worker in the district, was also a theatre enthusiast and activist. Ramadurg had acted in various plays and also in two Kannada films, Siddharoodh Mahtme and Savitribai Phule. He is survived by his wife and son.
28 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Comprehensive fisheries policy during next legislature session||Minister for Fisheries and Dakshina Kannada in-charge Kota Srinivas Poojari on Monday said that the government will come out with a comprehensive fisheries policy during the next legislature session. He was speaking to reporters here after attending the celebrations to mark one year in office of the B.S. Yediyurappa government. Mr. Poojari said that the draft of the policy was ready and the government has already considered objections to it. They would be placed before the lgislature after Cabinet clearance, he added. Meanwhile, the department would celebrate the World Fisheries Day on July 30. The main programme would be held at the Vidhana Soudha attended by the Chief Minister, among other dignitaries. The department would thrash out ways and means to improving inland and marine fisheries in the State, which were at the ninth and fourth places, respectively, in the country, Mr. Poojari said. Snacks (chips) made out of fish products by the Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation have been receiving good response from consumers, the Minister said. As such, steps would be taken to establish snacks manufacturing units in coastal region too, he said. Dignitaries, including Mr. Poojari, MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath, MLC Prathap Simha Nayak, Mayor Divakar Pandeshwar, Zilla Panchayat president Meenakshi Shanthigod, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer R. Selvamani and others watched the live telecast of the celebrations from Bengaluru. Mr. Poojari released the publications brought out on the occasion.  Department to celebrate the World Fisheries Day on July 30
28 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Illegal transportation, slaughtering of cattle to attract stringent action||Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh on Monday directed the departments concerned to ensure that there is no illegal slaughtering of cattle during the ensuing festival season. Cattle cannot be slaughtered in violation of Acts and rules framed by the government, she said and directed the departments to initiate stringent action against violators. Chairing a meeting here, Ms. Rupesh asked the Animal Husbandry Department to circulate pamphlets at gram panchayat level regarding the steps to be taken while slaughtering cattle. She said that only an assistant director or the chief veterinary medical officer was authorised to issue permits for cattle transportation. She said that there could be instances of illegal transportation and slaughter of cows, calves, camels and other animals during Bakrid and other festivals. Transportation and slaughter in violation of rules should not be allowed, she cautioned. At the same time, Ms. Rupesh urged the general public not to take the law into their own hands while confronting those involved in illegal transportation/slaughtering of cattle. Stringent action would be taken against those taking the law into their own hands, she warned. She urged officials to coax people not to offer prayers in prayer halls during the festival in the backdrop of COVID-19. She asked the police to conduct peace meetings at every police station to enlighten people against offering mass prayers and also, mass gatherings.
28 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Raja Madangopal Naik dead||The former Minister Raja Madangopal Naik passed away at ESIC Hospital in Kalaburagi on Monday. He was 69. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Madangopal Naik tested positive for COVID-19 last week. He was suffering from pneumonia and heart-related diseases, according to Shorpaur Taluk Health Officer R.V. Naik. Madangopal Naik was elected to Assembly from Shorapur constituency in 1983, 1985 and 1989 on Congress ticket. He was Minister for Agriculture and APMC under the then Chief Minister M. Veerappa Moily. He lost the Assembly election in 2013 when he contested on BJP ticket. As a Janata Dal(S) candidate, he lost to late A. Venkatesh Naik in the Raichur Lok Sabha constituency in 2004 by 508 votes. Madangopal Naik was in the recent past involved in art and literature and organised the third District Kannada Sahitya Sammelan in Shorapur.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP guidelines for festival season||Small, intimate pujas, no visitors, no visiting places of worship, no community celebrations and no outside food... these are the restrictions put in place by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) ahead of the festival season. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said the festival season is starting with Varamahalakshmi festival on July 31, followed by Bakrid, Raksha Bandhan, Krishna Janmashtami, Gowri-Ganesha, Moharram and Onam. Given the situation, citizens have been urged to not visit places of worship, even if they are officially declared open. Apart from restricting celebrations to small pujas for Varamahalakshmi, Krishna Janmashtami and Onam, citizens have been asked not to visit relatives, friends or neighbours, neither should they have outside food. For Raksha Bandhan, if siblings do not live in the same house, they have been advised against visiting each other. Citizens have been cautioned against taking part in any community visarjan activities, as the novel corona virus spreads easily in water. They have been asked not to buy idols either. For Bakrid and Moharram, official details would be decided by the Waqf Board. However, Mr. Prasad has said the celebration of Bakrid and observing Moharram should be kept to a minimum. All community events should be avoided as much as possible. The Commissioner has reiterated those who go outdoors must take special care to wear masks. If gloves are not possible, citizens must frequently wash hands and use sanitisers. If anyone has any symptoms, such as fever, cough, cold or breathing difficulty, they are required to call the Apthamitra helpline (14410) so that they may be tested and quarantined immediately, the press release added.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Metro: Effort to save 3 trees||The committee of experts from the Department of Forestry, University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Bengaluru has recommended retaining three of the total enumerated trees, without either felling or translocating, as they do not come in the way of the metro line alignment. The committee was satisfied with the procedure adopted for excavation and transplantation of trees, but suggested certain additional measures that augment the chances of survival of the transplanted trees. Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has, in principle, agreed to accept the committee’s recommendations. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, which considered the committee’s report, asked the BMRCL to file an affidavit to adhere to the suggestions made by the committee. The experts from UAS were asked to study the felling and translocation of trees for the metro project after the High Court was not satisfied with the manner which a government-appointed committee had dealt with the issue. “Different sites identified for transplantation of trees (Jayanagara Fire Station premises, Vellara Rashtriya Military School premises, Military Dairy Farm, Ballari Road) are satisfactory in terms of the surrounding environment, soil properties and the total area earmarked,” the UAS committee has said in its report. The bench adjourned hearing on the PIL petition, filed by D.V. Devara and Bangalore Environmental Trust, to July 29 while orally asking the State government to consider appointing one of the members of UAS’s committee to the committee appointed by the government to oversee the process of felling trees for the metro project as per earlier directions of the court.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC: Why VIPs were allowed inside temple?||The Karnataka High Court on Monday asked the State government why it is allowing elected representatives and actors to visit Chamundi temple in Mysuru while placing restrictions on the general public. Also, the court directed the government to submit reports of the investigation officers who probed alleged violations of COVID-19 norms of maintaining social distancing and wearing of masks in various events, both public and private, attended by ministers and other elected representatives. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition filed by city-based Letzkit Foundation. The bench posed the questions after noticing from the government’s statement that Member of Parliament Shobha Karandlaje and Kannada film actor Darshan were allowed to participate in the temple’s Friday rituals in the auspicious Aashaada month on a request made by the temple, which is administered by the Muzrai Department. The government has stated that, apart from these celebrities, only a few others were allowed to the temple on Fridays, and no COVID-19 norms were violated.
28 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Concern in Idukki as contact cases increase||The district witnessed an increase in the number of local contact cases with 51 of the 75 cases reported on Monday belonging to that category. There were 19 people from Cheruthoni (Vazhathoppe grama panchayat), 10 from Karimban, nine from Rajakumari, five from Rajakkad, and two each from Munnar and Puliyanmala in the list of the COVID-19 positive cases. So far, 318 people have recovered from the virus including the 25 on Monday. The number of those who tested positive and undergoing treatment at various hospitals rose to 310 on Monday. Those tested positive included 12 who returned from other States and seven from the Gulf countries. A 58-year-old woman from Mundakkayam in Kottayam district tested positive in Idukki on Monday. Vazhathoppe grama panchayat, where the Collectorate is situated, fell into the high risk area having the largest number of positive cases through local contacts on Monday. Triple lockdown The District Collector announced triple lockdown in ward number 10 of the Vazhathoppe for seven days from Tuesday. The other wards of the grama panchayat would continue in the containment zone, said a release here. Though the district administration intensified monitoring of the porous routes across the border with Tamil Nadu, the cardamom plantation areas in the high range witnessed a steady flow of workers from there recently. With the harvesting of the cardamom crops about to begin, there was a fear that more workers from Tamil Nadu would likely come to the plantation areas to work. Management of plantations depended on thousands of workers who come daily to the plantation sector from Tamil Nadu for harvesting the crops. Exempted The wards of the following grama panchayats were exempted from the list of containment wards in the district: Chinnakanal (wards 3, 10), Ayyappancoil (wards 1,2,3), Upputhara (wards 1,5,7), Udumbanchola (wards 1,2,3), Kodikulam (wards 1,13), Bisonvalley (ward 8), Peerumade (ward 13), Senapathy (ward 9), Nedumkandam (wards 1,3) and Karunapuram (wards 1,2).
28 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||New Commandant for Naval Academy||Vice Admiral M.A. Hampiholi on Monday took charge as the Commandant, Indian Naval Academy (INA), from Vice Admiral Dinesh K. Tripathi who completed a tenure of over 13 months. Vice Admiral Tripathi was accorded a warm send-off, with the traditional “Pulling Out” ceremony. He had taken over as the Commandant on June 12, 2019. During his tenure, the academy saw marked transformation in infrastructure and training facilities. Under his leadership, the INA was bestowed with the President’s Colour for rendering 50 years of yeoman service in shaping Naval leaders for the Indian Navy, Coast Guard and friendly foreign countries. Vice Admiral Hampiholi is an alumnus of the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla; Defence Services Staff College, Wellington; the erstwhile College of Naval Warfare, Karanja; and the prestigious National Defence College, New Delhi. The Flag Officer is a specialist in anti-submarine warfare and has commanded IN Ships Nashak (Missile Vessel), Magar (Landing Ship Tank (Large)) and Talwar (Frigate). His shore commands include Commandant, National Coast Guard, Mauritius, during 2003 to 2005 and Commandant, Naval Academy, and Commanding Officer, INS Mandovi, Goa, during 2007 to 2009. He has the rare distinction of commanding the Indian Naval Academy twice, albeit at different locations and in different ranks. On promotion to the rank of Vice Admiral in 2019, he assumed charge as the Director General of Naval Operations, prior to being appointed as the eighth Commandant of the INA. He is a recipient of the Nao Sena Medal and the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal.
28 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam records steep fall in cases||In a steep fall from the past few weeks, the district recorded 15 new COVID-19 positive cases on Monday — 13 persons acquired infection through local contact, while two had returned from outside the State. A 61-year-old from Idukki who was receiving treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, died late on Sunday. He had been receiving treatment for cancer at a private hospital when he tested positive and was shifted to the MCH. A 25-year-old and a 24-year-old, both residents of Kalamassery and working with a private establishment, have tested positive. A 24-year-old from Assam working with a private company at Edappally has also been infected. One person has tested positive from Chellanam, three from Palluruthy, four from Edathala, one from Angamaly, and a 75-year-old from Parakadavu, whose source of infection remains uncertain. A total of 69 persons have recovered, and 813 are being treated for the disease. As many as 503 samples were sent for testing, and the test results of 506 cases are yet to be obtained. From private labs, 514 samples were collected for testing. As many as 302 antigen tests were conducted at Chowara, Fort Kochi, Chellanam, and other areas. At a convent in Koonammavu, where a nun had tested positive on Sunday, antigen tests were conducted, and all other 60 nuns tested negative. In an online briefing, District Collector S. Suhas said the situation in the Aluva cluster had been stabilising with strict control, but vigil remained necessary. Fort Kochi, Mattancherry, and Palluruthy are areas of concern, he added. In Chenagamanad, Keezhmad, Choornikkara and Edathala panchayats, and in Kalamassery Municipality, permanent testing facilities will be made available. Within the Kochi Corporation limits, three more testing centres will be set up. Deputy Collectors have been placed in charge of the COVID fight as well as monsoon-related disaster relief in each taluk. To decentralise management of the disease, they will oversee the functioning of first-line treatment centres (FLTCs), besides enforcing all COVID-related protocol. Around 7,900 beds are ready at FLTCs in the district —1,880 beds in municipalities, 5,773 in panchayats, and 234 in the Kochi Corporation. The target is to set up 8,000 to 9,000 beds, the Collector said. Security guard’s death After the death of a security guard in an ambulance outside the District Hospital in Aluva on Monday, District Medical Officer N.K. Kuttappan said a report on the matter would be submitted to the District Collector. “Preliminary reports suggest that his COVID test result was negative, but that has not been confirmed yet. There was no delay in providing treatment,” he said. The guard, in his 60s, working in an apartment in Aluva, had complained of breathlessness and chest pain, after which he was taken to the District Hospital in an ambulance, but he died before he received treatment, municipal officials said. Hospital superintendent Dr. Prasanna said there had been no delay, and that when the medical team got to the patient, he was dead.
28 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Fear of eviction sans compensation||More than the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown on their livelihoods, the residents of Konthuruthy are distraught about the blow it dealt to their protest. The protest, demanding suitable rehabilitation if they were evicted to clear the way for the waters of the Konthuruthy river, had clocked 56 days when the lockdown was imposed in March. A forlorn protest tent still stands on Konthuruthy road to mark its continuance, albeit with a board saying that the Thevara-Konthuruthy Action Council heeds the Health Department’s COVID-19-related orders. “Several elderly residents of the area would join the protest every day. Keeping their safety in mind, the tent stands abandoned,” said Santosh T.K., who runs a small shop in the area and is the joint convenor of the action council. After all, they had the most to lose if they were evicted. For Augustine P.M., a woodworker who has lived in the area for 50 years, since he was 10, moving now would be difficult. “My wife is unwell. Moving from here, where my work is, and supporting the two of us anywhere else would be impossible,” he said. After a recent High Court order to clear encroachments in the area within a year, residents have nearly resigned themselves to the fact that they will have to move, Santosh said. “All we ask now is that we are given rehabilitation close by to keep our lives and livelihoods intact. Several people here either work in the Thevara market or as helps in some houses nearby,” he added. With the jobs they have, legal help is difficult to pay for, he pointed out. The reasoning behind the situation still evades them, said P.B. Siju, auto driver and convenor of the action council. “While there are 129 families here totally, we are unsure about how many of us will have to move. There appears to be no clarity about the width of the river that is to be maintained. We have heard that the original width was 48 metres. But if the nearby Thevara-Perandoor canal itself is not that wide now, why must the Konthuruthy river be increased to that width,” he asked. “The corporation seems to have asked that a width of 16 metres be maintained to reduce the number of houses that will have to be cleared. But we no longer know what the width will be,” he said.
28 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Waste collection takes a hit amid pandemic crisis||The worsening pandemic crisis has affected the collection and disposal of non-biodegradable waste in local bodies across Ernakulam. The process has slowed down in nearly 50% of the local bodies after the spike in the number of containment zones since the first week of July. Nearly 25 local bodies have resumed the activity after being hit by the first phase of the lockdown. The collection of non-biodegradable waste is midway in nearly 30 local bodies, according to Haritha Keralam Mission estimates. Essential service Members of the Haritha Kerala Sena, who are entrusted with the collection of non-biodegradable waste, have expressed safety concerns while visiting households in containment zones. The movement of some Green volunteers has also been hit, as they live in containment zones. Though the authorities had brought them under essential services, Haritha Sena members are facing opposition from their families for exposing themselves to danger. The situation has prompted the Department of Local Self-Governments to advise all local bodies to ensure that those involved in the waste collection process should be provided with the necessary safety gear and support system. Face shields, masks, and boots have been made mandatory for all Green volunteers. The local bodies can utilise their funds to procure safety systems as per government guidelines. The department has recommended a concerted effort by local bodies, district administration, Haritha Keralam Mission, Suchitwa Mission, and Clean Kerala Company to implement a well-oiled mechanism for collection and disposal of non-biodegradable waste, including plastic and e-waste. The district administration had permitted Clean Kerala Company to deploy adequate number of vehicles to collect waste from material collection facilities meant for non-biodegradable waste amid restrictions. The directive was issued after the department asked all District Collectors to classify waste collection and removal as an essential service and resume operations immediately. The authorities had directed vehicle owners to transport plastic and other non-biodegradable waste to the godown managed by Clean Kerala Company at Eloor and the Ambalamedu facility of Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Limited.
28 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Report counts 267 infected health workers||A report by the Health Department on COVID-19 positive cases among health workers suggests that 267 health workers have contracted the infection till July 20. Of them, the highest number of cases (62) was recorded among nurses, while 47 doctors have tested positive. A total of 23% were field workers involved with disease control measures, like junior public health nurses and health inspectors, while 62% of workers were involved with institution-based patient care. Among ASHA workers and ambulance drivers, 34 people have tested positive. “Positivity is higher among health workers in non-COVID-19 settings and there seems to be a greater chance of getting the infection from such settings. In facilities where COVID-19 patients are treated, full PPE kits are anyway being used and infection-control measures are already in place,” said a top public health official. These instances of positivity in non-COVID-19 settings include staff members at primary and community health centres, private hospitals, and clinics.  Lack of PPE kits Going by the report, 14% of health workers, including ASHA workers and staff nurses, reported absence of adequate PPE kits at work, along with reuse of PPE. Some workers also suggested that improper handling of throat swabs and other objects likely to carry the infection could have caused it. “All District Medical Officers (DMO) have been directed to ensure that all doctors and paramedics wear necessary PPE while taking care of non-COVID-19 patients. Every patient poses an equal risk and infection-control practices in peripheral institutions will have to be strengthened,” the official said. Highest in capital The largest chunk of positive cases among health workers, 20% of the total, was reported from Thiruvanathapuram, followed by Ernakulam (12%). In a situation where staff at health facilities are having to quarantine themselves, DMOs have been asked to prepare a pool of doctors and staff to draw from. “Since many are asymptomatic, N95 masks instead of triple-layer masks will have to be distributed among staff at PHCs and other facilities where fever clinics are running. For infection-control practices to be effective, crowd-control at government facilities is necessary, besides increasing manpower to implement a staff layering system where all staff members would not have to go into quarantine if one person is infected,” said G.S. Vijayakrishnan, general secretary, Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association.  Positivity is higher among health workers in non-COVID-19 settings and there seems to be a greater chance of getting the infection from such settings
28 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Women-friendly shelter opens at Kaloor bus station||A women-friendly bus shelter, which includes a feeding room, built at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh was inaugurated at the Kaloor bus stand by actor-dancer Asha Sharath and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order and Traffic) G. Poonguzhali. The initiative was made by Hibi Eden, MP, whose constituency fund during his tenure as MLA was used for the construction. Ms. Sharath inaugurated the bus shelter, while Ms. Poonguzhali inaugurated the modern 176-sq. ft feeding room. Security At the waiting shed, CCTV cameras have been installed to ensure the security of passengers. A ramp has been built for differently abled people. The bus shelter was built by KEL, a public sector undertaking. It would be good if the slaughterhouse behind the bus stand was shifted to an alternative space by availing funds under the Smart Cities Mission, said Mr. Eden said. T.J. Vinod, MLA, was present at the inaugural function.
28 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Global cruise terminal set for launch||India’s first full-fledged international cruise terminal at the Ernakulam Wharf on Willingdon Island and a 2.10-km-long walkway built by the Cochin Port Trust (CPT) using Central tourism funds are ready for commissioning. Sagarika, the Rs. 25.72-crore cruise terminal spread over 12,200 sq.ft., has facilities to handle up to 5,000 tourists arriving in cruise vessels. “Their commissioning, originally slated for April, was postponed due to the lockdown. A date to commission them will shortly be finalised. In the meantime, the port has invited tenders for the operation and maintenance of the paved walkway between KUFOS and Mattancherry BOT Bridge. Altogether, 200 cars can be parked alongside the walkway,” official sources said. The terminal gains importance, since the number of cruise ships visiting Kochi has been on the rise. Unfortunately, 10 of the total 54 such vessels that bring in high-spending tourists to the city in the 2019-2020 fiscal were cancelled due to the COVID crisis. Another 15 services for 2020-2021 too have been cancelled, since the cruise tourism sector has taken a severe hit due to the pandemic, they added. The new cruise terminal will bring under one roof personnel of Customs, Bureau of Immigration, and the CISF speeding up paperwork on cruise tourists.
28 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||River restoration a daunting task||Restoring the Konthuruthy river and rehabilitating people living along its banks, all within a year as per High Court orders, could be a daunting task for the Kochi Corporation and the district administration. In the wake of the order, Mayor Soumini Jain had told The Hindu that the complicated process could take over a year. “While the district administration will look at the rehabilitation aspect, the corporation’s responsibility will be to restore the river to its original width of 48 metres. Several acres of land will have to be cleared at great cost,” she had said. As per the court order, a meeting convened by the Revenue Secretary with all stakeholders would have to be held within three months after the order was issued to decide on further steps. To make way for the Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System (IURWTS) project, a Government Order was issued last year, allowing the District Collector to acquire 7.73 acres at Kakkanad to rehabilitate project-affected people under a Bhavanam Foundation initiative. As part of the IURWTS project, Kochi Metro Rail Limited aims to work on five canals in the city, including the Thevara-Perandoor canal which the Konthuruthy river meets. “A decision on rehabilitation can be taken only after a meeting with the people in the area. The upcoming local body elections and COVID-19 complicate the issue further,” according to C.K. Peter, councillor representing Konthuruthy. “The ‘original’ width of a waterbody like the Konthuruthy would be difficult to determine. While it might have been 48 metres wide at the starting or closing point, it would not be of uniform width throughout. At other points, the only way to determine the width is to use land records. Those who do not have a patta would then be deemed encroachers,” a senior official of the Survey and Land Records Department said.
28 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||First solar ferry basks in global limelight||Aditya, India’s first solar ferry, walked away with the Gustave Trouvé Award for Excellence in Electric Boats and Boating, warding off stiff competition from five European finalists. The award was announced on Monday. The vessel was adjudged the world’s best electric boat, in the category of ‘ferries designed for paid passenger service.’ Aditya is capable of seating 75 people and was built by Kochi-based Navalt Solar and Electric Boats in 2017 for the Kerala State Water Transport Department (SWTD). It has been ferrying commuters on the Vaikom-Thavanakadavu route since. This is the only international award, given in three categories, exclusively for electric boats. Aditya had made it to the list of six finalists a month ago. Over 10,000 people from across the globe voted to choose solar boats they considered the best from amongst 50 small and big ones (like Aditya) in the fray from Europe, the U.S., and Singapore. The fully solar-powered commuter ferry is one of the great stories of the future of electric marine propulsion, read the award. In honour of Trouvé The result was announced in Paris on the 118th death anniversary of Trouvé, a prolific inventor with over 75 patents to his name. In 1881, he connected an electric motor to a battery, attached the contraption to his boat Le Teléphone, set off down the Seine river and made history - the world’s first outboard motor, attached to one of the earliest rechargeable batteries. Aditya’s main attraction is its low operational cost. It needs just Rs. 180 per day as energy cost, in comparison to over Rs. 8,000 required for a diesel ferry, says Sandith Thandasherry, founder CEO of Navalt. Fuel saver “It has already achieved break-even and has transported over 11 lakh passengers over 70,000 km. It has thus saved SWTD over 1 lakh litres of diesel worth approximately Rs. 75 lakh. ,” he said. Aditya, which costs Rs. 2 crore, sailed into victory, defying a few naval architects who were sceptical of a solar vessel operating 22 trips, each time carrying 75 passengers. It is considered a game changer in India’s solar-powered boat sector. Officials from over 40 countries have flown down to check out the ferry. The SWTD has placed orders for three more ferries.
28 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC dismisses plea challenging segregation of temple ornaments||A writ petition challenging the decision of the Travancore Devaswom Board to segregate the oblated gold, silver, and antique ornaments of temples was dismissed by the Kerala High Court. The petition was moved by R.V. Babu, general secretary of the Hindu Aikya Vedi. The petitioner contended that the segregation of the ornaments was being carried out for selling them without obtaining the permission of the court. He had also questioned the decision of the board to lease out temple properties for cultivation. The standing counsel of the board submitted that the decision to segregate the material was taken for preparing an inventory. A Division Bench consisting of Justices C.T. Ravikumar and K. Haripal dismissed the petition considering the board’s submission that even after the segregation of the articles, it would not be appropriated in any manner without obtaining the permission of the court. Nothing objectionable The court noted that it did not find any objectionable matter in the segregation of materials. The Bench noted that the board had earlier cancelled its decision to lease out the properties to organisations and individuals for farming. It had also decided to utilise the land through its staff and temple advisory committees for farming. Welcome change The board submitted that the proposal was to cultivate vegetables, flowering plants, plantains, tuber crops, paddy, coconut, areca nut, grass, and medical plants. The Bench felt that the decision to carry out such cultivation without leasing out the properties was a welcome change in the policy and an ideal decision.
28 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New director appointed||Sunil Puliyakot, noted academic in economics and finance, has been appointed director of Rajagiri Business School, Kochi. The board of directors of the school has also been reconstituted with G. Raghuram, Director, Indian Institute of Management, Bengaluru; Saji Gopinath, first Vice Chancellor of Kerala Digital Innovation and Technology University; Kurian P. Alapatt, CGM – HR, BPCL (Kochi), and C.V. Ananda Bose, former civil servant.
28 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC closes plea||A petition seeking action against Sanjiv Arora, former Ambassador of India to Qatar, for ‘insulting the Indian national flag in his official capacity’ was closed by the Kerala High Court. The petitioner submitted that Mr. Arora cut a cake decorated with the national flag with a sword in the presence of high-ranking officials of the host country. The respondent submitted that it was a practice in Qatar to cut a ceremonial cake which is decorated with pictures of national flags.
28 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||At 22, Kollam records drop in cases||The district reported a sharp drop in COVID-19 cases with the tally going down to 22 on Monday. The recovery rate also went up to 57 surpassing fresh cases for the first time. There are 21 contact cases and a person without any travel history among the new patients. Among the contact cases are four health workers who have been working in a private medical college in the district. Kollam currently has 8,918 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 25,945. The Health Department has traced 5,723 primary and 1,713 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. To avoid any delay in diagnosing the infection and ensuring the patients are moved to hospitals on time, four zonal corona control units have started functioning in the district. The eastern zone that includes Kulathupuzha, Anchal and Punalur municipality comes under the unit in Punalur Taluk Hospital. Karungappally Taluk Hospital will be in charge of the western zone including Karunagappally, Sooranadu South, Oachira, Mynagappally, Thekkumbahagam and Chavara health blocks. Palathara medical officer will handle Kollam Coropration, Kundara, Thrikkadavur and Palathara while Nedumankavu CHC will handle Nilamel, Velinallur Nedumankavu and Kulakkada health block. Department of Community Medicine, Azeezia Medical College, will also participate in the activities of corona care units. The district administration has opened two more COVID FIrst-Line Treatment Centres in Kottarakara and Nendumpana for asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms. As part of efforts to break the chain of infection, Kerala Police Association, city committee, equipped the stations with essentials needed for daily disinfecting.
28 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam registers 59 new cases||A total of 59 people from the district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. While 48 people contracted the virus through local transmission, nine patients came from other States and two from abroad. At the same time, 14 persons who were undergoing treatment for the disease recovered during the day. The district currently has 457 active cases while 9,703 are under observation. As many as 469 persons have recovered from the disease so far. The new cases included six persons from Moolavattom, five from Neendoor, four from Vaikom, and three from Athirampuzha, among others. COVID cluster Meanwhile, the Health Department have unearthed yet another medium community cluster of COVID-19 during an antigen test drive at a private vegetable market in Ettumanur. According to officials, 45 out 67 persons who were subjected to antigen test, tested positive for the disease. With around 80 persons, mostly migrant labourers, currently employed with the unit, the testing for the remaining workers is slated to continue on Tuesday. The antigen test for employees at the unit was launched after two persons here tested positive during a random test a week ago. Finding Based on the finding, a direction was issued to close down the market and the shops in its vicinity. Efforts are on to trace the primary and secondary contacts of the patients. “Considering that several vendors across the region used to purchase their stocks from the unit, the likelihood of the disease spreading to nearby villages cannot be ruled out,” said an official.
28 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tracing contacts a strenuous task for health workers||Tracing primary contacts of COVID-19 patients has emerged a strenuous task for health workers with the rapid spike in the number of positive cases in Kozhikode district. The reluctance of many to voluntarily cooperate with the quarantine process too stands as a hurdle amidst the fight to rein in the disease. Though owners of supermarkets and commercial outlets have already been asked to keep a register of their visitors to make the task easy, many are yet to comply with the rule properly. Because of the rush, some of them are depending only on the CCTV system, which may not be able to keep the recorded data for long. Details of those who have already visited various containment zones and unknowingly came in contact with virus carriers too remain untraceable in many locations. Social alienation A Junior Public Health Nurse now part of the surveillance team within the city limits said the ill-treatment of quarantined people was continuing in many areas. Social alienation was also found to be a reason for the declining cooperation on the part of individuals or families in voluntarily revealing primary contact details, she said. A local body member from Thuneri grama panchayat, which witnessed a huge increase in the number of COVID-19 patients, said they had a tough time dealing with asymptomatic patients and tracing their primary contacts. “We had no other option but to find out all primary contacts using our own resources,” he said.
28 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Concerns over order to conduct tests on kin of quarantined||The District Collector’s direction to the Health Department to conduct COVID-19 test on all family members of those undergoing home quarantine is likely to lead to practical hurdles for the already exhausted healthcare workers. The Collector has also directed the Health Department to conduct random tests on people at important markets, junctions, and containment zones, apart from any place where large gatherings are taking place. It was the District Medical Officer (DMO) who passed on the direction to the staff on Monday. The DMO’s letter says that a large number of people who had returned from abroad and from other States are in home quarantine in the district. The department staff should file reports on the COVID-19 tests of their family members as soon as the quarantine period is over. Along with this, the family details of all those in home quarantine should be uploaded to the COVID-19 portal. The department staff, however, are not quite sure if this is practically possible. Thousands of people were in home quarantine in the district and subjecting all of their family members to lab tests could be impossible, said an official on condition of anonymity. He added that such an order had not come from any other district. Holding of camps According to sources, a plan to conduct camps to collect body fluid samples of those in the high-risk category had drawn flak earlier. The move was to include at least 200 people in each camp. It was pointed out that this would be in violation of the COVID-19 protocol. Meanwhile, the department has also issued an alert against three or four people from the same family testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. In the past few days, a woman from Kozhikode city and her daughter had died and later tested positive for the virus. One of their family members died on Monday too. A release said the number of such families was on the rise because people who ventured out of their homes did not stick to the COVID-19 protocol. A large number of people in the 15-25 age group form the majority of those who go out regularly. They do not follow the protocol, interact with others, and come back and infect their family members.
28 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two doctors, nurse at MCH test positive||Two doctors and a nurse at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode, were among the 68 fresh COVID-19 cases in the district on Monday. A 56-year-old man undergoing treatment at the MCH died too. According to sources, the patient from Malappuram was admitted to a non-COVID ward on July 9 with pneumonia. He tested positive for the virus on July 23 and was shifted to the isolation ward. He passed away on Monday. Restrictions have now been imposed on the cardiology and nephrology ward at the hospital. Also, 37 health-care workers have been asked to go into quarantine. A nurse at the nephrology ward was earlier tested positive for the virus. The newly infected include 12 migrant labourers from Tamil Nadu. A release said that 37 of the new cases were through local transmission of the infection. The source of infection of seven others are not known, and six of them are from within Kozhikode corporation. The number of active COVID-19 cases is 633. Forty-one persons recovered from the infection on Monday.
28 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Bio-fence to protect Kottooli wetlands||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation has decided to erect bio-fences across Kottooli wetlands as a desperate measure to protect it against rampant encroachment. The decision was made based on an appeal by the Kerala Nadhi Samrakshana Samiti to the Chief Minister, which was forwarded to the corporation. State secretary of the Samiti T.V. Rajan said that the Kottooli wetlands, a hub of biodiversity in the heart of Kozhikode city, was reduced to a tenth of its original size over the years. “Mavoor Road was once part of it. Large-scale encroachment resulted in several high-rise buildings coming up on the western side of Connolly canal, which is also part of the wetlands. Several constructions are coming up on the eastern side too,” Mr. Rajan said. The Samiti is trying to get the region notified so that further attempts at encroachment could be dealt with legally.
28 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fisherman drowns as boat capsizes||A 55-year-old fisherman from Kappakkal drowned near the Kothi estuary after his small fishing boat capsized in high tide in the area on Monday. The police identified the deceased as Abdul Latheef. Another man who went along with him had a close shave from the capsized fishing boat. Though a few local fishermen had managed to trace Latheef a few minutes after the incident, he died on the way to Kozhikode Government General Hospital. The boat and fishing net were destroyed in the tide.
28 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Govt. failed to tackle outbreak’||Congress leader K. Muraleedharan, MP, has said that the statement of CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan that opposition parties are spreading COVID-19 is only to camouflage the failures of the Left Democratic Front government in combating the pandemic. Addressing a news conference here on Monday, Mr. Muraleedharan said that the government failed to contain the spread of the outbreak in Thiruvananthapuram even after two weeks of curfew in the State capital. The government was fudging the details of COVID-19 death rates, he alleged. He also demanded that the National Investigation Agency investigate the Chief Minister’s Office in the gold smuggling case.
28 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Good response to ‘bed sheet challenge’||A “bed sheet challenge” taken up by the National Service scheme (NSS) volunteers to assist the First Line Treatment Centres has become a huge success in Kozhikode district. The volunteers from various higher secondary schools collected 6,052 bed sheets within just two days after the District Collector’s public appeal for help to set up FLTCs on July 18. S. Sreechith, District Coordinator of NSS, said the materials which were handed over to the Collector were worth Rs. 5.14 lakh.
28 July 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Malappuram sees 86 new positive cases||COVID-19 has claimed the life of one more person in Malappuram district. A 65-year-old man from Thuvvoor who died on Friday while being under treatment at Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, was found to have been infected. So far, the pandemic claimed nine lives in the district. He returned from Bengaluru on July 20, and was admitted to hospital after he suffered a heart attack on Friday. But he died soon. He was found COVID-19 positive in a Truenat test. Eighty-six more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. As many as 67 of them got the infection through local transmission. But the source of infection for 34 could not be traced. Among the new cases, five had come from other States and 14 from abroad. However, 88 infected persons recovered from the disease. The district had 522 infected cases currently under treatment. In Thrissur As many as 40 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur district on Monday. Of them, 26 were infected through contact. However, for the third consecutive day, the number of persons recovered exceeded the number of infected cases in the district. On Monday, 46 persons recovered from the disease. So far, 1,174 cases have been reported from the district. While five persons were infected through contact from the KLF cluster, seven were infected from the KSE cluster. Eight persons were infected from Pattambi and one person from the BSF cluster. Five more persons were infected through contact in the district on Monday. In Palakkad Forty-one people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad district on Monday. Twelve of them were infected through local transmission, including eight in Pattambi and neighbouring areas. Thirteen of the new cases had returned from other States and 12 from abroad. As many as 12 persons recovered from the disease. A health worker from Malappuram who runs a clinic in Kottapadam has also been diagnosed with the disease. The source of three cases could not be traced. The total number of infected persons currently under treatment in Palakkad rose to 396 on Monday. In Kannur Thirty-eight persons, including four police personnel, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Monday. Four persons came from abroad, three were infected through contact, and 27 persons returned from other States. In Kasaragod Kasaragod also reported 38 more COVID-19 cases on Monday. Among the cases, 27 contracted the disease through contact. The source of infection of two cases remains unknown. There are 4,329 persons under observation. In Wayanad Seventeen persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Monday. Fifteen of them contracted the infection through local transmission, District Medical Officer R. Renuka said. Two of the new cases had come from other States. All of them were admitted to District Hospital, Mananthavady. Meanwhile, District Collector Adeela Abdulla directed those persons who had come in contact with the workers of Malabar Trading Company at Sulthan Bathery since July 5 and the persons who had attended a funeral ceremony on July 20 at Valad in Thavinhal grama panchayat to report to the nearby primary health centres in the wake of workers at the establishment and a few persons who attended the funeral testing positive for the virus.  (With inputs from Thrissur, Kannur, Kasaragod, Palakkad, and Wayanad bureaus)
28 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||17 more test positive in Pathanamthitta||Seventeen persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in Pathanamthitta so far to 1,141, according to an official bulletin released here. The number of active patients was put at 346 as on Monday evening. As many as five persons among the 17 new cases were identified as primary contacts of the infected people and the remaining 12 people were Non-Resident Keralites who came from other States and abroad, the bulletin said.  28 cured With 28 more cured as on Monday, the total number of COVID-19 patients cured in the district went up to 793. A total of 371 persons, both patients and those having symptoms of the viral disease, were quarantined at various hospitals in the district as on Monday. Under quarantine A total of 6,002 people, 3,266 of them contacts of the already infected persons, were placed under quarantine in different parts of the district as on Monday. District Collector P.B. Noohu declared 12 wards in the grama panchayats of Koipram, Ezhumatoor, Malayalapuzha, Mezhuvely and Pallickal and in the Adoor municipality as containment zones for the next seven days from Monday.  District Collector declares 12 wards as containment zones for the next seven days
28 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Positive cases fall for second day||The State capital is set to witness a gradual withdrawal of restrictions from the total lockdown that will conclude on Tuesday midnight. The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation area has been under stringent curbs for three weeks since July 6 on account of the rising COVID-19 cases. However, the government has dropped hints of changing its containment strategy while having no emerging evidence to suggest that the lockdown could slow down the spread of the disease. Mayor K. Sreekumar, who spoke to media persons, pointed out restrictions will be hereafter confined to containment zones within the city. “There is no need to lock down the entire city beyond July 28. Triple lockdown will continue in the containment zones alone. Social distancing norms and other guidelines will, however, be enforced in other places of the city,” he said. During his briefing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that a committee chaired by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta has been tasked with charting the future course of restrictions in the city. The district’s COVID-19 graph continued to fall with 161 people, including 13 health workers, being diagnosed with the disease. As many as 137 people contracted the infection through local transmission. With 65 people having recovering from the illness, the number of active cases in the district stood at 2,881, the highest in the State. Nonetheless, Mr. Vijayan pointed out that it was too early to drop guard in containment activities. While the large COVID-19 clusters in Pulluvila, Puthukurichy and Anjuthengu has begun to spread beyond its extents, limited community clusters in Parassala and Pozhiyoor have shown initial signs of turning into new large clusters. A police trainee attached to the Special Armed Police (SAP) camp in Peroorkada is the latest among police personnel to contract the infection. The Kanjiramkulam native is believed to have been staying along with around 110 trainees in the camp. Three doctors Several health workers in the district have been testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 of late. The latest cases include three doctors in the Chest Diseases Hospital in Pulayanarkotta, taking the total number of infected health workers in the hospital to 11 including five doctors. A nursing assistant in the Regional Institute of Opthalmology, an employee in the Public Health Laboratory, a laboratory technician and a canteen employee in the Chirayinkeezhu taluk hospital are among the other cases. Two patients of Government Women and Children’s Hospital in Thycaud have also been diagnosed with the infection. Meanwhile, the City police seized 34 vehicles on Sunday night for violating the night curfew on travel.
28 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Private bus operators to withdraw services from August 1||Operators of around 12,500 private buses in the State have decided to withdraw the buses from the road from August 1 as “it is not feasible” for them to operate services suffering heavy losses due to the poor patronage following the pandemic-induced lockdown. The Joint Action Committee of private bus operators, the apex body of various associations of bus operators, informed Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran on Monday that they were withdrawing the services from Saturday by submitting Form G to the Regional Transport Officers (RTO) concerned. Operators submitting Form G will not have to pay road tax for buses. The operators can retain permits. Insurance need not be paid if the bus has submitted Form G and has not plied for at least 60 days. The move follows the government’s alleged inaction on the demands of the operators who sought high-speed diesel (hsd) at subsidised rate or reduced price and exemption from road tax during the pandemic period. Welfare board The operators had also sought exemption from remitting contribution of workers and bus owners to the Kerala State Motorworkers Welfare Board. Lawerence Babu and T. Gopinathan, chairman and general convener respectively of the committee, have informed the Transport Minister that not even 20% of the buses were on road even after the fare hike of July 3 and many schedules were running with four to five passengers. “It is not practical to pay the hefty road tax and to run services without any revenue,” they said. Price hike Bus fare hike alone would not be able to save the industry as the price of hsd had gone up by Rs. 11.50 a litre after June 7 and was now priced at Rs. 79. Reduction of the excise duty would reduce the price by Rs. 3 a litre, they said.
28 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID-positive councillor calls for home isolation||Even as the debates on whether asymptomatic COVID-19 patients should be allowed to recuperate in home isolation is going on in the State's public sphere, a councillor of the city Corporation, who had tested positive for the virus last week, has made a call for such a strategy change to save on the government’s resources. Vanchiyoor.P.Babu, councillor of the Vanchiyoor ward and chairman of the civic body's development standing committee, is currently lodged at the COVID-19 first-line treatment centre (CFLTC) at the Institute of Management in Government at PMG, along with six other councillors who tested positive. In a short Facebook post on Sunday evening, he had said that the current strategy of shifting everyone who tests positive to the CFLTC may be tweaked, considering the increase in number of cases Speaking to The Hindu from the CFLTC, Mr.Babu said that he raised the issue with the intention of starting a positive debate on how the available resources can be used effectively for the needy. “All of the councillors, including me, lodged here are asymptomatic. The case is similar with several others in the CFLTCs. When we test positive, our family members are anyway going into quarantine. So, if it is an asymptomatic case like mine, the person can be isolated at a room in his or her house, while the other members are also in home quarantine. The health staff or volunteers can do frequent checks over the phone on the isolated person on whether they are facing any difficulties, just like they do here at the CFLTCs. If they are facing any difficulties, they can be quickly shifted to a hospital, as we have a network of ambulances which respond fast,” said Mr.Babu. He said that the space so freed up can be used for symptomatic people who need care and frequent checks on oxygen levels or those who lack space for isolating at home. “The local bodies are spending more than Rs. 1,000 per day per person lodged at the CFLTCs. With the increase in the number of patients, this could cause a severe strain on the finances of the local bodies as well as the State government. It is certainly comfortable for me or anyone else to stay in a facility like this, but in the larger interests of the society, we need to think whether this is sustainable,” he said.
28 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mayor reviews clean-up of Amayizhanjan canal||A team led by the Mayor K.Sreekumar on Monday assessed the clean-up activities being carried out in the Amayizhanjan canal. He said that the pre-monsoon cleaning ensured that low-lying areas near Thampanoor and East Fort were not flooded during the monsoon rains. The first phase of removal of waste and sediments from the portion of the canal from Thampanoor Masjid to Pattoor has been completed. Barges and earth movers are being used to remove the waste accumulated in the canal. The damaged side walls are also being rebuilt in some areas. The Corporation has allocated Rs. 1 crore for the cleaning activities. The work on the portion from Pattoor to Kannammoola, at a cost of Rs. 2 crore, will be taken up soon, said the Mayor.
28 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Governor presents second APJ Award to VSSC director||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan presented the second APJ Award instituted by the Noorul Islam University to S. Somanath, Director, Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC). The award, which commemorates scientist and former President, the late A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, carries a purse of Rs. 1 lakh, citation and plaque. Noorul Islam University Chancellor A. P. Majeed Khan and Pro Chancellor M. S. Faizal Khan were present at the function held at the Raj Bhavan. The APJ Award is presented to individuals who have made outstanding contributions to the country.
28 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lockdown extension opposed||The Trivandrum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TCCI) has urged the State Chief Secretary not to extend the lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits. In a memorandum on Monday to the Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta who had been asked by the Cabinet to review the lockdown in the city Corporation limits, TCCI president S. N. Raghuchandran Nair has pointed out that lockdown is not a solution to control COVID-19 and is found to be ineffective. Containment of specific locations with very practical set of SOPs like wearing of mask, social distancing, use of sanitizer are some of the practical measures that can be enforced. Coexist with virus “Many countries and States which have successfully flattened the curve have decided to co-exist with the coronavirus and not to go for a complete lockdown. Instead they went for specific containment zones”.The TCCI president said the authorities have been trying to reduce the number of COVID patients through this measure, but unfortunately the numbers are on the increase. “We see no reason why the whole of city Corporation needs to be clamped with a different yardstick for the last three weeks”. Lockdown has brought all the business activities to a grinding halt affecting the livelihood of all the daily wage earners, he said. Business establishments too are badly hit with no cash flow leading to salary cuts, non-payment of salaries, loss of jobs, including serious consideration of closing down establishments.
28 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTC to introduce ‘Sleeper on wheels’||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is coming up with mobile and stationary air conditioned ‘Sleeper on wheels’ to offer adequate rest for its drivers and conductors, to prevent them from dozing off at the wheels. “The drivers operating long-distance buses are on wheels for 10 to 11 hours. Through this initiative, we are aiming at reducing it to five to six hours by offering rest in the ‘Sleeper on Wheels’ and crew change,” Managing Director, KSRTC, Biju Prabhakar said. Accidents Three bus accidents involving buses leaving Karipur airport, five heart attacks in one month and lack of space in the depots and terminal buildings for the crew to take rest had forced the KSRTC to come up with the initiative, he said. Sleep-deprived drivers are responsible for about 40% of the road accidents. Fatigued drivers are prone to dozing off at the wheels in the early hours of the day. “By offering them rest, we are improving efficiency and taking care of the safety of passengers,” he said. Decommissioned buses lying in the 92 depots across the State are being converted into sleeper cabins for the crew. Mobile and stationary In the mobile air-conditioned units,16 beds will be available. Lockers to keep belongings, small dining table and wash basin will also be available. Two decommissioned buses will be combined face to face to create bigger stationary units that can accommodate 32 beds. They too will have all the facilities on the mobile units. The refurbishing for a bus will cost Rs. 1.75 lakh. The mobile ‘Sleeper on Wheels’ will be provided in Thiruvananthapuram, Cochin and Karipur international airports initially in the wake of the operations from these places during the pandemic. The stationary units will be located at the KSRTC depots in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Chengannur, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Angamaly, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kuttipuram and Kozhikode. The power needed for these mobile units will be made available from AAI or the KSEB. “We have plans to install solar rooftop panels to power these units. ANERT will be approached for providing the services,” he said.
28 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special fund mooted for COVID expenses||A dedicated COVID-19 Income Support Fund has been proposed to bring succour to the affected sections and to source funds to meet allied exigencies. An expert panel headed by former Chief Secretary K.M. Abraham, which was tasked with preparing a COVID-19 response strategy, has mooted the constitution of such a fund to meet medical and other expenses and to implement relief packages for the needy. Voluntary interest-bearing contributions from salaries and pensions have been suggested as the source of the corpus fund. Government employees drawing a monthly salary above Rs. 20,000, staff of government agencies, public sector undertakings, statutory agencies, corporations and autonomous bodies could make voluntary contributions to the scheme. Service pensioners, other than family pensioners, drawing a monthly pension of Rs. 37,500, also could contribute. Exemptions have been proposed for differently abled pensioners as well as pregnant women and widows. Contributions may be deducted for 12 months from September to August next year. A floating interest has been proposed for the contributions and it has been specified that it should be 0.25% more than the rate offered on Provident Fund from time to time. A lock-in period up to March 21, 2023, has been proposed for the contributions and after that, the amount would be returned in four quarterly instalments on July 1 and October 1, 2023 and April 1, 2024. The amount would be returned in the case of superannuation or termination of employment with the interest accumulated till then on April 1, 2023. Separate account The amount received as contributions should be maintained in a separate account in a nationalised bank. The interest-bearing contributions from employees are expected to raise about Rs. 3,300 crore and from pensioners, about Rs. 375 crore.  Source to be voluntary interest-bearing contributions from govt. salaries, pensions
28 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Boost to cassava-based food units||With cassava (tapioca) billed as a key ingredient in ensuring food security during the COVID-19 pandemic, the ICAR-Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (CTCRI) at Sreekaryam has developed four business models for cassava-based micro food- processing enterprises (MFE). The models have been developed in connection with the ‘Subhiksha Keralam’ food security programme of the Kerala government and the Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (PM FME) scheme for assisting MFEs. The first model features high-quality food grade edible cassava flour which can be used for making snacks. This flour can be a basic raw material for other value-added food products as well, CTRCI officials said. The second model focuses on fried snack foods and chips, while pasta makes up the third model. Different types of functional pasta can be made from cassava-based composite flour containing rice flour, (with or without) maida, protein sources and fibre sources. “These products are not only highly nutritious, but also slowly digestible, which makes them ideal food for diabetic people,”' according to the CTCRI. Lastly, tuber flour-based, ready-to-eat bakery products including breads can be produced by using different tuber-based composite flours. “We have been receiving many queries about cassava-based products,” said Sajeev M. S., nodal officer of the Techno Incubation Centre at CTCRI.
28 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Job-oriented training programme for youth||The Kudumbashree State Mission is launching an employment-oriented training programme for helping educated youth find the jobs of their choice. Christened ‘Connect to Work,’ the programme is open to graduates, postgraduates, polytechnic diploma holders and ITI certificate holders below 35 years of age. A member of the applicant's family should be a Kudumbashree member. Modelled on the lines of a finishing school, ‘Connect to Work’ is meant to assist educated youth who face difficulties in finding employment due to a variety of reasons such lack of soft skills. In all, 5,000 youth will be identified and equipped with the skills required to land jobs, the Executive Director, Kudumbashree said.
28 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2 Acts to be amended||The Cabinet has decided to recommend to the Governor to promulgate Ordinances for amending the Kerala Provisional Collection of Revenue Act, 1985, and the Kerala Fiscal Responsibility Act. Promulgation of the Ordinance has been necessitated since the government cancelled a one-day session scheduled on July 27 to pass the Kerala Finance Bill, following a spurt in COVID-19 cases.
28 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kummanam flays govt.||Bharatiya Janata Party leader Kummanam Rajasekharan has accused the State government of abetting corruption by opening its doors to consulting agencies. He said in a Facebook post on Tuesday that the entry of agencies with international links would impact the State’s economy. He said the government had appointed the favourites of the CPI(M).
28 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Campaign to ensure cyber safety||Kerala Police Cyberdome has partnered with Jharkhand-based NGO Cyber Peace Foundation (CPF) on propagating cyber safety awareness in the State. According to Additional Director General of Police (Headquarters) and Cyberdome nodal officer Manoj Abraham, the collaboration will focus on identifying cyber threats, preventing cyber security incidents and developing strong and efficient mitigation mechanisms to fight cyber-crimes. The NGO, a think tank of cybersecurity and policy experts, will train officers on the latest tools in cybercrime investigation, its founder Vineet Kumar said.
28 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minimal role in autonomy decision: govt.||In the face of criticism over changes in education policy, the State government has downplayed its role in conferring autonomous status to three self-financing engineering colleges. In a statement, the office of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel said the government had only a minimal role in the process under the guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC). The clarification comes after the Opposition pointed out how the CPI(M) had opposed granting academic autonomy during the tenure of the previous United Democratic Front government and the Students Federation of India’s criticism of the present move. Stressing on the UGC regulations for granting autonomy, the government said the colleges that satisfied the criteria did not require the State’s no-objection certificate.
28 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KMAT result published||The results of the Kerala Management Aptitude Test (KMAT) conducted on June 21 for admission to the MBA course have been published. Students can view their score on the websitewww.cee.kerala.gov.in. The score can be downloaded from 5 p.m. on July 28. For assistance, dial 0471- 2525300.
28 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Inclusion of essay in syllabus opposed||BJP State president K.Surendran has written to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and Union Minister for Human Resources Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank against the inclusion of Arundhati Roy's essay ‘Come September’ in the BA English third semester core paper of the Calicut University. Terming the decision a deliberate move to divide people on religious lines, he called for action against the university for including the essay which challenged the Constitution and portrayed the country in a bad light.
28 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Wedding wishes in the time of COVID-19||The Kodakara grama panchayat has initiated a novel COVID-19 awareness programme. The panchayat authorities will visit the houses where wedding ceremonies take place, with COVID-19 awareness messages along with wedding wishes. The awareness cards stress the need for avoiding crowds at ceremonies to prevent infection through local contact. "We thought it is the best way to reach more people with the message," said panchayat president P.R. Prasadan. The panchayat along with the family health centre is distributing the cards. The cards titled ‘Wishes and Cares’ have listed precautions to be taken against the spread of COVID-19. A number has been given on the card to contact authorities in case of emergency. It has also directions on how to check waterborne diseases and those spread by mosquitoes. Ward members, ASHA workers, and health workers will distribute the cards. The drive was inaugurated by distributing cards at the engagement function of Deno, son of Johny Manjali Kannampilly at Perambra on Sunday.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Some relief in Alappuzha as case count slumps to 30||Offering some respite, the district on Monday logged 30 COVID-19 positive cases and registered 150 recoveries, latter a record for one day. The fresh cases included 20 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, a health employee, seven who had come from other States, and two from abroad. Among the contact cases, three men and a woman from Kadakarappally were on the contact list of COVID-19 patients linked to Chellanam harbour. Besides, 11 more people who were found to have contracted the disease hailed from Kadakkarappally. Rest of the contact cases were from Alappuzha, Cherthala, Arattupuzha, Muhamma and Kainady. The health staff who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 was also a native of Kadakarappally. Of the 150 people cured of COVID-19, 38 were Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel at Nooranad unit. Sixty eight people who contracted the disease through contact, 26 who tested positive after returning from abroad, 16 who came from other States, and two health workers also made a full recovery. The district so far reported 1,513 COVID-19 cases, 822 people recovered while four persons succumbed to the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district now stands at 687. Although four persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 posthumously in the district on Sunday and Monday, the fatalities are yet not included in the list of COVID-19 deaths in the State as of Monday evening. Even as the number of cases being reported in the district slowed down in the last two days, authorities urged the public to maintain utmost caution. District Collector A. Alexander directed all six municipalities in the district to prepare a standard operating procedure for the functioning of markets in their limits. Steps were also been taken to set up more COVID-19 First-Line Treatment Centres in the municipalities.  Nod for test The Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha, received nod from the Indian Council of Medical Research for conducting Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||State registers 702 cases, two deaths||Health workers continued to be affected in many hospitals across the State, with 43 of them testing positive on Monday. The cumulative case burden of the State now stood at 19,727 cases. With 10,054 recoveries reported till date, the number of active cases now was 9,611. Two deaths were reported on Monday in Kozhikode and Kottayam, taking the total toll to 63. The situation in Thiruvananthapuram continued to be grave, where 150 of the 161 cases reported on Monday were locally acquired infections. This included 13 health-care workers too. The district accounted for 2,723 of the active cases in the State. The government was now focussing on preparing COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTC) and organising and training human resources to man these centres. Students who had completed courses run by the Kerala University of Health Sciences would be roped into the HR team being readied for FLTCs. At present, the State had 12,801 beds at 101 FLTCs across the State, with 45% occupancy. In two phases, the FLTCs would be increased so that an additional 67,000 beds would be available, Mr. Vijayan said. More human resources was being found to run FLTCs. Every FLTC would have a team headed by a medical officer, with staff nurse, lab technician, and pharmacists as members. He added that the State intended to screen all police personnel using antibody test kits provided by HLL Ltd. The private health sector was cooperating with the government in providing COVID care. Some 44 non-functional and 42 partially functioning private hospitals would become part of the COVID preparedness efforts of the government. Mr. Vijayan said the government was considering a recommendation from experts and clinicians that asymptomatic positive patients be treated at home.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In service of the law||
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Layered marvel||
28 July 2020||AKIVEEDU (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Patient shifted to hospital in ‘garbage trolley’||In an inhuman act, the gram panchayat staff of I. Bhimavaram village reportedly shifted a patient to a hospital in a garbage vehicle. According to sources, the patient, Satish Kumar of Chilkur village in the mandal, had been working as a daily wager in Guntur district for the past few years. After losing work due to COVID-19 lockdown, he returned to his village but could not find his family. He had been staying in the Akiveedu bus station for the last three days and was reportedly ill. Alerted by local people, the gram panchayat staff reportedly shifted Satish to the local Primary Health Centre (PHC) in a garbage shifting auto trolley on Monday. With the videos and photos of the incident going viral, officials swung into action. “We tried to shift the patient in an ambulance, but the vehicle was taking too long to come. As the patient’s condition was worsening, we called the local panchayat staff,” said a villager. When contacted, the Akiveedu MRO office staff said the patient was mentally unsound and was not cooperating for treatment and the staff shifted him to a hospital in the auto trolley. However, the patient escaped from the hospital without taking treatment, revenue officials said. Narsapuram Sub-Collector K.S. Viswanathan expressed concern over the inhuman behaviour of the panchayat employees towards a homeless patient. “I saw the video clippings. An inquiry has been ordered into the inhuman act and action would be taken against the staff based on the report,” the Sub-Collector told The Hindu .
28 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die as ambulance ‘fails to arrive’||Glaring shortcomings in the overall management of the COVID-19 situation in Anantapur district have come to the fore with at least two deaths taking place in the last two days due to delay on the part of the government machinery in shifting them to hospital and lack of sufficient oxygen-supporting beds at the Government General Hospital here. A businessman, 50, of Tadipatri tested positive three days ago and did not have any co-morbidities. He waited for the ambulance for two days and when he had difficulty in breathing on Sunday evening, family members engaged a private ambulance to shift him to the GGH, but midway he breathed his last. His younger brother too was in the GGH, but could not get an oxygen-supporting bed. He then got himself admitted in a private hospital. Another 65-year-old woman, who resides in the 4th Road area of the city, too waited for the ambulance for three days and breathed her last in the early hours of Monday. The body was taken away by the municipal authorities for performing last rites only in the evening. Her daughter, who too contracted the infection, was taken to the GGH.  MLA slams officials Some of the deaths could have been averted had the officials coordinated with other government agencies, said Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy. Patients at the GGH faced problems for the past three days due to low pressure in oxygen supply and the authorities had been attaching gas cylinders midway to improve the pressure. The MLA, who took stock of the situation along with District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, asked the engineering staff and the contractor to fix the problem at the earliest. Of the 23 private hospitals identified for COVID treatment, in not many oxygen beds were available. Hospital superintendent M. Ramaswamy Naik said about 200 cylinders were being utilised per day in addition to the 13KL liquid oxygen cylinder and at places where it was essential, oxygen saturators wete being used. There is also a severe shortage of doctors and paramedical staff at the GGH. At present, there are 461 patients in the COVID wing and 249 in the other wings. Of the 461 persons admitted in the dedicated wing, 289 are positive, 117 suspected cases and 21 negative. They are monitored by three teams.
28 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC official allays fears, says all norms being followed||The death of an APSRTC employee at Palamaner depot in Chittoor district on Sunday night, reportedly due to COVID-19, has raised concern among the staff in Tirupati region. Their apprehensions were further aggravated after two more staff at the same depot tested positive. Allaying their fears, the corporation authorities maintained that all efforts were under way to ensure safety of the staff. Deputy Chief Traffic Manager (Chittoor) M. Bhaskar said that at present, they were running skeletal services all over the Chittoor division. “While the bus services are cut down by 75%, the occupancy rate has been brought down to 50% as part of the norms prescribed to keep the virus spread in check. All the vehicles are made safe for public journey,” he said. “We have staggered work hours. Each batch is posted once or twice in a week. All the staff on duty are sought to go in for tests if they found any symptoms. They are allowed to be under home quarantine till the arrival of results,” the official said, adding that as all the services to Tamil Nadu were under suspension temporarily, the number of vehicles in demand had come down drastically. The corporation’s direct buses to Tirumala, Bengaluru, Vellore and other destinations of neighbouring States are not operating now. The buses bound for Tirumala would operate from downhill Tirupati only, and vice-versa. Referring to the casualty of a staff at Palamaner depot, Mr Bhaskar said that information had reached him that he had died of cardiac problems while being shifted to the CMC Hospital near Cheelapalle on the outskirts of Chittoor.
28 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Set an example by donating plasma: SP||Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar on Monday said that the police personnel who tested positive and got discharged should come forward to donate their plasma and set an example to the society by doing so. He said that the gesture had already started in Chittoor district, with some of the personnel expressing their willingness in this direction. The SP was felicitating as many as 16 personnel, from home guard to a circle-inspector, who have resumed their duties after COVID-19 treatment, at a function organized at the Police Parade Grounds here on Monday. The personnel, who had come with their family members, were distributed dry fruits and gifts. Mr. Senthil Kumar said that the Chittoor police remained at the forefront to contain the virus spread by their consistent efforts that included monitoring the border check-posts with Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, enforcing the mandatory facemask and social distancing norms in the public places and lockdown relaxation guidelines more intensively in Madanapalle, Palamaner, Chittoor and Puttur sub-divisions. ‘Overwhelming response from public’ “Special teams were formed to initiate steps at all sub-divisions to contain the spread in coordination with revenue and medical officials. In recent weeks, there has been a tremendous response from the public with close to 90% success rate in the facemask rule. We could generate a big wave of awareness among public regarding the social distancing norm. We also came forward to arrange the funerals in cases of deaths of non-COVID persons when the neighbourhood resisted to help due to the fear psychosis,” he said. The SP said that keeping in view the safety of the police personnel aged above 50, they were posted at the police stations at the desk work, and barred from performing COVID-19 duties. The surveillance duties at the red and containment zones were strictly allotted to the young personnel, Mr Senthil Kumar said.
28 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man hacks wife to death, ‘attempts suicide’||A farmer allegedly hacked his wife to death, and later tried to commit suicide by slitting his throat at Pamuganipalle village of V. Kota mandal, 100 km from here, on Monday. According to the police, family disputes were reportedly simmering between Prabhakar Reddy (35) and Bujji (30) for several months, coupled with financial stress owing to COVID-19. The couple were reportedly involved in an argument in the morning, when Prabhakar allegedly attacked Bujji with a machete, kiling her on the spot. Using the same weapon, he reportedly slit his throat. Neighbours rushed to the spot and shifted the bleeding farmer to the area hospital at Palamaner. The police arrived and shifted the woman’s body to area hospital at V. Kota for autopsy. The couple has two sons aged 7 and 4. A case was registered. Farmer ‘ends life’ In another incident, a farmer Madhusudhan Reddy (50) allegedly committed suicide by gulping some poisonous substance at his fields at Danamvaripalle village of Kurabalakota mandal, 150 km from here, on Monday. The police said the farmer reportedly ran into huge debts in recent years. A case was registered. Those who have suicideal tendencies can seek help by dialling 100.
28 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Where the dead wait for decent last rites||The city is counting its dead and as the bodies of COVID-19 victims pile up at morgues, the administration is clueless on how to give them a decent farewell. The toll has now reached 130, and the rising numbers present a huge problem for the officials. In many cases, the families are disowning the bodies leaving the formidable task of disinfecting, and incinerating the bodies to the local administration. The only option is incineration in either electrical or gas chambers, but there is only one incineration chamber at ‘Maha Prastanam’ in the Stambalagaruvu area. “There are more than 65 bodies waiting to be incinerated and this is a huge challenge. The local committee says they can allow incineration only till afternoon and it takes about three hours for the process to be completed,’’ said a member of the committee. Reports of bodies left at the mortuary at the Government General Hospital have shocked the collective conscience of the people, and some of them have come together and pooled money to set up a gas-based incinerator. Fresh tenders called The Guntur Municipal Corporation, which has been dealing with the process, has called for tenders for setting up a gas-based incinerator at Bongaralabeedu at a cost of Rs. 80 lakh under Amrut Scheme. “We are calling for tenders again as there was no response when we called them earlier. After completing the work, we will hand over the maintenance to the local committee, “ said Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha.
28 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga introduced at care centres in Guntur||The Guntur district administration has hit upon the novel idea of introducing yoga at the COVID Covid Care Centres to help the patients face the situation. A trained teacher has begun teaching yoga in morning to the patients at the nine care centres. The session, which starts at about 6 am, lasts for an hour. Joint Collectors A. S. Dinesh Kumar (Revenue) and P. Prasanthi (Ward/Village Secretariat) on Monday visited the COVID Care Centre at Adavitakkellapadu. There are about 100 patients in each centre. Mr. Dinesh Kumar said said those who had tested positive need not feel disheartened as they can recover. Hospitalisation is needed only in few cases, he said. Further, those who are in care centres are being discharged after a week after they showed no symptoms and are being asked to isolate themselves, he said. Centre in-charge Lakshma Naik was among those present.
28 July 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Record rain brings cheer to Chittoor farmers||Officials of the agriculture and allied departments and farmers in Chittoor district are in a jubilant mood as the rains in June and July have come as a big relief to them, setting a record after one and half decades. Of the 65 mandals, excluding the non-agriculture Tirupati Urban mandal, 63 mandals recorded excess rainfall, with only two mandals recording normal rainfall in both June and July. Officials of the Agriculture Department termed the scenario as “the right rainfall at the right season”, which has rejuvenated the spirit of farmers across the district, with the sowing target set at more than 100%, covering predominant crops of groundnut, sugarcane and paddy. For the past decade, the district has been cultivating 1.6 lakh hectares during the kharif season for regular crops. However, the rain in early June encouraged the farmers amidst hopes of further spells, leading to sudden spike in the acreage, taking it to more than 2 lakh hectares by mid-July. By the next one week, agricultural operations might see an addition of another 10,000 hectares. First time Joint Director (Agriculture) N. Vijay Kumar said that for the first time in “many years”, the district witnessed excess rainfall in June and July. “Generally, the district used to get a small spell in early June and later the rains would evade the fields. But, this year, it is a record. As of July 25, the recorded rainfall is 183% this month. Even if we don’t get rains in August, groundnut and other prime crops would sustain till their harvest in October-November,” he said. This occurrence would directly or indirectly cheer about 6.67 lakh farmers in the district. The department was expecting rich yields with these timely rains, Mr. Kumar said. The official said that after several years, paddy cultivation received a fillip in the eastern mandals of Srikalahasti, Thottambedu, B.N. Kandriga, KVB Puram and Satyavedu, and the acreage was expected to touch 20,000 hectares.
28 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coordinated containment strategy need of the hour, says Deputy CM||In-charge Minister Dharmana Krishna Das on Monday stressed the need for a coordinated containment strategy to prevent rise in the spread of COVID in East Godavari district. Mr. Krishna Das took stock of existing containment strategies and lauded the initiative of ‘home isolation’ which was launched for the first time in the district in the State. In the video conference moderated by Mr. Krishna Das, Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu directed the district authorities to increase the bed capacity. Mr. Kannababu stressed the need for setting up of COVID Care Centres at the Revenue Divisional level for close monitoring of the situation and ensure timely medical care to the patients. “Isolation ward covering each assembly segment needs to be set up across the district,” said Mr. Kannababu. Responding to queries on the containment strategies, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said: “As many as 9,041 cases among the total of 13,421 are active as of Monday. The Home Isolation initiation has yielded timely results in containing the spread of the COVID in the district”. Rajanagaram MLA Jakkampudi Raja has advised hiring private ambulances to attend the COVID patients to admit them to the hospital on time.
28 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||AI lab launched at GMRIT-Rajam||GMR Group Chairman G.M. Rao on Monday inaugurated an Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at the GMR Institute of Technology (GMRIT-Rajam) in Srikakulam district through online mode. At least eight most sought-after courses in the field of AI - AI, Blockchain, Data Analytics, Digital Manufacturing, Building Information Modelling, Electric Vehicle Technology, Robotics, and Industrial Automation - are offered to the students and faculty of all the streams at the laboratory on the GMRIT campus. The courses are designed by experts from different fields, enabling students and faculty to equip with robust technologies in the field of AI.
28 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kakinada emerges as a hotspot||Out of the total 1,053 COVID cases reported across East Godavari district in the last 24 hours, 305 were from Kakinada city alone. However, despite an alarming rise in the cases in the district headquarters of Kakinada, people continued to throng the markets and gather in public places. Kadiyam sees a spike The spread of the COVID is on the rise in Rajamahendravaram city, where 184 cases were reported in the single day. Kadiyam, near the Rajamahendravram, emerged as the new hotspot with 67 cases getting reported in a single day. In Kakinada rural, where 87 cases have been reported since Sunday morning, the district authorities have intensified the testing.
28 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP workers celebrate Somu Veerraju’s elevation||The BJP cadre in the East Godavari district on Monday celebrated the appointment of MLC Somu Veerraju as new BJP State president. Former BJP district president Y. Malakondaiah said Mr.Veerraju has the ability to strengthen the party in the State. “Mr. Veerraju’s strong relationship with the BJP leaders across the State is an advantage to the party. He has a great journey with the party at various levels so far,” he said. BJP Rajamahendravaram city former president Bommalu Datta and other senior leaders thanked the BJP for the elevation of Mr. Veerraju, a native of East Godavari district.
28 July 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur district count crosses the 10,000-mark||The cumulative number of COVID-19 positive cases in Anantapur district crossed the 10,000-mark on Monday with 524 new cases registered in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Monday and at the same time, Kurnool district with 664 new cases reached 12,234 cumulative positive cases. The number of active cases stood at 5,123 (86 deaths) and 5,645 (164 deaths) in Anantapur and Kurnool districts respectively. Review meet Meanwhile, Finance Minister Bugganna Rajednranath reviewed the COVID-19 situation in Kurnool district with district officials and asked the medical fraternity and district revenue officials to give no scope for criticism with regard to the availability of hospital beds, the supply of oxygen cylinders, availability of drugs or conduct of COVID Care Centres. District Collector G. Veerapandian told the Minister that Kurnool had tested 1.81 lakh samples and 1 lakh out of them were in July alone. With the number of cases going up, the district was getting ready with a plan to increase the number of tests per day to 10,000. There was no paucity of hospital beds or COVID Care Centre beds in the district, he added. Panyam MLA Katasani Rambupal Reddy said that people were getting terrified with the news of positive cases coming close to their houses and some of the positive persons were dying out of fear. While appreciating the district officials and GGH doctors for their dedicated service, he asked them to improve the confidence levels among people through better education and information about the COVID-19.
28 July 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP distributes anti-COVID kits to journos||Krishna Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu praised the services of journalists during the COVID-19 pandemic and advised them to maintain social distance while covering news. Mr. Ravindranath, along with Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) Additional Superintendent of Police Vakul Jindal and Special Branch DSP Dharmendra distributed anti-COVID kits to about 100 print and electronic media journalists and news photographers and videographers at the District Police Office on Monday. The SP said while the medical and health, police, panchayat raj, revenue, municipality, grama sachivalayam and other departments’ staff were acting as frontline workers for the last four months, journalists were taking risk to cover the news and the travails of the employees and patients. “Some journalists also tested positive in the last couple of months. But, they were moving among the public and making field visits to cover the news with courage,” said Mr. Ravindranath and asked the journalists to care of their families. Mr. Jindal said the anti-COVID kits included B.Complex and Zinkovit and other medicines, sanitiser, masks, gloves, fruits and dry fruits to increase immunity. He thanked the reporters for covering and transmitting news of every nook and corner of the State and in helping the public for improvement of sanitation, medical and other facilities during the lockdown and post the restrictions in the State. Stating that media was rendering good service to the patients, general public and different sections of society during COVID time, Mr. Ravindranath asked the journalists to wear protective gears to save themselves from the virus. The media personnel, Andhra Pradesh Union of Working Journalists and Press Club members thanked the police for their gesture.
28 July 2020||Nivedita Ganguly,ANDHRA PRADESH||Depleting mangrove cover poses problems||From an extent of 400 acres of vast mangrove wetlands around Meghadrigedda creek located between the Visakhapatnam Port Trust and airport, the precious green cover today is less than 40 acres.  On World International Day for the Conservation of the Mangrove Ecosystem marked on July 26, Andhra Pradesh Climate Group (APCG) — a team of researchers, academicians and students — led an awareness campaign to drive home the point that mangroves are critical to the ecosystem of Visakhapatnam. “The city’s coastline has faced drastic beach erosion since 2012. With the mangroves stretch shrinking, the sea was impounded into a narrow channel. The erosive power of the sea was strengthened near RK Beach and surrounding areas, thus causing the erosion,” says Aditya Madhav, a research worker who has done a study of mangroves in the region. “All stakeholders must get together and rope in experts to come up with a sustainable solution,” he adds. Explaining the significance of mangrove ecosystem, Shankar Anant, DFO (Visakhapatnam), says, “Mangroves grow in most difficult conditions of high salinity, hypoxic soils as well as highly specific conditions marked by tidal fluctuations. They developing adaptations like root projections defying gravity called pneumatophores. In recent times, mangroves have been subjected to heavy destruction and exploitation.” Mr. Anant along with his team at the Forest Department recovered around 500 hectares of mangrove plantation at Krishna Delta in 2019 through a special technique called the fishbone method. “It involves making channels in the form of fishbone and allowing mangrove seedlings come along with tidal waters. It is highly technical and successful,” he adds. Pioneer species like Suaeda come first followed by arrival of crabs which dig the soil and change its character. Mangroves follow them. The entire dynamics change over time. “These man-made plantations soon turn into rich biodiversity hotspots and are abode for variety of fishes, otters, snakes, molluscs, fishing cats, jackals and several others. Fishing cats are the apex predators of this ecosystem,” says Mr. Anant.
28 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Custodial death: investigate impartially, IG tells Darsi DSP||South Coast Zone and Guntur Range Inspector General of Police J. Prabhakar Rao on Monday asked Darsi Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Prakasa Rao to hold an impartial investigation into the custodial death of a Dalit youth in Chirala recently. The youth, Y. Kiran Kumar, was picked up by the Chirala police for not wearing a face mask on July 18 in the wake of rapid increase in COVID-19 cases in the handloom town. He died while undergoing treatment in Guntur on July 21 for a head injury sustained while in police custody. The IG also enquired with Guntur (Urban) Additional Superintendent of Police D. Gangadharam about the progress of the fact-finding inquiry into the death of the youth.  250 personnel infected  During a video conference with police officers in the district, the IG impressed upon them to follow the ‘dasha sutras’ evolved by Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal while discharging their duties to avoid contracting the virus. He directed the local CIs and DSPs to monitor the health condition of police personnel and ensure best medical treatment to the needy. About 250 police personnel, a majority of them working at the grassroots level, had contracted the disease while enforcing lockdown in the containment clusters in Prakasam district, according to police sources.
28 July 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unrelenting rise takes Nellore tally to 5,016||The toll increased to 49 as one more patient died of coronavirus in Prakasam district where 175 tested positive pushing up the tally to 3,855 in the last 24 hours. Lockdown enforced Lockdown was strictly enforced in several clusters in both Prakasam as well as Nellore district that registered 231 cases taking the tally to 5,016. With 35 fresh cases, the number of confirmed cases rose to 728 in Ongole. Markapur town had 521 positive cases, including 31 fresh cases. Kandukur registered 24 new cases, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 317. The cumulative confirmed cases in Kanigiri went up to 177 with 14 more persons contracting the disease. Fresh cases came also from remote places in Prakasam district including Pedda Dornala(5), Inkollu(5), Yaddanapudi(4), Tarlupadu(4), Tangutur(3), Tripurantakam(3), Thallur(3), Korisapadu(2), Lingasamudram(2), Cumbum(2), Bestavaripeta(2) Kondepi(1), Kumarole(1), Ulavapadu(1), Ardhaveedu(1), Contacts traced The health authorities traced 854 primary and 912 secondary contacts of the newly-infected persons in 27 very active clusters and 154 active clusters and isolated them. Meanwhile, 93 patients, 62 from COVID-19 hospital and 31 from COVID-19 Care Centres were discharged on recovery in Prakasam district. In Nellore, the number of recovered persons went up to 1,797 after 109 patients were discharged from hospitals.
28 July 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasNAGAYALANKA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Abandoned by relatives suspecting COVID, elderly woman ‘commits’ suicide||A 62-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by jumping into the Krishna, after her relatives abandoned her suspecting that she could have contracted COVID-19. T. Hymavathi’s son died of ill-health a couple of days ago, and relatives and village elders reportedly did not come forward to perform the last rites suspecting that he died of the virus. The elderly woman’s son and daughter-in-law were running a garments shop in Nagayalanka in Krishna district. Recently, Hymavathi’s daughter-in-law was shifted to a quarantine home as she tested positive to COVID-19. When the elderly woman went to her relatives’ house seeking help, she was reportedly not allowed into their house. “Hymavathi went to her brother’s house in Nagayalanka, who denied entry to her. She was seen speaking in a disturbing mood on Sunday, and cried as nobody was performing her son’s funeral. Later, she went missing,” said a local resident. On knowing about the missing of the woman, Avanigadda CI B.B. Ravi Kumar and Nagayalanka SI Krishna registered a case and traced the body in Krishna river on Sunday evening. MLA Simhadri Ramesh Babu visited the bodies and expressed concern over the inhuman attitude of the neighbours and relatives. “On Monday, we performed last rites of Hymavathi and her son with the help of Grama Panchayat staff. However, village elders refused to participate in the funeral. The family was completely disturbed due to fear on the dreaded virus,” said Mr. Ravi Kumar. Avanigadda DSP M. Ramesh Reddy said the couple has a daughter and she was sent to her grandmother’s house.
28 July 2020||Staff Reporter Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trains cancelled||Due to complete lockdown in West Bengal State, Indian Railways cancelled two special trains and partially cancelled two more special trains. Train No.02245 Howrah to Yesvantpur is cancelled on July 29 and train No.02246 Yesvantpur to Howrah is cancelled on July 28. Similarly, train No.02704 Secunderabad-Howrah is partially cancelled between Bhubaneswar-Howrah. Train No.02703 Howrah-Secunderabad is partially cancelled between Howrah-Bhubaneswar, according to an official press release.
28 July 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Portal developed for isolation of coronavirus patients in district||In the last one week, the district recorded over 5,000 COVID-19 positive cases. From 2,900 cases, the number crossed over 7,500, till Monday morning. The sudden increase in positive cases is not only testing the capacity of the district administration to house them in required hospitals and COVID Care Centres (CCC), but also challenging their operational ability and transparency. To iron out the issues, the district administration is using IT solutions and apart from creating a portal for the testing procedures, an exclusive portal for isolation has also been created. The portal is created by Visakhapatnam-based IT Solutions company Fluentgrid. Speaking to The Hindu , district COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar said that this portal for isolation of patients is the first of its kind developed in the State. The moment a person tests positive, the information is transmitted from the testing portal. The Joint Collector and the GVMC Commissioner, who are logged in realtime, gets an alert with the name and address of the patient. This is immediately relayed to the ward or village secretariat and it is then up to them to act. The patient and primary contacts are traced and admitted to CCC or hospitals, as required, said Dr. Sudhakar. Till the admit card is generated, it will be monitored by the Joint Collector and the GVMC Commissioner, as the hospitals and CCC are given login to the portal, he said. Since the hospital and CCC are given login, the daily updates will be uploaded into the portal. Once the patient is discharged, the focus shifts to the ANM and ASHA workers, who are supposed to monitor the one week home quarantine. There is a separate module in the portal for home quarantine and updated realtime, said Dr. Sudhakar. According to him, the portals are likely to go operational from this week.
28 July 2020||T. Appala Naidu,ANDHRA PRADESH||East Godavari farmers score with ‘direct approach’||Transplantation of paddy has been completed in nearly 45 % of the area under cultivation across East Godavari district, thanks to timely rainfall and discharge of floodwater from the River Godavari. The acreage under the crop in the district during the kharif season is 2.23 lakh hectares . “The sowing operation is expected to be completed by mid-August,” East Godavari Joint Director (Agriculture) K.V.S. Prasad said. In Chintoor and Rampachodavaram areas, sowing is likely to be completed by August-end as a huge chunk of area under paddy faces threat of inundation due to the flood in the River Godavari and its tributaries which criss-cross the Agency in the district. Labour problem The flood in the Godavari came to the rescue of farmers in the central and eastern Godavari deltas, where a majority of farmers have taken to the ‘direct sowing’ method to cut costs and overcome the shortage of workers. This year, the workers, who normally migrate from the Northern Andhra for the kharif operations, did not turn up due to the COVID situation. “Direct sowing method has been adapted in nearly 45,000 hectares till date. By August-end, an additional 30,000 hectares will be covered under the method,” Mr. Prasad said. The Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage authorities in their flood report on Monday, put the discharge of floodwater at the the barrage above one lakh cusecs. The water level stood at 9.85 feet.
28 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala reservoirs brimming with copious inflows||All the reservoirs at Tirumala have registered a significant increase in their storage levels thanks to the southwest monsoon that has brought in copious rains. The temple town which receives the maximum rain during the northeast monsoon between October and December registered a surplus rainfall in July for the first time in the last two decades. The combined reserves of all the five drinking water projects in the hill-top town have reached about 85% of their total capacity. While the Papavinasanam reservoir, the biggest of all the projects, is full to its capacity, Kumaradhara dam has registered 98% reserves followed by Pasupudhara (95%) Akasaganga (30%) and Gogarbham (50%). ‘Enough for 300 days’ The flood gates of the Papavinasanam dam were partially lifted on Sunday and water was released downstream. TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy said the current reserves were sufficient to meet the requirements of the town for about 300 days. Rising needs Till late seventies the daily water requirements of the rain-fed town were generally met from the Gogarbham dam. With pilgrim traffic increasing significantly thereafter, the temple administration had to construct four dams. After some time even this storage capacity turned out to be inadequate as the town’s daily requirement soared to about 35 lakh gallons and it began drawing Telugu Ganga water from the Kandaleru reservoir in Nellore. The water is pumped to the Kailasagiri reservoir in Sri Kalahasti and is lifted to Tirupati from where it is pumped to Tirumala.
28 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pavithrotsavams from July 30||The three-day annual Pavithrotsavams will be observed at the Lord Venkateswara temple here from July 30. Ankurarpanam will be performed on July 29. The festival is performed to seek pardon for the commissions and omissions done knowingly or unknowingly in the course of day-to-day rituals to the deities. The festival is scheduled to take off with Pavitra Pratista followed by Pavitra Samarpana the next day and conclude with Poornahuti on August 1.
28 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. revises tax on fuel to offset revenue loss||The State government has recently reverted to the tax regime for petrol and diesel that prevailed from 2015 to 2018, in a bid to partially offset the loss of revenue caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The government, in a G.O. issued on July 20, asserted that the “overall prices will not exceed that existed between 2015 and 2018.” The ground reality, however, appears to be different. Petrol was sold for Rs. 84.82 a litre and diesel for Rs. 80.94 per litre in Vijayawada on Monday. The petrol and diesel prices were Rs. 79.47 per litre and Rs. 79.93 per litre respectively on July 20. The previous TDP government had announced a reduction of tax on petrol and diesel by Rs. 2 per litre in 2018 . Petrol was sold for Rs. 75.48 per litre and diesel for Rs. 71.32 per litre on June 1, 2019. The government levied an additional tax of Rs. 4 per litre of petrol and diesel in February, 2015, apart from 31% VAT on petrol and 22.25% on diesel. The prices shot up to Rs. 65.85 (petrol) and Rs. 54.42 (diesel) on January 16, 2015 from Rs. 63.49 (petrol) and Rs. 52.19 (diesel) on January 17, 2015. The prices increased steadily after imposition of additional tax of Rs. 4 per litre. The highest petrol and diesel prices reported were Rs. 79.26 and Rs. 71.43 respectively between January 1, 2015 and March 31, 2018, sources say. The officials, however, evaded a direct reply when asked how the government would ensure that the overall prices of petrol and diesel would not exceed the prices prevailed between 2015 and 2018. Several States such as Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, West Bengal, and New Delhi made upward revisions of the taxes on the fuel in April and May to compensate the revenue loss. “The prices in Telangana, and other southern States are not less than that of Andhra Pradesh,” says a senior official who did not want to be quoted. Burden on exchequer In September 2018, it was estimated that the decision to reduce additional tax would result in a burden of Rs. 1,120 crore per annum on the State exchequer. It was estimated that the government would have to forgo a tax revenue of Rs. 820 crore on diesel, and Rs. 300 crore on petrol. The official said that the decision to revert the older tax regime ‘would not help the government much.’ “At the best, the additional revenue will not be more than Rs. 300 crore to Rs. 400 crore. Still, there would be a gap of not less than Rs. 600 crore,” added the official.
28 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC reserves order on Atchan’s bail plea||A single-judge bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, comprising Justice M. Venkata Ramana, reserved the order on former Minister and TDP MLA K. Atchannaidu's bail plea for July 29 after the conclusion of arguments in the ESI scam case on Monday. Mr. Atchannaidu has appealed to the court to let him out on bail on health grounds. He is accused of causing a loss of nearly Rs. 150 crore to the State exchequer by awarding contracts for the procurement of medical supplies and services required by ESI hospitals, in a fraudulent manner to some companies when he was the Minister for Labour in the previous government.  ‘Political influence’ Advocate-General (A-G) S. Sriram contended that what started with fissures (for which Mr. Atchannaidu had purportedly undergone surgery) led to a hospital certifying different illnesses including an advice for an angiogram test and it shows his ‘political influence’. He said the cadres of a party took to the streets claiming that Mr. Atchannaidu was innocent and a media trial was conducted over the government doctors’ medical report. This exerted pressure on all agencies of the State. “If Mr. Atchannaidu can organise it while being in custody, he can scuttle the probe in the event of grant of bail,” the A-G stressed. Mr. Atchannaidu complained to the court that he was forcibly discharged from the Government General Hospital in Guntur in spite of his frail health and without testing him for COVID. He was later admitted to Ramesh Hospitals in Guntur as per the court’s direction for better treatment.
28 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pvt. hospitals violating pricing norms may face closure: Minister||Reiterating the government’s resolve to fight the coronavirus, Deputy Chief Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, who also holds the health portfolio, has warned the private hospitals of stringent action for violating the pricing norms. Addressing to the media here on Monday, Mr. Srinivas said that some hospitals were creating artificial demand by turning down the patients. “All private hospitals must adhere to the pricing norms for beds. Some hospitals have already been warned against charging more than the rate decided by the government. The hospitals may face closure if they continue to violate the norms,” warned Mr. Srinivas. More than 39,051 beds including 4,300 in the ICUs are available in 138 COVID hospitals and 46,698 beds are available in the COVID Care Centres. “A website is being developed to share the information on occupancy and vacant beds in the hospitals,” he said. Mr. Srinivas said of the total 48,956 active COVID-19 cases, around 15,000 asymptomatic patients have been allowed home isolation and 13,992 more are being treated in designated hospitals, while the rest have been admitted to COVID Care Centres. There are 138 COVID hospitals in the State, of which 84 are fully functional, while staff strength and infrastructure are being improved in the rest. “The government is spending more than Rs. 5 crore on testing of samples per day alone. The testing capacity has increased to 50,000 samples per day,” said the Minister and attributed the rise in the positive cases to targeted testing in containment clusters. Health infrastructure The Minister said the State has 1,513 ventilators and 1,000 more will be procured through Central government soon. “We have 271 X-ray machines, 22,908 pulse oxy meters, 8.60 lakh PPE kits, 7.02 lakh masks,” he said. In addition to the five territorial COVID Care Hospitals in Chittoor, Kurnool, Krishna, Nellore and Visakhapatnam districts, five more such facilities would be set up in East Godavari, West Godavari, Anantapur and Srikakulam districts, he said. Staff recruitment The government is also planning to recruit more staff. “More than 13,000 staff will be recruited by August 15, and another 17,000 will be hired on temporary basis,” said Mr. Srinivas, adding that 217 ‘108’ service ambulances have been engaged for shifting COVID-19 positive patients and suspects. “People can dial 104 helpline to get their queries answered. The call centres have been instructed to provide guidance to the callers,” he said. Referring to the delay in testing of samples, Mr. Srinivas said the laboratories are burdened with intensified testing and the authorities are trying to solve the issues. “The government has already sought permissions from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for opening more testing laboratories in the State,” added the Minister.
28 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on reforms to increase State’s borrowing limit: CM||Taking stock of the progress in four reform areas which the Centre has imposed as conditions for enhancing the States’ borrowing limits under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act , Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy reiterated that while striving to improve the ease-of-doing-business (EoDB) ranking, officials must focus on compliance with the safety and pollution norms by the industries while issuing clearances through the single window system.  “A concerted effort should be made in that direction by keeping in mind that a series of avoidable industrial accidents have dented the State’s image to some extent,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy during a review meeting on Monday. He said that EoDB was one of the key reform areas prescribed by the Centre as a step towards relaxing the FRBM rules to enable the States to raise funds amid the fallout of the COVID pandemic. Referring to the ‘one nation one ration card’, The civil supplies officials informed the Chief Minister that Andhra Pradesh was leading in comparison to other States in launching portability and bringing in transparency through biometric system. Seeding of rice cards with Aadhaar numbers has almost been completed. Already, 1.39 crore rice cards have been issued. On increasing the revenues of urban local bodies, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the service delivery should be improved with emphasis on drinking water supply and sanitation.
28 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two gates of Secretariat building closed down||The vastu problems seem to be disturbing the political bosses at the Secretariat. The north and south gates of the Secretariat were closed down on Monday, apparently due to vastu issues. The gates were removed and walls were constructed in those places. The gates were erected during the TDP regime. Former Chief Minister N. Chandrababau Naidu was reportedly unhappy with the vastu of the transitional headquarters complex and changes were made to the buildings with addition of new gates on the advices of experts. A 12-foot-wide gate to the north of the complex between the fourth and fifth blocks was erected. The Chief Minister’s entry gate was also changed. Mr. Naidu reportedly used the first gate when operations at the Secretariat began in October 2016. Later, he began using the gate-2 which was meant for the public and officials and the gate-1 was closed down. The interior of the Chief Minister’s office block was also dismantled a year ago apparently for it did not comply with the vastu requirements. In 2019, the chambers of then Chief Secretary L. V. Subrahmanyam was shifted from south-east direction to another place for the same reason. As part of the move, a new chamber was built close to the existing chambers. Likewise, one of the entry doors to the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s chamber was also closed down. Also, the walls of the protocol room and visitors’ room were demolished.
28 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||GO to resume land from Amara Raja Group stayed||In yet another setback to the government, the High Court issued an interim order staying the implementation of G.O. 33 issued on June 30 seeking to reclaim 253.61 acres allotted to Amara Raja Infratech (P) Ltd. in Chittoor district nearly a decade ago for a digital world city project. Justice D. Ramesh ordered the government not to go ahead with the G.O. during Monday’s hearing. The matter was reserved by him for orders two weeks ago. The Amara Raja Infratech (P) Ltd. moved the HIgh Court challenging the decision to take back a portion of the land allotted to it by the Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC). The State government wanted to take back the land due to its non-utilisation by the company within the stipulated two years of execution of the sale agreement. A total of 483.27 acres was allotted to the infrastructure arm of the Amara Raja Group.
28 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor urged to seek view of Attorney-General||The Joint Action Committee spearheading the campaign for Amaravati, on Monday wrote a letter to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, urging him to take legal opinion before taking a decision on the decentralisation and CRDA repeal Bills which have sent by the State government for his assent. Disclosing the details of the letter, JAC leaders Siva Reddy, Tirupati Rao, RV Swamy, Mallikarjuna Rao said in view of a myriad constitutional questions involved in the matter and also there being issues with regard to the bifurcation of legislative powers between Parliament and the legislature, role of the Centre and the President etc., the Governor should first elicit the opinion of the Attorney-General so that no constitutional errors are committed and the various stakeholders are not put in a precarious position.
28 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sand booking process tedious: CREDAI||A good scheme launched by the State government, with the noble intention of providing sand at a reasonable price to the consumers, is being defeated due to loopholes in its implementation, according to the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI), Visakhapatnam. The new online booking of sand was introduced by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to eliminate sand mafia and to ensure uninterrupted supply to builders and others. But, the booking process was cumbersome and lengthy and problems at the field-level remain unsolved, CREDAI-Visakhapatnam chairman P. Koteswara Rao told the media here on Monday. Though sand was available at the depots, the cumbersome process and procedural wrangles was resulting in only about 5% of the applicants for sand, being allotted the stock. The undue delays was forcing builders and developers to buy sand in the black market at Rs. 1,200 to Rs. 1,300 a tonne as against the price fixed by the government at Rs. 375, he said. Builders require sand in bulk quantities but the online portal was not accepting bulk orders from the builders, even though they were placing their orders with approved building application. Further, the sale through portal was being opened only for a very limited period causing hardship to builders Another problem for builders was that the allotment was being made at different depots in different districts, which was further resulting in increase in the sand cost, due to transportation cost. The lack of availability of sand has become a permanent problem for builders, hampering the construction activity and rendering hundreds of workers jobless. Mr. Koteswara Rao also appealed to the State government not to revise the market value of land this year in view of the severe financial crises across the industry. The adverse impact on the realty sector would have a cascading effect on other sectors connected with the building industry. The decline in registrations and land transactions was already evident. A hike in land value and registration charges would distract potential buyers of plots and flats.  ‘Reduce stamp duty’ He recalled that when recession had gripped the economy in 2008, the then Chief Minister had reduced the registration charges by 2% and to give a fillip to the building industry. The present circumstances were even worse, he said and appealed to the Chief Minister to reduce the stamp duty to around 2% to attract potential buyers and thereby promote building activity. He also sought reduction in cement price to those prevailing before the lockdown. CREDAI, Visakhapatnam vice-president E. Ashok Kumar and treasurer Ch. Govinda Raju also spoke.
28 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag logs 317 new cases, two deaths||The district on Monday recorded as many as 317 COVID-19 positive cases, taking the tally to 7,848, Two more persons succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 71. Meanwhile, 77 persons undergoing treatment has been discharged taking the total of discharges to 2,674. With the new cases, the total number of active cases stand at 5,103. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, the total number of very active clusters is 116, active clusters 274, dormant 275 and de-notified 39 respectively.
28 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘People with virus symptoms only should undergo test’||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has urged the citizens to go for COVID-19 screening test only if they have symptoms such as high fever, cold, cough and breathing difficulties, saying that it would ensure timely treatment to those in the need of urgent healthcare. Addressing the media here on Monday, the Minister commended the frontline workers including doctors, policemen, government officials for risking their lives in the line of duty amid the pandemic. “The vacant doctor posts will be filled with the cooperation of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Arrangements have been made for testing in all the wards of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) and in the rural areas,” he said. The Minister urged the citizens to wear masks, maintain hygiene and abide by the social distancing norms at public places. Collector V. Vinay Chand said that the COVID-19 positive patients were being kept in isolation, while asymptomatic patients were allowed home isolation. ‘No scarcity of oxygen’ “The asymptomatic patients will be attended daily by ANMs. There is no shortage of oxygen in the district as storage tanks carrying 30,000 litres of the gas is available at the GITAM and the NRI Hospitals,” the Collector said. Mr. Chand said the Centre has issued a directive that oxygen being used for other needs should be diverted for medical purposes in view of the pandemic. “There are 4,411 beds available in isolation wards and the number will be increased to 7,000 soon,” he said. At present, the district has 22 COVID hospitals including eight government-run facilities. “COVID Care Centres have been set up in all the 74 wards of the GVMC and ambulances have been provided to each ward. As many as 17 non-COVID hospitals are being set up,” he said. The Collector said that RTC buses will also be utilised, if necessary. The Oncology Department of the KGH has been modernised with an expenditure of Rs. 4 crore and the department has 500 beds now, he added. Anakapalle MP B.V. Satyavathi, City Police Commissioner R.K. Meena, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, Joint Collector P. Arun Babu and MLA Karanam Dharmasri were present on the occasion.
28 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Moddu Seenu’s killer dies of ‘renal failure’||Mallela Om Prakash (53), who was serving life term in Visakhapatnam Central Prison for murdering sharpshooter Julakanti Srinivasa Reddy alias ‘Moddu’ Seenu, died of reported renal failure at King George Hospital in the early hours on Sunday. The jail authorities revealed it to media on Monday. Prison Superintendent S. Rahul said that Om Prakash had been suffering from renal ailments for the past few years and undergoing dialysis at the KGH. “We are suspecting that Om Prakash died of renal failure,” he said. Om Prakash was the main accused in the murder of Moddu Seenu, an accused in the murder of Paritala Ravi, former TDP MLA who represented Penukonda constituency in Anantapur district. Moddu Seenu was bludgeoned to death by Om Prakash, then an undertrial prisoner, with a dumbbell in Anantapur district jail on November 9, 2008. In 2010, he was sentenced to life term by the Fourth Fast Track Court Judge K.V. Vijaya Kumar. Om Prakash was shifted from Kadapa Central Prison to Warangal owing to his rude behaviuor, and later transferred to Vizag from Nellore Central Prison in 2016 on medical grounds. Autopsy report awaited The jail authorities said that Om Prakash was shifted to the KGH after he complained of uneasiness . The officials are awaiting autopsy report.
28 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NAD flyover to be partially thrown open to traffic from today||The NAD flyover which is under construction will be partially thrown open to traffic from Tuesday. Traffic will be initially allowed on the flyover arm from airport to NSTL, and the other arm from NAD Junction to Gopalapatnam will be thrown open to traffic from August 15. Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana, accompanied by minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and officials, including Visakhapatnam Metro Region Development Authority Commissioner P Koteswara Rao and GVMC commissioner G. Srijana, visited the flyover and inspected the works on Monday. Speaking to the media at the site, he said that trial run on the arm was successful and it will be open from Tuesday. It may be remembered that the works on the flyover were hit during the lockdown and only from May 21 it was resumed. The Minister also interacted with the construction company Vijaya Nirman and enquired about manpower and other issues. The bridge will be completed as per schedule fixed by the Chief Minister. There will be six lanes on the flyover ensuring hassle-free movement for two-wheelers, three-wheelers and four-wheelers, including heavy vehicles, said Mr. Satyanarayana. He also pointed out that the flyover was being constructed so as there will not be any problem for the metro rail project on the same route. Meanwhile, Visakhapatnam West MLA P.G.V.R. Naidu said in a statement that NAD flyover was the his long-cherished dream as also that of the people of the city. Finally, one half of the flyover will be open for public use. He hoped that the remaining works would be completed as soon as possible. He thanked the State authorities for continuing this project, in spite of hurdles, unlike other projects, which were stalled in the State. He thanked the project engineers, Vijay Nirman Company, Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Development Authority (VMRDA) and all others, who were associated with the project.
28 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor fire breaks out in 2 containers||A minor fire broke out in two containers at the container yard of Gateway Container Freight Station, located on the NH near Sheelanagar, here on Monday afternoon. According to District Fire Officer B.V. Ram Prakash, fire broke out in containers containing sodium chlorate solution. He said they got a call around 12 noon and two fire tenders from Peda Gantyada and Autonagar were rushed to the spot. Fire and smoke was brought under control by 1.30 p.m. Property worth Rs. 8 lakh was lost due to fire, as per the initial investigation. “We were able to control the fire and see that it did not spread to other containers and there was no casualty or injury to any person,” he said. According to him, static charge is said to be the reason for the fire, as per the initial assessment. Meanwhile, panic gripped people of Yellaluvanipalem when thick fumes billowed out from containers following fire. They heaved a sigh of relief as situation was brought under control. Peda Gantyada police have registered a case.
28 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child trafficking case could be tip of the iceberg: CP||The detection of an alleged child trafficking case in the city involving a doctor and five others could just be the tip of the iceberg, says Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena. As of now the police have found six cases where newborn children were allegedly sold illegally. Two such recipients have been traced, and one couple has been arrested. The hospital in Visakhapatnam was opened in January 2019 and so far about 56 deliveries were performed, as per the records. The police sent a letter to the DMHO to conduct a search and seal the hospital and the process is on, said DCP Aishwarya Rastogi. It is also learnt that Commissioner of Child Rights has also ordered an inquiry. The arrested have been identified as Patchipala Namratha, MD of Universal Srushti Hospital in the Zilla Parishad area here, K.Venkata Lakshmi and B. Annapurna, both ASHA workers from V. Madugula mandal, A. Ramakrishna, son-in-law of Venkata Lakshmi, Dr. Tirumala working at the hospital and L. Chandra Mohan. The two receivers of babies have also been arrested. The doctor allegedly has a criminal history and the police suspect that she could be involved in more cases, including in the hospital branches at Bhubaneswar and Kolkata. Poor women targeted Her modus operandi was to target women from BPL segment, especially those who have unwanted pregnancy, said Mr. Meena. It is learnt that post delivery the doctor would send a newborn to another hospital, on the pretext that her hospital did not have an incubator facility and get the registration done in the name of recipients, who were projected as biological parents of the child. The birth certificates from GVMC were also obtained projecting the recipients as biological parents. The police are also looking into other aspects such as illegal pregnancy and surrogacy. Lured by middlemen The issue had come to light after a woman, a widow, became pregnant after an extramarital affair. The woman was convinced by the middlemen employed by the hospital to deliver the child and the surgery was performed on March 9. The newborn, a baby boy, was handed over to a couple from Kolkata. But when an anganwadi teacher who was aware of the woman’s pregnancy questioned her, the women divulged the facts. Further investigation is on and we will unearth more details shortly, said Mr. Meena.
28 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||All banks to remain open only till 1 p.m. in Vizag||The business hours of all banks in the district will be from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. only and office hours from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. This was announced by District Collector V. Vinay Chand in a statement on Monday. The decision was taken, on a representation given by bank unions, to check the spread of coronavirus. These timings will be in force till August 31 or until further orders.
28 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vaccination can help in checking Hepatitis B, C’||Hepatitis is inflammation of the liver and it can cause serious damage to the liver, leading to its failure. Viral infection is the leading cause of hepatitis. Hepatitis virus A and E are usually self-limiting and can be treated with no major long-term consequences. They are usually acquired by consumption of contaminated food and water. Hepatitis B and C infection commonly remain silent for many decades in the body and lead to chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver failure and sometimes cause liver cancer as well. The World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates that 40 million Indians are chronically infected with hepatitis B and 6 to 12 million with hepatitis C infections. An alarming 95% of these infected people, don't even know it till they are diagnosed with cirrhosis and liver cancer. A simple universal blood screening test for everybody is the only way to overcome this problem, says Dr. Chalapathi Rao Achanta, consultant medical gastroenterologist, KIMS ICON Hospital, Visakhapatnam, ahead of the World Hepatitis Day, to be observed on July 28.  “Hepatitis B is a vaccine preventable disease. Three shots of vaccine over 6 months will provide maximum prevention against this infection. Though an effective vaccine is currently lacking to prevent hepatitis C infection, the availability of generic medicines in India, at a cheaper cost, makes it affordable and curable in more than 98 % of the cases,” he added.
28 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT panel to probe fire at Visakha Solvents||National Green Tribunal (NGT) has formed a three-member committee to probe into the accident at Visakha Solvents that took place on July 13. A major fire broke out at Visakha Solvents and engulfed a major part of the facility. In the fire, one person died and another sustained burn injuries. As per the initial investigation, fire broke out when a solvent chemical -- dimethyl sulfoxide -- was in the distillation process and it caught fire due to generation of static electricity. Taking cognizance of the accident, NGT has formed the three-member committee comprising a member from Central Pollution Control Board, one from APPCB and P. Jagannadha Rao from the Department of Chemical Engineering, Andhra University. Prof. Jagannadha Rao said the panel is expected to give a report within three months. He was also a member in the committee formed by NGT to probe into the styrene monomer leak from LG Polymers Plant in Visakhapatnam on May 7 that killed 12 persons and hospitalised over 580 persons.
28 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIM-V gets TIDE centre to aid startups||The Indian Institute of Management (IIM) - Visakhapatnam has been sanctioned a Group-3 centre for TIDE (Technology Incubation and Development of Entrepreneurship) under the MeitY Startup programme of the Ministry of Electronics and IT. The centre will get a funding of Rs. 1.70 crore over the next five years in instalments. “It is a significant achievement and a matter of pride for the institute to be part of such an initiative at such an early stage of its existence and to be counted among the 41 proposals that could make it to the final list, from across India,” said M. Chandrasekhar, director of the institute. The incubator would provide intellectual, infrastructural, institutional, financial, managerial, mentoring and knowledge support to startups that use emerging technologies in the fields of socio-economic relevance like health and nutrition, education and skill development, agriculture and water resources, financial inclusion and digital payments and smart cities.
28 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||181 personnel contracted the virus in North Andhra: DIG||As many as 181 policemen, including one Additional Superintendent of Police rank officer, one DSP and four Circle Inspectors, tested positive for COVID-19 in North Andhra region. Fortunately, almost all of them have recovered, and a majority of them returned to their duties in the last few days. Direct interaction with people, forcible movement in public places such as markets, taking food and water at unhygienic places and other reasons affected the policemen. It was observed the police personnel who were posted at check-posts were more vulnerable as they had to interact with returnees from different parts of the country. Directive to SHOs Visakhapatnam Range Deputy Inspector-General of Police L.K.V. Ranga Rao told The Hindu that all the Station House Officers had been directed to take care of the staff by ensuring supply of hot water, food packets, frequent gargling and adequate rest. “We created a helpdesk and tele-medicine facility for the staff. The department is supplying dry fruit packets to improve the immunity among the staff who recovered from the virus.,” he said. “People should understand the role of the police personnel in controlling the virus. To create awareness among the public about the preventive steps, we are using social media. As many as 80,000 are connected under this programme. Those active members will pass the information to the locals about the importance of wearing masks, social distancing and avoiding their presence at mass gatherings,” said Mr. Rao. ‘Situation under control’ He said the situation was under control all along the Andhra-Odisha border. The Maoists were trying to prove their presence felt with minor firing incidents. “The threat from Maoists is almost negligible. We are trying to check their activities with constant vigilance all along the border area,” he added.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police miss a ‘big catch’ again||The exchange of fire (EoF) that took place between the joint combing team, comprising the personnel from AP Special Police (APSP) and the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Odisha, and the banned CPI (Maoist) on Saturday had many top Maoist leaders in the crosshairs. But, taking advantage of the darkness, the leaders gave the security forces the slip for the second time in a span of just one week. On hot pursuit after the July 19 EoF near Kilamkota in Pedabayalu, and based on reliable information that senior Maoists leaders were organising a meeting near Digijanaba village in the limits of Annavaram Police Station in Chintapalli mandal of the Visakha Agency, the combing party embarked on a joint operation. Upon reaching the spot near the village at around 6.30 p.m., the Maoists started firing at the combing party and the latter retaliated. The firing lasted for about 20 minutes and the Moists disappeared under the cover of darkness. On Sunday, the police party found the body of Pangi Daya (25) of Vakapalli village in G. Madugula mandal at the site. He was the brother of Pangi Gasiram, who was killed in Ramaguda EoF in October 2016, in which over 30 Maoists were killed. Apart from recovering one 303 Lee-Enfield rifle, two kit bags, a walkie talkie set, large quantity of rifle ammunition and a 9 mm pistol from the EoF site, the police also seized a number of documents including a list of attendees. It is learnt that the list of attendees included Akkiraju Haragopal alias Ramakrishna alias RK, who is a member of the party’s central committee, Chalpathi and his wife Aruna, the mastermind and prime accused in the killing of Araku MLA Kidari Sarveswara Rao and former MLA Siveri Soma in September 2018, Gajarla Ravi alias Uday secretary of AOBSZC, Sudheer, Ashok and Tech Shankar. The presence of senior leaders has been confirmed by the recovery of a 9mm pistol and a walkie talkie set from the deceased, as only personal security guards of top leaders are assigned 9 mm pistols and walkie talkies, according to a senior police officer, engaged in the anti-Maoist operations in AOB. High alert Speaking to The Hindu , Chintapalli ASP Vidyasagar Naidu said that the body of the slain Maoist was brought to Narsipatnam for post-mortem examination on Monday and would be handed over to the claimants. Visakhapatnam SP B. Krishna Rao said that high alert was sounded in the entire Agency area as the Maoist Martyrs week would begin from Tuesday. Security was beefed up at all vital installations. High-tech drones would be used for surveillance in the remote areas, said DIG L.K.V. Ranga Rao. “We also appeal to the tribal people not to fall for the outdated Maoist ideology, as the top leaders are using them as human shields,” said Mr. Vidyasagar. “We will welcome those who give up the movement and also assist them in joining the mainstream and extend medical assistance to any injured Maoist,” he said. Meanwhile, speculations are rife that in the July 19 exchange of fire, a senior leader was injured.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Name proposed Palnadu dist. after Jashuva: Varla||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) general secretary Varla Ramaiah on Monday appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to name the proposed Palnadu district after Gurram Jashuva. In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister, Mr. Ramaiah mentioned that Joshua’s 125th birth anniversary would be celebrated on September 28. “Not only had the poet fought for the Dalit rights through his works, but also raised his voice against social discrimination, exploitation and segregation,” said the TDP leader. Saying that Jashuva was born in Vinukonda of Palnadu region, Mr. Ramaiah said that naming the proposed Palnadu district after the poet would be a fitting tribute.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Balcony view||
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exams postponed||The Diploma in Elementary Education (D. El. Ed.) first year examinations for 2018-20 batch, scheduled to be held from August 3 to 8, are postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The revised dates will be intimated later, according to an official release.
28 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||‘Hold gram sabhas under PESA provisions’||Even as preparations are afoot to carry out land survey for the proposed Sitammasagar multipurpose project, various farmers’ organisations have been demanding conduct of gram sabhas as per the provisions of the Panchayats (Extension to the Scheduled Areas) Act (PESA) in the Fifth Scheduled Areas of the district forthwith. The proposed project envisages construction of a barrage, including the radial gates and other supporting structures, across Godavari river downstream of the existing Dummugudem anicut at Ammagaripalli village in Aswapuram mandal, sources in the Irrigation and CAD Department said. It aims at making optimum use of the surplus waters of the Godavari and accruing enormous benefits in both irrigation and hydel power generation fronts. The striking features of the project will be its 37 tmcft water storage capacity and 320-MW hydel power generation capacity. Tenders completed Sources said that the tender process for the project has already been completed and the modalities are being worked out to complete the land survey at the earliest to start work on the prestigious multipurpose project. Several farmers’ bodies such as the Telangana Vyavasaya Karmika Sangham and the Telangana Rythu Sangham have been gearing up to garner support to their demand for holding gram sabhas in the Agency mandals before taking up the land acquisition process for the project. A roundtable involving the representatives of various farmers’ bodies and mass organisations was held in Dummugudem on Sunday to chalk out an action plan to highlight the concerns of tribal people likely to be affected by the proposed multipurpose project. Gram sabhas should be conducted in compliance with the PESA Act before taking up land survey in the Agency mandals of the district, said Telangana Vyavasaya Karmika Sangham district secretary M Venkateshwarlu. ‘No clarity’ There is no clarity on the extent of land to be acquired for the project and the areas likely to be submerged or affected by it, he said. Any attempts to conduct land survey without giving clarity on land acquisition and compensation were bound to face opposition from the local tribal population as happened in Kasinagaram in Dummugudem mandal a few days ago, he said.  ‘Make DPR public’ The detailed project report for Sitammasagar should be made public immediately to acquaint all the stakeholders about the land acquisition, the compensation package and other relevant details of the project before going ahead with it, Mr. Venkateshwarlu demanded. We have decided to submit representations to the authorities concerned in the first week of August to press for our charter of demands in adherence to the physical distancing norms, he added.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Century-old OGH block locked for the first time||For the first time in 102 years, a lock was put on the main door of Osmania General Hospital’s in-patient (IP) block on Monday. One of the iconic structures of Hyderabad, it was built in 1917 by the seventh Nizam, Mir Osman Ali Khan. Patients and offices in the IP block have been shifted to other blocks of the State-run hospital. Orders to vacate the building were issued after rain and sewage water flooded the IP block on July 15. Apart from General Medicine and Intermediate Care, operation theatres functioned at the IP block which is in dire need of repairs. Offices of the hospital superintendent and heads of some departments too are located there. The entire campus is spread over 26 acres with some vacant land parcels. “All patients and offices are shifted from the IP block,” said in-charge superintendent of OGH, R. Pandu Naik. Doctors from the hospital said that this is the first time the old block has been locked. Furniture and medical equipment are yet to be shifted from there. Following orders to vacate the block, speculations were rife that it will be demolished to make way for a new building. Sources said that it is locked to avoid tresspassing or misuse of the huge, vacant IP block. However, doctors from the hospital have been demanding that the IP block to torn down to construct a new one. While patients are shifted to avoid inconvenience or threat to lives, there are issues concerning patients which are yet to be addressed such as the dysfunctional X-Ray machines. Only one out of three X-Ray machines in the out-patient block is functional. In a day, around 200 patients need the diagnosis. Besides, owing to the rush, sanitation measures are not taken up after a COVID suspect with symptoms is diagnosed using the lone machine. If the machines are repaired, crowding can be avoided to an extent. Nurses protest Around 60 nurses appointed on outsourcing basis boycotted duty at OGH demanding two months’ salary and insurance provision. They said that they were employed towards the end of April for a monthly salary of Rs. 25,000. “However, we did not get salaries from May. Besides, appointment letters and ID cards were not issued to us. We want the pending salaries to be paid. Insurance policy should be offered to us as we work in COVID quarantine wards too. We are at risk,” said an outsourced nurse. The Telangana Nursing Samithi has extended support to the protest.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No permission from VM Home for Miyawaki plantation||The Miyawaki plantation GHMC has taken up in the land belonging to the Victoria Memorial Home Residential School in Kothapet, purportedly as birthday gift to Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA & UD) K.T.Rama Rao, does not have official sanction. Notwithstanding GHMC’s claim that the VM Home had voluntarily agreed for planting the 13-acre land behind the Kothapet Rythu Bazaar, officials from the residential school said they had not given any permission. “In fact, they had begun the plantation without even seeking any permission. Noticing this, we dashed letters to the Deputy Commissioner and Zonal Commissioner concerned asking them to stop the work,” informed sources from the school. After the objection, a letter seeking permission was addressed to the Secretary of the school by the Deputy Commissioner, which assured that the land will be returned to the school after plantation. However, the officials did not wait for any permission, and went ahead with the plantation work. On Friday, Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy, along with Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan launched the plantation works and assured that the piece of land will be developed into the biggest Yadadri model park, with 2 lakh saplings planted by the month-end. The trees are expected to attain full growth within two years, and resemble thick forests. Lack of permission from relevant authorities came out when alumni of the school began to protest. They conducted a demonstration near the site, and submitted a memorandum to the school authorities, asking them to stop the work. “These are trust lands and cannot be used for purposes other than orphans’ education. If they plant a forest here, it will be rendered useless for taking up future constructions. The High Court had already ruled that the government has no right to use the trust lands for any other purpose,” said B.Maheshwar, president of the VM Home Alumni Association. Representation by the Association mentioned that there is an urgent need for construction of a junior college in the VM Home lands, as the students need Intermediate education after SSC. Already, the VM Home school grounds on the other side of the road are being used for Rythu Bazar which had been shifted from its previous location owing to the need for larger premises in view of COVID-19. The present site too was used as temporary location for the Kothapet Fruit Market, before it was shifted to Koheda. When contacted for his version, Deputy Commissioner Krishnaiah said the intention was only to protect the land from possible encroachments. After plantation, the land will be handed over to the school. About permission, he said the decision had been made after talks at the ministerial level. As per the latest information, Minister for Social Welfare, Koppula Eshwar, who is also the Chairman of the VM Home Residential School, has reportedly instructed the GHMC officials not to plant the entire site, and instead, plant only along the boundary.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Govt. conspiring to infect Cong. leaders’||The Congress party has accused the State government of “conspiring to infect” the party leaders with COVID-19 by not sanitising the vehicles being used to take them to police stations after arrests during protests. The allegation was made by Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka here on Monday. Speaking to newspersons at Gandhi Bhavan, he said their fears had some basis as Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had himself once said that those who make allegations (question the government) would contract coronavirus. Mr. Rao would stoop to any level to silence the voices against him or his rule, the CLP leader said. All those questioning the Chief Minister or the State government on their inaction in handling various issues including the spread of COVID-19 were being arrested by the police and shifted to police station without even sanitising the vehicles. He felt it was not proper on part of the government to expose the Opposition leaders participating in protests to coronavirus infection. Suggesting that it was the responsibility of the government/police to sanitise the vehicles properly before making the Opposition leaders board them after their arrests, Mr. Vikramarka pointed out that even the chairs in police stations in which they were being made to sit were not sanitised, increasing the threat of infection. ‘Don’t get into vehicles’ He asked the Congress leaders and activists not to get into the police vehicles or sit in chairs in police stations blindly without insisting on those be sanitised. The CLP leader said both the Chief Minister and Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy would be held responsible if any Congress leader or activist contracts coronavirus due to travelling in police vehicles or sitting in police stations.  The Chief Minister would stoop to any level to silence the voices against him or his rule. M. Bhatti Vikramarka, Congress Legislature Party leader
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Senior resident doctors breathe a sigh of relief||Newly-appointed senior resident doctors posted at various government hospitals were partly relieved after officials allowed mutual transfer of allotments within specialisations. For example, if one pulmonologist each is posted at government hospitals in Siddipet and Hyderabad, they can mutually transfer the allotments between them. But they cannot exchange the post with doctors of other specialisations. Around 1,191 post graduate (PG) students from various specialisations, who appeared for final year examinations this year, were absorbed as senior resident (SR) doctors for a monthly salary of Rs. 70,000 plus financial incentive of 10% of gross monthly renumeration. Earlier, medical students had to work at government hospitals for a year after completing three years of PG to register themselves at Telangana State Medical Council as a specialist doctor. This one-year mandatory service is known as senior residency. However, this mandatory service was revoked in 2018. Only those who wanted to work in government hospitals had to apply to work as SR doctors and counselling was held to allot postings. This one-year service was re-introduced this year. However, counselling was not held to allot postings. The newly absorbed SR doctors requested authorities to allow them to mutually transfer allotments, and provide them with accommodation. They said that they met Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy on Monday who allowed this mutual transfer within departments. Of all the specialisations, those from anesthesia, pulmonology, and general medicine provide critical care to COVID-19 patients. “Our choices will increase if we are allowed to transfer allotment with other specialisations barring with doctors from anaesthesia, general medicine, and pulmonology who are involved in critical care,” a SR doctor said. ‘Need accommodation’ Expressing concern about the safety of their families, they said they can work without a worry if accommodation is provided to them. “Since we work at hospitals, the fear of spreading the virus keeps playing in our mind. We can beat this anxiety if accommodation is given in and around the city,” they said.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC seeks details of Muslim graveyards, encroachments||The Telangana High Court on Monday sought complete details of graveyards under the control of Wakf Board and alleged encroachments of their lands. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy also asked the Warkf Board what action can be taken against Muthavalis if the latter deny burial of bodies in graveyards under their respective jurisdictions. The bench was hearing two PIL petitions, one on failure of officials to act against encroachments of Muslim graveyards and the other on a Muthavali’s refusal for burial of the body of a person who reportedly died of an ailment. The bench also instructed the Minority department to file a report in the two pleas, seeking to know if it had any powers to frame rules and regulations relating to burial of bodies in graveyards. The Minorities department and the Wakf Board were directed to file their reports by August 13. “Last rites of a person are important and critical,” the bench observed. The bench said that burial of a body is a holy process. The land where such holy process is carried out cannot be subjected to encroachments, the bench felt. Wakf Board standing counsel Safiullah Baig said presently there were no rules and regulations governing burial of bodies in Muslim graveyards. The CJ asked if the Muthavalis had complete control over the matter. He wanted to know why no action was being initiated against Muthavalis if they were not allowing burial of bodies. Mr. Baig informed the bench that Wakf Board was the competent authority to initiate any steps against erring Muthavalis. The bench observed that Minority department should have framed guidelines for burial of bodies. The bench wanted to know precise details of the number of Muslim graveyards in Hyderabad, Secunderabad and Rangareddy district, the extent of their lands encroached and the action taken against the persons responsible for it.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Seniors keep the lamp of learning shine here||The teacher enters the ‘classroom’, orders her ‘students’ to put on face masks, pours hand sanitiser for cleaning and goes about explaining the human digestive system on a makeshift wood board. Little Sneha is a sixth grader of RK Puram social welfare school and is teaching younger children in her locality. Elsewhere, Keerti, another sixth grader (social welfare school, Medchal), is telling folk tales. Tejaswaini, who finished her 10th and her sister Neeraja, ninth class, take turns to take quizzes, words building, debates and other activities from their home verandah at Chandanagar, so does another of their friend N. Deepti - all from social welfare school, Gowlidoddi. These enterprising ‘teacher’ children are among 50,000 from Telangana empowered to keep their fellow younger students, from the social welfare and tribal welfare schools, in touch with academics, in the absence of regular schooling due to COVID-19. Close to 10,000 Village Learning Centres (VLCs) were formed with chosen student leaders tasked to teach the young with monitoring by teachers for a couple of hours daily, in their homes, community halls or under a tree. It certainly is a big deal for these children from the underprivileged sections of the society where even access to a smartphone is a luxury. Usually, by this time Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREIS) and Telangana Tribal Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TTWREIS) will have about 1.5 lakh students on its rolls - boys and girls from classes five to plus two, immersed in academic and extra-curricular activities in 268 (SW) and 179 (TW) hostels with thousands of children appearing for the entrance examination for the entry level of fifth class. These hostels providing academics with advanced labs, extra-curricular activities, sports, uniforms, nutritious food, accommodation, health check-ups, psychological counselling free of cost for students, mostly girls, by the government, have become popular. “Our teachers planned and prepared to keep our children involved in studies and other activities from summer itself. Wherever parents cooperated - permitted children to teach other kids and go to neighbours - we got them access to study material. It cannot replace classroom lectures, but will keep them engaged,” says principal of Gowlidoddi school A. Sarada. Apart from using of T-SAT and Doordarshan (Yadagiri) to relay classes through satellite TV, innovative short bursts of lessons of three to five minutes each were made and relayed through pen drives and from smart phones borrowed from community leaders and others. “We have super students, bright in studies and with leadership qualities, chosen to keep their younger brothers and sisters busy for a few hours daily with lessons, real life examples, stories, etc. People have opened their homes to allow us to hold these classes. Even churches and temples too are being used,” explains Secretary R.S. Praveen Kumar. Text and note books were supplied to 90% children and round the clock counselling/medical centre (9705497055) has been made available for any assistance including COVID-19 related issues, says the IPS officer. Only hitch is - “It is fun to teach the young as I act just like my teacher, but we are missing our friends and the fun at the schools,” says Tejashwini, in a sad tone.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fishling distribution from Aug. 5||The next phase of distribution of fishlings into all major water bodies across the State will start from August 5. Animal Husbandry Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav will kickstart the programme, releasing the fishlings into Kondapochamma and Ranganaiaksagar reservoirs in Siddipet district. The government has decided to leave 81 crore fishlings into 24,000 tanks and some major reservoirs at an estimated cost of Rs. 50 crore as part of the programme. In addition, it was also decided to distribute 5 crore fresh water scampi, prawn juveniles, which were procured at a cost of Rs. 10 crore into fresh water bodies across the State, Mr. Srinivas Yadav said. The Minister held a meeting to review the functioning of the animal husbandry related activities with senior officials on Monday. Steps were taken to encourage fisheries by providing vehicles, crates, nets and other equipment to fishermen on subsidy. This was in addition to the plans to deploy 150 custom made vehicles in all the divisions under the GHMC limits to sell fisheries related products at the door step of consumers. Speaking to reporters after the review, he said the meeting also discussed about the pending insurance claims with the representatives of National Insurance and they were asked to ensure speedy clearance of claims .
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor urged to direct govt. to report deaths as per ICMR norms||All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former legislator Challa Vamshi Chand Reddy has requested Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to direct the Health Department to follow the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) while recording COVID-19 deaths. In a letter addressed to the Governor on Monday, Mr. Reddy has drawn the latter’s attention to the ICMR’s emphasis on the importance of proper enumeration of COVID-19 deaths so that the health system is prepared to respond to the needs of the population in its guidelines on COVID. Citing media reports about the under-reporting of COVID deaths by the State government, Mr. Reddy said there are multiple evidence, including the comments of family members of several deceased coronavirus patients. Even the doctors’ associations have raised the issue with the Inter-Ministerial Central Team. ‘Bulletin lies’ Although the Health officials have been showing COVID deaths only as below 10 in their daily bulletins for many days, the reality was that a large number of cremations/burials were taking place every day in the State capital with COVID protocols, he alleged. They were showing deaths of many COVID patients due to their co-morbidities or antecedent cause in the medical certification of cause of death, he added.
28 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Self-check kiosk set up at BRKR Bhavan||The State secretariat, Burgula Ramakrishna Rao Bhavan, is now equipped with self-check kiosk to facilitate the speedy detection of persons with COVID-19 symptoms. A product designed by Workspace Metal Solutions, the kiosk was presented to the Social Welfare department by the company. The kiosk captures a photo of the person standing before it, and measures body temperature and oxygen levels, two major indicators of COVID-19, that would be displayed on the screen. Disinfects belongings It is equipped with a contactless sanitiser disposal unit and a UV-Control unit that would disinfect the belongings like mobile phone and bag. The entire check would be performed in just 30 seconds. Health Minister Eatala Rajender inaugurated the kiosk that was presented by Social Welfare Minister Koppula Eshwar. ‘Follow protocol’ Mr. Rajender said the machine would be of significant use in checking people at areas of major public gatherings like bus stops, railway stations and malls. People should continue following protocols like wearing masks and maintaining distance to minimise risk of infection. The effective steps taken by the government resulted in high rate of recovery and low mortality rate due to Covid-19 as compared to the national average, the Minister added. Mr. Eshwar also spoke on the occasion. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other officials were present.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre urged to rethink on pesticides’ ban||An expert group of Prof. Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University has urged the Central government to rethink on ban of 27 pesticides it has listed in a draft gazette notification recently just because data pertaining to their residues or bio-efficacy was insufficient or not generated. The Centre proposed to ban, in one stroke, 27 pesticides that included at least three of them which were already banned in several countries as they were highly hazardous. For instance, monocrotophos was banned in 112 countries, carbofuran in 63 countries and methomyl in 41 countries. While justifying ban on these three pesticides and three others — benfuracarb, thiodicarb which were also highly hazardous and and dicofol, a persistent organic pollutant — the expert group was of the view that the remaining 21 pesticides were moderately hazardous. A rethink was needed on outright ban of at least a dozen chemicals for reasons of structural control, storage, locust control and cheaper cost. Overall, the ban proposal was likely to overburden the already distressed Indian farmers and also impact food security, the group felt. Affordable pesticides The 27 pesticides in the draft notification were generic ones available to Indian farmers at affordable cost compared to the alternatives in the event of ban on them. Under Central Insecticides Board and Registration Committee (CID and RC) guidelines for registration, it was mandatory to submit bio-efficacy and residue data and no pesticide could be registered without such data dossiers and, hence, conclusions or apprehensions drawn on them needed to be revisited. The group was of the view that there was no guarantee that the alternative to be suggested to the banned chemicals will escape from any time-bound mechanisms due to continued use of pesticides because resurgence and resistance were expected phenomenon in nature. The blanket ban may be counter-productive in view of multifaceted problems being faced by India like pink bollworm in cotton and fall army worm in maize, scarcity of labour for weeding and food security to the ever increasing population. The ban of 27 pesticides in one go will also impact several registered products as they will go out of racks and their non-availability will adversely affect farmers. Instead, the CIB and RC should carry out periodical review of proposed pesticides for banning in terms of residue levels in different food commodities at all India level and carry out resistance-resurgence reports before taking decisions on case-by-case basis. The banned pesticides included eight fungicides which did not have right substitutes in Indian market to replace both in potentiality and affordability by small and marginal farmers.
28 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Iconic secretariat complex fades into history||The demolition of the old secretariat complex were taken up on July 6 midnight after the government received the High Court’s nod for construction of the new Secretariat complex replacing the old one. The old Secretariat complex has a total built up area of 9.93 lakh sq.ft, including 50,183 sq.ft of the G-Block. The Telangana government was given four blocks spread over 3.94 lakh sq.ft post bifurcation, excluding canteen and other infrastructure, while AP was given five blocks with built up area of 5.48 lakh sq.ft. The G-Block which was in a dilapidated condition was however not allocated to either State. The AP government headed by Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy handed over the buildings to Telangana government in spite of provisions in the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014 which allowed it to retain the premises till June 2, 2024. With the entire premises in its possession, the government had firmed up plans to replace the old complex citing safety reasons and a study conducted by a committee of engineers-in-chief too vindicated the government’s claims.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police foil protest by TPCC on Rajasthan||Police prevented Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) leaders from proceeding towards Raj Bhavan from the party headquarters, Gandhi Bhavan, here on Monday to stage a protest as part of the “Speak Up for Democracy” call given by All India Congress Committee (AICC) against the efforts of BJP to “dethrone” the Congress government in Rajasthan. Working president of TPCC and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy, former MPs V. Hanumantha Rao and M. Anjan Kumar Yadav and several others were taken into custody by the police, when they tried to proceed towards Raj Bhavan to stage a protest. They were taken to Begum Bazar police station. However, Sangareddy legislator T. Jayaprakash Reddy, alias Jagga Reddy, managed to reach Raj Bhavan but was immediately taken into custody by the police and was taken to Panjagutta police station. The police stated that the procession from Gandhi Bhavan to Raj Bhavan and protest at Raj Bhavan planned by Congress had no permission in the wake of COVID-19 spread. Speaking at Gandhi Bhavan earlier, CLP leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka alleged that undemocratic rule was going in the country with the BJP resorting to dethroning elected Congress governments in States, Mr. Vikramarka said. He accused the Rajasthan Governor of playing into the hands of BJP leadership and it was time every Congress activist fought to protect Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. The Congress ranks would carry on the fight as “Save Democracy and Save Constitution” campaign. TPCC working president Revanth Reddy said BJP was resorting to horse-trading of MLAs in Rajasthan and misusing the Income Tax and Central Bureau of Investigation authorities to terrorise the Congress legislators make them toe its (BJP’s) line. Monday’s protest was taken up with the demand to convene the Rajasthan Assembly on July 31.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Officials need to be vigilant, says High Court||Telangana High Court on Monday said the officials of the Agriculture Department should not sleep over vital issues like spurious seeds, and must be vigilant. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a PIL petition on sale of spurious chilli seeds in Mulugu district, expressed dissatisfaction over the function of agriculture officers. The government should be proactive and prevent farmers from falling a prey to companies selling spurious seeds. Special government pleader Sanjeev Kumar told the bench that legal action against spurious seed sellers would commence soon after receiving laboratory reports. Despite cancellation of licenses of spurious seed sellers, the problem was likely to continue, the bench felt. “This is an issue of grave importance because it directly deals with lives of our farmers,” the bench said. The matter was posted to August 6 for next hearing.  COVID issues Several issues, including alleged excessive charging by private hospitals, relating to tackling of COVID-19 by the State and Central governments would be heard by Telangana High Court on Tuesday. On Monday, the bench headed by the Chief Justice said that it would hear pleas relating to alleged exploitation of coronavirus affected patients by private hospitals on Tuesday. Already the bench on July 20, summoned Chief Secretary along with other top officers of the State government to appear before it. Along with the Chief Secretary, principal secretaries of Medical and Health and Municipal Administration, Public Health Director, Director of Medical Education and GHMC Commissioner were instructed to be present for the hearing on Monday.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two IFS officers promoted||Government has issued orders promoting two IFS officers to the cadre of Additional PCCF on Monday. Chief Conservators Ashok Kumar Sinha and Vinay Kumar, both 1992 batch officers have been promoted as Additional PCCFs. Both will continue in their present positions as Field Director, Project Tiger, Amrabad Tiger Reserve and Conservator of Forests, Nizamabad Circle respectively, said a press release.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC recruits 13 entomologists||GHMC has recruited 13 Assistant Entomologists on adhoc basis to fill up the vacancies in all circles. These will be in addition to the 17 AEs already working in GHMC circles from the Entomology wing, Chief Entomologist A.Rambabu informed. After fresh recruitment, an AE in each circle will be devoted completely for the anti larval operations, disinfection of COVID-19 premises, and spraying. Dr.Rambabu informed that six senior entomologists too have been allotted, one for each zone, to monitor the field level activities.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GMR foundation helps the needy||GMR Varalakshmi Foundation, the CSR wing of GMR Group, has been organising awareness camps on COVID-19 through its mobile medical unit since the beginning of the coronavirus outbreak. It is in collaboration with HelpAge to provide primary healthcare services to people living in rural and under-served areas manned by a doctor, one pharmacist and a driver around the airport. Nearly 2,400 elderly people from 13 villages have been benefited from this with them being educated on COVID precautions, emphasising on the importance of distancing, wearing mask, sanitisation, personal hygiene, nutritious and immunity-boosting diet etc. Free health screening were held and medicines were distributed which benefited 900-odd senior citizens and GHMC workers.
28 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Officials push for a park in every village||“Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao wants to strengthen the villages and Palle Pragathi programme was taken up as part of that. All programmes have been designed as per his directions. Rural parks was one such programme and everyone should make efforts to make it a grand success,” Principal Secretary, Panchayat Raj and Rural Development, Sandeep Kumar Sultania told a gathering recently. He was in the district to inaugurate a rural park at Kardanoor village in Patancheru mandal, where some 4,000 saplings were planted in one acre plot and the resultant forest is expected to have a thick growth of greenery. The officials at field-level were instructed to identify the available place adjacent or close to every village so that the it could be accessible to the public. However, it was becoming difficult for the officials and public representatives to get the required land as the available government land was already used for the purpose of cremation grounds — Vaikuntha Dhamam — and village dumping yard. As a result there was shortage of government land close to the villages and locals are not ready to sell their land for the purpose of developing a park. In Sangareddy district places were identified in 396 villages out of the total 647 villages and the details were forwarded to the concerned officials at panchayat-level. If the designated one acre of land was not available the officials are limiting it to half acre, but making it clear that there must be a rural park in every village. In Siddipet district places were identified in 406 villages out of total 499 panchayats followed by 240 panchayats out of 469 panchayats in Medak district. “The problem with the government is that officials are bringing pressure to take up and complete the works but the bills are not being released immediately. As a result we are unable to take up programmes. We are yet to get money we have invested on dumping yards and graveyards,” said a sarpanch on condition of anonymity.
28 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||PURE EV to supply lithium batteries to tech start-ups||Electric Vehicles start-up PURE EV is providing lithium batteries to healthcare tech companies that are engaged in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic across India. The batteries are being used in medical applications such as ventilators and robotic sanitation devices. The start-up supplies batteries for various applications under the brand name PURE LITHIUM. Incubated by the IIT, Hyderabad, PURE EV is working on innovative applications for lithium batteries, which it manufactures in-house. The primary application for its lithium battery is for its in-house manufactured electric vehicles.
28 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. holds protest rally in Haryana||Congress workers on Monday staged a protest in Haryana’s Panchkula against the Bhartiya Janata Party, accusing it of attempting to destabilise the government in Rajasthan. The protest was held on a call given by the All India Congress Committee under the ‘Save Democracy-Save Constitution’ crusade. Party workers, accompanied by MLA Shamsher Singh and Renu Bala, alleged that the BJP was destroying the federal structure of the country. Hitting out at the BJP, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said, “The BJP did not care about the Constitution nor did it care about the high democratic values of the country.”
28 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Fearing for his life, BJP MLA approaches U.P. CM, police chief||Yogesh Dhama, the Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Baghpat, has approached Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and the Director-General of Uttar Pradesh Police claiming that he feared for his life from notorious gangster Sunil Rathi, who is lodged in Delhi’s Tihar jail in connection with the high profile Munna Bajrangi gang. Mr. Dhama said the gangster openly threatened him when he came for a hearing of the Munna Bajrangi case in a local court earlier this year. “He holds me responsible for putting a full stop to his illegal mining activities in the region. And the way two of my acquaintances have been killed by his men in the last month, it shows that there is a real threat to my life,” he said. ‘From inside jail’ Mr. Dhama claimed Rathi was two times more notorious than Vikas Dubey. “By escalating the issue, I am ensuring that immediate action is taken against him. My sources have revealed that he was actively communicating with his gang from inside the high security prison through some apps.” Baghpat Additional Superintendent of Police Anit Kumar said Mr. Dhama didn’t approach the local police. “We are providing him security as per protocol. There is no change in that. Our understanding is that he hasn’t asked for an increase in his security, he has raised apprehension about a possible attack on him.” Mr. Kumar said the feud started when the local MLA complained against Rathi’s illegal mining business. “He was doing it through his front man Manish Chauhan, who had a licence for sand mining but he was extracting more than the permissible limit. When Mr. Dhama raised the issue, the district administration cancelled his licence and a fine of Rs. 4 crore was imposed on him.” On July 7, Mr. Kumar said Rathi’s men shot dead Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Deshpal Khokar, who is said to have objected to the passage of trucks carrying sand from his village. “We arrested two of Rathi’s sharpshooters in connection with the case after an encounter on Sunday.” History-sheeter killed Local sources said Rathi’s men also allegedly killed history-sheeter Paramveer Tugana, who is said to be close to Mr. Dhama. The police have arrested two people in the case but locals say it would be difficult to find witnesses. Mr. Kumar said police informers and surveillance have revealed that Rathi had been using a phone from Tihar jail and was in touch with his men through apps. “It seems jammers in Tihar could not break the 4G network. We have conveyed the information through proper channel to the authorities in Delhi,” he said. Rathi is the prime accused in the Munna Bajrangi murder case, who was shot dead in Baghpat jail in July 2018.
28 July 2020||Mumbai,||Gear up to bring BJP back to power in Maharashtra: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J.P. Nadda on Monday appealed to party workers in Maharashtra to get ready to bring the party back to power on its own might, hinting at permanently parting ways with its former ally, the Shiv Sena. In a meeting with State party leaders, Mr. Nadda called for efforts to strengthen its IT cell and expose the failures of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Mr. Nadda said, “The Maharashtra government has failed to tackle the COVID-19 crisis. We have to reveal the government’s failures in front of the people in an effective manner.” The BJP chief also said the people of Maharashtra have realised that the State government’s motive is to make profits and further its selfish goals. “There is a shameless government in power in Maharashtra filled with internal squabbles and inter-party fighting. We have to ensure that we don’t need anyone’s support to return to power. We will clinch power on our own,” he said. Mr. Nadda said the State party unit’s IT cell should push political content on the around 67,000 WhatsApp groups it has formed to highlight the State government’s failures and underscore the BJP-led Central government’s achievements. Mr. Nadda said the Central government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has handled the COVID-19 situation in a remarkable manner. “The timely decision to declare the nationwide lockdown prevented many deaths at a time when developed countries like the United States and other European countries failed to quickly implement such measures to curb the spread of the virus,” he said.
28 July 2020||Mumbai,||Birthday wishes pour in as Uddhav turns 60||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s 60th birthday on Monday was marked by greetings from leaders across party lines, blood and plasma donation camps across Mumbai, and the launch of the Mahajob app. To celebrate the occasion, Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana published a special 80-page edition. The note on the Marathi publication’s front page said along with its regular 16-page edition, the paper was publishing a special 64-page supplement on ‘Post-corona Maharashtra’. The special supplement featured advertisements by Sena office-bearers, party leaders and private companies. Mr. Thackeray in his interview to the Saamana on Sunday said he was in the driver’s seat and had the Maha Vikas Aghadi government’s steering wheel in his hand. On Monday, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar extended his birthday wishes by posting a photo on Twitter that showed him in the driver’s seat and Mr. Thackeray in the passenger seat of a car. As expected, social media erupted with comments and taunts. In the evening, Mr. Pawar posted another photo on Twitter showing him offering a bouquet to the Chief Minister at his residence, Matoshree. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis wished Mr. Thackeray on Twitter but chose not to address him as Chief Minister. Twitter users were quick to remind him that even Prime Minister Narendra Modi refers to Mr. Thackeray as the CM. Nationalist Congress Party leader and Lok Sabha MP Supriya Sule wished the Chief Minister by posting a photo taken at a get-together of the Thackeray and Pawar families. Honouring Mr. Thackeray’s wishes, Sena Lok Sabha MP Rahul Shewale felicitated plasma donors along with Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation Commissioner I.S. Chahal. Mr. Thackeray along with Industries Minister Subhash Desai also launched the Mahajob app. The State government has already launched an online portal to help register unemployed youths.
28 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||4 arrested for bid to steal from COVID-19 victim’s bank accounts||The Mumbai Crime Branch has arrested four people for allegedly trying to steal crores of rupees from the bank accounts of an 82-year-old man who died of COVID-19 on June 20, an official said on Monday. A Crime Branch Unit XI official said the victim owned Arlabs Limited and Prabhav Properties Private Limited and an employee, Shafeeq Mehboob Shaikh (35), hatched the plan to withdraw money from the deceased’s bank accounts along with his friends Swapnil Vinod Ogalekar (28), Arshad Rafiq Sayyed (39) and Pritesh alias Pintu Bipinchandra Mandaliya (33). The police said Mr. Shaikh had stolen a cheque book and other bank-related documents from the office. The firm’s manager then filed a complaint at Juhu police station on July 25. Senior Inspector Chimaji Adhav, “The same day, the Crime Branch got a tip-off about the accused’s plan, which involved transferring crores of rupees with the help of forged documents like Aadhaar card, fake user IDs and passwords.” Mobiles, laptops seized The next night, the Crime Branch team raided a hutment in Dahisar and nabbed the accused. Mobile phones and laptops were seized from their possession. Mr. Sayyed, an MCom graduate, had worked at several banks in the country before taking up a job abroad. He returned to India a few months ago and Mr. Shaikh roped him in to transfer money out of the deceased’s bank accounts. Mr. Adhav said, “He planned to make the transactions using a software registered with a server outside India. He wanted to make the crime look like it was committed on foreign shores. The IP address and location of the devices used to commit the crime would have led the police investigation outside the country.” History of cyber fraud The Crime Branch officials said Mr. Ogalekar and Mr. Mandaliya have cyber fraud cases filed against them at police stations in Akola, Chandigarh and Mumbai. The officials said Mr. Ogalekar forged an Aadhaar card to procure a duplicate SIM card of the number linked to all the bank accounts of the deceased. Operated from Dahisar The accused then activated the SIM card on a phone and downloaded Google Pay and PhonePe to make the online transactions. “The accused located a hutment in Dahisar and decided to make the online transactions from there. However, the owner of the hutment was not involved in the crime,” Mr. Adhav said. The accused have been booked under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged as genuine) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused have been remanded in police custody till July 31.
28 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Man held for rape, murder of 14-year-old girl||The Raigad police have arrested a 22-year-old man for the rape and murder of a 14-year-old girl from Tambadi village in Roha. The girl had left her house on a scooty to meet her grandfather in Tamhanshet village at 5.45 p.m. on Sunday, the police said. Anil Paraskar, Raigad superintendent of police, said, “When the girl failed to return by 8 p.m., the family began a search and found the scooty near a 200-feet deep valley. The body was found on a boulder in a stream.” A labourer was arrested on Monday, within 12 hours of the crime. The accused said he asked the girl for a lift and dragged her to the valley. He hit her head with a stone and raped her.
28 July 2020||Pune,||To tackle Pune’s COVID-19 surge, 2,400 beds in 3 jumbo facilities||In wake of the grim COVID-19 situation in Pune, Deputy Chief Minister and district Guardian Minister Ajit Pawar on Monday directed the district administration to set up three jumbo facilities by the end of August. In a review meeting with senior authorities of the district administration, Mr. Pawar urged them to set up the facilities and arrange for requisite manpower in anticipation of the spike in cases by August-end. The facilities are collectively proposed to have 1,800 oxygenated beds and 600 ICU beds. “The establishment of the three jumbo hospitals is expected to considerably enhance the city’s medical infrastructure and ease out the bed shortage. The first hospital is due to come up at the College of Engineering Pune (CoEP) grounds in the next 20 days or so. We are considering four locations in the city — AISSMS ground, Balewadi, Baburao Sanas ground, and Sangvi — for the other two facilities,” said Saurabh Rao, officer on special duty at the Divisional Commissioner’s office. Mr. Rao said a feasibility study taking into account a number of parameters like electricity and water supply, connectivity, and gradient level was under way. “We are going to publish the expressions of interest (EOIs) for these two facilities by July 29. The EOI for the first jumbo hospital has already been published,” he said. Mr. Rao also said that in a view to ramp up the manpower for these facilities and cope with the alarming rise in cases, the administration was trying to get as many registered nursing homes in Pune as possible to get into the ‘COVID-19 network’. “Bed management in a centralised manner is the most vital need of the hour. We have set up an infrastructure task force and have held meetings with representatives of the Indian Medical Association, the Nursing Home Association, and the General Practitioner’s Association in this regard. While there are around 700 small and medium nursing homes registered under the Pune Municipal Corporation, at present, only 100 are a part of the COVID-19 network. So, we are trying to add as many beds as possible to our kitty,” Mr. Rao said. 90,000 active cases The precipitate rise in cases across Pune district has put a severe strain on the medical infrastructure. As per the Pune civic body’s estimates, the city alone is likely to see more than 90,000 active cases by August-end. Commenting on the projected spike in cases, Pune Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said there were various predictions ranging from 50,000 to 94,000 by August-end. “Whatever be the estimates, we [the district administration] are preparing for the worst-case scenario. The rise in cases is due to the fact that Pune is testing the maximum samples in the country. More than 1.24 lakh samples were tested during the 10-day lockdown from July 14 to 24, an average of 12,000 samples a day,” said Dr. Mhaisekar, adding that the district’s case fatality rate has come down to 2.38% from 2.74% on July 13. Meanwhile, the district reported another massive spike of more than 2,000 new cases, taking its total case tally to 71,500. Of these, 25,552 are active. With 35 new deaths, the district’s death toll has touched 1,705. “A total of 11,515 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, while 44,243 people have been discharged till now,” said Dr. Mhaisekar. The situation remained grim in Solapur district, which reported a spike of 316 cases, taking its total tally to 7,383, of which 2, 831 are active. The district’s death toll has climbed to 434. Kolhapur district, too, witnessed a massive spike of 382 cases, taking its case tally to 4,493, of which 2,749 are active. The district’s death toll has risen to 110. The total case tally of Pune division — which includes the districts of Pune, Solapur, Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur — has risen to 88,152, of which 33,546 are active. The division has reported 2,406 deaths till now. BJP leader succumbs Among the latest victims is a local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader from Solapur, Sanjay Waikar, who had tested positive recently. Waikar, who was in his 50s and was the BJP city chief of Pandharpur, succumbed to the virus on Monday morning.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Onus on India to maintain ties: Bangladesh||India’s government and society have an obligation to prevent any development that can fracture the historic ties with Bangladesh, Dhaka’s Foreign Minister A.K. Abdul Momen told The Hindu in an interview. The Minister’s statement was in the context of the scheduled August 5 inauguration of the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, which commentators in Bangladesh said will give a new political opportunity to the hardline opponents of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. The Minister also said last week’s phone conversation between Ms. Hasina and her Pakistan counterpart, Imran Khan, was nothing unusual. “India and Bangladesh share a historic and arterial relationship. We will not allow this (temple construction) to hurt ties but I would still urge that India should not allow any development that can fracture our beautiful and deep relationship. This is valid for both our countries,” said Mr. Momen, regarding Bangladesh’s stand on beginning of the construction of a Ram temple . Speaking over the telephone from Dhaka, the Minister said every section of society in India and Bangladesh should play a role in fostering good relationships. “Your society also has an obligation to ensure good relationship with us. Governments alone cannot deliver on such matters. People and media are also part of this endeavour to ensure ties remain on track and the focus remains on development activities,” said Mr. Momen. The Minister’s comments have added to the concerns expressed by veteran international affairs experts and civil society in Bangladesh who have cautioned that the Ram temple construction on the site of the Babri mosque though an internal matter of India, will have an emotional impact on the people of Bangladesh. “This will of course give an opportunity to the politics of singularity in Bangladesh, which moved away from the two-nation theory in 1971. We are not comfortable with this theory but evidence suggests that India is moving towards the two-nation theory,” said Prof. Imtiaz Ahmed of the University of Dhaka who urged India to prevent any spillover effect of the Ram temple issue from impacting ties with Bangladesh. Barrister Tureen Afroze of the Alliance against Extremism and Terrorism said, the fundamentalist forces in Bangladesh will get a new lease of life in the coming weeks because of the planned event in Ayodhya.
28 July 2020||PORTLAND,||U.S. agents use gas, flash bangs to clear Portland protesters||A night that started with a reported shooting and a bag containing loaded rifle magazines and Molotov cocktails amid a peaceful protest morphed into an intense early morning confrontation between demonstrators and law enforcement in Oregon’s largest city. U.S. agents repeatedly fired what appeared to be tear gas, flash bangs and pepper balls early Monday to clear a mass of protesters outside the Mark O. Hatfield United States Courthouse in Portland. Some protesters had climbed over the fence surrounding the courthouse, while others shot fireworks, banged on the fence and projected lights on the building. The federal courthouse has been a place of contention as the city has seen nightly protests for two months since the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis in May. President Donald Trump said he sent federal agents to Portland to halt the unrest but State and local officials said they are making the situation worse. ‘Unlawful assembly’ The protest late on Sunday started peacefully, with organisers giving speeches and leading chants with the crowd. But things intensified as the night wore on. U.S. agents declared an “unlawful assembly”, and just after 1 a.m., confronted protesters on the street and worked to clear the area. Several people were seen being detained, but it was not immediately clear how many may have been arrested.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Final test begins for COVID-19 vaccine||The world’s biggest COVID-19 vaccine study got under way on Monday with the first of 30,000 planned volunteers helping to test shots created by the U.S. government — one of several candidates in the final stretch of the global vaccine race. There’s still no guarantee that the experimental vaccine, developed by the National Institutes of Health and Moderna Inc., will really protect. The needed proof — volunteers won’t know if they’re getting the real shot or a dummy version. After two doses, scientists will closely track which group experiences more infections as they go about their daily routines, especially in areas where the virus still is spreading unchecked. Moderna said the vaccination was done in Savannah, Georgia, the first site to get under way among more than seven dozen trial sites scattered around the country. Several other vaccines made by China and by Britain’s Oxford University earlier this month began smaller final-stage tests in Brazil and other hard-hit countries. But the U.S. requires its own tests of any vaccine that might be used in the country and has set a high bar — every month through fall, the government-funded COVID-19 Prevention Network will roll out a new study of a leading candidate — each one with 30,000 newly recruited volunteers.  Next up in August, the final study of the Oxford shot begins, followed by plans to test a candidate from Johnson & Johnson in September and Novavax in October — if all goes according to schedule. Pfizer Inc. plans its own 30,000-person study this summer. That’s a stunning number of people needed to roll up their sleeves for science. But in recent weeks, more than 1,50,000 Americans filled out an online registry signalling interest, said Dr. Larry Corey, a virologist with the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Institute in Seattle, who helps oversee the study sites.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||China chairs meet with Afghan, Pak., Nepal Foreign Ministers||China on Monday convened a rare quadrilateral dialogue with the Foreign Ministers of Afghanistan, Nepal and Pakistan, pledging to strengthen cooperation among the four nations in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic as well as boosting their economic recoveries, including through regional connectivity projects. China’s State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi outlined four proposals at the meet, including for the four countries to cooperate under China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). He proposed extending the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) to Afghanistan, as well as taking forward an economic corridor plan with Nepal, called the Trans-Himalayan Multi-dimensional Connectivity Network. The video-conference was chaired by Mr. Wang, and attended by Afghanistan’s acting Foreign Minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar, Nepal Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali, Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, and Pakistan’s Economic Affairs Minister Makhdum Khusro Bakhtiar, according to a statement from China’s Foreign Ministry. Four-way ties Mr. Wang told the conference the four countries were “connected by mountains and rivers”, and offered four proposals to strengthen four-way ties. The first, he said, was to share consensus in fighting the pandemic as “good neighbours”. He hit out at countries that had “politicised” the pandemic and “undermined cooperation for their own political needs”, saying they would be “nailed to history’s pillar of shame forever”. He also called on the countries to learn from China and Pakistan’s joint prevention and control model, and suggested the four countries could look at opening up “green channels” as soon as possible. China has also offered its expertise in fighting COVID-19 and said vaccines that are being developed would be shared with the three countries. Mr. Wang called on the group to continue cooperating under the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative.  He said China would take forward the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, the Trans-Himalayan Multi-dimensional Connectivity Network project with Nepal, and supported extending the corridor to Afghanistan. The four countries pledged their support to the ongoing peace and reconciliation process in Afghanistan, the statement from Beijing said.
28 July 2020||Gaborone,||The unsolved mystery of Botswana’s elephant deaths||Botswana’s government says it still doesn’t know what caused the deaths of hundreds of elephants in recent weeks, but testing continues. Poaching and anthrax have been ruled out as the likely cause. Other possibilities being examined include a novel virus and poisoning. The investigation involves help from laboratories in South Africa, Zimbabwe, Britain and the U.S. “While there has not been any indication of fresh carcasses or signs that the mortality has spread beyond the initial area of concern, the district team on the ground will continue to monitor the situation, remove ivory from carcasses and take them to safe custody as well as destroy carcasses that are close to the villages and human settlements,” the acting permanent secretary in the Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources Conservation and Tourism, Oduetse Koboto, told diplomats on Saturday. The investigations, including an aerial survey, are expected to be completed this week. 281 carcasses examined Botswana’s National Veterinary Laboratory has not been able to establish the causes of death despite examining 281 of the elephant carcasses found in the popular Okavango Delta area of the country’s north. This is “one of the biggest disasters to impact elephants this century, and right in the middle of one of Africa’s top tourism destinations,” said Mark Hilley, director of conservation group National Park Rescue. Botswana has the world’s highest population of elephants with more than 1,56,000 counted in a 2013 aerial survey in the north.
28 July 2020||Sydney,||‘Virtual kidnappings’ being used to extort money from Chinese students||Elaborate “virtual kidnappings” are being used to extort money from the friends and relatives of Chinese students Down Under, Australian police warned on Monday, after a spate of transnational scams were reported. Police said that conmen claiming to be Chinese authorities had netted millions of U.S. dollars in ransoms by scaring students into faking their own kidnappings. The scammers — often claiming to be from the Chinese embassy, police or consulate — initially say the victim is accused of a crime in China or tell them their identity has been stolen before threatening them with deportation or arrest unless a fee is paid, police said. The fraudsters then continue to threaten the victim, often over encrypted message services, until they transfer large sums into offshore bank accounts. In some cases, victims were told to cease contact with relatives, then make videos of themselves tied up and blindfolded with the conmen using the footage to demand ransoms. Police said at least eight cases have led to more than Aus$3 million ($2.1 million) in ransom payments this year. Victims are “traumatised by what has occurred, believing they have placed themselves, and their loved ones, in real danger”, New South Wales police assistant commissioner Peter Thurtell said.
28 July 2020||Kabul,||Afghan civilian casualties down by 13% this year: UN||Afghanistan saw a 13% drop in the number of civilians killed and wounded in violence across the country in the first six months of this year, compared to the same period last year, according to a UN report released on Monday. The report credited the drop in casualties in part to the reduction of operations by international forces and also to a decrease in the number of attacks by the Islamic State group. 17 attacks by IS The UN report said 1,282 people were killed in violence in the first six months of 2020 in Afghanistan and 2,176 were wounded. That represents an overall 13% decrease from the same period in 2019. The report said the U.N. had recorded 17 attacks by IS causing civilians casualties during the first six months of 2020, down from 97 attacks in the same period last year. The Afghan government said the UN report underscores the government’s own findings that the Taliban are responsible for the vast majority of the civilian casualties. The statement added that the recent increase in Taliban attacks comes despite the insurgents’ commitments under the U.S.-Taliban deal.
28 July 2020||Dubai,||Iran moves mock carrier to sea amid tensions with U.S.||Iran has moved a mock aircraft carrier to the strategic Strait of Hormuz amid heightened tensions with the U.S., satellite photographs released on Monday show, likely signalling that it soon plans to use it for live-fire drills. An image from Maxar Technologies taken on Sunday shows an Iranian fast boat speed toward the carrier, sending waves up in its wake, after a tugboat pulled her out into the Strait from the Iranian port city of Bandar Abbas. Iranian state media and officials have yet to acknowledge bringing the replica out to the Strait of Hormuz. However, its appearance there suggests Iran’s paramilitary Revolutionary Guard is preparing an encore of a similar mock-sinking it conducted in 2015. The U.S. Navy’s Bahrain-based 5th Fleet remains “confident in our naval forces’ ability to defend themselves against any maritime threat,” said spokeswoman Cmdr. Rebecca Rebarich when asked about the faux carrier’s movements.
28 July 2020||London,||U.K. pet cat tests positive for COVID-19||A pet cat has become the first U.K. animal to be infected with COVID-19, health officials said on Monday, insisting that there was “no evidence” it could pass on the disease. The case was confirmed by the U.K.’s chief veterinary officer after laboratory tests carried out earlier this month in Surrey, near London. Officials said that “all available evidence” indicated the cat likely contracted the disease from its owners who had tested positive. A statement from the Environment Ministry said the cat poses no risk. Chief Veterinary Officer Christine Middlemiss called it “a very rare event”, adding that there was “no evidence to suggest that pets transmit the virus to humans”. It is the first such case in the U.K. but there have been reports elsewhere of animals developing the virus.
28 July 2020||Geneva,||Geneva, July 27, 2020 (AFP) -||Around 100 migrants fleeing war-ravaged Libya have run into difficulty in the Mediterranean and could drown, the UN said on Monday. The International Organization for Migration warned in a tweet that “around 95 migrants are still floating in the Central Mediterranean at risk of drowning, after attempting to flee Libya.”AFP
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Needed, a map for India’s foreign policy||Not long ago, India was seen as a natural rising power in South Asia and the Indian Ocean Region. It was the de facto leader of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). It has historical and cultural ties with Nepal. It enjoyed traditional goodwill and influence in Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. It had made investments worth billions of dollars in Afghanistan and cultivated vibrant ties with the post-Taliban stakeholders in Kabul. It had committed itself to multilateralism and the Central Asian connectivity project, with Iran being its gateway. It was competing and cooperating with China at the same time, while the long border between the two countries remained largely peaceful. Cut to the present. India is perhaps facing its gravest national security crisis in 20 years, with China having changed the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the western sector in its favour. The border saw violent clashes last month, leading to fatalities for the first time in 45 years. SAARC is out of joint. Nepal has turned hostile having adopted a new map and revived border disputes with India. Sri Lanka has tilted towards China, which is undertaking massive infrastructure projects in the Indian Ocean island. Bangladesh is clearly miffed at the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019. When Afghanistan is undergoing a major transition, India is out of the multi-party talks. Iran has inaugurated a railway link project connecting the Chabahar port, on the Gulf of Oman, to Zahedan (which India was to have constructed) without India. How did we get here? Specific reasons can be found for these setbacks. Also, foreign policy need not be static. There will be ups and downs depending on the changes in policy as well as the changes in global politics. But what makes the current downturn serious is that there is a relative decline in India’s smart power, especially in the neighbourhood and the extended neighbourhood, which demands a deeper perusal of the foreign policy trajectory itself. And when we dig deep, three problems can be found which are more or less linked to this decline — a closer alignment of policy with the U.S. line, coupling of foreign policy with domestic politics and hubris. The U.S. line India’s official policy is that it is committed to multilateralism. Even after India started moving away from non-alignment, which it calls irrelevant in the post-Cold War world order, New Delhi maintained that strategic autonomy would remain the bedrock of its policy thinking. But there has been a steady erosion in India’s strategic autonomy, which predates the current government. When India started deepening its partnership with the United States (which was a historical necessity), New Delhi began steadily aligning its policies with U.S. interests. The case of Iran is the best example. The agreement to develop the Chabahar port was signed in 2003. But India, under pressure from the U.S., was moving slowly, despite the fact that the project offered India an alternative route to Central Asia bypassing Pakistan. India voted against Iran at the United Nations; scuttled an ambitious gas pipeline project and cut down trade ties drastically. After the Iran nuclear deal was signed in 2015, India immediately stepped up oil purchases and expanded works at Chabahar. In 2016, Prime Minister Narendra Modi travelled to Tehran and signed a trilateral connectivity project with Afghanistan and Iran. But when U.S. President Donald Trump pulled the U.S. out of the Iran deal in 2018 and reimposed sanctions on the country, India toed the U.S. line, bringing down its oil imports to zero. This dilly-dallying to the tunes of policy changes in Washington co-existed with India’s deepening defence and military ties with the U.S. Washington wants India to play a bigger role in the Indian Ocean and the Pacific region to contain China’s rise. While India has been cautious of becoming an ally, it has steadily deepened military-to-military cooperation in the recent past — the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) is one example. These developments probably altered Beijing’s assessment of India. The border aggression at different points on the LAC could not be a localised conflict; it is part of a larger strategic move, initiated by the top brass of the People's Liberation Army (PLA). One of the reasons for the shift could be Beijing’s assessment that India has already become a de facto ally of the U.S. The forceful altering of the status quo on the border is a risky message as much to New Delhi as it is to Washington. Domestic politics At least two decisions taken by the government mainly keeping its domestic audience in mind have had foreign policy consequences. First, the passing of the CAA. The official narrative has been that India is offering citizenship to the persecuted minorities of select countries in its neighbourhood. There were two problems. One, this is regionalisation of the domestic problems of the countries in India’s neighbourhood, some of which are its long-time friends. These countries are genuinely upset with India’s move. Two, Muslims, including those sub-sects persecuted in neighbouring countries, were by design excluded from the citizenship programme. This drove new wedges between India and the countries that had a Muslim majority and were friendly to India in the neighbourhood. Forget Pakistan, which is a traditional rival. Bangladesh took offence at the CAA and the National Register of Citizens (from which the government has temporarily backed off) and the political rhetoric in India against the “termites” from other countries. Bangladeshi media reported recently that the Indian envoy in Dhaka had tried to fix an appointment with Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina for four months but did not get one. There were anti-India protests even in Afghanistan. Second, the abrogation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. This was another popular move among those who form the support base of the ruling party. But it led to the suspension of fundamental rights in the Kashmir Valley for a prolonged period that damaged India’s reputation as a responsible democratic power and gave propaganda weapons to Pakistan. The move did not help India quell militancy either as the Valley continues to see violence nearly a year after the decision. More importantly, the change of status quo in Jammu and Kashmir, including the bifurcation and reduction of the erstwhile State into Union Territories, could be another factor that prompted the Chinese to move aggressively towards the border in Ladakh. The perils of hubris Misplaced confidence does not do good for rising powers. Great powers wait to establish their standing before declaring that they have arrived. The Soviet Union started acting like a superpower after it won (with allies), the Second World War. China bided its time for four decades before it started taking on the mighty U.S. Since the 1970s, its focus has almost entirely been on its economic rise. India should learn from at least these modern examples. If it did, it would not have used high-handedness in Nepal during the country’s constitutional crisis and caused a traditional and civilisational ally to turn hostile. The updated political map which India released in November rubbed salt into the wound on the Nepal border. To address the current crises, India has to reconsider its foreign policy trajectory. It is a big power with one of the world’s biggest militaries. It is a natural naval force in the Indian Ocean. It does not lack resources to claim what is its due in global politics. What it lacks is strategic depth. stanly.johny@thehindu.co.in
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The majority cannot afford a balanced diet||New analysis from the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) shows that hundreds of millions of people in India above the international poverty line of $1.90 purchasing power parity (PPP) per person per day cannot afford a healthy or nutritious diet. This analysis confirms the fact that the problem of poor nutrition in India is largely on account of the unaffordability of good diets, and not on account of lack of information on nutrition or tastes or cultural preferences. The large majority of Indians cannot afford a balanced diet. Every year, the FAO, in partnership with other United Nations organisations, publishes a report on food security across the world. This year, the State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2020 (SOFI 2020) was released on July 13. A new feature of SOFI 2020 is a detailed analysis of the “cost and affordability of healthy diets around the world”. Types of diets Three types of diet are defined. The first is termed a “basic energy sufficient” diet. This is one in which the required calorie intake is met by consuming only the cheapest starchy cereal available (say, rice or wheat). A requirement of 2,329 Kcal for a healthy young woman of 30 years is taken as the standard reference. The second is a “nutrient adequate” diet, one where the required calorie norms and the stipulated requirement of 23 macro- and micro-nutrients are met. This diet includes least cost items from different food groups. The third diet is a “healthy diet”. This is one which meets the calorie norm and the macro- and micro-nutrient norm and also allows for consumption of a diverse diet, from several food groups. Defining a healthy diet is more complex than the other two diets, and the FAO uses actual recommendations for selected countries. The Indian recommendation includes consumption of items from six groups: starchy staples, protein-rich food (legumes, meat and eggs), dairy, vegetables, fruits, and fats. Using data on retail prices of commodities in 170 countries, linear programming techniques are used to identify the cost of each of these diets. The following are the findings for South Asia. First, the energy-sufficient diet or eating only cereals to meet your calorie requirement costs around 80 cents a day in South Asia, and is thus affordable to a poor person or one defined as having an income of $1.9 a day. In short, the poor in India and other South Asian countries can get their calories by sticking to rice or wheat alone. Second, the nutrient-adequate diet costs $2.12 a day. This is more than the international poverty line. If a person with income just above the poverty line spent her entire daily expenditure on food (ignoring fuel, transport, rent, medicines or any other expenditure), even then she would not be able to afford the nutrient-adequate diet. No one can, of course, survive by spending their entire income on food. The SOFI Report assumes that a person cannot spend more than 63% of total expenditure on food (that is, 37% would be required for non-food essentials). Third, the healthy diet costs $4.07 a day, or more than twice the international poverty line. In other words, a healthy diet is totally unaffordable for those with incomes at even twice the poverty line. And what is this healthy diet? It includes 30 gm of cereal, 30 gm of pulses, 50 gm of meat/chicken/fish and 50 gm of eggs, 100 gm of milk, 100 gm of vegetables and fruit each, and 5 gm of oil a day. In short, a balanced and healthy meal but not excessive in any way. How does this translate into numbers of people? The SOFI Report estimates that 18% of South Asians (numbering 586 million people) cannot afford the nutrient-adequate diet and 58% of South Asians (1,337 million people) cannot afford the healthy diet. Affordability of healthy diets These eye-opening and shocking numbers have got lost in the daily news of the pandemic. If anything, the number of people who cannot afford a healthy diet will have risen in the last three months, as employment and incomes collapsed for the majority of workers in the informal sector. Note that the Indian poverty line of 2011-12, as defined by the Tendulkar Committee, amounted to Rs. 33 per day in urban areas and Rs. 27 per day in rural areas, and corresponded roughly to $1 a day at international PPP prices. The Indian poverty line (there has been no redefinition in the last decade) is thus lower than the international poverty line used in the SOFI Report. Whatever the limitations of the SOFI methodology, there are some clear and simple messages. First, those we officially count as poor in India – with a cut-off that is lower than the international norm of $1.9 a day – cannot afford a nutrient-adequate diet let alone a healthy diet. This result is completely contrary to the view of scholars such as Arvind Panagariya that the poverty line in India “may not permit a comfortable existence, including a balanced diet, (but) allows above subsistence existence.” Second, even those with incomes of twice the international poverty line cannot afford a healthy diet. If we want to reduce malnutrition and food insecurity, we have to address the problem of affordability of healthy diets. Should not at least one nutritious meal (with protein, fruits and vegetables) be ensured for the majority of our people, and particularly in this time of crisis? The Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana offers, up to November 2020, an additional 5 kg of wheat or rice and 1 kg of gram or lentils a month free of cost to all households with ration cards. This is welcome, of course, but utterly inadequate to address the massive and growing problem of malnutrition. Madhura Swaminathan is Professor and Head of the Economic Analysis Unit, Indian Statistical Institute, Bengaluru
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||An opportunity to reshape health care||The COVID-19 pandemic has massively disrupted our lives. Besides direct devastation of health, the epidemic and the lockdown have had myriad indirect effects, be it on the environment, livelihoods, or supply chains. There has been a lot of discussion around the lack of capacity of our health-care system to fight this epidemic. But the impact of COVID-19 and the lockdown on the ‘business’ of health care has not been examined. This has an important bearing on the larger arena of health care for our citizens in the near future. Care and the COVID impact Indian health care has been increasingly privatised over the last few decades. This has led to intense market competition. A uniquely unregulated form of health care has thrived. It has also been marked by several questionable practices. These have been under the media and public glare leading to a huge trust deficit. Will the changed milieu have an impact on this? How will this affect care of other conditions? COVID-19 has led to a dramatic reduction in the numbers of patients seeking care. This is especially true of planned, non-urgent problems including procedures and surgeries. Many patients are scared to visit health facilities fearing COVID-19. While this has caused collateral damage, with the condition of some patients worsening or taking an unfortunate turn, there may indeed be those who have avoided interventions without any deleterious impact. In other words, they have been spared of procedures for debatable indications. For example, the large number of women who undergo an unnecessary hysterectomy has reduced. The incidence of Caesarean sections is reported to have gone down. Similarly, procedures such as coronary stents, knee replacements or cosmetic surgery which reflect supplier-induced demand have almost stopped. ‘Routine’ admissions for ‘observation’ or ‘insurance claims’ have got curtailed. Strangely, even emergency medical cases have declined during the lockdown, with a decrease in the cases of heart attacks or strokes presenting to hospitals. While some of these may have been true emergencies involving those who suffered at home, perhaps the unpolluted air, decreased work stress, or home-cooked food has had a bigger impact on health than we assume. Or maybe we were over-diagnosing and over-treating certain emergencies. Investigating these important questions and critically analysing their answers may make future health care more beneficial to patients. The cartelisation of health care has been naturally curbed during the pandemic. ‘Cut practice’, with doctors and hospitals prescribing tests, drugs, referrals and procedures in return for commissions, is entrenched in India. This leads to significant negative consequences, be it increased patient expenses, patients not reaching the right doctor or not getting the appropriate investigation, and also an erosion in the doctor-patient relationship and the image of the fraternity. It puts ethical doctors in a quandary, making them cynical about their profession. However, during the pandemic, the availability of doctors, beds and proximity are now the chief drivers for patient referrals, rather than the commission route. Most practices have had to take a forced ‘detox’ of sorts from this addiction. Like in life, there are several grey areas in treatment decisions, where doctors are not sure of the best way forward for the patient. For example, terminal patients with widespread cancers are often prescribed chemotherapy, which can cause side-effects worse than the disease, without impact on life span or quality of life. Oncologists often end up prescribing chemotherapy to such patients instead of symptomatic treatment to alleviate the pain and weakness because of the urge to ‘do something’, or even financial imperatives. The dangers of chemotherapy with COVID-19 lurking in the air has made everyone weigh its pros and cons with more caution than usual. The widely prevalent practice of a ‘health check-up’ which does not have proven public health value but is a tactic which targets health-obsessed ‘clients’, has also got derailed. The focus has instead fortunately moved back to the basics of preventive health such as diet, exercise, good sugar control, and quitting smoking and tobacco. The pandemic may have finally taught our population the importance of not coughing or spitting in the open. These may indeed have more far-reaching benefits in a much larger population. The two sides to the churn The COVID-19 epidemic has centre-staged the need for a robust public health system and increased investment. While disrupting care, it may have unwittingly lead to some ‘desirable’ changes by the circumstantial curb on unwarranted medical practices. This churning may even lead to genuine reflection among health-care providers. The question is whether this effect will linger on. Will lessons learnt during the epidemic nudge us towards rational and ethical care? However, there are dangerous fallouts of the disruption as well. The breakdown of overburdened health-care facilities, negative impact on the morale of health-care workers, and the collapse of private sector institutions (under financial strain) are all real. With hospital and doctors incomes falling during the pandemic, there may be a resurgence of unethical practices with a vengeance as the industry tries to make up its losses. This is already evident in the huge bills that patients with COVID-19 are being slapped with, often by creating additional billing heads. Though prices in the private sector have been capped, loopholes in the system may be found, such as profiteering on personal protective equipment. Artificial demand maybe created in an effort to increase footfall. Thus, the epidemic’s ‘positive’ impact on unnecessary practices may get washed away as ‘normalcy’ is restored. In general, the medical fraternity in India has risen admirably to the challenge of COVID-19. The call of duty has led many to don Coronavirus warrior outfits and set aside commerce for now. It has forced them to consider alternative paradigms. Public respect for the profession has also improved. If we can seize this chance to correct undesirable practices, which have become an albatross around our neck, it may help the return of trust in the doctor-patient relationship, which was under severe threat before the pandemic. In the middle of gloom, this is a window of opportunity. Is this just wishful thinking or a genuine possibility? We should know soon. Dr. Akshay Baheti is a radiologist practising in Mumbai. Dr. Sanjay Nagral is a surgeon practising in Mumbai
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Modern tools, age-old wisdom||The unique India-Sri Lanka relationship, de jure, is between equals as sovereign nations. But it’s asymmetric in terms of geographic size, population, military and economic power, on the one hand, and social indicators and geographical location, on the other. It is steeped in myth and legend, and influenced by religious, cultural and social affinities. This is an opportune time for Sri Lanka and India to nourish the roots of the relationship using modern toolkits, but leveraging age-old wisdom and experience. Historical ties History reveals that the advent of Buddhism to Sri Lanka during the time of Emperor Ashoka was the result of cross-border discourse. For many centuries in the first millennia, the ancient capital city of Anuradhapura housed an international community which included traders from India, China, Rome, Arabia and Persia. Later, Buddhist monks from Sri Lanka travelled to India, China, Cambodia and Java leaving behind inscriptions. Buddhist temples in Sri Lanka, to this day, contain shrines for Hindu deities. The colonial expansion of European maritime nations reshaped the Sri Lankan economy. Labour from south India was brought to Sri Lanka to work in plantations. The Indian freedom struggle had its influence on Sri Lanka as well. There was cross-border support for the revival of culture, tradition, local languages, spiritual practices and philosophies, and education. Both countries transformed into modern nations with constitutional and institutionalised governance under colonial rule. Most aspects of today’s globalisation existed in a different form in the pre-colonial era with free exchange of ideas, trade and intellectual discourse. However, process engineering by colonial powers for identification and categorisation of people was a factor in the emergence of separatist ideologies based on ethnicity, language and religion. This mindset is now ingrained and accentuated in politics. Episodic instances of communal hostility are referenced often to suit tactical political gain. Around the world today, and not just in South Asia, policies and thinking are becoming communally exclusive, localised and inward-looking. The COVID-19 pandemic hit the world against this backdrop, allowing some leaders an opportunity to double down on insular thinking, ostensibly for providing local communities with better economic and social prospects, and security.  Meanwhile, governance models favoured by nations keep vacillating between fundamental freedoms-based democratic systems and quasi democratic, socialist authoritarian systems. In this regard, the people of Sri Lanka and India have been served well by long years of uninterrupted democratic governance. This has provided long-term stability for both countries and must not be vitiated. Sri Lanka’s strategic location makes it apparent that not only economic fortunes but the security of both countries are inextricably linked. Therefore it is heartening that India and Sri Lanka constantly strive for excellence in neighbourly relations, recognising that a calamity in one country can adversely impact the other. Though robust partnerships with other countries must be sought in line with the non-alliance foreign policies of both countries, such efforts must be bounded by an atmosphere needed for peace, prosperity and stability. Among others, freedom of navigation in the Indo-Pacific together with a rules-based international order and peaceful settlement of disputes are of common interest. While avoiding advocacy of zero sum solutions on crucial issues, both countries must seek to harmonise strategic and other interests in line with common values and socioeconomic compulsions. Addressing issues and imbalances The socioeconomic development of Sri Lanka has remained linked to India. But there are many options available to address issues of imbalance and asymmetries. For instance, Sri Lanka can encourage Indian entrepreneurs to make Colombo another business hub for them, as logistical capacities and facilities for rest and recreation keep improving in Sri Lanka. Integrating the two economies but with special and differential treatment for Sri Lanka due to economic asymmetries can be fast-tracked for this purpose. There is immense potential to accentuate or create complementariness, using locational and human resource potential, for harnessing benefits in the modern value chains. Robust partnerships across the economic and social spectrum can promote people-to-people bonhomie. And engagement of legislatures is essential for promoting multiparty support. With many countries receding into cocoons due to the pandemic, this is an opportunity for both countries to focus on the renewal and revitalisation of partnerships. Prasad Kariyawasam is Sri Lanka's former Foreign Secretary and was High Commissioner to India
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Reports for posterity||In India’s evolving majoritarian political culture, the Delhi riots present an opportunity to examine not only how conditions under which riots occur have changed but also post-riot situations are addressed. Theoretically speaking, two things have happened: first, victims have often been presented as perpetrators; second, post-riot reconciliations between supposedly warring communities are not attempted thus creating an enduring source for the perpetuation of the politics of polarisation. Context of riots The findings of the the Delhi Commission for Minorities examining the Delhi riots of 2020 deserve serious attention, though the Arvind Kerjiwal government is yet to show any interest. Three particular contexts need to be borne in mind to make objective sense of these riots. The first are the political developments linked to the nationwide protests aginst the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, the epicentre of which was Shaheen Bagh in Delhi. The second is the New Delhi Assembly election that was held on February 8, 2020 and how the unprecedented polarised campaign presented fuel for the violence. And finally, the visit of U.S. President Donald Trump to India. A close reading of the report reflects that the violence was shaped by the politics of these three particular contexts. One fact becomes clear from the report: the Delhi riots were anti-Muslim almost the way the 1984 riots were anti-Sikh. In some instances, victims were asked to show their ID cards and targeted based on their faith, the report says. Testimonies of victims to the fact-finding committee reveal that slogans shouted by the mob were hate-filled and anti-Muslim. One woman, for instance, said there was a reference to the Partition movieGadar. Many said the mob shouted that Muslim women should “run to save themselves”. Muslim women said their houses were looted, they were subject to vulgar language and even sexual harassment and assault. Additionally, the report presents a list of mosques, dargahs, madrasas and graveyards that were destroyed. The report mentions that there was selective targeting of Muslim shops while Hindu ones were left intact in the same neighbourhood. On March 18, 2020, the fact-finding team wrote to the Delhi Police inquiring into the following questions: One, the list of detainees since February 23, 2020; two, police station-wise copies of FIR; and three, complaints not converted into FIRs. The Delhi Police gave no response either to these inquiries or to other clarifications sought by the the Commission. Testimonies by victims, survivors and journalists present ample evidence of the active complicity of the Delhi Police. An institution of a democratic country, the Delhi Police’s decision not to cooperate with the Minorities Commission in its inquiry is a matter of grave concern. A matter of ritual One major recommendation is to urge the Modi government to set up an independent committee headed by a retired High Court judge to inquire into the violence. Almost as a matter of ritual, such committees have been set up to examine various riots in modern India. But the track record of even the so-called secular non-BJP governments to implement the recommendations of such reports has been shoddy, contributing to the growing limitations of the Indian state to grapple with riots. And then there are other issues. For instance, the Justice Sahai Commission set up to investigate the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 gave a clean chit to the Home Department responsible for law and order under the then Chief Minister, Akhilesh Yadav. The Justice A.S. Naidu commission investigating the anti-Christian violence in Kandhamal, Odisha, in 2008, submitted its report in December 2015, but that report is yet to be tabled in the State Assembly. However, the fact that previous governments have not taken the reports of such Committees seriously should not discourage the setting up of Committees to examine riots. If nothing else, such reports remain useful as historical records. Shaikh Mujibur Rehman teaches at Jamia Millia Central University, New Delhi
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||In reverse gear||The Union Ministry of Environment has been in the spotlight on more than one occasion during the pandemic, as it worked to push through retrograde environmental decisions in an atmosphere of general paralysis. In April, Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar used a virtual conference to ensure that the National Board for Wildlife’s Standing Committee stamped its approval on several projects, with serious implications for conservation. He now wants to hurriedly make a fundamental change to the process of project approvals, by introducing a new Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification. Now in draft, it seeks to replace the existing EIA notification of 2006. The proposed provisions show that the Ministry has gone to great lengths to reduce or even remove public participation, and by extension independent expert opinion, from the process of granting environmental clearances; public reporting of violations may also not be taken cognisance of. While there can be no argument about the importance of development projects, it has resorted to sophistry in classifying activity for exemptions. Section 26 provides a list of projects that would not attract environmental clearance or permission, including coal mining and seismic surveys for oil, methane and shale gas on some lands. Section 14 provides exemption for these and some other projects from public consultation, also limiting the scope of public involvement to the districts concerned, in the case of national parks and sanctuaries where pipeline infrastructure will pass. Roads and highways get liberal concessions. Further, it retains the clause that if a public agency or authority considers the local situation not conducive to participation by citizens, the public consultation need not include a public hearing. In spite of the far-reaching nature of its proposed actions, the Centre has displayed unseemly haste to get them in place and Mr. Javadekar has not aided credibility by trying to shut down public responses to the draft early. It took a Delhi High Court order to extend the deadline to August 11. The exercise has been further muddied by the mysterious blocking of some activist websites calling for the EIA proposal to be dropped, and demanding a new approach towards conserving natural resources for future generations. Clearly, the Centre’s attempts at weakening checks and balances are not new. A study of coal mining clearances shows that 4,302 hectares of forest were diverted during 2014-18, favouring extraction over conservation. COVID-19 has powerfully demonstrated the value of nature for well-being: of lost forests and captured wildlife bringing virus reservoirs closer to humans and foul air destroying their health. While there might be a case for some changes, much of the proposed EIA system can only make things worse, and should not be pushed through.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Sudan’s troubles||The massacre of over 60 people over the weekend in Sudan’s Darfur region marks a further escalation in the violence blighting the territory since the 2019 ouster of the country’s dictator Omar al-Bashir. About 500 armed men targeted the Masalit community in west Darfur’s Masteri town, according to the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. On Friday, 20 people, including women and children, were gunned down in a South Darfur town when displaced farmers were returning to the region under a recent government-backed agreement with the original landowners. Days earlier, Khartoum declared an emergency in the North Darfur region after a police station was burned down and vehicles set on fire by protesters in a small town and militias attacked another. These incidents are a reminder of the unfinished task of restoring stability in Darfur racked by a conflict between the nation’s dominant Arab rulers and the African ethnic communities demanding greater autonomy from Khartoum. Nertiti town in central Darfur has become the epicentre of the growing opposition in the region. The mass sit-ins since June have attracted wider support from the professional classes that spearheaded the 2019 popular uprising that led to the fall of the autocratic regime of Mr. Bashir. In response to demands from women’s groups for basic protection following the violence, Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok has announced the deployment of additional security forces. But the continuing tensions merely reinforce concerns that the government’s assurances at the beginning of this month have not translated into concrete measures. Another key demand is the hand-over of Mr. Bashir to The Hague to be tried for genocide and atrocities in Darfur. While some officials have sounded positive on the question, top military officials in the transitional government are said to be concerned about the risk that others close to him could be implicated. Meanwhile, extraditing Mr. Bashir — now imprisoned in Khartoum — could serve as a useful trade-off for the government to restore ties with the West, have sanctions removed and attract investment. Sudan’s largely young and educated population counts on advances in economic growth and guarantees of democratic freedoms to better its prospects overall. The issue will test the tenuous ties between the military and the civilian-led government and the credibility of the progress to a participatory democracy. At any rate, securing the peace in the nation’s west is critical for Sudan’s broader democratic transition that was set in motion last year. An immediate end to the violence in Darfur ought to be Khartoum’s uppermost priority. Restoration of normalcy is also the only route to the timely conduct of democratic elections.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The Rules in the Commons. (From an editorial)||The debate on the Reforms Rules in the Commons once again throws light on the extent to which we can depend on the present Parliament to get our point of view given due consideration. Except in regard to two small amendments, which Mr. Montagu accepted, the House approved of all the reactionary Rules in toto. Col. Wedgwood, un-discouraged by disappointment and unmindful of the impatience of the salaried legislators to be done with the whole thing, moved a series of amendments calculated to democratise the franchise and liberalise the powers of the legislatures. As may have been expected perhaps, all these amendments except one, were negatived without even the pretence of any serious discussion. The Rules, as they stand at present, are, some of them, calculated to fetter the discretion of the electorates in regard to the choice of candidate to represent them in the Councils. We have not a plethora of candidates of unbending independence and the bureaucracy has strived, unfortunately with success, to disqualify even those that we have from standing as candidates for election to the Council.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||AIR forced to stop transmission||The Cuttack station of All India Radio switched off its transmission at 7:45 this morning [July 27], an hour after the “Orissa bandh” to press for the second steel plant started. Fifty pro-bandh volunteers forced their entry into the A.I.R. station, raising threatening slogans this morning. They also cut telephone wires. The Additional District Magistrate, who was on duty, ordered the Station Director to stop the broadcast in the interests of maintaining law and order. The Station Director rushed an officer to switch off the transmitter located 10 miles away. The Magistrate, in his order, said that the circumstances were so serious that unless broadcast was stopped, there was likelihood of grave threat to law and order and bloodshed and danger to life and property. Contingents of the Central Reserve Police posted at the A.I.R. station was withdrawn last night and the Orissa Military Police took over guard duty. It is learnt that last night, a spokesman of the all-party action committee which has organised the bandh, spoke to the Union Minister, Mr. Satyanarayan Sinha over the phone and pleaded with him to close down the A.I.R. station in Cuttack.
28 July 2020||TURIN,||Juventus seals ninth straight title||Cristiano Ronaldo powered Juventus to its ninth straight Serie A title on Sunday in a 2-0 win over Sampdoria that put it over the line with two matches to spare. Ronaldo opened the scoring deep into first-half stoppage-time and then had a hand in Federico Bernardeschi netting the second after 66 minutes. The five-time Ballon d’Or winner missed a late penalty but Maurizio Sarri’s side moved seven points ahead of second-placed Inter Milan to seal a 36th Scudetto . The title is Sarri’s first and extends a record run which Antonio Conte started with three titles from 2012 and Massimiliano Allegri continued with the following five. “It has a sweet taste. Winning is hard and this club has been winning for so many years,” said Sarri, whose only previous trophy was the Europa League last year with Chelsea. Matching a record  Ronaldo, who brought his tally to 31 this season, matched Felice Borel, the last player to score 31 goals for Juventus (in 1933-34). But he remains three goals behind the leading scorer Ciro Immobile, who scored a hat-trick in Lazio’s 5-1 win over Hellas Verona.  “This title is dedicated to all Juventus fans, in particular to those who have suffered and are suffering from the pandemic that has taken us all by surprise by overturning the world,” said Ronaldo on Instagram  The results:   Bologna 3 (Palacio 2, Soriano 5, Barrow 9 0+3) bt Lecce 2 (Mancosu 45+2, Falco 66).   Roma 2 (Veretout 45-pen, 87-pen) bt Fiorentina 1 (Milenkovic 54); Cagliari 0 lost to Udinese 1 (Okaka 2).   Hellas Verona 1 (Amrabat 39-pen) lost to Lazio 5 (Immobile 45+6-pen, 83, 90+4-pen, Milinkovic-Savic 56, Correa 63).   SPAL 1 (D’Alessandro 80) drew with Torino 1 (Verdi 57); Juventus 2 (Ronaldo 45+7, Bernardeschi 67) bt Sampdoria 0.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Be mentally peaceful, emotionally calm and find ways to survive: Paes||Leander Paes emphasised on the emotional strength and mental confidence for the tennis fraternity to fight the global gloom triggered by the coronavirus pandemic. In a webinar organised by Decathlon, the 18-time Grand Slam champion and Atlanta Olympics singles medallist, Leander was joined by former national champion Nitten Kirrtane, physio and coach Sanjay Singh apart from coach Sachin Singh. Anandita Mitra of Decathlon posed the questions to get the best out of the champions and coaches, in the first show of the series, Ace Talks. Paes sympathised with the coaches and other sports professionals who were struggling in lockdown, and said that the challenge was for everyone “to be mentally peaceful, emotionally calm and find ways to survive’’. “We were supposed to be playing in the Tokyo Olympics now. The global travel is not safe till they find a vaccine for the virus. We have to find a way to get through the pandemic,” said Paes.  Terming Paes “everyone’s tennis guru” owing to his phenomenal success over the years, Nitten stressed the importance of following all the safety norms while playing the game. Nitten said that the will to win was important, as much as it was, to have a strategy for a match and the need to have plan A, B, C in dealing with an opponent. Sachin Singh said that it was essential to play every point well and stay positive. Agreeing that the Indian players matured late, Leander said that the key was to capitalise on the intellect, communicate well and build a team around one’s self, to enhance collective growth. “I never feared missing a shot or losing a match. We have to keep improving every day to be the best version of ourselves’’, said Paes. From his coaching base in Florida, Sanjay Singh, who had accompanied Paes around the world for decades, suggested the importance of capitalising on the negative factors. “The more you get hurt by people, the stronger you become. In the toughest conditions, Leander used to be the best,” said Sanjay.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fighting Anand leads Gelfand||Searching for form, Viswanathan Anand lived dangerously before carving out a fine 45-move win over Boris Gelfand in the first game of the seventh round of the of chess24 Legends of Chess on Monday. A day after losing the tie-breaking Armageddon game, this time to Ian Nepomniachtchi, Anand found himself in serious trouble in the middle game. He conceded too much space to Gelfand whose well-placed pieces appeared ready to launch a serious offensive on black’s castled king. Anand chose to sacrifice a knight for two pawns, including one in the centre, exchanged a few pieces to ease the pressure. But advantage remained with Gelfand. Comeback With three connected passed pawns on the queenside, Anand kept his fighting chances alive. He eventually equalised around the 35th move, traded all his pieces over the next 10 moves and forced Gelfand to resign after planting two connected pawns on the seventh rank. On Sunday, Anand lost the second game but drew level to force the Armageddon game by winning the fourth game with black pieces. However, in the decider, he proved far slower than ‘speed-king’ Nepomniachtchi, who won with white.  The results: Seventh round (Game One): Boris Gelfand (Isr) lost to Viswanathan Anand; Magnus Carlsen (Nor) drew with Peter Svidler (Rus); Peter Leko (Rus) drew with Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus); Ding Liren (Chn) lost to Anish Giri (Ned); Vassily Ivanchuk (Ukr) bt Vladimir Kramnik (Rus).   Sixth round: Nepomniachtchi bt Anand 3-2; Kramnik bt Gelfand 3-2; Svidler bt Ivanchuk 3-2; Giri bt Leko 2.5-1.5 .
28 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Hakim shows his fighting qualities||Olympian S.S. Hakim has been a fighter on the football field. The 81-year-old has now shown similar qualities in taking on the dreaded COVID-19. “My health has improved a lot. The doctors have just now checked my condition and said I might be discharged in three or four days as there are no more complications,” a visibly elated Hakim told The Hindu on Monday. The 1960 Olympian is being treated at a hotel in the City since July 13. “I preferred to be here after I failed to get a bed in the Military Hospital. “I did go to Osmania General Hospital but decided not to be in-patient as I was not comfortable there,” he said. Shocking On the medical expenses, Hakim said his family members had been taking care of the daily expenditure of about Rs. 12,000. “I am not here to ask anyone for help. You will be shocked to know that a Telangana State Minister asked me which sport I played,” he said. “But, I tell you I will continue to fight for the cause of the players — particularly the old timers who have no means to take care of even minimal medical assistance — once I am discharged,” the former IAF officer said. “It is disgusting to say that none from the Federation or the government are bothered about yesteryear stars. This is the reason I have always raised my voice to create a corpus fund for the benefit of all those who were passionate about the sport and took pride in representing India,” he concluded.
28 July 2020||MANCHESTER,||Rain wipes out fourth day’s play||Rain wiped out the fourth day’s play on Monday to frustrate England’s bid for a series-clinching win over the West Indies and keep Stuart Broad waiting for his 500th Test wicket. A persistent downpour meant that the pitch and square remained fully covered. England still has one day left to press for a victory that would see it take the three-match series 2-1. Broad is just one wicket away from becoming only the seventh bowler to join the ‘500 club’ after taking all six West Indies wickets that fell on Sunday. After his six-wicket haul in the first innings, he took two more in the second innings as the visitors finished at 10 for two, chasing 399.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Harmeet hoping to play in France soon||Harmeet Desai, the reigning Commonwealth table tennis champion and India’s third-best player, is hoping to fly out of the country sometime in August to play in the French league, which begins in October. “The process for the work visa is on. Once that is done quickly, I will leave possibly in August,” the 27-year-old told The Hindu on Monday from Surat. Harmeet said the reason for shifting to France from Germany — he played for TTCOE Bad Homburg last year — was the option to play a lesser number of matches. “One of the major reasons why I moved to the second division French club (Loire Nord TTC) was that I could also compete in the domestic circuit, play a few tournaments for my employer ONGC and concentrate on Pro Tours as well,” said the World No.72.  Back home, Harmeet has not been crippled by the lockdown. He sparred with a robot for the first few months and is now practising with a friend. “The COVID-19 cases in Surat have not subsided, but flights have started operating. Having a work visa, the chances of my booking a flight is high,” he said.  Why I moved to the second division French club (Loire Nord TTC) was that I could also compete in the domestic circuit, play a few tournaments for my employer ONGC
28 July 2020||Duabi,||IPL: Emirates Board confirms BCCI’s LoI||The Emirates Cricket Board (ECB) on Monday confirmed that it has received the official ‘Letter of Intent’ from the BCCI accepting their offer to host the 2020 Indian Premier League (IPL) in the UAE. “We have received the (official) letter and now wait on the decision from the Indian Government which will ink the final deal,” said Mubashshir Usmani, Emirates Cricket Board Secretary-General, in a statement. Though the Indian government’s approval is still awaited, Usmani stated both Boards have “fully mobilised and have instigated discussions with the relevant authorities, including their respective internal working-committees, in preparation of hosting the tournament in a safe, protected environment.”
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||ICC working to fix the WTC schedule||The World Test Championship schedule has been thrown haywire by the COVID-19 pandemic, and its much-awaited final next year will depend on the number of rescheduled bilateral series after the disruption, ICC GM (Cricket Operations) Geoff Allardice said on Monday.  COVID-19 has thrown the Future Tours Programme (FTP) into disarray, with the T20 World Cup already postponed to give member nations time to complete their bilateral commitments. “We are currently in discussion with members on what their plans are around rescheduling their series,” Allardice said during an interaction with news agencies. Given the circumstances and tight schedules, ICC might have to postpone the June final at Lord’s as Bangladesh, New Zealand, Sri Lanka, England have series backlogs. ODI Super League Meanwhile, the ICC on Monday launched the ODI Super League, a qualifier for the 2023 World Cup in India that aims to add context to the 50-over format. Host India and the next seven teams in the Super League will automatically qualify for the World Cup, the world body stated in a press release. To begin on July 30 The competition begins with a series between World champion England and Ireland, beginning at Southampton on July 30. The rest of the schedule is yet to be finalised and will be unveiled later.
28 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Bhaskar for proper grooming of age-group champions||Former SAI badminton coach P.U. Bhaskar Babu, who has been recommended for the Dronacharya Award by the Badminton Association of India and World champion P.V. Sindhu, is concerned about the big question – who next after Saina Nehwal and Sindhu in women’s singles from India?  Huge gap The 65-year-old, who runs the Bhaskar Babu-MLRIT Academy here, says there is a huge gap in the standards set by the champion duo and what the young talent is displaying now. Bhaskar, considered Saina’s ‘lucky mascot’ when she was having a dream run with him as coach between 2006 and 2011, believes the biggest reason for this gap is the disbanding of most of the schemes drawn up by SAI and the State Sports Authority. “All the big names in sports till the 90s were products of either the sports hostels of the State or the SAI Academies. “A beginning has to be made now by grooming the winner and runner-up in each of the age groups at State-level,” he says. Training and exposure “They should be given scientific training and international exposure with emphasis on an honest selection process. “More academies is not the answer. Basic training is missing in 90% of them and there is no strong foundation. This means the young talent is fading away too quickly,” says Bhaskar. “Money is being spent by both the Central and the State governments. But, how judiciously is the question. There has to be a professional approach by all concerned and greater accountability too,” he adds. Bhaskar says Saina, given her fighting qualities, can still play at the highest level for another two years but has to put in a lot of effort, while Sindhu will dominate for another five years but has to constantly work on her game. “I would love the World champion to play her natural attacking game,” says Bhaskar.
28 July 2020||KOLKATA,||National boxing camp resumes||As the National boxing camp resumed on Monday, following the coronavirus-induced break, high performance director Santiago Nieva said the boxers must adapt to the ‘little new ways’ of training. Altogether 11 elite boxers, including six women, took part in two training sessions at NIS Patiala on the opening day. Amit Panghal, Gaurav Solanki, Mohammed Hussamuddin among men and Simranjit Kaur and Pooja Rani among the women were some of the prominent boxers who attended the camp. Three more are expected to complete their quarantine and join the training on Tuesday. “We are planning to take 10 more boxers in August and another 10 in September to make the camp complete,” Nieva told The Hindu . “I found the boxers to be in good spirits even after three weeks of quarantine. It has been a long time that most of them have been without proper conditioning. Now there is no need to look back.” Nieva said the intensity of training would increase gradually. “This week it will not be too hard. We will increase the load little by little.” According to Nieva, the boxers needed to get used to the new normal. “We have to adapt like anybody else. Right now, there cannot be much sparring anyway. We have to see when we are allowed to spar. “Since we cannot do any contact work, we have to adapt to the little new ways of work like doing school boxing (the basics) and more bag work.” In the one-year run-up to the Olympics, Nieva said some variations would be there in the training. “This is the first preparatory phase. We have to build up the boxers physically before concentrating on boxing. “Preparation for the Olympics is a four-year cycle and you do different things in different years. So, in order to accommodate the fifth year we have to try out some new things, some variations, so that it does not become boring. But the core of the work will remain the same,” said Nieva.
28 July 2020||CHENNAI,||MRF clinches fourth spot||Team MRF Tyres finished a commendable fourth in the Rally di Roma Capitale in Italy, the opening round of the 2020 European Rally Championship on Sunday. The duo of Craig Breen and Paul Nagle, driving the Hyundai i20 R5, was fifth going into the final day. They were locked in an intense battle for the fourth position with Simone Tempestini and Sergiu Itu, the pairs swapping positions throughout the day. Breen had started the final loop in the fifth spot, but immediately moved to fourth. He consolidated his position on the penultimate stage, building a 4.5 second gap. Breen took the fourth place, beating Tempestini by 1.3 seconds. “We made gradual improvements over the weekend to learn how to get the best out of the tyres. To finish fourth is great and an absolute credit to the team,” said Breen. In the ERC1 category, the Finnish combination of Emil Lindholm and Mikael Korhonen, driving a Skoda Fabia R5 evo2 for Team MRF, ended 10th.
28 July 2020||Kolkata,||Climb or perish — Himalayan plant species trek to survive||Found from Kumaon to Kashmir at elevations of 3,000 to 5,000 meters, the Blue poppy, Meconopis acculette, is considered the Queen of Himalayan Flowers. However, a recent comparative study of abundance of the species in alpine moraines at different elevations indicated that it is slowly depleting at lower altitudes and rocky moraines. High alpine rock screes — small, loose stones and rock fragments — and lateral periglacial moraines seem to be the core occupancy zone of the species. Not only the Blue Poppy but several other flowering plants, found at very high altitudes, are facing the “climb higher or die” situation due to climate change. Details of the vulnerable periglacial species and their survival strategies have been recorded in a publication from the Botanical Survey of India ( BSI) in a recent study: “Periglacial Flora of Western Himalayas Diversity And Climate Change Vulnerability”. The publication lists 243 such plants found at very high altitude, fragile ecosystems. Vulnerable habitats Plants belonging to the group Saussurea, such as the endangered Himkamal, including Saussurea Obvallata and Saussurea gnaphaloides, have been found vulnerable to habitat loss and population depletion. Researchers also recorded that the Solms-laubachia himalayensis, a high-altitude flowering plant, was now found at higher reaches, above 6,000 metres. The researchers also list extremely habitat sensitive periglacial endemic species which showed different levels of depletion. Species belonging to the genus Corydalis like Corydalis violacea and Corydalis meifolia, and Waldhemia vestita — commonly named Wolly Ground Daisy — are among those with falling numbers. During the recent field exploration, scientists could not locate Sedum seelemanni , known only by the type collection in 1886, raising the alarming prospect of the species having gone extinct. Based on field data “We had data of the habitat of the peri-glacial flowering plants from the 1960s, which was published in 1975. This publication is based on field data collected only a few years ago and gives an idea about the horizontal and vertical movements of the species,” said D.K. Singh, former BSI scientist and one of the authors. The publication not only lists the prime vulnerable species but also records acclimatisation and dominance of certain species like the Himaylayan sorrel ( Rumex nepalensis) , which has not only become dominant but also crowded out certain alpine medicinal herbs because of its invasive nature. “Today, the species is literally found in every Himalayan valley of the western Himalayas,” the publication states.
28 July 2020||Mumbai,||Hindi films evaded me after Oscar win: Resul||Sound designer Resul Pookutty on Monday said he stopped getting work in the Hindi film industry after he won an Oscar for Slumdog Millionaire , with some production houses even telling him upfront that they didn’t “need” him at all. Oscar-winning composer A.R. Rahman recently spoke about a “gang” that was preventing him from getting work in Bollywood. His statement came amid a raging “insider versus outsider” debate in Bollywood following actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death last month. Sharing Mr. Rahman’s statement, filmmaker Shekhar Kapur had tweeted on Sunday that Bollywood can get insecure of an artiste who has earned recognition from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS). In a reply to the director, Mr. Pookutty said he had gone through similar instances in the industry and it was the regional cinema industry who understood his value.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 09:43 IST,||Sudoku - July 28, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||As good as it gets||The hardest part of work-from-home, five months into a nightmarish lockdown, is to have a local government that still does not deem delivery of electronics as an ‘essential service’. That said, when we receive a package from Oppo with its latest flagship — Find X2 — secured inside, I am more than ready to dive into the experience. The first thing you notice about this phone that retails at Rs. 64,990, is its borderless, curved OLED display (with 3K QHD+ resolution) that gives you a screen ratio of 93.1%. Of course, curved displays are the fad now. Samsung, Xiaomi, Motorola, Huawei and the BBK Electronics trifecta — OnePlus, Vivo and Oppo — are amongst those who manufacture these devices that are gorgeous to look at. However, it is no secret that it may take a while for your palm to get used to a curved display; it is definitely not to everyone’s preference, and chances are that you could also encounter touch response lag in certain areas. Our review device was ceramic black. It weighs a little over 200gm and the moment you hold it, the class is evident with the premium metallic feel. On the back panel, tiny patterns looking like concentric circles are engraved which feel like fingerprints. The phone supports dual SIM, cleverly designed one below the other. The box comes with a simple headset and a protective case. Using this is a must because the downside of its classy design is that the Find X2 scores an 85/100 for ‘risk of slipping’ (arbitrary score but you get the point). Lightning quick The most stunning feature of the Find X2 is the 65W SuperVOOC 2.0 flash charger which is based on a concept of ‘charge for 5 minutes, play games for 2 hours.’ The Find X2 powers up in a jiffy. Here is the comparison: the Find X2 took 37 minutes to go from zero to 100, the same time my OnePlus 7 needed to go from 53% to 89%. Only time will tell if such fast charging would have a long-term impact on the battery. That said, the SuperVOOC 2.0 would leave very few unimpressed. For the highest discharge efficiency, the SuperVOOC system judges the various voltage levels required by different internal components and allocates voltage accordingly through its back-end charge pump. The Find X2 also boasts an impressive battery standby time: with no additional features such as the Nature Tone Display and Ultra Vision Engine turned on, we observed only a 3% drop in charge over a 12-hour period. The Find X2 is also one of the best in terms of performance. The phone, like many flagship models, is equipped with the latest Qualcomm Snapdragon 865 Octa-core processor. Not once was performance lag an issue, or even noticeable, as we switched between multiple apps, played music, recorded videos and clicked pictures, all while constantly altering screen brightness, turning the display enhancement features on and off, coursing through display themes and initiating multiple downloads. There was no lag even when we drew heavy games like Real Racing over other apps. Picture perfect Oppo’s in-house ColorOS version 7.1 drawn over the stock Android 10 works a treat. During start-up, there is an additional 500MB-plus worth of bloatware and custom apps that Oppo attempts to push on you, although there is an option to skip. The sheer number of TikTok-like apps that Oppo has included in the package can work you up. The fingerprint sensor and face unlock features too work like a charm. Microphones and the cameras in the Find X2 come in threes. There is no chance of a word you speak going unheard unless it is a network connectivity issue. And its three cameras will surely turn you into an Instagram addict. The Find X2 Pro does possess better camera specs, but this one is no less in terms of quality. The bokeh mode is spectacular; there will be more you in a selfie henceforth with a negligible amount of the detail missing. Another cool feature is that Oppo has included a panorama option for the front facing camera. And so, the verdict: provided there are no bones to pick with the price, the Find X2 is a real find.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Increased stamina||I got off to a rocky start with the Galaxy Buds+; I was initially excited to see how the upgrade to the Galaxy Buds would fare. I, like millions of others, came to rely on earphones and headphones a lot more during the lockdown for home workouts, meditation sessions, streaming, and video-chatting. So when I first unboxed the Buds+, I was one of many who experienced one earbud having connectivity issues — an issue that had long been happening for many — but not all — Galaxy Buds series users as indicated by Reddit and Samsung community forums. The Galaxy Buds+ comes in a palm-sized box and, as a standard, there is a short USB-C type charging cord, the interchangeable wingtips and edge grip bands depending on the user’s comfort level. Compared to the original Buds, the charging case of the Buds+ sports a glossier finish. Of course, these are pricier than the originals, currently costing Rs. 10,490 on the Samung India website, placing them in the mid-to-high market range. As mentioned earlier, only one earbud connected and, while playing music, the clear and bass-friendly profile piqued my interest. So I asked Samsung to take a look at the glitch and sent them back. The servicing was not as quick as I would have liked, but I put that down to the lockdowns underway. Put to the test Finally, when the serviced earbuds came through, connectivity was glitch-free and the sound lived up to expectations — an improvement from the original Buds which already had impressive sound profile. This is because there is a dedicated tweeter and woofer in each earbud so different layers of a single audio track can be discerned without sounding separated. Earphone users who do not like in-ear earbuds might give these a pass as the sound does get overwhelming during bass-heavy tracks. I do prefer in-ear earbuds for that comfortable fit and immersive experience as opposed to the Apple Airpods or the Mi True Wireless Earphones 2. Calls hold up decently with the Buds+. The Buds had interference issues while the Buds+, thanks to a secondary external mic, eradicates this issue, so your video-chats, phone calls or live transcribing goes off without a hitch. I have to hand it to the Buds+ when it comes to battery life. Not only can one look forward to 11 hours of Buds+ battery life but the charging case holds 22 hours and it takes just a few minutes to charge up earbuds for an hour’s worth of listening. Those who prefer to minimise the number of wires lying about can enjoy the Qi wireless charging capability of the charging case. However, this is not as fast so I would opt for the wired charging. Samsung focus on their ecosystem is strengthened by the Samsung Galaxy Buds app for iOS or if you are using a Samsung smartphone, the Wearable app. This is a central hub for the brand’s gadgets. Hook up the Buds+ to the Wearable app and you can monitor the status of the earbuds: the charging, and the connection strength. One can also make ambient sound adjustments, operate ‘find my earbuds’, software updates, an EQ, and more. The initial connectivity issue was a bit of a let-down; if you were to fork over that much money for earbuds, and the issue itself seems to be an odd occurrence for a brand like Samsung. I would suggest taking the servicing up with Samsung; they are as prompt as can be during these times. However, they need to fix this issue promptly if they want their Galaxy Buds range to really live up to the hype; perhaps we can look forward to a permanent fix with the imminent release of the Galaxy Buds Live. But out of the earbuds released across the market this year, the Buds+ do redeem themselves for their compact design, snug fit, excellent sound and impressive battery life.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||Glitches mar DU online mock exams yet again||Scores of Delhi University students appearing for online mock tests on the first day of the second attempt at the exercise on Monday complained of technical problems. Earlier, the university had conducted mock tests on July 4, which were marred by delays, uploading and downloading errors and other glitches. The university is now conducting another set of mock tests, the “first phase” of which will end on Wednesday. This time, students are being given a generic question paper, which does not contain syllabus-specific questions, for the sake of the exercise. Several students, complaining about different aspects of the exams, wrote to the Vice-Chancellor, exam grievance committee, Dean of Examinations and the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA). Priyadarshini Bhagey, a student, complained that when she logged in for the exam around 3.30 p.m., there was no question paper available. She faced the problem for nearly an hour before writing to authorities. No resolution Another student who forgot his password was unable to reset it to access the portal despite double checking his entries multiple times, hence, getting logged out. Others complained about inability to access the portal due to server overload errors, problems in uploading question papers. Priyanka Saini, a resident of Sonipat, was unable to enter the correct date due to technical issues. Complaints to college authorities allegedly did not help solve the issue.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||No. of fresh cases continues to drop, daily testing also dips||The city recorded 613 fresh COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,31,219, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. The number of new cases is low, but the total number of tests done in the past 24 hours was just 11,506 — which is less compared to the rest of July when the average daily tests done was a little over 20,000. Of the total 11,506 tests conducted, 66.7% were rapid antigen tests, which have shown low positivity in the city compared to RT-PCR tests. The number of tests in Monday’s bulletin is usually low as it reports the tests done on Sunday, said officials. On June 23, the city recorded nearly 4,000 new cases — the highest so far. Since then the number of fresh infections has been dropping and it has been less than 1,500 for the past 11 days. Monday’s bulletin stated that 26 more deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the toll 3,853. Of the total cases, 1,16,372 people have recovered and there are currently 10,994 active cases. There were 27,007 active cases on July 1. The number of people admitted to COVID-19 hospitals has also been decreasing. A total of 5,892 COVID-19 beds were occupied on July 1, this dropped to 2,835 on Monday. In the same period, the number of patients in home isolation has decreased from 16,703 to 6,638. The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has also dropped from 12.2% to 5.3%. The number of containment zones was 716 on Monday compared to 461 on June 22 — when the government decided to redesign such zones.
28 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab farmers protest against Centre’s agriculture ordinances||Farmer outfits took out a ‘tractor march’ in Punjab on Monday to protest against the Centre’s recently promulgated agriculture ordinances and amendment to the Electricity Act. Organisations under the banner of All-India Kissan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) staged protests in most districts of the State. Farmers shouted slogans against the ordinances and demanded their immediate withdrawal, besides revocation of the amendment to the Electricity Act. Darshan Paul, convener of AIKSCC, said apart from the ‘tractor march’, farmers also staged demonstrations outside the residences of prominent leaders of the BJP and the Akali Dal in the State. The outfits that participated in the protests included Bharti Kissan Union, Ekta (Dakaunda), Kirti Kissan Union, Zamhoori Kissan Sabha, Kul Hind Kissan Sabha, All-India Kissan Sabha (Ajai-Bhawan), Kissan Sangharsh Committee, Azaad Kissan Sangharsh Committee, Jai Kissan Andolan, Bharti Kissan Union Ekta (Ugrahan) and Bharti Kissan Union (Krantikari). “All these ordinances are paving the way for crop marketing to go into the hands of corporate houses and the government has contemplated abolishing the Minimum Support Price. The government’s policy would also make thousands of employees and labourers unemployed due to abolition of the marketing system. Also, the three ordinances will dilute the federal structure,” said Mr. Paul. Nirbhay Singh, State president of Kirti Kissan Union, said the Akali Dal has exposed its anti-farmer face by supporting the decisions of the BJP.  State govt. criticised “The ruling Congress government in the State has also been trying to curb farmers’ protests under the garb of COVID-19, which gives an impression that the government was hand in glove with the Union government. If the Centre did not withdraw the anti-farmers ordinances then we will be forced to intensify our agitation to protect our rights,” said Mr. Singh.
28 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Over 50% doctors’ posts lying vacant in Odisha, reveals RTI||More than half of sanctioned doctors’ posts have been lying vacant in Odisha at the time of COVID-19 pandemic, says information obtained by exercise of the RTI Act. The State has 8,719 sanctioned doctors’ posts which are filled up by regular, ad hoc and contractual doctors. However, there were no doctors in 4,493 positions accounting for 51.53%. According to information obtained by Pradip Pradhan, an RTI activist, only 3,682 regular doctors, 51 ad hoc medics, 407 contractual doctors and 80 doctors recruited through District Mineral Fund were working as usual by April this year. “Tribal dominated districts, which have poor track record in infant mortality and malnutrition, are worst-affected as 62% of doctors’ posts in those districts were lying vacant,” said Mr. Pradhan. He said 260 doctors were absconding for years together whereas the government was clueless in tracing them and initiating action against them. “It is alleged that most of these absentee doctors are working in private hospitals and the administration is aware of it,” charged Mr. Pradhan.  ‘Ganjam worst hit’ The RTI activist said Ganjam, which emerged as the epicentre of the pandemic and the home district of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, had the highest numbers of vacancies with 348 doctors (62%) found to be not in positions. Recently, the government faced criticism from the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders as it had to shift more than 100 doctors from southern and western Odisha districts to Ganjam to tackle the COVID-19 outbreak. The government was also forced to increase retirement age of doctors from 62 to 65 which was seen as a desperate attempt to retain doctors with current pandemic not going to end soon. Faced with crisis of large- scale doctor’s vacancies and weak infrastructure in government health systems, the Naveen Patnaik government had to initially rope in private players to set up COVID-19 hospitals to deal with exigencies during the pandemic.  “Tribal districts are worst-affected as 62% of posts were lying vacant Pradip PradhanRTI activist
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||Riots: HC asks police to submit July 8 order||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the police to produce a copy of an alleged order issued on July 8 by Special CP (Crime and Economic Offences Wing) Praveer Ranjan to all investigating Officers and teams that are probing cases related to the north-east Delhi riots. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait gave the direction on a joint petition filed by two individuals whose family members died in the riots. ‘Illegal interference’ The petition contended that the July 8 order caused “illegal interference” in ongoing investigations with the intent of influencing the said investigations. The High Court, however, observed that the petitioners could have got a copy of the July 8 order through an RTI application before filing their petition, which is based on newspaper reports. The court also noted that no action can be taken based on newspaper reports. The joint petition filed through advocate Mehmood Pracha sought quashing of the July 8 order, claiming that “it gives a clear indication to all investigating teams to screen offenders if they belong to the Hindu community”. The petition quoted a news article in which the senior officer allegedly stated that there was a degree of resentment in the Hindu community against the arrest of certain Hindu persons, while directing investigating officers that they should be careful in the future when making arrests. The petition stated that on July 15 the office of the Commissioner of Police tweeted a clarification to the news article, but does not deny that such an order was indeed passed by the Special CP. The plea quoted the clarification where the police said, “Tone and tenor of the article is highly misleading and seeks to give an impression of the police being biased”. “News item ignores the spirit of the order where it has been specifically stated that any arrest irrespective of any class, community or religious group be done on the basis of evidence and does not give an impression of being arbitrary,” the police had clarified.
28 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||MCG demolishes 500 shanties on Mehrauli-Gurugram Road||Around 500 shanties at Shyam Jha colony in the Aravalis behind the ‘Marble Market’ on Mehrauli-Gurugram Road were demolished by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram on Monday. Earlier on July 23, 100-odd shanties were demolished at the colony. The residents contended that they had been staying at the colony for more than two decades and had identity documents, such as voter identity card, Aadhaar card and labour cards. They said that most of them were rendered jobless due to the pandemic and were now even without shelter and food. Saroj Devi, one of the residents, alleged that the demolition squad pulled her shanty down on July 23 without prior information. She said that she had been preparing for her daughter’s wedding and bought utensils, clothes and a water tank, but all the items were damaged. “My husband was away at that time. The women police personnel did not allow me and my daughter to even remove our belongings,” said Saroj, a domestic worker. Sheela Devi, a widow, said she had been making both ends meet somehow, but had lost “everything” in the drive. The families alleged that they were forced to stay put under the open sky and had no where to go. “It has been raining every other day. The government has been asking people to stay indoors due to the pandemic, but we are homeless. We cannot even afford to rent a room,” said Shri Ram. Santosh Paswan, who works at a courier office, said “Around 80% people here are without jobs now.” Arun Kumar, another resident, alleged that the demolition squad took away belongings, including grocery items. Most of the residents at the colony are construction and domestic workers from Bihar and U.P. Urmila, a resident, claimed the residents met Badshahpur MLA Rakesh Daultabad on Sunday, but he too expressed his inability to help.  Joint Commissioner, Zone-III, Hari Om, claimed that announcements were made before the demolition drives.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC restrains Delhi Police from giving information on riot cases||The High Court on Monday restrained Delhi Police from issuing any communication to the media relating to the north-east Delhi riots cases, including that of Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita, till the trial in the cases commence. “The cases concerning communal riots are undoubtedly sensitive,” Justice Vibhu Bakru remarked, while ordering the police “not to issue any further communication naming any accused or any witness till the charges, if any, are framed and the trial is commenced”. The court also ordered that unless directed otherwise, the trial is required to be conducted in open court. The decision came on Ms. Kalita’s petition seeking direction to Delhi Police to not leak any allegations pertaining to her to the media pending investigation. Ms. Kalita had argued that a press note issued on June 2 by police selectively leaking information relating to her case was causing grave prejudice to her. Delhi Police’s press note stated that Ms. Kalita, along with others, were actively involved in hatching a conspiracy to cause riots. “The fact that the petitioner [Ms. Kalita] had been arrested in FIR no. 50/2020 has been well publicised. Therefore, her being named in the impugned [press] note cannot be considered to be prejudicial to a fair trial that may ensue,” the court said. “Although, it is correct that the petitioner has been effectively declared to be guilty of the said conspiracy. However, the press release must be read in its context – a chargesheet containing the said allegation is being filed in court,” Justice Bakru said. “The police authorities are not the adjudicators of guilt or innocence of any person...Thus, what is reported is their inference from the investigations, which is articulated in the report [the chargesheet] filed before the court concerned,” the High Court said. “This court is unable to accept that the said police communication violates the fundamental rights of the petitioner or provisions of any law,” it added.  The court, however, observed the contention raised by police, that it was necessary to name Ms. Kalita in view of the campaign being run on social media, was “not persuasive”. “Clearly, it is not necessary to name the accused in media reports,” it remarked, noting that FIRs filed in the riots cases are not being publicly disclosed. Ms. Kalita had also contended that the press note suggests that a whatsapp chat, suggesting actions that should be taken by household women in case of riots, was found on her phone. Responding to this, the court said, “a reading of the impugned note also indicates that the impugned note does not allege that the said whatsapp chat was found on the phone of the petitioner.”
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||Court expresses satisfaction with govt.’s efforts in fighting outbreak||The Delhi High Court on Monday decided to close a public interest litigation initiated by it on the preparedness of authorities and hospitals to fight COVID-19 in the Capital, noting that the Delhi government has taken “adequate steps” by increasing the number of ambulances, augmenting the capacity of helplines, and ramping up testing facilities. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan expressed satisfaction on the work done by the government in handling the outbreak while highlighting that Delhi was the first city in the country to have two plasma banks. The High Court’s direction came after the Delhi government, in an affidavit, stated that 50 lines have been added to augment the capacity of helpline number 1031 so that more calls can be attended simultaneously. Between July 1 and 9, the helpline received a total of 37,289 calls, out of which 34,087 were attended by call centre executives and 2,479 calls through interactive voice response system. The number of unattended calls are dropping significantly, the government said. Buffer stock There are 272 dedicated ambulances for COVID-19 patients and 294 for non-COVID patients. In terms of testing kits, the government said it has a total of 11 lakh rapid antigen detection test (RADT) kits. The government has a sufficient buffer of testing kits worth Rs. 8.27 lakh as on July 14 to meet future demands. The RAD test has been made available free of cost at all government hospitals and 182 dispensaries. The affidavit further stated that the government has capped the price of RT-PCR-based molecular testing at Rs. 2,400 to keep it affordable for the public. There are currently 51 Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) accredited labs — 21 in public sector and 30 in private sector — to carry out RT-PCR tests. Additionally, all private labs have been instructed not to refuse home collection of samples. During the hearing, advocate Om Prakash, who was appointed as amicus curiae to assist the High Court in the case, stated that there was anomaly or irregularity in the real-time information displayed on the Delhi Corona Mobile Application and delhifightscorona.in website regarding occupied and vacant beds in dedicated COVID hospitals. Mr. Prakash submitted that certain COVID-19 hospitals are not timely complying with the government instructions with regard to real time updation of data. Taking note of the submission, the court asked the Delhi government to ensure that the official orders and directions issued by it and the court with regard to real time updation of data on the availability of beds and ventilators and also on conducting tests be followed by the hospitals.
28 July 2020||Patna,||FIR against 26 for protesting against cremations||Police on Monday lodged a case against 26 persons – six named and 20 unnamed – for protesting against the cremation of COVID-19 victims at a ground in Patna. Locals of the north Mandiri area near Bansghat cremation ground in Patna had on Sunday gathered to protest against a COVID-19 victim being consigned to flames, complaining that they too would contract the virus. Bansghat, an old cremation ground in Patna, has been receiving five-six bodies of COVID-19 victims daily on average as cases surge in the State capital. “An FIR has been lodged against six named and 20 unidentified persons under sections 145, 188, 269, 270 of the Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 at Buddha Colony police station,” said officer in-charge Ravi Shanker Singh. Those who are named in the FIR are Alok Raj, Subhas Yadav, Mallu Gope, Ramji Neta, Awadhesh Kumar and Nawal Kishor Gupta, he said. “They had taken out a procession on Sunday without permission from the authorities concerned and also failed to produce valid documents before Chandan Prasad, the magistrate on duty, for violating lockdown norms,” said Mr. Singh. The FIR was lodged on the basis of a complaint written by the magistrate. The district administration had earlier already deputed officials and policemen at Bansghat to deter protesters. To avoid disruptions, cremations were done only at night but the government recently allowed them in the daytime as well after some relatives of COVID-19 victims raised a hue and cry over it. The local people have been demanding that COVID-19 victims be cremated further away from the place.  ‘May get infected’ “What wrong have we done by demanding that COVID-19 victims be cremated at a distance from the usual place? We live nearby and the bodies are consigned to flames on wooden logs… we fear getting infected as it is a highly contagious disease,” said a 30-year old north Mandiri area resident preferring anonymity. “If you publish my name, the local police would also file a case against me,” he said. As the State struggles with the rising caseload and inadequate medical infrastructure, the buzz in political corridors is that the Principal Health Secretary would be replaced again. Uday Singh Kumawat was appointed to the post over a month ago by the Nitish Kumar government, which had in a sudden move transferred the then incumbent Sanjay Kumar. However, the Chief Minister recently expressed unhappiness with Mr. Kumawat’s performance. On Monday, Bihar reported 255 COVID-19 deaths in all with 41,111 positive cases and 27,844 recovered persons (67.73% recovery rate). The State health bulletin said the total number of active cases stood at 13,011 and 4,70,560 tests have been conducted so far.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||Students will not be able to access facilities at CSC during mock test: DU||The High Court was on Monday informed by the Delhi University that students giving mock test will not be able to access the facilities of the Common Service Centre (CSC) as it will be available only for the main final year under graduate examination. The DU gave the submission before Justice Prathiba M. Singh on being asked about the details of the CSC facilities, which were open for the first mock test held on Monday. Justice Singh asked DU to place before it the Memorandum of Understainding (MoU) signed between the varsity and CSC. “We have to ensure that this [exam] goes through smoothly,” the high court said. The court asked CSC’s CEO Dinesh Kumar Tyagi if he had identified all the centres across the country where DU students could go and appear for the exam. “Mr. Tyagi, have you received a list of the complete students as to where they want to give the exams?” the court asked. “There will be students from Kashmir, Kerala, Assam, Tamil Nadu, who may be wanting to take the exam,” the court said, expressing concern regarding the 59,000 to 60,000 outstation students, who would be taking exams from outside Delhi. On the previous hearing, the court was informed by DU that out of the total of 2.45 lakh students, 1.86 lakh are from Delhi and the remaining 59,000-60,000 are from other States. The university has engaged the CSC academy under the aegis of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to facilitate the students with either limited or no network and hardware facility to appear for the open book examinations without payment of fee. On being asked by the court on how much time the grievance redressal committee of the varsity will take once it receives a complaint from a student on an issue faced during the exam, DU said it will take a maximum of five days. The court will continue hearing the case on Friday.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP leaders stage protest outside CM’s residence over electricity bills||The Opposition BJP on Monday staged a demonstration against the alleged collusion between the Delhi government power distribution companies leading to increased electricity bills for consumers. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and other party leaders took part in the protest during which electricity bills were burnt outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence. “The people of Delhi were expecting financial relief from the Delhi government in electricity bills in times of this crisis but instead of giving relief to the people, the Delhi government is working to strengthen its pockets in collusion with power companies,” Mr. Gupta alleged. Disconnection notices “Subsidy on electricity bills should be restored for domestic consumers, actual bills should be sent instead of average bills, there must be withdrawal of electricity disconnection notices. Those having outstanding electricity bills should be allowed to pay the bills in instalments,” Mr. Gupta demanded. Mr. Bidhuri alleged Mr. Kejriwal, who “pretends to be a well wisher of the people of Delhi” had shown his “real face” by giving disconnection notices to power consumers. The BJP demanded fixed charges be waived from electricity bills from March to November. Mr. Bidhuri said such protests would continue in the interests of the people of the city till the Opposition’s demands were met.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||Police arrest cybercriminals targeting export firms||The Cyber Cell of the Delhi police has busted a gang that stole duty rebate licenses of multiple export firms, officials said on Monday. Seven people have been arrested. The accused allegedly stole the licenses from the website of the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) using fake Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) keys, and then sold them to multiple beneficiaries. They allegedly made fake DSC keys of over 100 export firms, and licenses worth Rs. 3.4 crore were siphoned. The police started a probe after they received complaints last year from four garment export firms. As per government guidelines, export firms are entitled to certain benefits as incentive to encourage inflow of foreign exchange, these include Duty Draw Back, which is transferred online to the exporter’s account. The process requires a secret DSC key and is done entirely on DGFT’s website. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy said: “One of the accused is a certified chartered accountant... They used fake documents and impersonated company directors to get the keys. They used the keys to log into the DGFT site and generated rebate licenses, which they transferred to fictitious firms and subsequently sold to genuine export-import companies,” he said. Probe revealed that the DGFT empanelled firms tasked with generating DSC keys were not doing due diligence in respect of document verification of firms applying for the keys, the DCP said.
28 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||17 visually challenged persons test positive||As many as 17 visually challenged persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Bhubanswar at a time when Odisha registered a massive surge in cases that shot up by 30.25% in the past six days. Swab tests were conducted on 37 members of Odisha Association for Blind (OAB). Of them, 17 tested positive while 20 were found negative. “We have no idea as to how our members were infected by the virus. While visually challenged persons struggle with disability day in and day out, the COVID-19 results have come as a massive blow to their mental health,” said OAB secretary Kapila Swain. Meanwhile, Odisha on Monday reported infections in 28 out of 30 districts. As many as 1,503 new cases were detected that took the total count to 26,982. There were 18,757 cases on July 20.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||AAP slams BJP-ruled SDMC for hike in taxes||The Aam Aadmi Party on Monday criticised the BJP-ruled South Delhi Municipal Corporation for allegedly imposing three taxes in its area and added that they will protest against it. AAP member Durgesh Pathak said that despite Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta’s assurance, the BJP-ruled SDMC hiked three taxes on Monday. He said that the SDMC has accepted the proposal of hiking professional tax, tax of the residents of unauthorised colonies and property transfer tax. AAP said that they will protest outside the BJP headquarters at 11 a.m. on Wednesday. The SDMC approved the introduction of a “professional tax” chargeable to those with an income of above Rs. 50,000 a month, in its jurisdiction. Following objections by Opposition parties, the proposal was passed following certain modifications. The rates for different categories of individuals have been reduced by about Rs. 50 in each category. Accordingly, a salaried-class individual earning between Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 75,000 a month will be charged Rs. 100 per month as professional tax as opposed to Rs. 150 proposed earlier. Apart from this, the proposal for increasing electricity tax has been sent back for review and certain changes to commercial property tax have been approved, said Mayor Anamika Mithilesh. He also said that property tax for unauthorised colonies would be charged only for the last two years and tax, penalty and interest for previous year would be waived of under an amnesty scheme. ‘Residents burdened’ “The entire nation is going through the COVID-19 crisis. Amid this, the BJP has imposed the burden of extra tax on the residents of Delhi,” Mr. Pathak said. “We promise that AAP will force the BJP to withdraw this decision,” he said.
28 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Man dies as ambulance driver turns down pleas||A man suffering from diabetic complications died in front of his house even as an ambulance refused to take him to hospital in Berhampur in Odisha’s Ganjam district on Monday. The heart-rending video of the victim’s minor son aged around 13 years pleading with the ambulance driver has since gone viral. The incident took place at Prahlad Nagar in Berhampur city. Around 11 a.m., Manoj Praharaj (40), who was said to be chronic diabetic, complained of uneasiness. His family members immediately called 108 Ambulance. Family members were about to shift him to the ambulance when the driver said the symptoms were of COVID-19 and only 104 Ambulance would attend the patient. With time running out and condition fast deteriorating, family members and neighbours requested the ambulance driver to rush the patient to hospital. When the driver did not pay any heed to the requests, the victim’s minor son pleaded with him for help. The boy is heard saying, “I do not want to listen to anything, you [ambulance driver] have to take my father to hospital.” “The ambulance had come to my house, but refused to take my father. And my father died in front of our house. The driver said 108 Ambulance cannot take the patient to hospital. He said we should contact 104 Helpline for further help,” said the child.  Virus scare The man finally died before being taken to hospital. In the second week of July, a man squirmed with pain for hours before succumbing in Sriram Nagar of Berhampur. Neither passers-by nor ambulance staff came forward to shift him into the vehicle. The ambulance driver had then refused to help for fear of catching infection.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||Foreign national, 2 others held for human trafficking||A 37-year-old foreign national involved in human trafficking was arrested along with his two accomplices after the police raided a house in west Delhi's Subhash Nagar, said officials on Monday. The accused — Mohammad Raqibul Hasan — hails from Dhaka in Bangladesh and was staying here illegally after his tourist visa expired in 2018, they said, adding that his accomplices — Ankit and Rajesh — both from Haryana. Ahead of Independence Day, a tenant verification drive has been launched to check on anti-terrorist activities. Following this, on July 23, a police team raided a house in Subhash Nagar where the accused was found. He had a fake Aadhaar card, said an officer. They said his original Bangaleshi passport was recovered from his possession. During investigation, it was found that the man along with his accomplice, Ariful Rehman, reside at a house in Subhash Nagar. The two are involved in illegal trafficking. They forged visas and passports and charged higher amounts for the same, said DCP (West) Deepak Purohit. Rehman is on the run, he added. The accused targeted Bangladeshi and Nepali citizens and send them to different European and other Western countries, he said. He along with his accomplices would import Security Press Grade Paper from Thailand and Malaysia and then prepare fake viasa in Kolkata, the officer said, adding these facts are being verified. The police said they have recovered eight passports of citizens from three different countries, UV currency checking machine, paper laminator and fake Aadhaar card from the accused.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||DG (Prisons) orders deployment of staffers for functioning of Tihar Court Complex||A day after The Hindu reported the problems faced by Delhi Police Investigating Officers during court proceedings at Tihar Court Complex, the office of Director General (Prisons) has ordered employment of staff to ensure smooth functioning. DG Sandeep Goel confirmed the order, which was issued on Monday. “In order to further strengthen the working of Tihar Court Complex, the following staff members are deployed for ensuring smooth running of court production process, ensuring basic facilities for legitimate visitors, monitoring social distancing and other norms for preventing spread of COVID-19 during court production of accused,” the order said. The order also stated that teams, consisting of six officials on duty changing every week, will monitor systematic production of inmates in Tihar Court Complex, ensure sanitisation of complex and visitor vis-à-vis accused and Delhi Police staff.  The Hindu, on Sunday , had reported experiences shared by Sub Inspectors and lower rank officers, who stated that they had to wait for long at Tihar Court Complex for production of accused in case of a fresh arrest as there is only one duty Metropolitan Magistrate to produce in front of. They also said that there was no place to sit outside the court complex, no toilets and social distancing could not be maintained because of space issues.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||Businessman gets call to give Rs. 5 crore to gangster||A businessman from Rohini allegedly received an extortion call from an unknown person, who claimed to be gangster Jitendra Gogi and demanded Rs. 5 crore from him, the police said. The accused made the call on WhatsApp from an international number on July 6 and also threatened to kill the businessman as well as harm his family if he fails to pay the money. The police were informed about the incident on July 7 and a case was registered. The victim received multiple calls from six international numbers, the FIR stated. DCP (Rohini) P.K. Mishra said investigation is under way. The police alerted the Tihar Prison authorities last week in this regard. "We conducted a search operation and recovered three mobile phones from Gogi and his accomplices in Tihar,” a senior jail official said. The jail officials are also conducting an internal enquiry on how Gogi and his accomplices got access to these mobile phones. Gogi — who carried a reward of Rs. 4 lakh on his head announced by Delhi Police — was held from Gurugram in March this year.
28 July 2020||July 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Sneak peek||
28 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||12 deaths, 557 new cases in Punjab||Punjab recorded 557 new COVID-19 cases on Monday and reported 12 more deaths, taking the toll to 318, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 13,769. The major chunk of new cases, 176 and 54, were reported from Ludhiana and Jalandhar districts respectively. The Health Department said the active cases are 4,387 and 9,064 patients have so far been cured. In Haryana, 795 new cases surfaced on Monday, taking the total tally of cases to 32,127. The State also reported five deaths, taking the toll to 397. The major chunk of new cases, 218 and 108, were reported from Faridabad and Gurugram districts respectively. The active cases are 6,684 and 25,046 patients have been discharged so far.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||Kin of driver who died at Minto Bridge get ex gratia||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday met the family of tempo driver Kundan Singh, who lost his life by drowning at the waterlogged Minto Bridge last week, and offered them a cheque of Rs. 10 lakh as financial assistance. Singh was a resident of Haldwani in Uttarakhand. On July 19, he drowned to death in the waterlogged vicinity of the bridge following the heavy rainfall in the Capital. Mr. Kejriwal said that he hoped that the financial assistance provided would help the family and also assured them of all possible help in the future. “I hope the family will get a little relief through this assistance. If their family needs any help in the future, we will definitely stand beside them” Mr. Kejriwal said on Twitter.
28 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress calls for protest outside Raj Niwas||The Delhi Congress on Monday called for a protest demonstration outside Raj Niwas, ‘Speak Up For Democracy’, and highlight the political situation in Rajasthan. It has alleged that the BJP was trying to “violate constitutional and democratic norms and values by trying to topple the Congress government”. The party workers were detained by the Delhi police outside the Ludlow Castle School before they could make their way to the L-G’s house and taken to the Maurice Nagar police station. They continued to protest at the police station. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar alleged that the Modi government at the Centre was playing petty politics to topple Congress-led governments in the country. He said that after Karnataka and M.P., the BJP was trying to destabilise the government in Rajasthan, despite Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot proving his majority and requesting the Governor to honour the State Cabinet’s decision to convene the Assembly session.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||DUTA demands release of funds to govt.-funded colleges||Delhi University teachers on Monday gathered outside the Vidhan Sabha to protest delays in release of grants to 12 colleges, which are funded by the Delhi government. Employees of some these colleges have not been paid salaries since May, the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) said. For more than a year now, the government has been irregular with the release grants. They said the funds released are inadequate. Medical bills also not reimbursed, alleged teachers and staff. Pensioners have also been affected and infrastructure development and maintenance have gone for a toss, the union added. The DUTA has been petitioning CM Arvind Kejriwal, his Deputy Manish Sisodia as well as other authorities over the issue. The teachers undertook the protest despite not receiving permission for the same and at the risk of violating social distancing norms, they highlighted.
28 July 2020||New Delhi,||NDMC plants over 25,000 saplings in New Delhi area||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Monday said over 25,000 saplings of trees and shrubs were planted during a tree plantation drive in the New Delhi area. “NDMC has a target of 5,116 trees and 1,50,676 shrubs plantation...,” an official statement read.
28 July 2020||Noida,||Noida: Active COVID-19 cases plummet below 700, recovery rate nears 85 pc||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar recorded 44 fresh COVID-19 cases on Monday as the number of active cases in the district plummeted below 700-mark, official data showed. A total of 125 patients were discharged on Monday, it said. So far, 4,792 people have tested positive for the infection in the district, while the number of active cases came down to 692 from 773 on Sunday, stated data released by the U.P. Health Department.
