28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Modi hints at graded exit from lockdown, says danger not over||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday told Chief Ministers that though the lockdown following the COVID-19 outbreak had yielded “positive results” and the country managed to “save thousands of lives in the past one and a half months”, the danger of the virus was far from over and “constant vigilance is of paramount importance”. He was addressing a videoconference with Chief Ministers. The signal to the States, many of whom asked for an extension of the lockdown, was clear — that any exit from would be graded, and would take into account case load and virulence. The decision to extend the lockdown itself, sources said, would be taken around May 3, when the current phase ends. According to those present at the meeting, the Prime Minister, after speaking to the Chief Ministers (nine of whom spoke, while several others sent written submissions), was of the opinion that while economic activity is important, it would be undertaken with some reservations, only within districts and with several caveats. “We have to be brave and bring in reforms that touch the lives of common citizens,” he said.  Mr. Modi emphasised that all efforts should be made to convert the red zones (where cases have occurred in the past 14 days) to orange (where cases have not occurred in 14 days) and green zones (where no cases have occurred in 28 days). “States should decide minute policies for the three zones. The hotspots and containment areas will continue to remain sealed,” he said. “The country has seen two lockdowns, both different in certain aspects and now we have to think of the way ahead. Masks and face covers will become a way of life in the days ahead and under the circumstances, everyone’s aim must be rapid response,” he noted.
28 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State ramps up testing with rise in cases||Kerala has thrown itself into testing more for COVID-19 in the community. With many districts earlier declared as those with no cases (Green zone) throwing up huge surprises, and many cases with no history of foreign travel surfacing, the State is deploying PCR (polymerase chain reaction) testing more to detect active cases. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said apart from the routine sampling being done amongst the quarantined population, 875 samples were randomly collected from health-care workers, police, migrants, and people who interacted more with the community in the past five days. Of the latter samples, 611 tested negative. The Chief Minister, however, did not specify how many samples from this lot turned positive. As part of an intense drive, the Health Department also collected 3,056 samples from select groups in the population on Sunday as a single-day “augmented sampling” to be tested by RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) in designated labs. Kottayam and Idukki again accounted for 10 of the new 13 COVID-19 cases reported in the State on Monday. Kottayam had six cases, Idukki four, while Palakkad, Malappuram, and Kannur reported a case each. Mr. Vijayan said five of the new cases had links to Tamil Nadu while one person had come from the United States. Seven cases were considered to be “contacts”, having contracted the disease from other known or unknown COVID-19 cases. One of these contacts in Kottayam was a health worker. The State also had 13 people on its recovery list. Of the 481 cases reported so far, 355 had recovered, while 123 were undergoing treatment. Of the 20,301 people under surveillance, 489 were in isolation in hospitals and the rest in home quarantine. The State had so far tested samples of 23,271 people, of which 22,537 returned a negative result. The Chief Minister said all district medical officers and collectors had been asked to increase COVID-19 testing. Universal use of masks Mr. Vijayan said that public compliance of the directive for universal wearing of masks in public places had gone up but it was quite alarming that used masks were being disposed of carelessly by people. This could become a serious threat to health and would be a crime against society.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Fewer districts in T.N. report fresh cases||For the first time in the last few weeks, fewer than five districts in Tamil Nadu reported fresh COVID-19 cases on Monday. Of the 52 new patients, 47 were from Chennai. Only two other districts — Madurai and Villupuram — reported COVID-19 cases. With 90% of fresh cases coming from the State capital, its count of confirmed cases surged to 570. Of the 52 patients (33 men and 19 women), 11 were front line workers, of which 10 were from Chennai. Among the 11 are three doctors, including two postgraduate students of Madras Medical College to which the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital is attached, a staff nurse from the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, and workers of the Greater Chennai Corporation. Besides, a mediaperson has also tested positive. The day also saw 81 patients walking out of hospitals across the State after getting treated. This included 26 patients from the Coimbatore ESI Medical College Hospital, 20 from the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, 14 from RGGGH and 10 from the Sivaganga Medical College Hospital. With this, 1,101 persons have been discharged till date. No death was reported on Monday. The State’s tally of COVID-19 cases stands at 1,937 (including two deaths cross-notified to other States and one who died after testing negative for the infection). Of these, 809 persons (active cases) are under treatment. Apart from Chennai, Madurai had four new patients, including three women, and Villupuram had one patient, a one-year-old boy. Six of 52 cases were primary cases - unlinked source of infection for which a detailed investigation was under progress - and the remaining persons were contacts of COVID-19 patients. In fact, 11 persons, who tested positive in Chennai, were contacts of already positive front line workers. According to a medical bulletin, 7,176 samples and 6,753 individuals were tested during the day. This took the total number of samples and individuals tested so far in the State to 94,781 and 86,339, respectively. Of the total samples, 83,021 had returned negative, while 1,381 samples were under process. A total of 8,442 samples were repeats. Overall, 1,600 persons - 1,093 men and 507 women - fall in the 13 to 60 age group. Another 159 men and 67 women are aged above 60 years. The remaining 111 - 60 boys and 51 girls - were in the age group up to 12 years. As on date, a total of 29,797 persons were under active home quarantine, while 36 persons were in government quarantine facilities. A total of 1,870 patients suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19 are admitted to isolation wards of hospitals.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR says no payment made for Chinese test kits supplies||India does not stand to lose a single rupee, said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday in response to a clarification sought on the alleged profiteering by distributors, exposed through a legal dispute between an importer and a distributor, in the delivery of rapid antibody testing kits to it. According to details provided in the Delhi High Court, the kits procured from China, whose delivered cost was Rs. 245 a test, were sold to ICMR for Rs. 600 a test — a mark up of 145%. The matter came to light when Rare Metabolics Life Sciences Pvt Ltd and Aark Pharmaceuticals, distributors of Chinese Wondfo Biotech’s kits imported by Matrix Labs, approached the High Court recently to get delivery/payment disputes cleared. The Council, in a one-page clarification, noted that it had not made any payment whatsoever in respect of the supplies — “because of the due process followed (not going in for procurement with 100% advance amount)”. It should be remembered that this was the first-ever effort by any Indian agency to procure such kits and the rate quoted by the bidders was the only reference point, the ICMR stated. “Testing is one of the most crucial weapons to fight COVID-19 and ICMR is doing everything it can to ramp up testing. This requires procurement of kits and supplying them to the States. This procurement is being undertaken when globally there is a huge demand for these test kits and various countries are applying their full might, monetary and diplomatic to acquire them,” it said. The ICMR said it was important to understand the background in which procurement decisions were made. It said the first attempt to procure kits did not elicit any response from suppliers. “Our second attempt got adequate response. Of these responses, taking sensitivity and specificity in mind, kits of two companies [Biomedemics and Wondfo] were identified for procurement. Both had the requisite international certifications.”
28 April 2020||Mumbai,||RBI opens Rs. 50,000 cr. liquidity tap for MFs||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has announced a special window of Rs. 50,000 crore for mutual funds in view of the redemption pressure that the fund houses are facing. While announcing the window, the RBI said the liquidity stress was limited to high risk debt funds and the larger industry remains liquid. Under the scheme, the RBI will conduct repo operation of 90 day tenor at the fixed rate repo. Funds availed under this facility will be used by banks exclusively for meeting the liquidity requirements of mutual funds by extending loans, and for undertaking outright purchase of and/or repos against the collateral of investment grade corporate bonds, commercial papers, debentures and certificates of deposit held by the funds, the central bank said. Franklin Templeton The move comes after Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund last week decided to wind up six debt funds that have combined assets under management of nearly Rs. 26,000 crore on account of illiquid and low-rated instruments in its portfolio. The fund house said it decided to wind up the schemes to preserve the value at least at the current levels. Their value was getting eroded due to a combination of redemption pressures and mark-to-market losses due to a lack of liquidity on account of the coronavirus impact on the markets, it said.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre pitches for home isolation of mild cases||India has achieved a COVID-19 recovery rate of 22.17%, with 6,361 people discharged as of now, according to the Union Health Ministry. On Monday, 1,463 new cases were reported, taking the total number to 28,380, with 21,132 active cases, it said. India also registered 60 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the total toll to 886. “Two districts have now shown fresh cases; they did not have any fresh case in the past 28 days. They are Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar in Punjab. Further, a total of 85 districts from (25 States/UTs) have not reported any new case since the past 14 days,” said the Ministry. With the number of cases rising, the Health Ministry issued “Guidelines for Home Isolation of very mild/pre-symptomatic COVID-19 cases”, stating that currently all suspected (awaiting test results) and confirmed cases are being isolated and managed in a hospital setting with the intent to break the chain of transmission. No case in 16 districts Sixteen districts in the country, which earlier had cases, have not reported any fresh case since the last 28 days. Three new districts added to this list are Gondia in Maharashtra, Devangere in Karnataka and Lakhisarai in Bihar. Data from the State Health Departments put the total number of cases nationwide at 29,144, of which 21,215 are active cases.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Red zones may see continuation of lockdown||There could be no relief from the current restrictions, in areas which fall under the red zones in the State, even after May 3, while districts that are in the green zones could see some relaxations. While no major decisions on exemptions came through after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s videoconferencing with Chief Ministers, and a review of the State’s progress on Monday, sources indicated that the State is inclined to have a stricter vigil in red zones until the areas become green zones. “The decision on how to provide exemption will be based on the Union government’s directive,” sources added.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Congress calls for probe||The Congress demanded an inquiry into alleged profiteering by companies importing testing kits from China and asked the PM to “act swiftly” against those taking advantage of the pandemic.page 10
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||In place||
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India working with China’||India and China are working together to ensure the quality of medical supplies, especially personal protective equipment and testing kits, said Indian Ambassador to China Vikram Misri.Page 10
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||‘CBSE exams will be delayed’||Pending exams of the Central Board of Secondary Education will only be held when the government decides to completely lift the lockdown, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank told students.page 11
28 April 2020||Mumbai,||MFs: RBI opens Rs. 50,000 cr. liquidity tap||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has announced a special window of Rs. 50,000 crore for mutual funds in view of the redemption pressure that the fund houses are facing. While announcing the window, the RBI said the liquidity stress is limited to high risk debt funds and the larger industry remains liquid. Under the scheme, the RBI will conduct repo operation of 90 day tenor at the fixed rate repo. Funds availed under this facility will be used by banks exclusively for meeting the liquidity requirements of MFs. The move comes after Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund decided to wind up six debt funds that have combined assets under management of nearly Rs. 26,000 crore on account of illiquid, low rated instruments in their portfolio.
28 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Manmohan to guide Punjab’s revival plan||The Punjab government on Monday took initial steps towards formulating a post-COVID revival strategy in consultation with a group of experts led by Montek Singh Ahluwalia. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh accepted Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s request to provide overall guidance.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi riots: Jamia alumni president arrested||Delhi Police Special Cell has arrested Jamia Millia Islamia Alumni Association president Shafi-Ur-Rehman under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to provoke communal riots in north-east Delhi, said a police officer on Monday.
28 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana districts restrict movement from Delhi||Haryana districts that share a border with Delhi have issued separate directions restricting “unnecessary” movement of people and goods. The move comes in the wake of several COVID-19 cases in the State being traced back to Delhi. Haryana Minister Anil Vij had asked Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to facilitate stay of people from Haryana working for the Delhi government.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,||No sign of train operations||There is no sign of the Indian Railways resuming operations post-lockdown that ends on May 3. Though preparations are on to ensure COVID-19 safety protocol on railway premises, including trains, the IRCTC has not commenced booking of tickets.
28 April 2020||KALABURAGI,||Kalaburagi records fifth COVID-19 death||Kalaburagi district registered its fifth fatality due to COVID-19 on Monday. A 47-year-old person from Aland (P-422) is the latest victim. As per available information, the diseased person had been suffering from severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and was taken to a hospital at Solapur in Maharashtra for treatment. Upon his return to Kalaburagi, he was admitted in the District Hospital attached to Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences. After he tested positive for COVID-19 on April 22, he was shifted to an isolation ward in the ESIC Medical Complex where he died.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru/Kalaburagi,||Kalaburagi registers fifth death; Cases go up to 512||Kalaburagi, one of the worst COVID-19-hit districts in the State, registered its fifth fatality on Monday. A 47-year-old from Aland (P-422) is the latest victim. As per the available information, the deceased had been suffering from severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and was taken to a hospital in Maharashtra for treatment.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Decision to shift market in Koyembedu likely today||A decision on temporarily shifting the Koyambedu wholesale vegetable and fruits market as a precautionary measure is likely to be taken on Tuesday after the second round of talks between officials and traders’ associations.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,||State govt. freezes DA for employees||The State government on Monday issued two orders, one suspending encashment of earned leave “initially” for one year and the other freezing the Dearness Allowance (DA) at the current rate till July 2021 for its employees, teachers and pensioners. According to an order issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, the decision was taken in view of the ongoing fight against the coronavirus pandemic.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,||CM seeks funds, more PCR kits from Centre||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday reiterated several of his requests made earlier to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, including release of funds and provision of more RT-PCR kits. The State is planning to increase the number of tests for COVID-19 to 10,000 a day.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kin receive bodies from UAE||After days of back and forth, bodies of three Indians from Abu Dhabi were brought back to Delhi and handed over to their families on Monday. The handing over took place early in the morning at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA), ending a five-day ordeal for the families, and allowing them to complete the final rites. The mortal remains of the three men, who were expatriate workers in the United Arab Emirates — Kamlesh Bhatt from Uttarakhand, and Jagsir Singh and Sanjeev Kumar from Punjab — had also earlier arrived on April 23, but were sent back by immigration authorities because there weren’t sufficient clearances to admit them into the country. The case had led to a controversy over government guidelines for the return of bodies during the coronavirus pandemic, as the families pleaded that the bodies should be allowed to remain and not returned to the UAE while permissions were obtained, but to no avail. “Finally, we are just relieved that we could bring Kamlesh’s body back and his parents could see their son’s face before his last rites,” said his cousin Vimlesh Bhatt, who had driven twice to Delhi from Tehri Garhwal amidst the lockdown order to receive Mr. Bhatt’s remains. “We just wish the government agencies could have moved a little quicker to have avoided the confusion that led to his body being sent back,” he added. Mr. Bhatt, a 25-year-old hotel employee, who was the sole earner in the family, had worked in Abu Dhabi for three years before he died of a heart attack on April 17. Norms revised Officials said the confusion last week resulted from the fact that the government had issued three separate advisories. The first from the Ministry of Home Affairs on April 17 that extended the lockdown restrictions at all International Check Points (ICPs), made no mention of mortal remains of Indians who die abroad. This was interpreted as a ban on bringing their bodies back, without prior clearances and led to the coffins from Abu Dhabi being sent back. On April 25, after Mr. Bhatt’s family appealed to the High Court, and the Indian Embassy in UAE expressed its shock over the return of the bodies to Abu Dhabi, the MHA issued a second note, clarifying that bodies could be brought back, subject to guidelines specified by the Ministry of Health. On April 26, the government appeared to change its position from the total ban further, putting out guidelines that even dealt with the possibility of bringing back bodies of patients who die of the coronavirus. For COVID-19 victims The latest guidelines, issued by the Ministry of Health said importing the human remains of confirmed/suspected COVID-19 patients was “not recommended”, but added a five-point Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in case a coronavirus-patient’s body was brought into the country anyway. The procedure now includes the need for a “No Objection certificate” to be issued by Indian embassies or consulates, along with a certificate of packaging according to guidelines issued by the World Health Organisation. The guidelines on allowing transport of COVID-19 patients run counter to procedures in many other countries, where the bodies are being cremated domestically, while families abroad are allowed to receive the ashes. Speaking about the risk of bringing back bodies of COVID-19 victims, K.K. Aggarwal, former Indian Medical Association president said the virus is known to spread through contact with contaminated respiratory droplets, or from contact with contaminated hands, surfaces or objects. Though people are less likely to contract COVID-19 from deceased persons infected with the virus, it is vital, according to WHO guidelines, that precautionary strategies be used to minimise public health risks and to prevent spread of disease, he said.  (With inputs from   Bindu Shajan Perappadan)
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘CMs favour cautious approach’||A majority of Chief Ministers during their video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi have favoured a cautious approach to lifting the lockdown, scheduled to end on May 3, Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Monday. Addressing an online press conference soon after the video conference, the Puducherry Chief Minister said that since the revenues of the States had completely dried up and that they had advocated ‘slowly starting economic activities with some restrictions’.  Mr. Narayanasamy, one of the nine Chief Ministers who participated in the video conference, also made several key suggestions such as a block grant of Rs. 1 lakh crore for all States to combat COVID-19 on the basis of population, clearing the pending GST dues, interest-free advances to States by the Reserve Bank of India, rescheduling of Central loans to States for six months and a stimulus package on the lines given by the UPA government in 2008. “Most of the Chief Ministers were unanimous in telling the Prime Minister that the way in which the corona-affected persons are increasing in the country, there should be a cautious approach and the Prime Minister should take a call on the basis of the observations given by the Chief Ministers,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. “And they said economic activity should be slowly started,” he added.  Mr. Narayanasamy said he and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar asked the Centre to evolve a policy for sending home migrant workers stranded across the country due to the lockdown. Asked if any Chief Minister expressed apprehension of law and order due to the prolonged lockdown and migrant workers getting anxious, he said, “The Bihar Chief Minister raised this issue ... The Prime Minister also mentioned about migrant workers in passing but did not give any solution to resolve the issue.” Stranded students The Puducherry Chief Minister also raised the issue of Indian tourists and students stranded abroad and urged the government to take steps to bring them back. Mr. Narayanasamy claimed that his party colleague and Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot came in for some praise from Mr. Modi for taking effective steps to curb the spread of COVID-19 in his State.
28 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Migrants take sea route out of lockdown||Yet another motorboat, this time carrying 25 Odia migrant workers from Chennai, reached Rameyapatna in Ganjam district of Odisha on Monday afternoon. They had undertaken the arduous sea voyage to dodge the continuing lockdown and reach their homes in Ganjam district. This motorboat also carried 14 others, who disembarked at some place in their home State of Andhra Pradesh, said the returned workers. Spent Rs. 1.8 lakh on boat The 39 migrant workers had collected Rs. 1.8 lakh to buy the motorboat. They began their voyage from Chennai on April 23. As most of them are from fishing communities, with experience at sea, they dared to make the 850-km voyage in a small fishing boat. Officials of the Ganjam district administration and police were waiting at Rameyapatna to prevent the workers from coming into contact with anyone after getting down from the boat. According to Berhampur Sub-Collector Sindhe Dattatreya Bhau Saheb, the group will undergo a medical check-up and placed under quarantine. Swab samples of persons with possible symptoms will be sent for COVID-19 test. Earlier, a motorboat carrying 38 migrant workers from Chennai had reached Patisunapur of Ganjam district on April 25 evening. They included 29 workers from the Ganjam district of Odisha and nine others from adjoining Andhra Pradesh, all of whom are now under quarantine in Ganjam district. They had spent Rs. 2 lakh to buy the boat. Odisha State Transport Minister Padmanabh Behera has ordered a probe into their return despite the lockdown. On April 20, a motorboat used for fishing, carrying 27 migrant workers stranded in Chennai — including 10 from Odisha and 17 from Andhra Pradesh —reached the Donkuru coast in Andhra Pradesh. All of them were quarantined in the Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh.
28 April 2020||Pune,||Massive spike of 522 cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra reported yet another massive spike of 522 new cases as the State’s cumulative tally surged to 8,590 COVID-19 positive cases on Monday. As many as 27 deaths were reported from across the State, taking the total death toll to 369. According to figures given by the State Health Department, 15 of these deaths were reported from Mumbai city, while as many as six were from Amravati city — which had hitherto remained unscathed by the contagion. Four more deaths were reported from Pune district, and one each from the Aurangabad and Jalgaon districts. As many as 94 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total discharged in the State till date to 1,282, said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Mumbai’s death toll now stands at 219, while that of Pune district has risen to 80 of which 77 have been reported from Pune city and the rural areas while the rest were from Pimpri-Chinchwad. The death toll in Amravati, which had just reported a single death almost a fortnight ago, now stands at seven. High-risk cases “81% of the deaths reported had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease. One of them was an HIV patient and one was suffering from cancer,” said Dr. Awate. He added that information on co-morbidities of four of the patients was not available as yet. Yet again, Mumbai reported the overwhelming majority of the new cases — 369 — as they city’s cumulative tally climbed to 5,776. Pune district authorities reported a surge of at least 75 fresh cases in Pune city as the district’s cumulative active cases rose to 1,066. With the accretion of fresh cases, the district has witnessed a rise of more than 200 new active cases over three days. As per government figures, the total of positive cases in Pune city was 969, while that of Pimpri-Chinchwad had risen to 72. Meanwhile, there were reports of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) personnel testing positive in Hingoli district in the State’s Marathwada region, which has reported eight positive cases thus far. Fresh cases were also reported from Yavatmal district, where the total count surged to 62, while Amaravati district has reported 22 cases thus far. Nagpur district too, witnessed a spike in 20 cases as the number of cases soared to 127, of which 123 are from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) area itself. “There are 572 active containment zones in the State currently. After the first COVID-19 positive patient was found in the Pirburhan area of Nanded city, a thorough search of the patient’s contacts was done. Laboratory tests of 80 of his contacts returned negative,” said Dr. Awate, adding that, presently, 1,45,677 people across the State were in home quarantine.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India working with China to ensure quality of supplies’||India is working together with Chinese authorities to identify bona fide suppliers of personal protective equipment (PPE) and other medical supplies, says the Indian Ambassador to China, Vikram Misri , stressing that all procurement by the government is going through independent third-party inspection, amid concerns about Chinese supplies.  The External Affairs Ministry has said more than 400 tonnes of medical equipment from China have arrived in the past two weeks. How are the two countries working together during the pandemic? India is in the process of commercially procuring a large amount of medical supplies from China. Our priority is for quality products to be available at reasonable and stable prices and enable their transport in an efficient and timely manner to India. We have been working together with the Chinese side on identifying bona fide suppliers, facilitating customs procedures and expediting flight clearances, etc. Smooth cooperation in these areas would be an excellent development in our bilateral relations. Tens of thousands of PPE kits failed quality tests, and the use of rapid antibody test kits had to be put on hold. Why has India continued with imports? China happens to be among the world’s largest producers of some of the medical supplies that India is looking to procure at this moment. With regard to quality issues with the rapid antibody tests, you may have to inquire with the agencies at the Indian end that were involved with the procurement process. Regarding PPE kits, it may be noted that several agencies in India, including private entities, are involved in this procurement exercise and may not have been in a position to look at quality-related issues in detail. As far as the procurement of PPE kits by the Government of India through the Embassy in Beijing is concerned, we are taking care to ensure that this is confined to a list of approved and qualified suppliers who figure on an official Chinese Government list. Chinese authorities have also added an extra quality inspection requirement for all consignments before they are handed over to customs authorities. We are also doing our part in the quality assurance exercise by insisting on an independent third-party inspection by reputed agencies [such as SGS Switzerland and Bureau Veritas]. Indeed, it is through this third party inspection that we have been able to detect issues with a recent consignment and have had it returned to the manufacturer for rectification. China has called India’s decision to push FDI from neighbours through the government route a discriminatory move, violating global commitments. What is your response? There is no prohibition or bar on investments resulting from these procedural changes, which have been made with full cognisance of India’s international commitments. Will this slow the flow of Chinese investments into India? India continues to remain among the most attractive global destinations for FDI. Capital only seeks returns, and as long as India continues to be a profitable place to do business, I do not expect the trend of investment into India from anywhere in the world to change. Is India exploring any formal cooperation to learn from mistakes and best practices adopted by Wuhan? Members of the Indian scientific fraternity had participated in a video conference organised by the Chinese side that was dedicated to sharing China’s experiences in tackling the COVID-19 crisis. There may be more such opportunities in future, and we will look forward to participating in them. Right now, the preoccupation in both countries is to deal with the immediate challenges posed by the pandemic. Institutes like the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) and the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research have collaborated in the past in studies with the Wuhan Institute of Virology. Do you see more such collaborations, or will they come to an end after the pandemic? Public health issues, epidemiology, vaccine development, etc., are areas with significant potential for cooperation between India and China, given our large populations, and our large pools of scientific and technological manpower. I think it would be mutually beneficial to remain engaged in these areas. The agencies concerned would be better placed to answer questions on specific programmes of cooperation. Celebrations for the 70th year of India-China relations have been put on pause. Will the informal summit between Prime Minister Modi and President Xi be postponed this year? At the second Informal Summit in Chennai, Prime Minister Modi and President Xi had agreed to celebrate this event through 70 activities. The outbreak has obviously interrupted our plans. We may, thus, not necessarily be able to undertake every activity, but it remains our intention to try and do as much as possible in the time that is available to us. Both sides remain engaged on the issue, and we hope we can resume engagements at the earliest possible, whenever it is safe and healthy to do so.  ... as long as India continues to be a profitable place to do business, I do not expect the trend of investment into India ... to change
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Recovered Tablighis donate plasma||Several Tablighi Jamaat men have donated blood plasma after recovering from the novel coronavirus infection and successfully completing their quarantine period. Around 300 Tablighis, responding to an appeal by their leader Maulana Saad, have volunteered to save the lives of others battling the infection. Over the weekend, some of the men who were in quarantine in Narela and Sultanpuri went to donate blood plasma. Among them were Tablighis from Chennai, Mumbai, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh who had come to the Capital to attend events in Nizamuddin but found themselves stranded after the declaration of lockdown. “I had come from Chennai to attend a jod (meeting) at Markaz [the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin] on March 21 and was supposed to leave by Tamil Nadu Express on March 24. Then the Prime Minister declared a lockdown. Like so many others, I was stranded at the centre. On March 30 evening, I was shifted to Rajiv Gandhi hospital and released on April 19,” said 42-year-old Farooq Basha. Two days later, Basha got to know about blood plasma therapy. “Allah saved my life. Now, I want to save others. It does not matter that we do not know the person who will benefit. At the end of the day, it is about humanity. I hope it will help improve the image of the Tablighi Jamaat in the mind of the common man,” he said, referring to the negative coverage the group received in several sections of the media because of a cluster of cases emanating from the Nizamuddin centre. Incidentally, Basha went to donate plasma after a day of fasting. “Three other men from our Tamil Nadu group have donated plasma. Our first COVID-19 report was positive, the subsequent two were negative,” he said. Basha’s colleague Abdul Rehman had done likewise last Friday. The 45-year-old was under quarantine for almost a month — two weeks in a hospital, then another 17 days at home. Did he think of his own health? “What was there to worry? I am 45 and fit. I am a salesman and don’t feel any weakness. I just wanted to help the needy,” said Rehman.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We have 56% more water in reservoirs than we had last year’||Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat speaks on how India is placed in terms of water availability as COVID-19 underlines the necessity of piped supply and the situation in his home State Rajasthan, which remains worrisome:  Under a lockdown with summer approaching and with the injunction of constant hand washing to prevent the spread of COVID-19, how is India placed in terms of just water availability? The plentiful rains last year and heavy snowfall in the Himalayan States have ensured that in terms of just volumes, we are pretty well off this year. I did a review of 132 reservoirs under the Central government, which are out of the 5,000 total reservoirs but which provide two-thirds of the total supply of water across the country. I am happy to say we have 56% more water than we had last year in the reservoirs, which is 47% higher than the average for the last 10 years. So in terms of reservoirs, etc., we have no worries. This year too we have been told that the monsoon will be plentiful. Water is a State subject, what has been the feedback from the States? Every summer there is always an issue with regard to availability etc. This year, because the COVID-19 lockdown has entailed that people stay at home, it is even more important to ensure supply. The first thing I did is to hold review meetings with Water Ministers of all States and asked them to ensure that there is enough drinking water during the lockdown and the weeks ahead. We have gone over the reservoir situation and of water works. There is enough water to get us through this period, both for drinking and irrigation. The Jal Jeevan Mission was launched last year and there is a time-table to its implementation, how has COVID-19 affected it ?  The Jal Jeevan Mission was launched by hon’ble Prime Minister in September last year and yes, it is a time-bound programme, with its urgency underlined by the fact that COVID-19 is accompanied by lockdowns and the emphasis on hand-washing as a preventative. We have been creative in terms of trying to reach some of our goals despite the lockdown disruption. For example, we have asked all our engineers to complete the drafting and on paper preparatory work for the project. We have divided the mission works into those where only retrofitting is required, those where existing water bodies need to be harnessed and green field works. This has been done so that whatever can be done is finished in time. The importance of the Mission cannot be emphasised enough under the present circumstances and we are determined that our promise of piped drinking water to every home be fulfilled in the time-frame suggested earlier. Your home State Rajasthan and your constituency Jodhpur have been badly afflicted by COVID-19. What kind of information are you getting, since you haven’t been able to visit? Jodhpur has been badly affected and most of the cases there are because of the Tablighi Jamaat preachers and the mishandling of the situation. My constituency also includes Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s Assembly seat and the curfew or lockdown imposed there was handled very badly and very leniently. We have one example of Bhilwara where things were handled well, but we can’t ignore what is happening in Jodhpur and Jaipur, where the administration is not able to get a handle on things.    We are determined to fulfil our promise of piped drinking water to every home
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||India among top 3 military spenders: report||The global military expenditure rose to $1917 billion in 2019 with India and China emerging among the top three spenders, according to a report by a Swedish think tank, Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI). “In 2019, China and India were, respectively, the second- and third-largest military spenders in the world. China’s military expenditure reached $261 billion in 2019, a 5.1% increase compared with 2018, while India’s grew by 6.8% to $71.1 billion,” the report said. In 2019, the top five largest spenders — U.S. ($732 bn), China, India, Russia ($65.1 bn) and Saudi Arabia ($61.9 bn) — accounted for 62% of the global expenditure. The annual report ‘Trends in World Military Expenditure, 2019’ was released on Monday. “India’s tensions and rivalry with both Pakistan and China are among the major drivers for its increased military spending,” the report quoted SIPRI Senior Researcher Siemon T. Wezeman. The $71.1 billion spent by India on defence in 2019 was 2.4% of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP). India was at the fourth position in 2018 with Saudi Arabia at the third.   Significant rise Stating that India’s expenditure in 2019 was 6.8% more than that in 2018, the report says the country’s military expenditure has risen significantly over the past few decades. “It grew by 259% over the 30-year period of 1990–2019, and by 37% over the decade of 2010–19. However, its military burden fell from 2.7% of GDP in 2010 to 2.4% in 2019.” While India’s defence spending excluding pensions, which constitute a significant part, has been growing in absolute terms, it has been going down as a percentage of its GDP as noted by the report. For instance, the defence allocation in the latest budget for 2020-21 which was Rs. 3.37 lakh crore, excluding defence pensions, accounts for about 1.5% of the country’s GDP, the lowest in recent times.  In comparison, Pakistan’s military expenditure rose by 70% over the decade 2010–19, to reach $10.3 billion while the military burden increased from 3.4% of GDP in 2010 to 4% in 2019, says the report. Pakistan was at the 24th position in 2019 compared to 19th in 2018.
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Returning migrants a threat to rural areas’||Days before State governments led by Uttar Pradesh arranged buses to bring back migrants, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) informed the Supreme Court that “so far rural India has largely remained safe from this disease” and if migrants returning on foot are permitted to conclude their journey “there is a serious and imminent potential of the disease penetrating in rural India also.” In a status report filed in the Supreme Court on April 12, Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla said in case of movement of large group of persons travelling together, “the epidemic, which has already taken the form of a pandemic would manifest itself in its still most severe form making it unmanageable.” The country was initially placed under a lockdown on March 24 in wake of the pandemic that was extended till May 3. With all forms of public transport suspended and State borders sealed, lakhs of migrant workers in urban areas started walking hundreds of kilometres to reach their homes. On March 28, MHA issued guidelines and asked States to organize relief camps and arrange food for them. ‘Migration unnecessary’ “There is no necessity for migration of workers to shift from place of occupation to the place of their residence and rush back to their villages. Their daily needs are being taken care of wherever they are working and the daily needs of their family members were being taken care of at their respective villages…. It is submitted that migrant workers travelling barefoot or otherwise in large numbers inevitably and unknowingly defy the social distancing norms which is one of the globally accepted norm for preventing COVID and put their lives and others lives in danger,” MHA’s status report said. Uttar Pradesh was one of the first States to announce that it would arrange for migrant workers stuck across the country to return to their homes. On Sunday, a batch of workers in Haryana were brought back to Etah in Uttar Pradesh on buses arranged by the State government and were sent to quarantine centres. The April 19 guidelines issued by MHA asserted that there will be no inter-State movement of labourers. Following U.P, other States like Punjab, Odisha, West Bengal, Maharashtra were also coordinating for inter-State movement of labourers who wanted to return home. Bihar has been requesting the Centre to change its guidelines and allow students and workers to return home. A senior Home Ministry official said there were no fresh guidelines allowing such movement and States were coordinating among themselves. Delhi incident On March 29, two Delhi government officers were suspended and a showcause was slapped against two other officers for dereliction of duty as thousands of migrants congregated at the Delhi-U.P. border in buses, in a bid to go home. On March 28, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had tweeted that a 1,000 buses were being arranged to help the migrants reach home. The MHA’s status report, without specifically mentioning the Delhi incident, said, “with a view to initially disperse gathering of such migrant workers at the State borders, some State governments did make arrangement for their travel by bus but eventually a final decision was taken not to permit further movement of such migrant workers.”
28 April 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. High Court suspends hearings at Indore Bench||The Chief Justice of the Madhya Pradesh High Court on Monday suspended hearing of cases by the Indore Bench through video conferencing up to May 3 in view of the COVID-19 spread in the city and as several of its officials had gone into quarantine. An employee of the Indore Bench Registry was found positive and some officials had been quarantined, said Rajendra Kumar Vani, Registrar-General, in a circular. The quarantined officials include a Judge. As per the guidelines dated April 15 and 16, it was directed that urgent matters shall be filed through e-filing or through email and hearing may be conducted through video conferencing. Four persons died of the disease while undergoing treatment on Monday taking the toll to 110, according to the Directorate of Health Services. Three of the deaths were reported from Bhopal and one from Mandsaur. The State reported 75 cases on the day taking the overall count to 2,165 cases. The tally in Bhopal climbed to 428. So far, 357 patients have recovered. In Indore, three persons died of the disease on Sunday, taking the toll to 60. The duration of stay for the three men at hospitals was between 10 hours and six days, said Pravin Jadia, Indore Chief Medical and Health Officer. On the day, 31 persons, or 10% of the 298 samples tested, came out to be positive.
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||Probe ‘profiteering’ in imports: Cong.||The Congress on Monday demanded an immediate inquiry into the alleged profiteering by some companies while importing rapid testing kits for COVID-19 from China and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “act swiftly” against those who are taking advantage of the pandemic. Former party president Rahul Gandhi said profiteering on testing kits was “an insult to every Indian.” “That any human being would try & profiteer from the immeasurable suffering of millions of his brothers & sisters, is beyond belief & comprehension. This scam is an insult to every Indian. I urge the PM to act swiftly to bring the corrupt to justice,” he stated. The alleged profiteering came to light after an importer, Matrix Labs, got into a legal dispute with another company, Rare Metabolics, that was to meant to distribute/supply 1 million kits to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). While each kit cost Rs. 245, including taxes, they were being sold to the ICMR for Rs 600 a kit. However, the matter reached the Delhi High Court as the importer and the distributor got into a dispute over pending supplies. “One had heard that Chinese companies had adopted mercenary pricing but these are Indian companies,” Congress Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari said in an online press conference. “Just imagine how many more kits could have been bought... Therefore, we demand an immediate inquiry into this kind of profiteering during the pandemic,” he said. The government should make all documents with regard to import of medical equipment in the past one month public. “Society should also know who are making such profits even during these times,” he added.
28 April 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal tests a record 1,150 samples||The West Bengal government has made arrangements to ensure the return of the State’s residents stranded in other States, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has said. In two tweets on Monday, Ms. Banerjee said the State government will provide “possible help to people of Bengal stuck in diff(erent) parts of the country” to bring them back, and that “All students from Bengal stuck in Kota [Rajasthan] would begin their journey back soon.” “I have instructed my officers to do the needful. Till the time I am here, nobody from Bengal should feel helpless. I’m with you in these tough times,” Ms Banerjee tweeted. “I am personally overseeing this and we will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that everyone gets possible help,” she tweeted. Number of COVID-19 cases increased in Bengal from 461 to 504, in last 24 hours. While the number of persons expired remains at 20, the tests gone up by a record 1150 samples, from 10893 on Sunday to 12043 on Monday. Ms. Banerjee, meanwhile, said that the lockdown restriction will continue till May 21. “Centre will decide on lockdown. But the State will have orange red and green zones. No planes, no trains no inter-state buses,” she said. Criticising the Centre for inconsistent COVID-combat policy, she said that the State has incurred losses of Rs. 5 lakh crore. “Only burning no earning,” she said No Congress role Ms. Banerjee also denied any role of Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury in bringing the students back. Earlier, the leader had said that Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot had told him that he could transport the students up to Bengal’s border.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||CSIR to let firms defer fee on use of its technology||The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has said it will allow firms that use its intellectual property to manufacture items for containing COVID-19 to defer payments for up to six months. These will include diagnostic kits, personal protective equipment, drugs and health equipment. “In this time of grave crisis, it is desirable that technology licensing and knowledge licensing for technology and products developed by CSIR is facilitated enabling mass production,” according to a note from the organisation. 41 technologies Currently the 38 labs of the organisation have 41 dedicated technologies to deal with the pandemic. They include a paper strip-based test to detect the virus, various kinds of hand sanitisers, a pre-fabricated makeshift hospital and a 3-D printed ventilator. Being a publicly funded organisation, technologies developed by the CSIR are generally available to the industry on a non-exclusive licensing basis, that is any company can earn the right to manufacture and sell a product provided they pay a technology fee. “The clause for deferred royalty/upfront payment and co-branding will be included as an integral part of the agreement,” according to the note. CSIR Director-General Shekhar Mande told The Hindu that the deferment would not apply if a firm planned on exporting such equipment. The organisation’s thrust areas are on developing diagnostic kits. The paper-based test uses gene editing technology to rapidly test for the presence of the virus and is being validated for mass manufacturing. Antibody tests Mr. Mande said the organisation was working to develop serology or antibody tests that were cheap and could be quickly deployed for checking prevalence of the disease in community settings. The Indian Council of Medical Research on Monday suspended contracts to deploy 6,00,000 antibody tests after they reported inconsistent results from field tests. Three CSIR laboratories were already part of the network of government laboratories involved in testing for the disease. These were the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, the Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine and the Institute of Microbial Technology.  In this time of grave crisis, it is desirable that licensing by CSIR is facilitated enabling mass production
28 April 2020||Ahmedabad,||247 cases and 11 deaths in Gujarat||On Monday, Gujarat added 247 COVID-19 infections and 11 deaths, bringing the State’s cumulative numbers to 3,548 cases and 162 deaths. As many many 81 persons were discharged after complete recovery, taking the total number of recovered patients to 394. As on Monday, there are 31 patients critically ill with severe viral load requiring ventilator support, while 2,961 are stable and under treatment. So far, the State has tested 53,575 samples, of which 2,484 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Of all the deaths reported on Monday, five were from Ahmedabad, four from Surat and one each from Vadodara and Banaskantha. Ahmedabad is the largest cluster with the highest number of positive cases and deaths in the State. On Monday, out of a total of 247 cases in the State, 197 were from Ahmedabad alone, while five out of the 11 deaths occurred in the city. Cumulatively, Ahmedabad has recorded 2,378 cases and 109 deaths, with 212 recovered patients. After Ahmedabad is Surat, with rising numbers and deaths. On Monday, Surat recorded 30 new cases and four deaths. So far, there are a total of 516 cases and 19 deaths in the city, with just 20 patients having recovered and been discharged. The virus has spread to 30 out of the total 33 districts, but the bulk of the cases and even fatalities remain concentrated in Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara, where 13 patients have succumbed to the virus .
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Essential goods movement up, says govt.||There has been significant progress in removing bottlenecks and ensuring smooth movement of essential goods, according to Parameswaran Iyer, Chairman of the Empowered Group 5 on Logistics and Supply Chain of Essential Items. Trucks moving food and medicines were functioning at about 46% on March 30, and had now improved to 76%. Movement of rail rakes is also at three-fourths of the usual rate, while ports are now handling almost 90% of their usual traffic. In a key indicator with regard to the food and farm supply chain, four out of five agricultural mandis (markets) have now been reopened, said Mr. Iyer. An online portal had been set up to connect farmers with mandis , cold storage and buyers. The empowered group is collaborating with departments at the Central and State levels, as well as industry stakeholders, to ease policy and implementation bottlenecks on the ground. For example, when a worker at the Nashik onion mandi tested positive for COVID-19, the team swung into action to ensure that safe and sanitary supply could be continued. Overall, there has been a focus on ensuring adequate supply of staples such as onions, potatoes and tomatoes. Supply of milk and LPG cylinders are essentially back to pre-lockdown levels, added Mr. Iyer. Apart from rail rakes and Lifeline Udan flights, India Post has played a critical role in transporting more than 100 million tonnes of medicines and medical equipment as well as one lakh food packets. The department has also helped facilitate cash transfer worth Rs. 730 crore to about 34 lakh people, according to Mr. Iyer.
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||MPs’ virtual meeting scuttled over security concerns||If Prime Minister Narendra Modi can do video conferencing with Chief Ministers through a 'secure platform', then Parliamentary Standing Committees should also be able to do so, senior Congress leader Anand Sharma, who heads the Standing Committee on Home Affairs, is learnt to have said in a note to Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu . Mr. Sharma’s note on Monday came after the Rajya Sabha secretariat did not approve of his plan to hold a meeting of the Standing Committee through video conferencing citing concerns regarding “secure online platform”. He had scheduled a meeting on April 28 (Tuesday) where he had planned to speak to the Home Ministry officials regarding the lockdown and had suggested a virtual meeting due to travel restrictions during the on-going lockdown. Mr. Sharma is now learnt to have asked the Rajya Sabha secretariat to tell the government to ‘organise a secure platform for the Committees’. The former Union Minister is learnt to have said that it was crucial for the Home Affairs Committee to speak to officials as the Ministry is the nodal ministry for coordinating with the State governments, organising relief efforts and a roadmap for a stage-wise opening of the lockdown. “I have asked the Chairman to reconsider his decision,” Mr. Sharma told The Hindu but declined to elaborate on his letter.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 mother yet to hold her newborn||A 36-year-old woman, who tested positive for COVID-19, gave birth to a girl at a private hospital in Vile Parle on April 19. But she is yet to hold the baby in her arms or breastfeed her. Soon after delivery, the baby was wrapped in a sterile cloth and taken to an isolation Neonatal Intensive Care Unit to prevent the mother’s infection from passing on to the baby. On the other hand, a civic hospital in the city, that has perhaps carried out the maximum number of deliveries of COVID-19 positive women, has kept the new mothers and babies together and allowed them to breastfeed. As the pandemic evolves, hospitals and medical experts across the city are following varied protocols to prevent mother-to-child transmission. “We are all learning and the steps we take now will tell us what works and what doesn’t,” said gynaecologist Dr. Suruchi Desai, who delivered the 36-year-old woman’s baby at the Nanavati Hospital through a caesarean section. The woman, a resident of Mumbai Central, has seen her newborn on a video call arranged by the doctors. Not allowed to be in the hospital to avoid unnecessary exposure, the father too saw the baby through a video call and a few pictures sent to him on WhatsApp.  Expert views on the matter differ globally. The World Health Organization (WHO) states that the mother and baby can share the same room and breastfeeding can be done after following strict hand and respiratory hygiene. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) states that mother-to-child transmission of coronavirus during pregnancy is unlikely, but after birth, a newborn is susceptible to person-to-person spread.  The civic-run Nair Hospital has carried out over 20 deliveries of COVID-19 positive women. Head of Paediatrics, Dr. Sushma Malik said that they were following the WHO guidelines. “Only in cases where the mother has severe symptoms or the baby is already sick due to some reasons, we are avoiding their contact. In other cases, the mother is kept with the baby and allowed to breastfeed after following the hygiene protocol,” she said, adding that all the babies had tested negative for COVID-19 so far.
28 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Doctors association in Aligarh condemns BJP MLA’s remarks||The Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital (JNMCH) on Monday condemned the “irresponsible remarks” of Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) MLA Dalveer Singh and District Magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh for allegedly linking the spread of coronavirus in the district to the JNMCH. “Such statements will demoralise the doctors, who are working day and night to fight the virus. We have been demanding PPEs (personal protective equipment) but what we get are irresponsible remarks. We are in touch with RDAs across the country and if such statements are repeated, we will be forced to go on a strike,” said Dr. Hamza Malik, president JNMCH RDA. Spike in cases Aligarh has seen a sudden spike in cases in the last six days. In last two days, the district has recorded 12 COVID-19 cases, taking the tally of active cases to 20. Before that, three junior doctors of JNMCH tested positive.
28 April 2020||Lucknow,||Kanika Kapoor offers to donate plasma for treating patients||Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor on Monday expressed her desire to donate her plasma for treating COVID-19 patients, officials said. She has given her blood sample for testing at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) here, they said. “Singer Kanika Kapoor on Monday expressed her desire to KGMU doctors to donate plasma. After this, she was called and her blood sample was taken for testing. If everything is found appropriate in the report (of the blood test), she will be called on Monday evening or Tuesday to donate her plasma, Tulika Chandra, Head of Department of Transfusion Medicine, KGMU said. “So far, three COVID-19 patients, who have recovered from the infection at the KGMU, have donated their plasma. This includes a resident doctor of KGMU Tauseef Khan, a female doctor from Canada [who was admitted here] and another patient, she said. Kapoor had tested positive for COVID-19 on March 20.
28 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Students to be sent home from Prayagraj||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday said it would now transport around 9,000-10,000 students stranded in Prayagraj to other districts in the State in a phased manner. Making the announcement, Awanish Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary-Home Department, said 300 buses would be used to ferry the students to their home districts. The government estimates that around 9,000-10,000 students studying in Allahabad University and other colleges and coaching centres, were stranded in various parts of the district, which is a big hub in coaching for competitive examination. First phase In the first phase, the buses from Prayagraj would drop students to Sonbhadra, Mirzapur, Chandauli, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Pratapgarh, Kaushambi, Fatehpur and Chitrakoot districts, with borders close to Prayagraj. “The same buses will be sent to other districts in the second phase,” Mr. Awasthi said. If other States want to take back their students stranded in Prayagraj, they would also be provided permission, he added. The U.P. government had earlier sent buses to bring back students stranded in Kota, Rajasthan, and migrant labourers stuck in Haryana, due to the lockdown. Over the weekend, more than 12,000 migrants labourers were brought back from Haryana, as per government figures. Meanwhile, the number of deaths linked to COVID-19 reached 31 in U.P., while the number of positive cases climbed to 1,986, as per the State Directorate of Health Services.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBSE exams will be delayed: HRD Minister||Pending board exams of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will only be held when the situation is back to normal and the government decides to completely lift the lockdown, Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank told students and parents during a Twitter interaction on Monday. Across the country, exams in 12 subjects for Class 12 are yet to be held, while Class 10 and 12 students affected by the violence in north-east Delhi have even more pending papers. Competitive examinations for entrance to medical and engineering education, such as NEET and JEE, would also be delayed until the situation is conducive, he told worried students. Earlier, the Ministry had indicated that these exams would take place in the last week of May. Mr. Nishank also assured them that NCERT was making every effort to make school textbooks available in all States, and that shops selling these books had been included in the category of essential services so that students would be able to access them. Although online learning resources and televised teaching sessions had been made available for students to keep up with classes, Mr. Nishank urged parents not to pressure the children to study 24 hours a day.
28 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Chakmas and Hajongs need help: rights group||A Delhi-based rights body has sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention in ensuring food for the Chakma and Hajong communities in Arunachal Pradesh who have allegedly not been included in the government relief economic package. The Chakmas and Hajongs, displaced in the 1960s by violence and a dam in erstwhile East Pakistan, were settled in parts of Arunachal Pradesh. “The Chakmas and Hajongs do not have ration cards as the State government had illegally and arbitrarily seized those through an order on October 25, 1991,” said Rights and Risks Analysis Group director Suhas Chakma. Hence the two communities have been forced to buy rice at Rs. 29 a kg while other vulnerable sections have been paying Rs. 5 per kg, as per the economic package announced by the State government on April 12. This was beyond the means of most Chakma and Hajong people, resulting in starvation of members of the community who had legally become Indian citizens, Mr. Chakma said. Reminding that denial of food was a violation of the right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, he requested the Prime Minister to provide the two communities rice at the subsidised price till June or any time as may be extended by the Centre.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||UGC may give academic calendar tomorrow||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has deferred its decision on a revised academic calendar for college and university students, after an emergency meeting on the issue held on Monday evening. The final guidelines are now expected to be released on Wednesday, after receiving further comments from Commission members and inputs from States, said senior officials. A UGC panel headed by Central University of Haryana Vice-Cancellor R.C. Kuhad had recommended starting the next academic year by mid August to early September, according to a Commission member. It had also suggested a range of options for conducting end-of-semester examinations for the current academic year, from online testing to handwritten exams held after the lockdown is lifted. Several members made suggestions, especially regarding more flexibility, during the video-conference meeting on Monday, and were requested to submit them in writing by Tuesday, said a person who participated in the meeting. “The UGC chairman D.P. Singh has been authorised to approve a final decision, and the guidelines will be issued by Wednesday,” said a senior official.
28 April 2020||Bhopal,||Madhya Pradesh doctor sets an example||On Sunday, Iqbal Qureshi, a liver specialist, became the first person in Madhya Pradesh to donate blood plasma for COVID-19 patients in Indore, the hardest-hit city. Specialists hope the antibodies in his blood, when injected in the veins of critical patients, can boost their ability to combat the virus. Until Monday, three patients in Indore were transfused with his plasma. Almost a week before Indore reported its first COVID-19 case on March 22, Dr. Qureshi developed fever. “I don’t remember meeting anyone with an infection, and my immunity is strong. I still don’t know how I got infected,” he said. Dr. Qureshi recovered from COVID-19 on April 6. On April 25, a COVID-19 hospital asked him if he was interested in donating the plasma. He replied, “Why not!” “I will donate my plasma again if required,” he said. Dr. Qureshi, who skipped the second day of the month-long Ramzan fasting for the donation, said, “That’s all right. I am doing it for a noble cause.” 3-month wait For donating the plasma again, Dr. Qureshi may have to wait for at least three months, said Ravi Dosi of Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences, Indore, where the plasma was extracted and transfused. “A donor must be symptom-free, not carry immunological illness or blood-borne disorders,” he said. Before donating, a person should have completed at least 14 days in quarantine after being discharged. His/her blood pressure, pulse rate and oxygen saturation levels are monitored before, throughout and after the two-three hour extraction process. In the case of an elderly person, their electrocardiogram is conducted first. “For someone who has completed the 14-day period, the RT-PCR test to check for the disease again is not recommended ahead the next round of donation,” he added. It was Dr. Qureshi’s first experience at a hospital as a patient. His long-time patients, whom he would check on frequently, now checked on him. “Some of them even cried on the phone for me. Can you believe that? I was touched,” he recalled. The one-way concern back at the office, he felt, was an illusion. The relationship is much deeper. “Even patients care for doctors,” he said. The first week, until the reports of family members and friends, his primary contacts, came in, was the hardest. “I was hallucinating,” he said. He heard voices at night. “I could not sleep for more than six hours at a stretch.” In May, Dr. Qureshi will return to duty at the ward for possible COVID-19 patients at a private hospital in Indore. “I am not scared for myself, I have antibodies now. But I am worried about carrying the virus back home.”
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. pitches for home isolation of mild cases||Sixteen districts in the country, which earlier had cases, have not reported any fresh cases since the last 28 days. Three new districts added to this list are Gondia in Maharashtra, Devangere in Karnataka and Lakhi Sarai in Bihar. Data from the State Health Departments put the total number of cases nationwide at 29,144, of which 21,215 are active cases. The death toll was 925 with Maharashtra continuing to report the maximum number at 369. Within the State, Mumbai reported 395 new cases and 15 more fatalities, taking the cities death toll to 219, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. The Health Ministry noted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his interaction with Chief Ministers of all the States on Monday suggested that the chain of transmission of the virus should be broken, strictly for districts falling in the red zone and orange zone. “He highlighted the importance for States/UTs to enforce guidelines strictly in the hotspots i.e. the red zone areas. He stated that the efforts of the States/UTs should be directed towards converting the red zones into orange and thereafter to green zones. He stated that no stigma should be associated with coronavirus disease and health facilities should provide required other health services besides COVID-19. He further added that traditional medicinal systems should continue their work,” said the Health Ministry. In its guidelines for home isolation, the Ministry said, “Very mild/pre-symptomatic patients having the requisite facility at his/her residence for self-isolation will have the option for home isolation. The patients should be clinically assigned as very mild/mild, moderate or severe and accordingly admitted to COVID Care Centres, dedicated COVID Health Centres or dedicated COVID Hospital.”
28 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya seeks national lockdown beyond May 3||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has found merit in Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma’s suggestion that the lockdown should continue beyond May 3 with relaxations for green zones or low-risk COVID-19 areas. Mr. Modi also felt Meghalaya’s idea of a Rapid Response System (RRS) at the micro-level to combat the pandemic could be replicated as a “best practice” for such challenges in the future. “We sought continuation with the lockdown post May 3 with relation on activities in green zones or non-COVID-19 affected areas of Meghalaya,” Mr. Sangma said after the video conference of Chief Ministers with Mr. Modi on Monday. He suggested setting up of RRS at the panchayat level as well as creation of an economic task force. “The Prime Minister appreciated our experiment with local-level RRS for activating doctors, local administration and police within 60 minutes of detection of cases. He said all the States should replicate this model,” Mr. Sangma said.
28 April 2020||Srinagar,||J&K extends ban on faster mobile Internet||Citing “enhanced efforts by Pakistan for recruitment of militants,” the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday extended the ban on high-speed mobile Internet till May 11. In its latest order, the Home Department said there was spurt in militant violence and launch of new outfits. Infiltration attempts “There were well-founded apprehensions of the field agencies regarding enhanced efforts by Pakistan for recruitment in the ranks as well as infiltration attempts, which heavily depend on high-speed Internet,” the order added. The Home Department said restrictions on the speed was in place “in order to curb uploading, downloading, circulation of provocative videos, guard against rumour-mongering, fake news, prevent the use of encrypted messaging and VoIP services for infiltration and coordinating [militant] activities.” “[The measure] is aimed to defeat the nefarious designs from across the border to propagate [militancy],” read the order. Mobile Internet was banned in Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019. However, 2G speed was restored after a Supreme Court direction in January.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||RBI opens Rs. 50,000 cr. liquidity tap for MFs||The fund house had said it decided to wind up the schemes to preserve the value at least at the current levels, as the value was getting eroded due to a combination of redemption pressures and mark-to-market losses due to lack of liquidity on account of the coronavirus impact on the markets. “RBI move is very timely. This move will first improve the confidence; second, it can help in providing the necessary liquidity to mutual fund industry if anyone needs to avail it. With the yields dropping, one would assume banks may go down the credit curve and extend facilities,” said A Balasubramanian, chief executive officer, Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund and also a board member of the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). The scheme is available from Monday i.e., April 27, 2020 till May 11, 2020 or up to utilisation of the allocated amount. The RBI will review the timeline and amount, depending upon market conditions. “Heightened volatility in capital markets in reaction to COVID-19 has imposed liquidity strains on mutual funds (MFs), which have intensified in the wake of redemption pressures related to closure of some debt MFs and potential contagious effects therefrom. The stress is, however, confined to the high-risk debt MF segment at this stage; the larger industry remains liquid,” the central bank said.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Modi hints at graded exit from lockdown||The Chief Ministers of Goa, Odisha, Meghalaya and several others had asked for an extension of the lockdown with some relaxations for economic activities within district boundaries. Odisha asked for an extension till June 3, with time being given to the State governments to bring back migrant workers from their States back to their own. On this issue, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar asked for a clear countrywide policy. Several States have facilitated the return of migrant labourers from their States and even students stuck elsewhere, while Bihar had stuck to the old lockdown policy, which was to tell people to stay where they are. “Now that several States have started bringing back their people, we want a uniform policy for this,” he reportedly said. He also sought more testing kits as well as personal protection equipment (PPE) for medical and front line workers. Mr. Modi, while emphasising that the restart of economic activity was important, said the fundamentals of the economy continued to be strong. On the issue of getting back Indians stuck overseas, he said it “had to be done keeping in mind the fact that they don’t get inconvenienced, and their families are not under any risk.” Several reports suggested earlier last week that the process of evacuating the Indians stuck abroad may begin after May 3.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||‘No payment made for Chinese test kits supplies’||“For Wondfo, the evaluation committee got four bids and the corresponding quotes received were Rs. 1,204, Rs. 1,200, Rs. 844 and Rs. 600. Accordingly, the offer of Rs. 600 was considered. Meanwhile, ICMR also tried to procure kits directly from Wondfo,” the ICMR said. The quotation received from direct procurement had issues, including that it was FOB (Free on Board) without any commitment on logistics issues. As it was on the basis of 100% direct advance without any guarantees, there was no commitment on timelines and the rates were communicated in U.S. Dollars without any clause for accounting for fluctuations, it stated. Wondfo’s exclusive distributor for India for the kit was selected because they quoted an all inclusive price for FOB (logistics) without any clause for advance. “After receipt of some supplies, ICMR again conducted quality checks on these kits in field conditions. Based on a scientific assessment of their performance, the order in question [Wondfo] along with order in respect of another make found under-performing have been cancelled,’’ it said.  ICMR noted that the States have been advised to stop using the kits procured from Wondfo and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics after it found wide variation in their sensitivity despite early promise of good performance for surveillance.
28 April 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi reports 13 new cases, tally now 288||On Sunday, Dharavi had reported its highest single-day tally of 34 cases. The number dropped to 13 on Monday, bringing the total to 288. Of the new cases reported, two are from Mukund Nagar, one from Madina Nagar, one from Muslim Nagar, which were already marked hotspots of the virus. Cases were also reported from newer parts of Dharavi like Prem Nagar, Gangadhar chawl, Palkar chawl. Dharavi has seen 14 deaths so far. Dadar and Mahim have not reported any new cases for three days now.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||150 seafarers disembark at various ports||More than 150 seafarers have been able to disembark from their ships at various Indian ports since the government order issued last week allowed crew change. According to industry sources, 47 of the 60 ports have been able to implement the government’s standard operating procedures, which include testing and quarantine of mariners disembarking ships. It is also learnt that nearly 72 seafarers were not able to leave their ships due to the failure of the port authorities to comply with the order of the Home Ministry. These were among the issues discussed at Monday’s meeting with Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who has promised swift action.
28 April 2020||Patna,||‘Evacuation of students not legally proper’||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with Chief Ministers on Monday, raised the issue of evacuation of students from Bihar stranded in Kota, and said it was not “legally proper” to bring them back until the Centre had amended its lockdown guidelines. “A large number of students from Bihar are studying in coaching institutes of Kota in Rajasthan. Some States have brought back their students but we are adhering to the lockdown guidelines laid out by the Central government, and according to the Central Disaster Act released by the Home Ministry, there is a ban on inter-State travel. Until the guidelines are amended, it is not legally proper to bring back anyone,” Mr. Kumar told Mr. Modi.
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC caps price of test kits at Rs. 400||The Delhi High Court has directed a medical equipment importer to cap at Rs. 400 the price of each COVID-19 rapid test kit, which was ordered by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at the rate of Rs. 600 per kit. In late March, the ICMR placed an order for five lakh WONDFO SARS CoV-2 antibody test kits from China at the rate of Rs. 600 per kit. The total order value was around Rs. 30 crore. However, the landed cost of each test kit works out to Rs. 245. Which meant that the actual cost for 5 lakh test kits was Rs. 12.25 crore. The court noted that from the Rs. 30 crore to be paid by the ICMR for the 5 lakh kits, Rs. 18.75 crore was to be shared by the intermediaries — Matrix Labs, Rare Metabolics Life Sciences and Aark Pharmaceuticals. Directing that the test kits must not be sold at a rate of Rs. 400 per piece, the High Court said, “a profit mark-up of Rs. 155 i.e. 61% on the landed cost price of Rs. 245 is much on the higher side and in any case more than sufficient for the seller, for the kits/tests to be made available in India for urgent extensive tests through the country...”.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Testing times||
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Priyanka seeks action over faulty PPEs||Congress general secretary and in charge for Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) Priyanka Vadra on Monday raised the issue of ‘faulty’ personal protection equipment (PPE) supplied to the State’s medical colleges, and asked if the Yogi Adityanath government would take action against those involved in the ‘scam’. In a series of tweets, Ms. Vadra accused the U.P. government of being more worried about who leaked the information rather than probing the scam. She also posted a letter by State Director General of Medical Education that had flagged the issue of faulty PPEs supplied to the medical colleges. “... Surprisingly, the U.P. government is not bothered about the scam but is concerned about who leaked the information about these faulty kits,” she said in a tweet in Hindi. She also shared a letter by the government seeking to inquire about the source of the leak.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC admits plea against wage cuts for scribes||The Supreme Court on Monday admitted a plea challenging the legality of wage cuts, unpaid leaves and termination of employment of journalists by media organisations amid the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown, saying it is a serious issue requiring consideration. The joint petition filed by the National Alliance of Journalists, the Delhi Union of Journalists and the Brihanmumbai Union of Journalists sought a direction from the court to suspend, with immediate effect, the terminations, resignations, wage deductions and directions to go on leave without pay that have taken place in the media after the announcement of the nationwide lockdown. A Bench of Justices N.V. Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B.R. Gavai issued notice to the government, the Indian Newspaper Society and the News Broadcasters Association. They have to file their replies within two weeks.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. freezes DA, suspends leave encashment||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued two orders — one suspending the encashment of earned leave ‘initially’ for a year, and another freezing the Dearness Allowance at the current level till July 2021 for government employees, teachers and pensioners. According to a G.O. issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam for the Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department, the encashment of earned leave was suspended, initially for a year, in view of the State government’s financial position as it continued to battle COVID-19. “In view of the fiscal stress arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, the periodical surrender of earned leave for encashment for 15 days every year/30 days every two years, as provided [for] under Rule 7A of the Tamil Nadu Leave Rules, 1933, is suspended initially for a period of one year to all government employees and teachers,” the order said. “All surrender requests and bills pending as of date, irrespective of their stage of sanction and disbursement, shall not be processed,” it said. “In cases where sanction orders have been issued, they are to be cancelled, and earned leave [should] be re-credited into the leave account of the respective employees,” the G.O. stated. It added that the decision was applicable to all constitutional/statutory bodies, including State corporations, local bodies, boards, universities, commissions, companies, institutions and societies. Another G.O., issued by Finance Secretary K. Krishnan, said, “Following the orders issued by the Government of India, and in view of the severe financial crisis arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic, the [State] government has decided to adopt the decision of the Government of India on freezing the DA at current rates till July 2021.” The additional instalment of DA payable to State government employees, teachers and government pensioners/family pensioners, due from January 1, 2020, will not be paid. The same will apply to payments due from July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021. However, DA at the current rate will continue to be paid. As and when a decision to release the future instalment of DA due from July 1, 2021 is taken by the government, the rate of DA, as effective from January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021, will be restored prospectively and subsumed under the cumulative revised rate, effective from July 1, 2021. “No arrears for the period from January 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021 shall be paid,” the order said, adding that the decision was applicable to teaching and non-teaching staff of aided educational institutions, employees under local bodies and employees governed by the University Grants Commission/All India Council for Technical Education scales of pay. It will also be applicable to teachers/physical education directors/librarians in government and aided polytechnics and special diploma institutions, village assistants in the Revenue Department, noon-meal organisers, child welfare organisers, anganwadi workers, cooks, helpers and panchayat secretaries/clerks in village panchayats under the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department.  All surrender requests and bills pending as of date, irrespective of their stage of sanction and disbursement, shall not be processedA government order
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu market may be shifted out||A decision on temporarily shifting the Koyambedu wholesale vegetable and fruits market, as a precautionary measure, is likely to be taken on Tuesday after a second round of talks between officials and traders’ associations. This comes in the wake of physical distancing norms being flouted at the market. During a meeting with traders' associations on Monday, City Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan said the market will have to be closed if four or more persons in the complex test positive for COVID-19. Traders indulged in retail sale of vegetables and fruits on the pretext of wholesale sales and physical distancing norms were flouted at the market, he added. Moreover, two persons associated with the market had tested positive for COVID-19. Agriculture Secretary Gagandeep Singh, Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority Member Secretary D. Karthikeyan and Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash were among those who held the meeting to examine the feasibility of shifting the market to Madhavaram and Kilambakkam. Traders have, however, sought time to decide. Noting that it would be difficult to shift the market immediately, they said retailers should be restricted from operating in the market as retail sales brought in crowds. According to wholesale traders, a hair salon owner on ‘A’ Road near the market and a lorry driver who transported fruits from Maharashtra had tested positive for COVID-19. ‘Split operations’ V.R. Soundararajan, a wholesale merchant, said wholesale traders could be split into groups. Merchants dealing with onions, tomatoes and potatoes alone could use a five-acre space in the market. Traders noted that COVID-19 samples were yet to be taken in the market. S. Srinivasan, a wholesale fruit merchant, suggested that the government could temporarily shift the market to the nearby private omnibus stand and Chennai Mofussil Bus Terminus. An official of the Chennai Corporation said public health experts had recommended the shifting of the market to other locations. But it was a challenging task. “We are not sure if the traders will agree to the proposal. We do not want traders to start protesting against the move to shift the market. It will lead to scarcity of essential commodities in the city,” he added. While a senior CMDA official said a decision to shift the wholesale market to three different locations was likely to be taken on Tuesday, civic officials said the CMDA should at least clear encroachments at the market to promote social distancing.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MMC hostel block sealed as two doctors test positive||Two more postgraduate students of the Madras Medical College (MMC), to which the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) is attached, have tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Their source of infection was traced to a sanitation worker who worked in the PG men’s hostel on contract. Already, 23 medical, paramedical staff and workers of the hospital have tested positive for COVID-19. A majority of them were from the Department of Cardiology in the hospital. Six postgraduate students and a staff nurse were discharged last week. Three more staff nurses were discharged on Monday. One block of MMC’s PG men’s hostel was vacated, disinfected and brought under containment. Of the 102 postgraduate students who were tested, 100 were declared negative. Similarly, all those doing CRRI (Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship) were tested and were found to be negative. So far, 471 doctors, 363 nurses and paramedical staff have been tested, the medical college said in a release on Sunday. Area sealed A doctor said the PG men’s hostel in Broadway was now a containment zone and the area sealed. “No other medical college hospital has so many health care providers or workers as COVID-19 positive patients like the RGGGH. The available manpower has not been utilised well and all are exposed to infection. As of now, only 30% workforce is required for COVID-19 duty, and general patients, and the rest can be kept as reserve,” he said. A few postgraduate students said some of them were screened earlier. Now, two postgraduate students have tested positive, and so they had to undergo tests again. “Many of us were asked to assemble at the same time for the test. This is wrong as it can lead to spread of infection. There should be periodical testing for all of us,” one of them said. He said the laboratory report was not given to them and they were only informed of the result. “Those on COVID-19 duty share the same dressing room. We need more dressing rooms, and rooms for donning and doffing of personal protective equipment. Only a few wards have such separate facilities. A separate roster should be created for those on CRRI,” another PG student said. While several messages that the hospital’s safety was compromised and patient care was affected are doing the rounds, hospital dean R. Jayanthi termed all such messages as fake. ‘Situation under control’ “The situation is under control. The two PGs had come in contact with the sanitary worker, and did not work in the COVID-19 ward. We have an adequate number of PGs in non-COVID medical and surgical wards,” she said. She said those doing CRRI resumed work on Monday — at RGGGH and at its affiliated institutions — Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women and Children, Triplicane and Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Hospital for Women and Children, Egmore. “One-third of the CRRIs are kept under reserve,” she said. The block housing the Department of Cardiology that was closed for disinfection works would be operational from Tuesday, she added. A message forwarded by the authorities said any PG with a history of possible unintentional exposure during work was being screened. Based on the reports of screening tests done so far, there was no evidence of any significant or widespread infection among doctors, postgraduate students or staff nurses and there was no truth in the rumours.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Court rejects Hindu Munnani’s plea||The Madras High Court has rejected a plea made by Hindu Munnani against State Government’s decision to supply 5,460 tonnes of raw rice to indigent Muslims for breaking their day-long fast during the holy month of Ramzan. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and M. Nirmal Kumar refused to entertain such a plea styled as public interest litigation after observing that the petitioner organisation appeared to be “proceeding on religious lines.” When the case was listed for admission through video-conferencing, the judges, at the outset, asked the petitioner’s counsel T. Annamalai to spell out whether Hindu Munnani was a registered organisation or not. “The learned counsel for the petitioner is unable to give any answer. It is not even stated in the affidavit that the petitioner organisation is a registered organisation.. “Since the writ petition is styled as a public interest litigation, this court by deleting the name of the organisation, would take it that the writ petition has been filed by the individual (K. Kuttalanathan) who is said to be the secretary of the organisation,” the Bench said. Proceeding further, the judges recalled that the Supreme Court in Prafulla Goradia versus Union of India (2011) had rejected a challenge made to financial subsidy provided by the Government to Muslims who undertake annual pilgrimage to Mecca. In that verdict, a Bench comprising Justices Markandey Katju and Gyan Sudha Misra of the apex court had observed: “It is due to the wisdom of our founding fathers that the Constitution of India is secular and caters to the tremendous diversity. “It is the greatness of our founding fathers that they kept a cool head during the 1947 partition and decided to declare India a secular country instead of a Hindu country. This is why despite all its diversity, the only policy which can work and provide for stability is secularism.” In the light of those observations, the Bench rejected the plea against distribution of free rice to Muslims during Ramzan.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami reiterates plea to PM for funds, PCR kits||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday sent a fax to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, reiterating the request he had made earlier for funds and PCR kits, among other requirements. The State is planning to increase the number of tests for COVID-19 to 10,000 a day. Mr. Palaniswami also requested Mr. Modi to announce a relief package to ease the burden on the power sector which, he said, will help discoms in distress.  An official press release said Mr. Modi spoke to the Chief Ministers with whom he had not interacted during the video-conference meetings held earlier. “Due to paucity of time, all other CMs were requested by the PM to send their comments through fax message,” it added. As of Monday, a total of 87,605 samples had been tested and 1,885 persons found positive for COVID-19, the CM said. Effective treatment had ensured that the mortality rate was only 1.2%, and 1,020 patients had been discharged, he added. “Presently, the State has 30 government and 11 private labs for COVID testing, with a capacity of 7,500 tests per day. We are planning to increase it by 10,000, and request the Government of India to supply more PCR testing kits,” Mr. Palaniswami said. He reiterated his demand that the fiscal deficit limit of 3% of GSDP be revised to 4.5% for 2019-20 and 2020-21, and the additional borrowing of 33% above the permitted limit for the fiscal year 2019-20 be allowed for 2020-21 as well. Pointing out that Tamil Nadu had a large number of MSME units, he requested a support package for the sector. The CM requested the release of GST compensation for December-January and also 50% of the 2020-21 Finance Commission grants to the urban and rural local bodies. “The Ways and Means limit of the States, which was increased by 30% by the RBI, should be doubled, and the advances availed in the fiscal year 2020-21 should be made interest-free,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami also requested an immediate ad-hoc grant of Rs. 1,000 crore from the National Disaster Response Fund to procure medical and protective equipment. “The Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund may be made eligible to receive Corporate Social Responsibility contributions,” he said. He requested additional allocation of food grains free-of-cost for all cardholders, including non-priority household beneficiaries, under PMGKAY.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown opens up innovative avenues for brewing illicit arrack||As liquor shops remain shut in view of the COVID-19 lockdown, the brewing of illicit arrack has become widespread in several parts of the State, keeping the Prohibition and Enforcement Wing (PEW) personnel on their toes. Till mid-April, as many as 211 bootleggers had been identified across the State and 99 persons arrested for offences under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act, PEW officials said. Around 110 more persons were yet to be arrested, they added. Using drones, the police have been detecting illegal distillation of arrack in hills, forests and orchards. A top PEW officer said, “Over the last 40 days, we have seized lakhs of litres of arrack and over 1,000 vehicles. We are conducting raids in all districts.” The special unit is planning to procure more drones to carry out surveillance of border areas. It recently detected a case of fermented wash being concealed inside a water tanker in a village near Thiruttani. The drone came in handy to nab the smugglers, who had brought huge plastic bags filled with arrack from Andhra Pradesh.  Online videos In Chennai, the non-availability of alcoholic drinks has prompted tipplers to brew liquor by taking a cue from how-to videos posted on social media platforms. In Neelankarai, two youths prepared arrack with the help of videos posted on YouTube. In a similar incident, Raja, a resident of Teynampet, and his friend George Joseph, made use of TikTok videos to brew arrack at home, only to be caught by the police, who were tipped off by their neighbours. In Cuddalore district, three daily-wagers procured methanol from a factory in Sipcot and consumed it as a substitute for liquor. In Chengalpattu, three habitual drinkers died after consuming paint varnish mixed with water as a substitute for liquor. In Pudukottai district, three alcoholics died after consuming soft drinks mixed with an after-shave lotion. The Prohibition and Excise Department has written to factories dealing in methanol, asking them to take steps to stop pilferage. The police are constantly monitoring and arresting people for illegally stocking Indian-made foreign liquor bottles and selling them at exorbitant rates. “Some bar owners are trying to sell bottles to cash in on the lockdown. We arrest and remand them,” a police officer said.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No sign of train operations post-lockdown||There is no sign of the Indian Railways resuming operations post-lockdown that ends on May 3, 2020. Though extensive preparations are on to ensure COVID-19 safety protocol such as physical distancing on railway premises, including trains, the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has not commenced booking of tickets. Full refund The online portal says that in the wake of COVID-19 and as a measure of abundant precaution, booking has been suspended for all trains until further advice. For trains cancelled till May 3, 2020, full refund would be provided automatically by IRCTC and there is no need to cancel the tickets. However, goods/parcel train operations are on in full swing to transport essential commodities, medicines etc. According to senior railway officials, the Railway Board has been in touch with Zonal Railways on a regular basis over video-conferencing and no decision has been taken yet on resuming passenger train services after the second phase of lockdown. Though there are speculations of the lockdown getting extended by at least another couple of weeks, railway authorities are preparing to implement the safety protocol to manage the crowd in case a decision is taken to run the trains even partially. Accident/Medical Relief Trains have been kept ready with sufficient manpower available at call, sources in the Southern Railway said. “Some of the crowd control plans include withdrawal of unreserved coaches, removal (not allotting) of the middle berth in Sleeper Class/Third AC coaches and suspending issue of platform tickets. Physical distance markings are being done in some major stations and steps will be taken to make availability of masks, hand sanitisers etc. for sale at stations. Passengers may be asked to compulsorily wear masks and report one hour before the departure of the train. There will be a mechanism to ensure end-to-end sanitization of the train,” a railway official told The Hindu on Monday. Asked if there was any proposal to operate special trains for migrant workers who were jobless and staying in camps/shelters provided by their employers or government, the official said such requests had to come from the States. “One State might be willing to send thousands of migrant workers home. But the State where they want to go should be ready to receive them considering the scenario prevailing there. And such trains cannot have stoppages en route…we have to prevent the spread of COVID-19 to the extent possible by taking all precautionary measures,” the official who preferred not to be quoted said.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Withdraw decision immediately: Jactto-Geo||The Joint Action Committee of Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Organisations - Government Employees’ Organisations (Jactto-Geo) on Monday condemned the State government’s decision to freeze the Dearness Allowance at the current rate, suspend leave encashment and reduce the interest rate for the general provident fund. The government should withdraw the decision immediately, it said. In a statement, Jactto-Geo said the State government had suspended leave encashment — something which even the Centre did not do. It noted that its members had contributed a day’s salary, adding up to Rs. 150 crore, to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund, and that many of them were involved in COVID-19 relief efforts. “The decision shows the government’s autocratic attitude,” the committee said. It alleged that the government was trying to outsource work to private companies, adding that Tamil Nadu was the first State to adopt the new pension scheme. In a statement, the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Employees’ Federation, affiliated to the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), condemned the State government’s move, saying it was resorting to such measures instead of getting the required funds from the Centre to meet the expenditure related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Tamil Nadu Government Employees Teachers Welfare Federation said that many employees, who had commitments like housing, education and other loans, will be adversely affected by the State government's move.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||As prices soar, thieves target milk packets||With milk being sold above the printed retail price at many places in the city because of demand, packets are being stolen, say vendors. In the last two days, several thefts have been reported by dealers and dairies. In Manali, a tub of milk packets was taken away by a man, who left his two-wheeler in the next street. He emptied the packets into a bag and kept the tub back at the original spot. In T. Nagar, a few packets went missing when a vendor went to deliver milk. In Broadway, five tubs of milk sachets went missing and a fight ensued between the delivery man and the vendor. In Arumbakkam, around 50 packets of milk were stolen from a locked shop. “Since people come wearing masks and helmets, we are not able to identify them in CCTV footage. Earlier, the offenders used to sell them to tea shops,” said D. Rajasekar, Tamil Nadu Milk Dealers’ Welfare Association. The association has advised members to go to the shops early and ensure that milk is not stolen. “As it is, we are working for limited hours. We will prefer a complaint after collating all the details,” he said. On Monday, Aavin supplied 14.5 lakh litres of milk in the city. It sold milk through vehicles in the suburbs. It has tied up with one more online aggregator to serve its customers.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pensioner reaches out to the poor in Nagercoil||The notice board outside the house of S. Ramaswamy Pillay at Ganapathi Nagar in Nagercoil says that the poor and differently-abled could contact him for help. Inside the house, the 73-year old retired employee of the Health Department keeps loads of provisions, vegetables and other essential commodities meant for distribution to the poor, who are left with nothing during the COVID-19 lockdown. “I distribute five kg of rice, provisions and vegetables to those who seek help. But I make it a point to inquire about the person who approached me. I want to ensure that the commodities reach the deserving candidates because a few people tried to cheat me,” Mr. Pillai said. He said depending on the size of the family he would increase the commodities which include chilli, coriander, dhal, oil, salt and even asafoetida. He uses the money from his savings and the monthly pension. “My wife died two years ago and my daughter lives in Bengaluru. My requirements are not much and I am using the money to help people. Even today I bought provision for Rs. 10,000,” he said. Mr. Pillai regularly contributes to making food for 300 people. “An organisation called Suyambulingam Trust is preparing food from a marriage hall. I either give money or buy essential commodities,” he said.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State stands to save Rs. 7,300 crore||The State government, which is facing a funds crunch, will save around Rs. 7,300 crore this financial year by freezing the increase in the dearness allowance and suspending the encashment of earned leave. The decision on DA, which will affect around 12 lakh government employees and 7.4 lakh pensioners and family pensioners, will save the exchequer Rs. 4,900 crore, while the one on leave encashment will save around Rs. 2,450 crore. While the announcements mark “substantial savings” for the government, they do not take away any benefit that employees and pensioners currently enjoy, according to an official of the Finance Department. It may be pointed out that the Kerala government has decided to deduct the salary of its employees for six days every month for the next five months. As far as employees of the Tamil Nadu government are concerned, the decisions mean a 12% cut in their average annual emoluments. Currently, employees and pensioners are being paid 17% DA, which would have otherwise gone up to 25% during the course of the year. Invariably, the employees exercise the option of encashing their earned leave for 15 days in a year or 30 days in a block of two years. These measures are “administratively more simple” than resorting to a cut in salary for a specific period, as being done in Kerala, or deferring the payment of salary. Besides, in respect of the DA hike freeze, the State government has emulated the Centre, the official pointed out. The government has taken these decisions at a time when its repeated requests for more funds from the Centre remain unfulfilled. The State government has, among other things, sought a special grant of Rs. 1 lakh crore for all States, including Rs. 9,000 crore for Tamil Nadu; Rs. 3,000 crore for the augmentation and strengthening of health infrastructure; Rs. 1,321 crore towards custom milled rice subsidy for paddy procurement; and an ad-hoc grant of Rs. 1,000 crore from the National Disaster Response Fund to procure medical and protective material.  While the announcements mark “substantial savings” for the government, they do not take away any benefit that employees and pensioners currently enjoy
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown violation cases reach 3.16 lakh||The number of cases of lockdown violation since March 24 has crossed 3.16 lakh, and over three lakh persons have been arrested so far. As of Monday morning, there were 3,16,404 cases of lockdown violations reported from across State, and as many as 3,34,549 persons had been arrested. As many as 2,84,861 vehicles had been seized from the violators, and fines to the tune of Rs. 3.33 crore had been collected from them, the police said. In Chennai, as many as 34,439 cases had been filed in a month for violation of prohibitory orders, and 22,478 vehicles seized by the police.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu to return 24,000 rapid test kits||Tamil Nadu will be returning 24,000 rapid test kits to suppliers, as advised by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Monday. The ICMR had advised States to stop using the antibody-based testing kits that were procured from two Chinese companies. In a statement, the Minister said the State had not incurred any expenses, and all other procurement orders stood cancelled, as per ICMR’s advisory. The ICMR-approved Wondfo SARS-CoV-2 kits were manufactured by Guangzhou Wondfo, a Chinese company. Guangzhou Wondfo appointed two pharma companies to market the product in India — Cadilla Pharma and Matrix Labs. The Minister said the two importers had authorised a number of dealers across the country, including some in Tamil Nadu. This included Aark Pharmaceuticals, Shan Biotech and Rare Metabolics. The ICMR had issued orders for procuring five lakh kits from Aark Pharmaceuticals at Rs. 600 each. On this basis, the State placed orders to procure Wondfo kits from Shan Biotech at the same price, he said. The Minister pointed out that product approvals would have only the name of the manufacturer (Wondfo), and not that of the importer and dealer. “To say that Shan Biotech was not on ICMR list was wrong. The names of no dealer from whom other States purchased would be on the list,” he said. Mr Vijayabaskar’s statement came as a response to DMK president M.K. Stalin’s charge that the government had purchased the kits from a Chennai-based company not recognised by the ICMR. “The ICMR, in fact, gave procurement orders for Rs. 795 per kit in the second tranche of orders,” the Minister added. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Managing Director P. Umanath explained that the ICMR fixed the price of the kit at Rs. 600 and ordered from Aark, one dealer of Matrix. Considering the demand to expand testing immediately, the TNMSC ordered from Shan Biotech, another dealer of Matrix at the same price in a transparent manner. Higher rate Many States placed orders at higher rates (A.P. at Rs. 730 and Kerala Rs. 699), but Tamil Nadu got them at the ICMR-fixed rate of Rs. 600, he said. The Delhi High Court order capping the price at Rs. 400, he pointed out, was based on a litigation by the dealer and importer firms. Since, the TNMSC placed orders at the ICMR-fixed price, it re-fixed the price at Rs. 400 and had obtained the concurrence. “For the 24,000 kits supplied, the invoice has been raised for Rs. 96 lakh plus taxes. However, all kits would now be withdrawn,” he told The Hindu.  Stalin’s allegation Mr. Stalin alleged that the Delhi High Court order capping the price of imported antibody test kits at Rs. 400 had exposed the AIADMK government, which had purchased them for Rs. 600 each. “When I accused the State government of buying the kits at a higher price, it claimed it had purchased them at the price fixed by the ICMR. It is condemnable that Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar had justified the higher price,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. He said the Chinese company that produced the kit sold it for just Rs. 225, and the total price of the kit would be Rs. 245 when the import charges are included.
28 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Youth’s body to be flown in from Dubai on May 1’||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar has assured MDMK general secretary Vaiko that the mortal remains of Durairaj, a youth from Virudhunagar, will be brought back to the country from Dubai on May 1, the MDMK has said in a press release. The party said Mr. Jaishankar spoke to Mr. Vaiko and informed him that arrangements were being made to bring back the mortal remains of the youth. He also informed the MDMK leader that the bodies of three other persons, which were sent back after reaching Delhi, will also be brought back, the party said. The MDMK said Mr. Vaiko had raised the issue with Mr. Jaishankar and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Mr. Vaiko thanked the External Affairs Minister for his intervention to resolve the issue.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man kills his partner, ends life||A 52-year-old man allegedly murdered his partner by hitting her with a blunt object and later ended his life in Guduvanchery on Sunday. According to the police, Srivashan of Guduvanchery worked in a bar attached to a Tasmac shop in the same locality. He had divorced his wife and married another woman. He had a partner named Uma living in Valanchery. “There used to be frequent quarrels between him and Uma as he gave all his earnings to his second wife,” said the police. On Sunday, Srivashan and Uma had an argument, and in a fit of rage he murdered her. Later, he ended his life. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight arrested for youth’s murder||The Tiruvottiyur police on Monday arrested eight persons for allegedly killing an 18-year-old youth. The police said Jayaram, a daily wage labourer, went missing from his home on Rajakadai Ramanunjam Street three days ago. His sister later received an SMS that he had been hacked to death and his body buried on NTO Kuppam beach. The Thiruvottiyur police arrested eight persons and exhumed the body.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tahsildar’s driver dies in accident||The driver of a tahsildar died after the vehicle he was driving rammed a transformer in Selaiyur. The accident occurred because driver Sandeep, 40, suffered a cardiac arrest while driving the vehicle. Tashildar Ramkumar, who was travelling in the vehicle, escaped unhurt.
28 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Absenteeism comes down among conservancy workers in Coimbatore||Conservancy workers in Coimbatore city, it appears, have put their best foot forward in the battle to contain COVID-19 disease. Though they are leading from the front and are vulnerable, almost all workers have reported for duty, even in containment zones. Sources in the Coimbatore Corporation say since the State government imposed the lockdown from March 24 6 p.m. almost all the 2,100-odd permanent workers have reported for duty, barring a negligible number that has not reported for work because of medical conditions. The Corporation has over 2,100 permanent workers and almost twice the number of contract workers. And, then, there are 800 domestic breeding checkers whom the Corporation had diverted from mosquito eradication work to COVID-19 containment. Among the permanent workers, the Corporation, on an average, sees 10 – 15% absenteeism, with most of it being in the first week of every month, after the Corporation credits salary to their account, say officers supervising conservancy work. And, a good number of the 10 – 15% workers who go on leave during this period also suffer from addiction to alcohol, says a sanitary inspector. Admitting that alcoholism has been a problem, a conservancy worker on condition of anonymity says though the number of workers addicted to liquor has come down, thanks to Corporation’s de-addiction programme, there are workers who are unable to kick the habit. Cleaning soak pits Second week onwards, workers availing of leave depends on their finding odd jobs like cleaning soak pits, drains or other cleaning work at private establishments, says a zonal sanitary officer. But, during the lockdown, the attendance has been exceptionally good because the spending avenues for workers have come down and so has the opportunity to get odd jobs because of the closure of private establishments. A zonal sanitary officer says the Corporation arranging buses to transport workers, conducting medical camps, providing additional personal safety gear and encouraging them have also contributed to the workers reporting for duty without fail. Another conservancy worker says, that the Corporation has arranged for breakfast and lunch for them has made them understand that they will have to lead from the front in keeping the city clean, spraying disinfectants and doing all that is additionally required to protect the people that they have been serving. A senior officer says that the civic body has not only explained to the workers the precautions they need to take during the lockdown period but also highlighted their importance in the battle against the spread of the disease. This has had an impact on the workers’ attendance. And, above all, during the lockdown, the workers coming out to work for a few hours, though for work, helps them beat the stress as they, otherwise, will be confined to homes.
28 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable farmers in Coimbatore district hit hard with total shutdown||With total lockdown in place in Coimbatore city since Sunday, and wholesale vegetable traders shutting shop, vegetable growers in the district stare at huge losses. The farmers say they face a lot of difficulties since the lockdown started and the quantity of vegetables sold to traders has come down in the last one month. The traders are unable to sell to other districts, States or to hotels and hostels, and hence their off take from the farmers has reduced. Further, the local vegetable mandis are shut in many places. What has made the situation worse for many of them is the wholesale traders in Coimbatore city stopping purchase for the last three days. According to C. Padmanabhan, member of the pandhal vegetable growers association in Pollachi, he is getting calls from the farmers every day. So many farmers who grow the vine crops (pandhal vegetables), are destroying the vegetables with them as they have no buyers and are unable to stock it. “I am speaking to the officials daily. We are looking at supplying directly to push cart vendors. But the quantity of vegetables with the farmers is huge. There are so many police check points while transporting the vegetables to Coimbatore. Can I call up the officials at each check point?,” he asks. Kumarasamy, a vegetable grower at Thirumalayampalayam, Madukkarai block who has four acres under creepers such as bottle gourd, bitter gourd, and snake gourd, says he fears whether the vegetables with him will have to go to the cattle as feed. “I have one tonne vegetables in the farm,” he says. Moorthy, another farmer near Madukkarai, says there are so many farmers in the district who are destroying the snake gourd plants as they are unable to sell the produce. The traders used to come to the farms every alternative day and take the vegetables. Now, they are not doing so. “The government is asking us to use the cold storage facilities. But where will go for the containers. Also, vegetables such as brinjal cannot be kept in the storage. Even if the farmers in Pollachi area tried to sell to local retailers in places such as Pollachi, the quantity with them is more than what the retailers can take,” he says. Paramasivam, who has 15 acres in Theethipalayam under vegetables such as bitter gourd and snake gourd, buys from farmers across the district and is also a wholesale trader, say he has suffered Rs. 10 lakh loss in the last one month and baskets of vegetables in stock. “I am in this trade for more than 30 years. Never have I faced such a situation. I bring nearly five loads of vegetables to TK market every day. Two loads of it is for the local traders. For the last three days, I am not able to go anywhere to source the vegetables or even to my farm,” he says. The farmers seek support from the district officials to transport the vegetables, to source inputs, and to sell the produce.
28 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kamalathal sells idlis at Rs. 1 even during lockdown||M. Kamalathal, who garnered nationwide attention for her Re.1 idlis at her shop at Vadivelampalayam near Coimbatore, has also been getting attention amid the COVID-19 lockdown as various organisations came forward to donate groceries to her. On Saturday, she got to interact with DMK President M.K. Stalin via video conferencing as the 85-year-old received groceries and medicines through the People’s Helpline initiative launched by the party recently. The previous day, members from Bharathiar University visited her eatery at Vadivelampalayam and provided groceries. “I still keep my shop open till 12 p.m.,” Ms. Kamalathal told The Hindu over the phone from Vadivelampalayam. While she used to only cook using firewood and traditional stove, she has now changed to LPG cylinder stove. “About 50 people come every day now, but they are only from here [Vadivelampalayam] and not outside,” she said. Though she continues to charge Rs. 1 apiece for the idlis, she has reduced the quantity due to the reduction in the number of customers. According to the octogenarian’s neighbour C.P. Parimala, Ms. Kamalathal is living only with her son, Purushothaman, in the house attached to the eatery. Her granddaughter-in-law P. Aarthi, who used to keep Ms. Kamalathal company during the day times, had gone to Dindigul before the lockdown was announced and is currently staying there. After selling idlis, Ms. Kamalathal said that she would keep herself busy in household chores. When asked whether she is affected by the ongoing lockdown, she asserted that she has “no problems.” “I do not ask for any help and I do not refuse any help,” Ms. Kamalathal said. On Monday, Nallaram Trust Chairman S.P. Anbarasan visited Ms. Kamalathal and donated 50 kg of rice and cash Rs. 10,000. “Since she might be facing difficulties during this COVID-19 [lockdown] time, we gave her the rice and cash,” he said.
28 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown violators arrested||Five persons were arrested in Coimbatore city limits for violating prohibitory order on Sunday, the first day of the four-day complete lockdown announced by the State Government. The police seized three vehicles from them. Meanwhile, in Coimbatore rural limits where the complete lockdown is not applicable, police have registered 370 cases, arrested 426 persons and seized 357 vehicles. Police said that incidents of persons entering city limits from rural areas was nil after the four-day-long complete lockdown came in to effect in areas within Coimbatore Corporation from Sunday. Coimbatore city police will continue extra vigil in Corporation limits till Wednesday. Erode Staff Reporter adds The district police on Sunday registered 507 cases against motorists and seized 400 vehicles for violating Section 144 in the district. Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan said that cases were registered against motorists for plying on the road without valid reasons, defying the order. He said that 350 two-wheelers, 45 cars and eight three-wheelers were impounded by the police across the district. Salem Staff Reporter adds Salem City police have registered 106 cases and seized 66 vehicles for violating prohibitory orders. Salem district police registered 136 cases against 164 persons and seized 86 vehicles. In Namakkal, police have registered 178 cases against 178 persons and seized over 60 vehicles for violating prohibitory orders.
28 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man dies after inhaling poisonous gas||A 49-year-old man from Peelamedu in Coimbatore died in the early hours of Monday after he accidentally inhaled poisonous gas, suspected to have emanated from a generator. The deceased was identified as S. Balaji of HUDCO Colony. Police said Balaji, his father Sridhar (80), mother Padmavathi (75) and brother Murali (47) were living in a rented house. Around 2.30 a.m., Sridhar went to the restroom, but did not come out for long. When Murali went into the restroom to check on his father, he saw him lying unconscious. And, Murali fainted while trying to revive his father. When Balaji went in to find out what happened, he too fell unconscious. Padmavathi then sought the help of the neighbours, who rushed the three to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. But, the doctors found that Balaji was dead. Sridhar and Murali were admitted to the intensive care unit. Peelamedu Inspector T. Jothi said a case of unnatural death was registered. Police suspected that gas from the generator of an internet service provider next to the house could have caused the poisoning. Investigations were, however, on to confirm the cause of death.
28 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CII, Yi develop testing booth for frontline workers||A team of Young Indians (Yi), Coimbatore and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Coimbatore, have developed a positive pressure COVID-19 testing booth for frontline healthcare workers. According to a press release, these booths will will help with an efficient and quicker way of conducting the nasopharyngeal / Oropharyngeal swab. The booth is designed to protect the healthcare workers and minimise the use of PPEs. The booth has been installed at ESI Hospital. The booth is the first of its kind in Coimbatore region with a positive pressure of 100Pa being maintained. The air supplied to the booth is also passed through a HEPA filter. It can be transported and deployed wherever necessary. The Yi and CII, Coimbatore, plan to manufacture more such testing booths in future. In addition, a comprehensive study was made on the re-usability of N95 masks. The CII and Yi have launched a #HeroesWearMasks campaign. “Wear a Mask, every time you step out of your house and be a hero”, is the message that will be conveyed.
28 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kits given to workers burnt||In containment zones, the Corporation provides a pair of gloves, mask and spectacles – all disposable – to the workers. A senior officer says the civic body provides the set everyday to all the workers who work in containment zones. After they collect the wet and dry waste separately, the Corporation transports it to the nearest burial ground, where it buries the wet waste in five-foot deep pits and burn dry waste. And, while burning the dry waste, the workers also burn the kit given for the day. This has been the practise ever since the Corporation established containment zones in the city.
28 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Students come up with solution to detect lung infections||Students of Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College have come up with artificial intelligence (AI)-based solution to detect lung infections. A release from the institutions said that 40 students from Mechanical Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering, Information Technology and Electronics and Communication Engineering, who were a part of the collaborative innovation centre (COIN), developed AI-based algorithm to scan x-ray images of lungs to identify the type of infection. When the algorithm was used to scan the images, it would come out with the type of infection - COVID-19 or pneumonia or severe acute respiratory syndrome, the release said.
28 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||briefly - recreeded||The Tamil Nadu Hire Goods Owners’ Association has appealed to the State government to provide financial support to those who have been left without income due to the lockdown. Many small and marginal workers and daily wage earners are unemployed with the lockdown. The Association has sought funding from the government for its members.   The Institute of Company Secretaries of India has rolled out online short-term courses and free video lectures. Its students who have enrolled for class room teaching can avail of the online class room facilities free of cost by logging on tohttp://www.icsi.edu/media/webmodules/websiteClassroom.pdf andhttp://elearning.icsi.in All offline trainings have been moved to the online platforms. For continued professional development programmes, online certificate courses and webinars are available, according to a press release.
28 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Six Thailand nationals to be sent to Puzhal Prison||Six Thailand nationals, who were arrested for violating visa norms and currently in a separate ward of the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai, would be sent to Puzhal Central Prison in the late hours on Monday. Confirming this to The Hindu , Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan said they would reach the Puzhal prison in the early hours of Tuesday. Of the seven Thai nationals who arrived in the city on March 11, one person developed fever and was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. Though he tested negative for COVID-19, he died of complications from diabetic nephropathy and septicaemia. The six others were later admitted to the isolation ward at Perundurai. Two of them tested positive. The two were the first COVID-19 positive cases reported in the city, which led to home quarantining of hundreds of families. After treatment, the two tested negative and all the six were kept in a separate ward. Complaint In her complaint to Erode South Police on April 4, Erode Tahsildar Parimaladevi said they had violated visa norms and involved in preaching, and were threat to the health of others. The police registered a case under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 278 (making atmosphere noxious to health) of the Indian Penal Code and Para 1-25 and 19.8 of The Visa Manual 2019 r/w Section 13 (1), (2) and 14 of The Foreigner’s Act 1946 and 134, 135 of Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939. A court had remanded them in custody till April 23, and permitted them to be in the hospital. Sources in the police department said they would be produced before the Erode court through video conferencing on April 30 or steps would be taken to transfer the case to a court in Chennai.
28 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Villagers in T.N.-Karnataka border deprived of essentials||People of Kuttaiyur, a remote village in Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border, are facing difficulties to obtain essential commodities as they were prevented from crossing the border to reach shops in Karnataka due to the lockdown. The village comes under Bargur Panchayat in Anthiyur Taluk. There is no bus service to the village as people have to walk for five km. from Makkampalayam through forest area. Or they have to reach Kargaegandi in the border and travel 40 km. in Karnataka to reach Kuttaiyur. As many as 150 families are residing in the village.
28 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Inform authorities on visitors’||The district administration in Erode has asked the public to alert officials if they have visitors from foreign countries or other States. Collector C. Kathiravan said various steps were taken in the district to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and currently there were no new positive cases. However, the caution was being issued to ensure there was no spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus from neighbouring States. The public should inform government hospitals, police stations or the Tahsildar’s office of visitors to their family or in the neighbourhood, offices and industries, he said. Public could also contact the control room at 0424-2260211, toll free number 1077 and WhatsApp number 96773-97600, he said.
28 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||BJP distributes essentials||Members of the Erode South District BJP distributed groceries and essential commodities to 2,000 people at four places in the city here on Monday. A press release from the party said that its district president S.A. Sivasubramaniam distributed the packs to people in Chithode, Rail Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Surampatti Valasu.
28 April 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Containment eased in some Krishnagiri zones||While Krishnagiri remained the only green district as on date in the State without any COVID-19 positive cases, most of the preventive containment zones put up earlier in Alasanatham, Begepalli, Kodiazhaganur, Vazhaithottam, over potential infections following contact tracing, were eased on Monday after the samples returned negative after tests. Except for Alasantham and Kodiazhaganur the other containment zones were eased. A co-driver of a Dharmapuri truck driver, who had tested positive in Morappur upon returning from delivering essentials in Maharashtra, Tuticorin and other areas, was admitted to the isolation ward in Uthangarai on Saturday. However, his sample had later tested negative. In the meantime, his wife’s residence in Kodiazhaganur in Bargur was also disinfected and the family members were advised quarantine. The swab samples of the co-driver’s wife and his two young children were also sent for testing. Samples were lifted for 1219 cases and of these, 1018 samples returned negative. The results for the remaining 201 samples were still awaited. A total of 3727 people, including 550 who had returned from abroad, were quarantined. Barring two of the 550 returnees, the others completed 28 days in quarantine. Similarly, over 1212 people who were issued e-passes for travel were quarantined on their return here.
28 April 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||‘False positives and false negatives acceptable in clinical pathology’||Two days after a man was reported to have tested positive for COVID-19 after 34 days in self quarantine in Hosur, the confirmatory test returned negative on Sunday. The man, who is at present at the government medical college hospital, will be discharged after following the standard operating procedures for contagious diseases, Collector S. Prabhakar said. “In clinical pathology, false positives and false negatives are acceptable globally, and there are several such cases worldwide. The reason we had sent a second sample was because of the peculiarity of testing positive after 34 days in self-quarantine, though it cannot be completely ruled out in asymptomatic carriers” said Mr. Prabhakar, of the person, who was feared to have been asymptomatic upon the first test returning positive. While the first sample was tested in Hosur, the second sample was sent to the King Institute, Chennai, because the normal incubation period for the virus is 14 days. Also, in clinical science, the results will have to be co-related with the symptoms and will be examined case by case, be it a false positive or a false negative, said Mr. Prabhakar. “All results, machines and techniques are standardised to deal with issues of this kind. And when we get such outcomes, we also follow the standard operating procedures and the WHO guidelines to deal with these issues,” he said. According to him, the man is kept in a highly safe and uncontaminated zone and the Dean has been advised by the State health authorities to ensure no one other than an exclusively designated medical care staff enter that room. The man will be subsequently discharged in compliance with the standard operative procedures, Mr. Prabhakar said. Meanwhile, Krishnagiri continued to remain as the only green district in the State without any reported COVID-19 positive case so far.
28 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||53,480 tonnes of paddy procured from farmers||With the harvesting season coming to an end, 32 direct purchase centres (DPC) are continuing to function through the COVID-19 lockdown so that farmers can continue to sell their produce. A Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation official said each centre procured a daily average of 38 tonnes of paddy. “We have purchased 53,480 tonnes of paddy for Rs. 90 crore this season. It is much higher than the previous years due to a good yield this year,” he said. Earlier, Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar and IAS officer in charge of the Zonal Task Force to tackle COVID-19 C. Kamaraj had independently said that all the 87 purchase centres in the district will be functioning. But the official said that since 70% of the crops had been harvested, there was no need for that many now. Even before the COVID-19 pandemic, 24 DPCs were closed as the farmers in those areas had completed their harvest. “When COVID-19 started spreading, we were asked to close down all the centres as farmers continued to start crowding in procurement centres despite Section 144 in force,” the official said. Prior to the lockdown, the department was short-staffed too. Only 40 staff manned the DPCs. “Staff from Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts were deputed here. However, with district borders closing due to the lockdown, they had to hurry home,” he said. “Now, however, the TNCSC is faced with the unique problem of finding labour in the villages where the 32 DPCs are situated,” he said N. Palanisamy, president, Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers’ Association, said that in areas such as Thumbaipatti and Chellampatti, labourers who feared that they could get infected with COVID 19 did not come to the purchase centres for unloading and loading paddy. So, many farmers had to turn back and sell to commission agents who exploited them. “In some centres, there were not even anybody to weigh the paddy. It was perplexing for all,” said K. Rajendran, secretary of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association, The official said staff members never used to face problem in finding labour as people were ready to get some work for a pay. “Procurement in at least 20 centres is satisfactory as farmers chipped in and the absence of labour was not acute,” he said.   Seeing it through  COVID-19 scare led to a shortage of labourers at DPCs Farmers helped in unloading and loading paddy in some centres
28 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||This time, it’s contests for college students||After successfully organising indoor competitions for school students to help them beat the lockdown boredom, Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has organized art and literary contest for college students. Several prizes to the tune of Rs. 2.5 lakh are up for grabs. The entries on different categories should be sent through specific mail IDs on or before May 5, a statement said. Actor Karthi would declare the winners of the contest on his Twitter page. The entries in Tamil and English should be sent to mpmaduraistory@gmail.com or mpmaduraipoem@gmail.com. Drawing on Madurai’s historical monuments and structures should be sent to mpmaduraiart@gmail.com. Videos for shortfilms and stand up comedy should be for a maximum of three minutes and should be sent to mpmaduraishortfilm@gmail.com and mpmaduraistandup@gmail.com respectively. The topics for digital poster competition are: Social distancing is not social discrimination; Stigma is dangerous; I am not a virus but who combated the virus; and Combat COVID-19, spread humanity. The entries should be sent to mpmaduraiposter@gmail. com. Humorous but inoffensive memes on current social situation should be sent to mpmaduraimemes@gmail. com. Photographs on flora and fauna in and around the house can be sent to mpmaduraiphoto@gmail .com. The oratory competition (Tamil and English) is on life after coronavirus; role of tradition and science in eradication of coronavirus; dream to nurture nature; and The days to come in video format should be sent o mpmaduraispeech@gmail.com. And 3-D photographs on art from waste must be sent to mpmadraiAFW@gmail.com.
28 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Zinc and multi-vitamin tablets given to conservancy workers||Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan inspected distribution of zinc and multi-vitamin tablets to conservancy workers deployed at Racecourse Colony, a containment zone, here on Monday. According to a press statement issued by the civic body here on Monday, zinc and multi-vitamin tablets will be distributed to all the 5,000 employees of the Corporation to boost their immunity as they are among the frontline teams involved in the battle against COVID-19 pandemic. The Commissioner also monitored barricading works which were under way at Racecourse Colony, Sellur, Anaiyur and Sikkandar Chavadi – all newly marked containment zones. Mr. Visakan also ordered the officials to set up a help desk and ensure that all essential commodities were delivered at the doorstep of residents.  Kabasura Kudineer , a Siddha concoction, would be distributed to all residents of containment zones to boost their immunity. All the houses there would be disinfected regularly, the release added. The Commissioner also inspected Amma Unavagam at Anaiyur and ordered the employees to ensure that personal distancing was strictly maintained by the people.
28 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||550 police personnel to be screened||After two personnel of Madurai City Police turned positive, over 550 police personnel, including officials, in frontline duty in the fight against COVID-19 have been identified for medical screening. Already 80 police personnel have undergone the COVID-19 test and every day a batch of around 100 police personnel would be sent for the test. Those who were on duty in Government Rajaji Hospital, containment zone bandobust, and patient tracing work would be screened, said Commissioner of Police S. Davidson Devasirvatham. Meanwhile, South Gate police station remained closed for the third day on Monday after a police personnel there tested positive. Disinfection activity is also continuing at the station building and it is off limits. The police there are doing duty, sitting under a pandal put up outside the building. The City Police Office is gearing up to distribute medical kits for all its 3,500 police personnel from Tuesday. The kit also contains medicines recommended by the State Health Department to boost immunity and a pack of ‘kabasura kudineer,’ a herbal mix.  Number of cases down After implementation of complete lockdown, the number of cases being registered for violation of curfew order has drastically come down in the city in the last two days. On an average, over 230 cases were registered every day in the last one month ever since the lockdown was implemented on March 23. It has come down to 96 cases on Sunday, and 64 cases on Monday. Similarly, movement of vehicles doing unnecessary trips has completely declined with only four vehicles seized in the last two days. The total number of cases registered so far is 7,333 against 7,961 persons. Number of vehicles seized so far is 4,017.
28 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Four more test positive||Four persons, including a staff nurse at Government Rajaji Hospital, tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai on Monday, taking the total number of positive cases to 79. The staff nurse was staying in the hospital staff quarters after completing her shift. The other patients included a 27-year-old resident of Anuppanadi Road and a 29-year-old person from Karisalkulam. Collector T.G. Vinay said that contact tracing was under way. The fourth patient was a 64-year-old person who was a primary contact of a COVID-19 positive patient. The Collector said that efforts were being taken to strengthen barricading in containment zones. Effective monitoring of people residing in these areas was being done to ensure that they did not get out of their houses. Police were regularly making announcements in this regard, he said.
28 April 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Minister advises public against flying kites||Minister for Electricity P.Thangamani advised the public to avoid flying kites as it could lead to fatal accidents. Mr.Thangamani along with Minister for Social Welfare V.Saroja and senior officials distributed grocery kits to conservancy workers at Elachipalayam here on Monday. “The district administration has been taking various measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The Collector has ordered imposition of fine on those venturing out without masks. Only one person will be allowed to ride on two-wheelers and the vehicles of violators will be seized. They will be returned only after lockdown,” the Minister told presspersons. He said that complaints on power disruptions due to strong winds and rain at various parts of the State were immediately attended to. He advised the public to avoid flying kites to prevent power disruptions and fatal accidents as strong ropes were used to fly kites. Ms.Saroja said that the department had launched a helpline - 97007 99993. It received 25,000 calls till date and 22,000 calls had been attended to.
28 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Trucks with stocks of liquor stranded at border||As many as 11 trucks loaded with more than 13,000 cases of liquor meant for liquor shops in Puducherry have been stranded at the interstate border at Pattanur near Gorimedu for a few days owing to the lockdown. According to sources, the trucks carrying Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and beer from Karnataka and Goa left their places of despatch last month and by the time they reached Tamil Nadu limits, the second phase of the lockdown stood in the way of the consignments reaching the Union Territory. The godowns in Puducherry were sealed by the Excise Department as part of measures to prevent illegal liquor sale during lockdown. A truck driver said they could neither bring the vehicles into Puducherry nor take them back to the places of despatch. “I’m afraid there will be no safety for us or the goods if the trucks remain parked here,” he said. An Excise Department official said IMFL shops had placed the order before the lockdown kicked in and the stocks were despatched before they could cancel the order. Meanwhile, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi asked the local police to inform the Superintendent of Police, Villupuram, within whose jurisdiction the trucks are now stationed.
28 April 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Minister writes to L-G on rice for APL families||Social Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy on Monday requested Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi to ensure distribution of free rice to Above Poverty Line (excluding government servants and income tax payees) card holders through ration shop employees. The method adopted for distribution of rice to BPL card holders should not be followed for APL families as the procedure was time consuming, he said.
28 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Newlywed donate for COVID-19 fund||A newly-married couple, soon after tying the knot, donated Rs. 20,000 to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund for COVID-19 containment measures. They handed over the cheque to Health Minister Minister C. Vijayabaskar here on Sunday. The incident took place soon after the wedding of Venkateswaran with Bhuvaneswari at Virachilai village near Tirumayam in the presence of very few near and dear ones in view of the prohibitory orders in place. While Venkateswaran works in a software firm in Bengaluru, Bhuvaneswari is a research scholar. After the wedding, the newly-married couple wearing masks and accompanied by their parents came to the District Collectorate here where they presented a cheque for Rs. 20,000 to the Health Minister. The Minister greeted the couple and gave them ‘kabasura kudineer’. Collector P. Uma Maheswari who was present on the occasion also greeted the couple.
28 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Three held for poisoning peafowls||A Forest Department team has arrested three persons on the charge of poisoning seven peafowls at Uchani village near Keeranur in Pudukkottai district. Acting on a tip off, a team visited a farm at the village on Saturday where they found some feathers and legs of birds strewn around. A decomposed carcass of a peahen was found in a bush nearby. The team thereafter launched a search for the farm owner and workers. They could trace the workers on Sunday and conducted detailed enquiries with them. The three farm workers reportedly confessed to have poisoned the seven peafowls recently, allegedly on the instruction of the farm owner. The owner had apparently ordered the killing as the birds were destroying his crops. The poison was mixed with paddy and groundnuts and fed to the birds, said a senior Forest Department official here. The carcass of the rest of the birds could not be found as the team believes that it could have been taken away by mongrels. The carcass of the peahen has been sent to the Forensic Lab to find out the poisonous substance used. Samples have been sent for tests to check if the birds had any disease. Farm owner P. Dhanapal - a retired government official is absconding and the team was on the lookout for him. The three workers, M. Arumugam (62), P. Palanivel (50) and P. Rajamani (65), were remanded in judicial custody on Monday and a case booked against them under section 9 of the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972. The Forest Department authorities have asked the field-level officials to mount a watch on any forest related illegal activity taking place inside the reserve forests or outside taking advantage of the lockdown period.
28 April 2020||Pudukottai:,TAMIL NADU||Man smuggling sand attacks constable||26-year-old man reportedly smuggling sand in a mini goods carrier allegedly attacked a police constable and attempted to end his life by slashing his neck and hand with glass pieces at Pallathivayal village near Avudaiyarkoil in the district on Monday. The accused Rajadurai and the Constable Manohar are undergoing treatment at Aranthangi and Avudaiyarkoil Government Hospitals, respectively. Police sources said a case under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder) has been booked against Rajadurai against whom a murder case was pending. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
28 April 2020||RAJAPALAYAM,TAMIL NADU||Industrialist booked for violating curfew order||Virudhunagar district police have booked an industrialist, K.T.R. Raja alias Kuwait Raja (51), for violating the curfew order while distributing assistance to poor people in the town on the occasion of his birthday on Friday. Rajapalayam North police on Sunday booked him under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. He has also been charged under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, based on a complaint lodged by Village Administrative Officer Sumathi. The Communist Party of India had complained that social distancing measures were not fully complied with during the distribution of relief materials by the industrialist at the old bus stand.
28 April 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Possession of idols: VAO among four held||A village administrative officer and four others were arrested on Sunday on the charge of possessing idols, gems and stones. Following a complaint to police helpline (94899-19722), Superintendent of Police V. Varun Kumar directed the police to register a case. According to preliminary inquiry, a black magician was operating in Thoppadaipatti, a secluded hamlet near Kamudhi in the district. With a motive to make quick money through illegal methods, he claimed to be in possession of precious valuables, including a few idols made of gold, rare coins and gems. By performing pujas and sacrifying animals to a deity, he promised to bring fortune to people approaching him. As people thronged the village, police became suspicious and a decoy revealed there was a gang operating behind it. On the directions of the SP, a team comprising ASP Vivek, DSPs Rajesh and Mahendran and others arrested five persons, including a woman. Based on their confession, the team seized panchaloha idols, coins and stones from the gang. It was revealed that they had planned to extract huge money from people who had problems in their families and businesses. Police identified the accused as Selvakumar of Mudukalathur, Pudukottai VAO Chellapandi, Murugaraj, Mahadevan of Keezha Kanjirankulam and a woman, Muthu from Enathi village. The SP told reporters that the seized idols and coins would be sent for scientific examination of their genuineness. The public, who had approached the black magician in the past and lost money and valuables, can approach the police and prefer complaint.
28 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. sets up quarantine facility in a college on the outskirts||The Salem Corporation has set up a quarantine centre on the outskirts of the city for persons coming from other districts and States, and they will be screened for COVID-19. The facility has been established at Karuppur Engineering College. According to corporation officials, this is not only for people who belong to other States of districts, but also for people of Salem who return from these places. Entry based on test results The officials said police would collect the details of these people and verify their documents at the check posts at the city’s borders and then they would be taken to the quarantine facility. A decision to allow them into city or not would be taken only on the basis of the results of the tests done on the samples taken from them. Corporation officials said the centre could now accommodate 100 people. Sample would be taken from them for RT-PCR tests to check for COVID-19. The officials made it clear that these people would have to stay in the quarantine facility till the results of the tests arrived. The Corporation has already set up containment zones at places were positive cases has been reported, such as Kitchipalayam, Anathanapatti, Gugai, Ponnamapet and Dhatagapatti. Police personnel are closely monitoring these barricaded areas. Mobile shops have been arranged for delivery of essential commodities in these areas. According to officials, nine persons from the Corporation limits are undergoing treatment at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital.
28 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mobile shops chip in during total lockdown in Salem||With the total lockdown in force in Salem Corporation limits, people were completely dependent on the mobile shops to buy essential items. A total lockdown has been on in the city since Saturday, with the district imposing it on Saturday, and the State doing so from Sunday morning to Tuesday night. According to Corporation officials, 22 vehicles were operated in Sooramangalam zone, 13 in Hasthampatti zone, 20 in Ammapet zone and 27 in Kondalampatti zone. On Monday alone, these vehicles had done a business of Rs. 10.17 lakh. As for enforcing the lockdown, strict checking was carried out at check points within city limits, with police personnel and volunteers from Friends of Police deployed for vehicle checks. They were also asked to maintain a safe distance from the public during the checks, as part of the advisory to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Police seized the vehicles of those venturing out unnecessarily and cases were registered against them. Besides motorists, pedestrians were also stopped and enquired by the police on the reason for venturing out. Those found venturing out without a valid reason were sensitised by the police to the risks of COVID-19, and asked to return home.
28 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Come forward to donate blood’||Collector S.A.Raman has advised the public to come forward to donate blood. In a release, Mr.Raman said that measures were taken to ensure sufficient stock of blood units at blood banks to meet the requirements during medical emergencies. Arrangements had been made at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, Attur and Mettur government hospitals and Kumarasamipatti Urban Primary Health Centre to receive blood from donors between 9 a.m and 1 p.m. Interested persons can contact district disaster management office at 1077 or Deputy Director of Health Services at 0427-2450022, 0427-2450023, and 9865425524 for details, the release said.
28 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Food given to stray dogs||The Salem Corporation on Sunday launched a scheme to provide food for stray dogs within its limits. Corporation Commissioner R.Sadheesh launched the programme. The Corporation officials asked those interested in providing food to stray dogs to contact the Corporation in the following numbers: 0427-2387514 – Sooramangalam zone, 0427-2314646 Hasthampatti zone, 0427-2263161 Ammapet zone and 0427-2461616 for Kondalampatti zone, a release said.
28 April 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Revenue officials rush fodder for circus animals||Virudhunagar district administration on Monday rushed 100 kg of dry fodder and green fodder for the animals with a circus team that has been stranded in Sivakasi under the curfew. Instructed by the Sub-Collector (Sivakasi), C. Dinesh Kumar, a team of revenue officials met the team to know their requirements for the animals. “We have already given them groceries and ensured they get vegetables through the local panchayat president. Besides, food from the community kitchen was also distributed to the family members all these days. But, they never came up to us with the needs for the animals,” Mr. Dinesh Kumar said.
28 April 2020||SRIVILLIPUTTUR,TAMIL NADU||Homesick man rides over 2,000 km to join family||N. Chandramohan, a civil engineer, has ridden a motorcycle all the way from Ahmedabad in Gujarat to meet his family near here – a distance of 2,346 km – braving the nationwide lockdown. The 43-year-old project engineer felt riding his 2011 Hero Splendor under the scorching sun by day and sleeping on the roadside or in petrol pumps at night was a better option to the stress of battling homesickness in the confines of a small room. “I survived on the food supplied by an NGO in the mornings and evenings. Otherwise, I was confined within the four walls of my room [in Ahmedabad],” he said. Mr. Chandramohan had another solid reason for wanting to rush back home. His mother, who had lost sight in one eye due to glaucoma, was unwell and his brother and sister could not travel from Chennai and Tiruvannamalai, respectively, to Sirkazhi, where she lives. So, with a bag full of biscuit packets and water bottles, he set out on the road in the early hours of April 22, armed with an e-pass from the Ahmedabad district administration. Till Mumbai, it was a fairly easy ride. Beyond that, the ghat section was a cause of concern. “I planned my travel so that I would pass through the jungles during the day,” he said. He survived on the biscuits and water refilled at petrol pumps. “Refuelling was possible only with the e-pass,” he pointed out. Scorching heat Riding the motorcycle for 15 hours a day was gruelling. “The temperature was in the range of 38 degrees to 42 degrees Celsius in Gujarat and Maharashtra,” Mr. Chandramohan said. After every hour of riding, he would take a break of five minutes. He spent most nights at petrol pumps. Though police intercepted him at various checkposts, the e-pass helped him continue his journey. “After three days of riding, I had idli and dosa after entering Tamil Nadu, at a highway motel in Hosur,” he said. After four days of riding, he finally reached the residence of his father-in-law near Watrap at 8.30 p.m. on April 25. He was exhausted after the long journey. “But, I was overjoyed on seeing my children. All of them cried on seeing me,” he recalled.  So near, yet so far While his impromptu desiscion to travel over 2,000 km went without a hitch, his plan to take his wife and two daughters to Sirkazhi to meet his mother failed. Revenue and police officials came to know about his arrival from Gujarat and denied him passage out of the district. Mr. Chandramohan will now have to wait for 15 days before getting the nod to set out to meet his mother under the tightened lockdown rules.
28 April 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Four fined for posting fake video||Forest personnel have slapped a fine of Rs. 1.20 lakh to a gang of four for uploading a video showing them of trying to hunt down a wild animal after setting fire to a rock cave. In a 15-second video that went viral on social media, four youth, who had allegedly set afire the dry bush at the entrance of a cave in a rock, are seen holding clubs to attack a wild animal about to come out of the cave with the inferno and the smoke entering the cave. Against the background, a song lauding their bravery goes. On seeing the video, the forest personnel started investigation that led to the nabbing of S. Nagaraj, 28, of Maipparai near Puliyangudi in Tenkasi district. During investigation, the forest personnel found that Nagaraj, who had returned from Muscat where he was working as a foreman, had made a few Tik Tok videos along with his friends during this lockdown. As some of these videos enjoyed good reception, Nagaraj, in a bid to attract more viewers, had announced that he would soon upload a video showing him and his friends hunting down a leopard. As part of it, he had posted this video. Though no leopard was shown in the video, the forest personnel identified the spot as Poonai Parai near Maipparai and picked up Nagaraj and his friends labourer S. Marisamy, S. Anantharaj and C. Anand Kumar, all from Maipparai. As the video had been circulated widely, the forest personnel, who slapped a fine of Rs. 30,000 each on them, recorded a video in which Nagaraj is seen apologising for his act.
28 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 isolation wards will soon get robots||Patients undergoing treatment for COVID-19 infection at the Government Hospitals will soon get their medicine and food served by robots designed and developed by the Shanmugha Arts, Science, Technology and Research Academy, a Deemed to be University, and Propeller Technologies, one of the incubatees of the Technology Business Incubator established by SASTRA. The robot having three stacks to carry and serve food, medicine and water to the patients can be operated from a distance of 100 metres. It has a LED screen to enable the doctors and paramedical staff to interact with the patients from a safe distance. The 46-inch high robot weighing 15 kilograms with a payload of 10 kilograms, could be moved 360 degrees and is easy to sanitize after every use, according to a SASTRA press release. The robot ideated and designed to minimise the contact between patients and the healthcare staff could be operated through visual communication system and controlled through Radio Frequency and bluetooth technology. One such robot was pressed into service at the Thanjavur Medical College hospital last week and SASTRA plans to donate 20 more robots for use in the COVID-19 isolation wards in Government hospitals across the State. Similar machines to mop the floor and carry out disinfectant process – Robot Mops and UV Disinfectant Robot – are also being prototyped and once tested successfully will be donated to the Government hospitals, the release added.
28 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Handwashing facilities in containment zones||Handwashing facilities have been created at the containment zones in Thanjavur district to ensure effective breaking of COVID-19 chain. According to official sources, the facility has been provided at the periphery of the containment zones in order to ensure that anyone entering or moving out from the zone wash their hands thoroughly. A tank connected with a washbasin has been put up at the entrance with liquid soap so that the volunteers, health workers and others entering the contained area wash their hands to break the chain. Collector M. Govinda Rao on Monday inspected one such facility put up near the Periyakadai Veedhi in Kumbakonam, which had been declared as a containment zone. Public handwashing facilities have also been set up near the other two containment zones in Kumbakonam Municipality – Thukkanpalayam Street and Sarangapani South Street. A similar facility was provided at the Municipal Health Centre. Later, he inspected the Mathugate area in Sakkottai village panchaya, Chakkarapalli near Papanasam and Avulkara Street in Papanasam which have been declared as containment zones.
28 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Six persons discharged||Six persons who had tested positive for COVID-19 were discharged after treatment from the Thanjavur Medical College (TMC) Hospital on Monday. Among the six, three were from Adhiramapattinam, two from Kumbakonam and one from Thiruvaiyaru region.  Meanwhile, Collector M. Govinda Rao in a press release has said that the District Social Welfare Department would be issuing passes to those accompanying senior citizens for routine medical check-ups. For obtaining the pass issued as ‘caretaker pass’, the applicant should submit two passport size photographs, mobile number, vehicle registration number, Aadhar number and a photo identity document along with the details of the health records of the senior citizen and other details.
28 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Yet another feast comes to light||A video clip of a non-vegetarian feast at an agriculture field near Vallam has annoyed the government staff involved in the COVID-19 virus spreading prevention exercise. A video clip circulated in the social messaging platforms in Thanjavur area showed a group of persons, including teenage boys, eating non-vegetarian food spread on a row of banana leaves at an agriculture field with a voice mentioning that the feast was held at Chennampatti village near Vallam. The voice went on describe the event as ‘corona feasts’ being held despite the strict implementation of the lockdown and encouraged the participants to enjoy the feast. A team of policemen from Vallam Police Station went to Chennampatti and enquired about the organisers and the participants. Recently, two such feasts were organised by some people at Kabisthalam and Thyagasamudhram in Papanasam taluk a fortnight ago. The organisers of the event were identified and arrested and were later let off on bail.
28 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Bottlenose dolphin carcass washed ashore||The carcass of a 10-feet-long bottlenose dolphin was washed ashore at Pullaveli beach near here on Monday. Forest officials said the female marine mammal, aged about 3 to 4 years, had suffered an injury near the flipper. The mammal, which is seen in the deep sea of Gulf of Mannar, might have lost its way after accidentally hitting the rock, they said. The carcass was buried on the shore after an autopsy by forest veterinarian Manoharan.
28 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Work on strengthening Karur highway stretch begins||The State Highways Department has begun work on widening and strengthening the narrow and highly accident-prone road stretch between the city and Thindukarai on the Tiruchi-Karur highway, bringing a sigh of relief to residents of the suburbs along the highway. Residents of the suburbs have been clamouring for widening the 11-km stretch, which runs between the Cauvery river and the Tiruchi-Karur railway line and has several sharp and dangerous curves, causing frequent accidents. Although the Tiruchi-Karur higway was widened by the National Highways Authority of India beyond Thindukarai near Mukkombu on the outskirts of the city some years back, the stretch between Thindukarai and Tiruchi was left with the State Highways Department for maintenance. The widening of the road has been eagerly awaited by the local residents, as their daily commute on the road had become highly risky in recent years due to the sharp rise in the volume of traffic. As accidents became frequent, public resentment grew stronger leading to a series of agitations. The work was sanctioned last year at an estimate of Rs. 55 crore under the Comprehensive Road Infrastructure Development Programme (CRIDP). The work would be completed within 12 months time, sources in the Highways Department told The Hindu on Saturday. The road would be widened from its current width of seven metres to up to 10.5 metres. Some of the dangerous curves will also be straightened to ensure safety. Currently, work on construction of a retaining wall along the Cauvery river at a dangerous curve near Thiruchendurai has begun. The works are being executed by adopting personal distancing norms, the sources said. The work was among the major works sanctioned under CRIDP in the district last year. The district was sanctioned a total of Rs. 185 crore for this and various other works under the programme. Welcoming the commencement of the work, P. Ayyarappan, an activist of Allur who has been lobbying for the cause, however, felt that the Highways Department should take maximum advantage of the current lockdown and absence of traffic to complete as much of ground work, including clearing of roadside trees and shifting of utilities, as possible. He also demanded the sanction of construction of a new bridge across the Kudamuritti river at the entrance of the city. The existing narrow bridge, built in 1924, has grown weak. Though the Highways Department had forwarded a proposal, the construction of the bridge has not been included under the present work and residents hope that a new bridge would also be sanctioned soon to ease the traffic bottleneck at the entrance of the city.
28 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown sees spurt in prohibition cases||The last one month of the lockdown period has seen a spurt in booking of prohibition cases in Tiruchi Rural Police limits. With a posse of police personnel deployed at check posts and other vantage locations all over the district to strictly enforce prohibitory orders and public remaining indoors, there has hardly been any report of chain snatching, say police sources. The number of murder and attempt to murder cases booked since March 24 has been one each in Tiruchi Rural police limits which comprises of 31 law and order police stations; three All Women Police stations and a couple of Prohibition and Enforcement Wing units. Besides a series of prohibition cases booked consequent to periodic raids against illicit distillation, cases on sand smuggling were also registered during the lockdown period. Police statistics reveal that a total number of 283 cases under various head of offences were booked from March 24 to April 24. Prohibition cases accounted for the maximum with the figure being 187. Twenty nine hurt cases and 23 sand smuggling cases were registered during the same period. The cases registered in respect of other offences were only in single digit which includes five under the POCSO Act; four under the NDPS Act; six under gambling, five theft cases; three for harassing women and one case of attempted robbery. Closure of TASMAC liquor outlets due to the prohibitory orders and the urge to consume alcohol has led to brewing of illicit arrack in different parts of the district, say police sources. Instances of illegal stocking of TASMAC liquor bottles and its unauthorised sale have also surfaced during the lockdown period necessitating the police to step up surveillance. Periodic raids by the local police along with Prohibition and Enforcement Units resulted in the seizure of over 2,000 litres of fermented wash, more than 500 litres of illicit arrack and over 100 litres of toddy from different villages in the district. Theft of liquor bottles from TASMAC outlets prompted the TASMAC authorities to shift the entire stock from each liquor shop to chosen places in the district to keep them in safe custody with armed police protection. Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi Ziaul Haque said ever since the prohibitory orders was clamped the law enforcers have been actively conducting raids at various locations to prevent brewing of illicit arrack. He added that the law enforcers were deploying drones to check illicit distillation in the interior rural pockets in Musiri sub division. Prohibition raids had been conducted at places including Kattuputhur, Top Sengattupatti, Nathamadipatti, Kallakudi, Thottiyam, and Uppiliapuram. The SP said report of other grave crime cases such as murder, attempt to murder and kidnap were negligible and no case of chain snatching was booked in the last one month. The lone murder case reported during this period was that of the killing of two minor girls by their mother in Manapparai police station limits in which the victims were given soft drinks mixed with rat paste recently. As for road accidents reported during the same period, the number of fatal and non-fatal cases were three and 13 respectively.  Crime chart  Lone murder case was the killing of two minor girls by their mother  No case of chain snatching was booked in the last one month  Number of fatal road accidents reported during the same period was three
28 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown effect: Amma Canteens see increase in footfall||The Amma Canteens in the city have been attracting heavy crowds since the third week of April. The canteens, functioning at 11 places in the city, were established primarily to offer subsidised food to the poor. Until the imposition of prohibitory orders, each canteen in the city received 300 to 400 customers a day. The numbers began to rise gradually since then as a section of old people, who were solely dependent on restaurants and eateries for food, too became regular customers. According to official sources, on an average, 1,000 customers turn up at each Amma Canteen a day. In other words, 11 canteens in the city feed about 11,000 people a day. Amma Canteens at Puthur, Anna Nagar, Srirangam and East Boulevard Road receive huge crowd. During the pre-lockdown period, food items were prepared only for breakfast and lunch. Considering the difficulty faced by the people in getting food following closure of restaurants, the Tiruchi Corporation is providing dinner too for the needy. Moreover, until the third week of April, food was offered at subsidized rates- idli at Rs. 1 each, sambar or curd rice for Rs. 5 each. They are now offered free of cost as the AIADMK functionaries have come forward to take care of expenditure being incurred on running the canteen until May 3. While officials attribute the offer of free food as the primary reason for the sudden spurt, it is also said that the number of daily wage labourers and unorganised workers, who have been rendered jobless due the lockdown, visiting the canteens has also gone up sharply. “More than a month has passed since I have gone for work. I have no money to buy vegetables and groceries. Hence, I have come to Amma canteen to have food,” says R. Prabhu of Puthur, who works as a delivery boy at a courier service company in Tiruchi. “I come thrice a day and take home food for my children,” says R. Balaji, another daily wage labourer, who was at Amma Canteen in Anna Nagar. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that staff members have been sensitised on maintaining hygiene and wearing mask. A nodal officer has been asked to make surprise visit to all canteens to ensure quality food being supplied to the customers.
28 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||No positive case for third consecutive day||The central region saw no positive cases for the third consecutive day, bringing relief to health officials across the districts. The drop in cases is due to regular testing and follow-up of patients and contacts, officials say. S. Sivarasu, Tiruchi District Collector, said that contact tracing of all positive patients has helped control the spread of the virus. Doctors working with the Department of Health, women self-help groups who took part in door-to-door surveys, sanitary workers in containment areas have all ensured the control, he said. The Collector said that the nine patients who are undergoing treatment at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) too, are recuperating well and would be ready to be discharged by the end of the week, he said. With the help of officials of the Revenue Department, 590 contacts of the 39 people who tested positive after travelling to New Delhi in March were traced and tested. R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH, said that there were no cases with questionable histories. “All our positive cases are either primary sources or immediate contacts. We can be assured that there has been no community spread in Tiruchi,” he said. In Ariyalur District, testing was divided into three phases – testing of primary sources, their contacts and high-risk workers such as police personnel. “We traced 664 of them and have tested all including doctors, nurses, police personnel and conservancy workers,” N. Ramesh, Resident Medical Officer, Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital said. At the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital, tests were conducted twice for all potential cases. A 23-year-old man is the only positive patient in the district, and he is the son of a man who travelled to New Delhi to attend the single-source event. “We had traced the contacts and had placed all of them on home quarantine. At the end of one round of testing, although the man did not test positive, his son did. Another round was done to ensure that nobody else had been infected,” AL. Meenakshi Sundaram, Dean, PGMCH said. In Perambalur district, several secondary contacts have been home quarantined. “A policeman tested positive here nearly a week ago. Along with his family members and policemen from his station, we have also admitted some of their family members’ contacts to the isolation ward at the Perambalur Government Headquarters Hospital. Tests have been taken and the results are awaited,” a senior health official in Perambalur said.
28 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||College heads eagerly await UGC guidelines||College heads who have, by and large, been groping in the dark in recent weeks on the way forward after the lockdown ends are apparently relieved over the decision of the University Grants Commission to release guidelines for academic measures to be taken by higher educational institutions for the current and the next academic session next week. The UGC's guidelines are expected to be based on the recommendations given by two committees: one for looking into the issues related to examinations and academic calendar, and the other to evaluate factors related to promotion of online education. “Though we have instructed heads of departments to engage the students and keep them pre-occupied with assignments, there were indications that the element of adhocism had not helped in infusing the sense of seriousness,” a principal of a college said. The principals are keen on knowing the UGC’s stand on the conduct of exams. Most of them opine that the pen and paper exam was inevitable even if it has to be conducted after substantial delay. But there was unanimity that the idea of starting the next academic year from September would not augur well for both the teachers and the students. According to sources, there was also a suggestion by one of the committees to promote students on the basis of their performance in the previous semesters if the university was unable to conduct exams. The universities intending to hold fresh assessment could be given the leverage to reduce the number of exam papers, the sources said. The UGC has taken cognisance of the difficulties universities face in holding online exams. There was speculation that universities in green zones would be permitted to resume academic activities at the earliest, depending on the local situation, another college head said.
28 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Annadhanam on the bridge||The Cauvery bridge between Mela Chinthamani and Mambalasalai in the city has turned out to be a hotspot for providing ‘annadhanam’ to people, who have are homeless and jobless. The platforms on both sides of the bridge had been the ‘home’ for about 50 homeless people for long. As a precautionary measure to contain the spread of COVID-19 virus, the district administration, soon after the imposition of curfew, removed them and put them in night shelters and schools run by the Tiruchi Corporation. However, many returned to the bridge once the service organisations, political parties and volunteers began distributing food. They were initially fed once in a day. Now, the service organisations serve food thrice a day. By seeing their service, more jobless people have joined them to get food. According to a rough estimate, the number of people, who wait for food on the bridge, has gone up to about 200 from 50. “Many tea shop, restaurant and hotel workers and daily wage labourers, who have lost jobs due to the lockdown, wait on various streets in Srirangam and on the Cauvery bridge for food. It is a sorry state of affairs. But, we are rising up to the occasion by serving food to the needy,” says K. Ragunathan, founder, Gokula Samajam Arakattalai, Srirangam. He said his Trust distributes food to 600 persons in Srirangam and about 200 persons on the Cauvery bridge daily.
28 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Farmers begin selling produce outside Kallikudi market||A group of farmers belonging to the Manikandam Block began selling vegetables outside the Kallikudi market on Madurai Road here on Monday morning. The farmers have sought the District Collector’s intervention in allotment of shops within the market so that they could sell their produce. Around 40 farmers gathered outside the Kallikudi market at 7 a.m. on Monday morning following an initiative taken by Tiruchi District Makkal Valar Sangham (Tiruchi District Human Development Association), an organisation led by former agriculture minister K. P. Krishnan. In a letter to the Collector, Mr. Krishnan had informed the authorities of the move on Sunday night. Mr. Krishnan said he believed that a vegetable shortage was probable in the district, even as large quantities of farmers’ produce was rotting and it was for this reason that he took the initiative to sell from the Kallikudi market. “We are not encouraging them to procure and sell. They will only sell what they had grown,” he said. The location was chosen as crores of funds had gone into constructing the market which was unused. Farmers sold potatoes, groundnuts, bottle guards, onions and other vegetables at low prices outside the market. “We have asked the District Collector for permission as shops within the market was allotted for farmers too. We are awaiting his response,” he said. District Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu that he would not intervene if a handful of farmers were selling their produce. “Farmers across the district are selling their produce on cycles and on pushcarts. We will take action if large crowds gather at one spot and do not follow personal distancing,” he said. Regarding permission for sales at the market, the Collector said that the matter is under review. “There are 35 shops allotted for farmers within the market. The matter has been placed before the State government which will take a decision,” he said.  Farmers across the district are selling their produce on cycles and on pushcarts. We will take action if large crowds gather at one spot and do not follow personal distancing S. Sivarasu Tiruchi Collector
28 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Civic body distributes groceries to transgender women||The Tiruchi Corporation distributed groceries and other necessary materials to transgender women at the corporation head office at Bharathidasan Salai on Monday. A total of 36 transwomen met Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian who handed over bags of groceries to them. Assistant Commissioner of Ponmalai Zone M. Dayanidhi had taken this initiative as the transwomen had no means of earning a living during the lockdown. Mr. Sivasubramanian said that the bags worth Rs. 1,500 were distributed to them. He requested them to ensure that they maintain personal distance. He also told the women that they could make cloth masks. “Since they all require some earnings, they can make the masks and the civic body would purchase it from them,” he said.
28 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||23 from Tiruppur, two from Coimbatore discharged after treatment||Twenty-three persons from Tiruppur district who were under treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, were discharged on Monday. The number of persons from the district who were discharged after recovery so far touched 81. 112 patients  Out of the 112 COVID-19 patients from the district, only 31 are undergoing treatment at ESI Hospital. Sources in the Health Department said that the discharged patients comprise 10 women, five men, and eight children (four girls and four boys). They will be under house quarantine for the next 14 days. Avinashi Block has the maximum number of discharged patients (23), followed by Tiruppur Corporation (21). However, 13 persons from Tiruppur Corporation and six from Avinashi are still undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at ESI Hospital, according to the sources. Tiruppur district saw no new COVID-19 positive cases on Monday. Coimbatore Two more persons recovered from COVID-19 in Coimbatore and returned to their homes from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital here on Monday. With this, the total number of persons who recovered from COVID-19 in Coimbatore touched 123. So far, 141 persons tested positive for the disease in the district. Among the 26 who were discharged on Monday, 23 were from Tiruppur, two were from Coimbatore and one was from the Nilgiris.
28 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Four booked for selling liquor||Tiruppur North police have booked four persons, including two private television channel journalists, on charges of selling liquor at a higher price amid COVID-19 lockdown on Sunday. While police arrested V. Manimuthu (46) and R. Manikandan (39), journalists Farooq and Nowshath are absconding. Manikandan had purchased 106 bottles of liquor from Farooq and Nowshath for Rs. 21,200, and Manimuthu had purchased 48 bottles from Manikandan for Rs. 12,000, police said.
28 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Smart Cop mobile app introduced||The Tiruppur City Police, on Monday,introduced the Smart Cop mobile application in all its stations to crackdown on lockdown violators. Sources said that the application would help the police in tracking down violators, whose particulars would be stored in the phone, and levying fine on them. If the same person was found violating for the second time, he/she will be arrested, sources said. Over 300 violators were fined through this application on Monday in Tiruppur.
28 April 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Urn-like object found near Kottur||A urn-like object was unearthed at an irrigation channel near Kottur in Tiruvarur district on Saturday. The existence of the structure came to light when two farmers, Ravichandran and Pasupathy of Naruvali Kalappal hamlet in Kulamanickam village panchayat in Kottur Panchayat Union, were scooping sand from an irrigation channel for their field nearby where they had taken up banana cultivation. On hearing some strange sound while digging they cleared the sand carefully and found a pot like object buried in the channel bed. Subsequently, they informed the Revenue officials about the find. A team of officials led by the Tahsildar, Mannargudi, Karthik and Kalappal Police Station inspector, Suganthi rushed to the village and attempted to retrieve the pot, in vain. Subsequently, they collected the objects found in the pot and the broken pieces of the `urn’ and took them to the Taluk Office, sources said.
28 April 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Mannargudi MLA oppose adjusting crop insurance compensation for loan||The Mannargudi MLA, T.R.B.Rajaa has opposed adjusting the crop insurance compensation amount towards outstanding loan amount. In a statement, the Mannargudi MLA pointed out that the compensation for crop loss for the year 2018-19 has been released belatedly for a section of farmers. While doing so the Cooperative Societies have started adjusting the insurance compensation amount received in the bank accounts of the ryots towards the outstanding loan amount. Condemning the societies for their act, Mr. Rajaa called upon the State government to direct the societies to refrain from adjusting the insurance compensation towards the outstanding loan.
28 April 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||All 9 cases from the Nilgiris recover||All nine persons so far from the Nilgiris who tested positive for COVID-19 have recovered and returned home, the district administration said in a press release on Monday. The nine, who were residing in Udhagamandalam, Coonoor and Kotagiri, were admitted to a hospital in Coimbatore for treatment. After recovering, they returned home over the last couple of weeks, the release said. On Monday, the last of the nine persons, a 19-year-old resident of Udhagamandalam, returned home. All the nine would be in isolation at home for 28 days The administration also said that all the 1,471 Nilgiris residents with travel histories had completed their 28-day home quarantine. It also said that the status quo would be maintained in the containment zones till further notice.
28 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Residents in containment zone demand relaxation of rules||More than a hundred people residing in the containment zone in Coonoor staged a protest on Mount Road in Coonoor town on Monday demanding that the district administration ease restrictions on their freedom to leave the area. Police officials said that the protesters assembled for more than an hour, demanding to meet the District Collector. They told the police that the three people from Coonoor, who had tested positive, have completely recovered and had returned to their homes where they continue to be monitored by the health department. “The protesters said that as there had been no new infections from within the containment zone, they should be free to leave the area whenever they want and also wanted permission to reopen some of the businesses in the area,” said a district police official. Despite police trying to convince the protesters to disperse, the residents refused to budge, until finally, a few representatives were allowed to meet the Coonoor Sub-Collector, Ranjith Singh. When contacted, Mr. Ranjith Singh said that the residents claimed that everyone living in the containment zone were out of food and money and that rules needed to be relaxed so that they could go out of the area and find work. “We explained to them that as per established protocols, we could not open up the containment zones till the stipulated quarantine periods are over,” said Mr. Singh. “We are continuing to provide food and essential supplies to families in the containment zone who cannot afford to purchase these goods. We have collected a list of vulnerable families and are doing everything we can to ensure that everyone has supplies, including using the help of NGOs to distribute food and vegetables,” said Mr. Singh. As the protesters refused to disperse, the revenue department and police officials warned people to leave the area, failing which they would have to be arrested. The crowd dispersed after the threats were issued, and police said that residents had been warned that any more protests in the area which involved the gathering of large groups of people would lead to arrest in the future.
28 April 2020||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Cab drivers to be screened on arrival from Odisha||Cab drivers from Vellore district, stranded in Odisha on Kolkata-Chennai Highway, are expected to reach by Monday midnight and would be screened by health officials on reaching Vellore, said Collector A. Shanmuga Sundaram. So far, 123 vehicles had been received in two days.
28 April 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Life convict Murugan’s father passes away in Sri Lanka||Vetrivel, 75, father of Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict Murugan died at a hospital in Sri Lanka in the early hours of Monday. Murugan is at present lodged in Vellore Central Prison. The news was conveyed to him by the prison authorities. Efforts were on to make him see his father through a video call, a couple of days ago by his lawyers. It is learnt that steps are being taken to facilitate Murugan to contact his relatives in Sri Lanka. However, there is no official communication on this from the prison authorities. Vellore prison officials are yet to get any communication from the authorities in Chennai.
28 April 2020||Villupuram,TAMIL NADU||One-year-old boy tests positive for COVID-19||A one-year-old boy from Villupuram tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total count of cases in the district to 48 on Monday. According to officials, the boy was admitted to the isolation ward in Villupuram Government Medical College and Hospital (VGMCH). His family members have also been placed under quarantine. The parents tested negative for COVID-19, a report said.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bootlegging rears its head again||The crime rate that came down to almost zero since March third week is now seeing a spike with bootlegging rearing its head as liquor shops remain closed over the past 25 days due to COVID-19 pandemic scare. It may be recalled that when P. Kannappan was the Superintendent of Police of composite Tirunelveli district comprising the recently born Tenkasi district, he conducted raids at Kumbilampadu, Manjankulam, Marukalkurichi, Chokkampatti, Urumankulam and a few more areas where bootlegging was rampant. Bootlegging that created many crorepatis in Tirunelveli district for several decades since late 1960s vanished during his three-year tenure that ended in 2002 as Superintendent of Police. But the nouveau riche invested their money in TASMAC liquor shops or bars and their association with alcohol continued. Others are now following in their footsteps in the wake of the lockdown. In a recent incident, bootleggers hid fermented wash used in manufacture of arrack in farms at Vasudevanallur and Kadayanallur in Tenkasi district, Srivaikundam in Thoothukudi district, near Kalakkad in Tirunelveli district and Marthandam in Kanniyakumari district. Two persons, including a private school teacher, have been arrested in conenction with a police raid at the hideout at Vasudevanallur. One person, identified as Madasamy, and two others have been nabbed with 15 litres of fermented wash at Kadayanallur. At Thangammalpuram under Ooththumalai police station limits in Tenkasi district, police have confiscated 20 litres of fermented wash and arrested seven persons from Therkku Panaivadalichathram. Srivaikundam police are on the lookout for bootleggers from Velloor in connection with the seizure from a farm near Srivaikundam. At Mamoottukadai under Marthandam police station limits, police have seized 35 litres of fermented wash from three persons, Russelraj, 60, Suresh, 44, and Sheeba, 36. In another raid, they have seized a litre illicit of arrack from R. Benedict Antony, 43, of Thiruthuvapuram under Kaliyakkavilai police station limits. In both cases, the accused are reported to prepared fermented wash in the backyard of their houses. The common feature in all cases is that the fermented wash was prepared for personal consumption only, police say. Moreover, ganja peddling is also thriving during the ‘dry days’. When a police team recently tried to nab a ganja peddler, Ajit, and two of his associates at Asaripallam, it was attacked. Two policemen sustained minor injuries, but they managed to secure the trio.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Relax: breath holds the key||There is not a day that has gone by in the recent past that hasn’t featured the new ‘C word’ at least once in every conversation worldwide. Some of these conversations are informative while others are loaded with rumours. So, what should we do? Let’s face facts first. We are facing a pandemic. It is a difficult time all around but we need to have a winning attitude. External help comes from the government in the form of lockdowns and putting protocols in place. Internal help, on the other hand, comes from within us. Staying positive in trying times like these is paramount. With a calm mind, make a plan of how best to spend your time during the lockdown. In rehabilitation medicine, there are five main aspects to the American Heart Association protocols that we follow — Diet, Relaxation, Exercise, Attitude, and Motivation. Since diet and exercise are covered in abundance these days, I am going to shift the focus on the other three. Look at motivating historical incidents where people have overcome all odds to make a bad situation better. Here’s one: Let’s take the example of LJ Flanders, author of Cell Workout, a training guide that will help you understand how to train without the need for any gadget except your own bodyweight to get fit. In 2011, Flanders found himself sentenced to prison. Inside a 6 x 8 feet cell, he began to think of ways to use his time productively and he decided that he would become as fit as possible. He signed up for a personal training course that taught him a lot and he created an exercise manual. Unlike Flanders, you are not in a prison or a place with limitations. You have your house, you have your freedom, most of you have the time; the only thing you probably lack is a plan. And to put together a good plan for your health and happiness, you need to have a calm mind. A recent study conducted by Stanford scientists indicates the link between breath and states of mind. Appropriate breathing has a powerful effect on stress reduction. Bonus news is that it also supports immune functions and helps rapid recovery from illness. Count from one to four as you inhale through your nose. Pause for two counts. Then purse your mouth and mentally count from one to six (or one to eight if comfortable) as you exhale. Repeat for a few minutes and enjoy slow, rhythmic breathing. Focus your mind on a single word, or sound. Mentally repeat the chosen sound over and over, finding rhythm and cadence that feels best to you. Adopt a passive attitude toward the process, particularly with regard to how well you’re doing. If your mind wanders, gently re-direct your focus to your chosen word each time. After 15–20 minutes slowly get back to normal state feeling refreshed and energised. Progressive muscle relaxation is an effective and widely used strategy for stress relief that creates a state of deep relaxation by involving alternate tensing and relaxing of muscles. This technique helps people who are often so tensed throughout the day that they fail to even recognise how being relaxed feels like. Tense each muscle group in arms, legs and body to about 25-50% of max capacity. Hold for a few seconds as you continue to breathe and then slowly release the tension as you focus on the pleasant contrast between tight and relaxed muscles. Once you have covered the entire group of muscles in the body, sit quietly for several minutes and enjoy the feeling of a relaxed body before you slowly open your eyes. So, beyond the external support that we expect from our political authorities, let us gear up to cope with the circumstances.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Teachers, officials told to download AarogyaSetu mobile app||The Chief Educational Officer (CEO) of Coimbatore district, P. Usha, has directed the teachers and other educational officials in the district to download the Central government’s ‘AarogyaSetu’ and State government’s ‘COVID-19 Care’ mobile applications. In a circular issued on Sunday, she said that teachers working in all kinds of schools (including government, government aided, Corporation, Adi Dravidar Welfare, CBSE and Matriculation) along with officials and workers at various offices under the Department of School Education must download and utilise these two applications on their Android smart phones. All District Educational Officers and Block Educational Officers were asked to fill a ‘progress report’ using a spreadsheet by 5 p.m. on Tuesday after confirming the number of teachers and others who have downloaded the two mobile applications. Ms. Usha told The Hindu that the circular is based on the instructions of the Department of School Education. “There are some teachers who do not have smart phones. We have asked them to download using the phone of any family member,” she said.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fewer districts in Tamil Nadu report new COVID-19 cases||Six of 52 cases were primary cases — unlinked source of infection for which a detailed investigation was under progress — and the remaining persons were contacts of COVID-19 patients. In fact, 11 persons, who tested positive in Chennai, were contacts of already positive front line workers. According to a medical bulletin, 7,176 samples and 6,753 individuals were tested during the day. This took the total number of samples and individuals tested so far in the State to 94,781 and 86,339, respectively. Of the total samples, 83,021 had returned negative, while 1,381 samples were under process. A total of 8,442 samples were repeats. Overall, 1,600 persons — 1,093 men and 507 women — fell under the 13 to 60 age group. Another 159 men and 67 women are aged above 60 years. The remaining 111 — 60 boys and 51 girls — were in the age group of up to 12 years. As of date, a total of 29,797 persons are under active home quarantine, while 36 persons are in government quarantine facilities. A total of 1,870 patients suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19 are in isolation wards of hospitals.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Watch and do||
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID UPDATE||No. of persons in hospitals: 259 (Male -103, Male child – 7, Female – 141, Female child – 8) Govt. hospitals – 181 Private hospitals – 78 Positive cases– 141 (No new case on Monday) No. of persons who recovered: 123 (Two persons discharged on Monday)       House quarantine cases: 890 Number of persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 1 Samples lifted: 2,922 Declared: 2,830 Positive: 112 (No fresh cases on April 27) Negative: 2,718 Results awaited: 92 Discharged from ESI Hospital: 81
28 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||CRPF constable arrested after row with policemen||The Sadalaga police have arrested a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) constable for insulting and assaulting police constables who were enforcing the lockdown in Examba village. The constable, Sachin Savant, had come to his village on leave and got into a fight with the police. He was produced before a magistrate who remanded him in judicial custody. The incident occurred on April 23 when two constables on duty were asking people to stay indoors. According to the police, Savant was standing on the road outside his house at Magdumgalli in Examba village and chatting with a few persons. Seeing the police, those with him ran away. When the police asked him why he was not wearing a mask, Savant reportedly asked who they were to question him and that he was a CRPF constable. An argument followed. Savant reportedly lost his temper and held the collar of an elderly constable and pushed him. Appeals by his family members and residents failed to yield results. A head constable came to the rescue of his colleague. Savant allegedly kicked one of the constables in the stomach, which angered the police who hit him with a lathi. The Sadalaga police have registered a case against him. Photos of the constable kept tied at the police station were widely shared on social media. Some Twitter users accused the police of ill-treating the CRPF constable. Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbargi said that the rules were the same for everyone. He said the CRPF constable had assaulted the police on duty, insulted, and voluntarily caused them hurt. “Even after Savant was taken to the police station, he continued to shout at the officers. The police station had only women constables and some elderly personnel on duty. The CRPF constable was capable of overpowering the constables. They tied him only to discipline him and to stop any further attempts to assault people,” Mr. Nimbargi said. “Due process has been followed in the case. After interrogation, he was arrested and produced before the magistrate,” he added. Raghavendra Suhas, IGP, northern range, said the constable’s senior officer, who is the commandant of CRPF CoBRA battalion 207, Midnapore, had been intimated. The CRPF constable manhandled corona warrior policemen and action has been taken. But the issue has been wrongly portrayed in social media, he said in a release. Jarkiholi reacts Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has condemned the arrest of Savant. The police humiliated him without considering that he was a CRPF personnel. They handcuffed him. This is an insult to personnel in uniform, he said in a release.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Water shortage adds to lockdown woes||Amina Begum, a labour camp resident, keeps seeing images of the hygiene rules to be followed to prevent contracting COVID-19. But she is scared that her camp is at risk, as there is now not even enough water to bathe. “How can we keep washing hands multiple times a day?” she asked. The focus of relief measures with respect to migrant workers and the urban poor is on providing food. But severe water shortage, especially in areas not serviced by piped water, has forced people to turn to tankers. “We used to buy water every week. But footing the bill has become difficult. The water supplied by the civic body in tankers is insufficient for all the houses in our locality,” said Ramakrishna, a carpenter from Balagere village, near Panathur. The cost of a tanker of 6,000 litres is in the range of Rs. 750 to Rs. 900, and a tanker of 12,000 litres costs Rs. 1,300 to Rs. 1,500 — a marginal increase from the past few months. Ramesh Reddy, a water tanker businessman from Marathahalli, attributed the rise in prices to the summer and not the lockdown. “Actually, our business has gone down. People seem to be cutting down on their water consumption and are not buying volumes as before, even in apartments,” he said. The most severely hit are migrant labour camps. Landlords supply water in drums to each house every weekend. The rent includes the supply of water and electricity. But with tenants not being able to pay rent in April, supply has become irregular. Nasreen Bi, a resident of a labour camp in Kariyammana Agrahara, said that while they were somehow arranging potable water through either water ATMs or the largesse of water tanker drivers, who let them take a pot of water once in a while, there was a severe shortage of water for other household purposes. “Some of us pooled in money and tried to buy water from tankers. But most of us have now run out of money,” she said. Vinay Sreenivasa from Naavu Bharateeyaru said the crux of the problem was that both the government and the civil society had assumed the needs of the poor and tried to serve them, without even asking them what they were. ‘Will look into it’ Sarfaraz Khan, Joint Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, who is in charge of distribution of ration kits, said the civic body has continued to provide water in tankers to 110 villages, as was the case before the lockdown, but there was no programme to provide water to migrant labourers in camps. “We will look into supplying water to camps as well. Anywhere there is a need for water, we will, if contacted, provide it,” he said.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Suicide case highlights importance of counselling for COVID-19 patients||The case of a 50-year-old hospitalised patient jumping to death from the sixth floor of the Emergency and Trauma Centre on Victoria Hospital campus on Monday has brought into focus the importance of mental health counselling for COVID-19 patients to reassure them that the disease does not mean that they are being stigmatised. Mental health experts said the pandemic is creating conditions for anxiety and panic, and people with pre-existing mental health conditions such as anxiety disorders, depression, OCD, and paranoia in particular can be severely impacted. Doctors said mental health and suicide due to COVID-19 has now become a second pandemic. “If we look at media reports, there has been a 50% increase in suicides in the last two months in comparison to those reported during the same period last year. This is the indirect reflection of the impact of COVID-19 on suicide rates,” said Prabha S. Chandra, Professor of Psychiatry at NIMHANS. Stating that the reason for ending life is not just depression or anxiety, Dr. Chandra said there could be multiple reasons such as stigma, job loss, and other social issues. “For most people, diagnosis of COVID and social isolation itself can be quite distressing. In fact, social isolation is worse than the infection and care should be taken to ensure all COVID-19 positive patients do not indulge in self-harm. Counselling should be done in a holistic manner covering the social aspects too,” she said. “COVID wards should have a ligature audit and protection from avenues by which suicides may happen. Open stairwells, approach to terrace and ligature points in the rooms should be avoided,” she said. Karnataka’s Health Department started mental health counselling for all those under isolation even before the first positive case was reported. Mental health professionals from the district mental health team are following up through telephonic counselling apart from regular follow up by surveillance teams and 51,266 sessions have been held so far, said Jawaid Akhtar, Additional chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare). “While quarantine has proved to be effective in controlling epidemics, it is important that the process is sensitive enough to ensure that such people do not suffer mental agony. Due to misconceptions going around about the disease, some people think that they are going to die. Such thoughts may affect their recovery,” the official said. Anish V. Cherian, Assistant Professor in the Department of Psychiatric Social Work at NIMHANS, who is working on a paper on COVID suicides, said around 12 cases of completed suicides have been reported so far in India with reasons including worry about being infected, being tested positive, social isolation, fear of losing their job, current unavailability of alcohol and not able to reach home due to the lockdown. So, who are at risk? While it is natural for anyone to feel distraught and have forebodings during times like these - especially with the uncertainty and ambiguity that the situation presents itself with – it is vital that preventive actions are taken to ensure the safety of the individuals, he said. Both the doctors said a person can keep himself/herself busy even when in isolation, discover forgotten interests or simply read a book and keep in touch with family and friends online.  If we look at media reports, there has been a 50% increase in suicides in the last two months in comparison to those reported during the same period last year. This is the indirect reflection of the impact of COVID-19 on suicide rates.Prabha S. ChandraProfessor of Psychiatry at NIMHANS
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Advisory mooted to educate citizens on quarantine facilities||With the civic body faced with resistance from locals and even elected representatives in some areas with quarantine facilities, an advisory is on the cards to educate citizens that such facilities were safe. Recently, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) had a tough time quarantining Tablighi Jamaat attendees who were foreign nationals. Over one and a half days, five attendees were shifted from one hotel to another, only to be returned to Haj Bhavan following protests. There are also unverified reports of people disapproving of the setting up of quarantine facilities for primary and secondary contacts in their localities. Padmanabha Reddy, Kacharakanahalli councillor who protested against Tablighi Jamaat attendees being quarantined at a serviced apartment in Banaswadi, said he was only responding to thedemands of locals. Civic officials admitted that there was some pressure on them to appease citizens, while also ensuring that the quarantine facilities were set up and allowed to function seamlessly. “It is natural to have apprehensions regarding a spread of the disease because of the housing of primary and secondary contacts in these facilities. However, in reality, the quarantine facilities do not pose a threat,” an official said, explaining that the civic body had put in place stringent containment and hygiene measures. Apart from Haj Bhavan, which currently houses around 75 persons, the BBMP has booked rooms in hotels across the city, where primary and secondary contacts are being quarantined. Nearly 1,300 rooms have been earmarked in 17 hotels.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State cancels orders for Chinese test kits||Karnataka, which had placed orders for rapid antibody blood-based test strips with two Chinese companies, has cancelled the orders following directions from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to stop using the test strips. In a letter to Chief Secretaries, ICMR Additional Director General G.S. Toteja said the scientific body has evaluated the performance of the kits, which were initially seen as crucial in efforts to speed up COVID-19 testing, and found wide variation in results. “ICMR has tested the kits of Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon diagnostics in field conditions. The results have shown wide variation in their sensitivity despite early promise of good performance for surveillance purposes,” the letter said. He said States should stop using kits procured from these companies and return them so that they could be sent back. On April 16, ICMR received a consignment of 5,50,000 of these test kits from the two Chinese companies. Karnataka had been allotted 11,400 of these test strips and NIMHANS was entrusted with the task of validating the accuracy claims of these strips made by the manufacturers. V. Ravi, Senior Professor and Head of Neurovirology at NIMHANS, said the validation process is still under way on negative samples. The process is likely to be completed by Tuesday. C.N. Manjunath, Director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Chest Diseases, who is the nodal officer for lab testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said the accuracy of the test strips on positive samples has not exceeded 47%. “Ideally, the accuracy should be at least 75 %. The validation results do not look promising,” he said. “We have cancelled our order for one lakh strips that we placed with Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics. A consignment of 50,000 strips from another order that we had placed with Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech had been sent to us three days ago through Blue Dart. However, we did not accept it,” he said. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education), said: “Only one of the two companies was given an advance amount and that has been taken back.” With this, the State’s plans to take up random testing will now have to be done using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. The ICMR has approved 15 government labs and seven private labs to take up COVID-19 tests in Karnataka.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Economic activities may further ease in green zones after May 3||With less than a week remaining for the second phase of the country-wide lockdown to end, discussions are still under way over the ways of easing restrictions with increasing exemptions. On Monday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had a hectic day starting with a videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi followed by a long confabulation with the Deputy Commissioners of the districts in the evening. Government sources indicated that economic activities could be further eased in districts coming under the green zone post May 3. Last week, rural industries were permitted to function keeping social distancing in districts coming under green zone. A stricter vigil could be mounted in districts and urban centres in red zones. “The ban on sale of liquor could continue till the end of May as Prime Minister is also not inclined to this,” sources said. According to sources, during the more than three-hour long videoconferencing with the Deputy Commissioners, the Chief Minister while reviewing the lockdown situation also sought feedback on the ways to increase exemption. “Though the thought is that we have to live with the virus, how best could the economy be put back on track. There will be no compromise on the vigil in red zone while no full relaxation will be extended in green zone. The government has to strike a balance,” an official said. On how the lockdown could progress post May 3, the official said that the State government will follow the directions of the Union government.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deve Gowda seeks special package for horticulture, floriculture farmers||Expressing concern that horticulture and floriculture farmers in the State are in deep distress, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda on Monday urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to announce a special package to these farmers. Farmers in Old Mysore, Kalyana Karnataka, and Bombay Karnataka regions are in distress and have fallen into the debt trap. “Farmers have grown high quality fruits and vegetables, but are unable to sell their produce within the State or send it to traditional markets in other States. They are unable to export it either,” Mr. Gowda said in a letter to the Chief Minister. Appreciating the Chief Minister’s decision to buy excess milk from KMF and distribute it to the poor, Mr. Gowda said: “Even at the cost of dropping schemes that have been announced in the budget, a special package has to be announced for farmers after conducting a survey. If farmers are not bailed out of the crisis, they will end up selling their land and leave agriculture all together,” he said. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has urged Union government to announce schemes to save livelihoods of people, especially those in the unorganised sector, and provide immediate relief to farmers, construction workers, garment workers, cab and auto drivers, among others. “According to RBI and international agencies, the GDP growth rate of the country is expected to fall to a historic low. Such a dire situation calls for citizen-centric measures like full or partial waivers of EMIs, rents, school fees and other levies,” he said in a tweet on Monday. “The economy will not bounce back within a very short period. It is important to lower the cost of living as spending power of the consumer has depleted. The government must cut the petrol and diesel prices. The loss of revenue may be offset partially by imposing COVID cess on the ultra rich,” he said in another tweet. Sacked employees Meanwhile, he also held a videoconference with employees of an online gold loan company, which has terminated 600 contract employees from work. The terminated employees approached Mr. Kumaraswamy on Monday seeking his help. The employees said that it may be difficult for them to find another job in the present condition if they are terminated. The former Chief Minister assured them of help in saving their jobs.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ramanagaram jail: 68 test negative||A total of 68 people, including employees of various departments, who were involved in transportation and looking after those involved in the Padarayanapura riots in Ramanagaram jail, have tested negative for COVID-19. “The jail staff, police personnel, drivers and employees of the local body, who were primary contacts with the riot accused, were tested and it is a great relief that the results are negative,” Deputy Chief Minister and Ramanagaram district in charge Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said in a statement. “Besides the primary contacts, the family members of the officials and employees have tested negative.” With this, the fear of spread of COVID-19 in Ramanagaram that was in green zone has been resolved, he added. Despite all of them testing negative, Dr. Ashwath Narayan said that those having primary contacts will continue to remain in quarantine at a hostel in Ramanagaram for 12 days. “They will have to undergo another round of test once they complete quarantine,” he added.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Coalition demands end to lockdown on May 3||Even as the countdown to May 3 has begun, Naavu Bharateeyaru, a social welfare coalition of civil society organisations, has demanded an end to the COVID-19 lockdown in a manner that “minimises economic and social distress, while being based on sound public health guidelines without violating human rights”. It has also demanded that the government hold wide-ranging consultations with all marginalised groups to secure their livelihood and ensure food security. In a statement released on Monday, the coalition termed the lockdown “authoritarian” and argued that given how the poor live in cramped spaces in the country, the lockdown has been beneficial to the rich, who can socially isolate themselves, while leadingto intra-community spread of COVID-19 among the poor and the marginalised. Answering questions One of the objectives of the lockdown has been to augment the public health infrastructure. “The government must answer [questions] about what has been achieved with the lockdown, about how much our health system’s preparation has improved,” the coalition said. “In this pandemic, efforts by the government have to factor in the needs ofall, rather than a select few. Assuming that community spread has occurred, the strategies have to look at mitigation rather than lockdown. Containment and quarantine should not be done in a punitive or authoritarian manner.” The coalition also demanded a relief package of Rs. 9,600 per family to tide over the crisis, 10 kg of grains and other essentials per person every month till September, among other things.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Test all accused before sending them to prison’||Prison officials have written letters to the judiciary and the Home Department requesting them to issue directions to the police to get people accused of crimes tested for COVID-19 before sending them to prison. The letter, written by Chief Superintendent of central prison Sheshumurthy V., is addressed to the City Civil and Sessions Court and the DG&IGP. The issue emerged after the recent attack on healthcare workers in Padarayanapura and subsequent arrests. Some of the accused, who were shifted to Ramanagaram prison, had COVID-19 symptoms. They were shunted from one place to another after prison officials found out about the symptoms. The central prison at Parappana Agrahara, which has over 5,000 inmates, is already overcrowded. Though officials have taken measures to prevent the spread of the pandemic inside the prison, they said getting untested inmates for judicial custody would endanger the health of other inmates and staff. It has also been suggested that the police keep the accused who test positive in a quarantine facility.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Padarayanapura violence: prime accused arrested||The police arrested Irfan, prime accused in the Padarayanapura violence, from K.G. Halli on Monday. Irfan, who allegedly led the attack on healthcare workers visiting the locality for COVID-19 tests, was on the run. Nine special teams had been formed to identify and arrest the accused. The police identified Irfan from CCTV camera footage and mobile phone recordings. Irfan was taken to J.J. Nagar police station and questioned amid tight security. The police have arrested 127 persons so far in connection with the attack.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Helpline for stranded labourers||The Labour Department has set up a helpline to assist labourers from Karnataka who are stuck in different States owing to the lockdown. The helpline was launched by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday. A release said the helpline 080-22636800 will be operational in three shifts. Based on the requirement of Kannadiga labourers who were stuck in other States, officials here will speak to their counterparts in other States to resolve the problem.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru manufactures nearly 50% of PPE kits||Bengaluru is leading in the production of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, with nearly 50% of the overall production coming from the city, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. PPE body coveralls are mandatory specialised protective suits worn by health professionals while treating and tracing COVID-19 patients. According to a release from the Ministry of Textiles, the production capacity of coveralls required by medical personnel treating COVID-19 cases in the country has been ramped up to more than 1 lakh a day. Tirupur, Chennai and Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu, Ahmedabad and Vadodara in Gujarat, Phagwara and Ludhiana in Punjab, Kusumnagar and Bhiwandi in Maharashtra, Dungarpur in Rajasthan, Kolkata, Delhi, Noida, and Gurugram are the other places where PPE coveralls are being manufactured. The PPE kits are being sent to various States based onrequirement. Currently, only four laboratories in the country have the necessary approvals for conducting tests and certification for PPE kits. They are located in Coimbatore, Gwalior, Avadi, and Kanpur.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru/Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi registers fifth death; positive cases go up to 512||Kalaburagi, one of the worst COVID-19-hit districts in the State, registered its fifth fatality on Monday. A 47-year-old from Aland (P-422) is the latest victim. As per the available information, the deceased had been suffering from severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and was taken to a hospital in Solapur in neighbouring Maharashtra for treatment. Upon his return to Kalaburagi, he was admitted in the district hospital attached to Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS). After he tested positive for COVID-19 on April 22, he was shifted to an isolation ward in ESIC Medical Complex. His 65-year-old mother (P-502) has also tested positive for COVID-19 and is shifted to the isolation ward in ESIC Medical Complex. The district, which reported India’s first COVID-19 fatality on March 10 with the death of a 76-year-old man who later tested positive for the disease on March 12, continued to report positive cases since then. A total of 44 positive cases have been reported from the district, including four new cases reported on Monday. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), who confirmed the death to The Hindu , said this patient too had comorbidities. Nine new cases Meanwhile, nine new cases have been detected on Monday taking the total number of positive cases to 512. These include the 20 deaths and 193 discharged persons. Of the new cases, two each have been reported from Mandya, Dakshina Kannada, Bagalkot, and Vijayapura and one from Bengaluru Urban. The new cases include a 13-year-old from Padarayanapura in Bengaluru, who has a history of Influenza Like Illness (ILI). Sources said the boy had just stepped out once to buy milk from a nearby shop. He complained of nasal pain and loss of smell and got screened in the fever clinic in J.J. Nagar and was referred to Victoria Hospital from there. He tested positive on Sunday. Sources said the boy is a neighbour of a deceased patient in Tippunagar. Health officials have identified 30 primary contacts of the boy and have quarantined them. Meanwhile, 11 patients have recovered and have been discharged from various designated hospitals on Monday. With this, a total of 193 patients have recovered in the State. Of the remaining 299, the condition of 294 patients is stable and five are in ICU.
28 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||133 migrant workers sent back to native places||Of the 415 migrant workers who have been provided with lodging and boarding at various government hostels here, the Dharwad district administration has made arrangements to send 133 workers back to their native places. A release from the Department of Information and Public Relations stated that construction and agriculture workers who were stranded here due to the announcement of lockdown were provided accommodation at nine government-run hostels. Among these, 169 belonged to the State and 36 were natives of different villages and towns of the district. The administration made arrangements to help 133 workers who were from other districts to go to their native places. They were transported in 10 buses and five mini-vans. Each vehicle was provided with one nodal officer and seating arrangements were made maintaining social distancing, the release said. Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has written to her counterparts in the respective districts regarding sending these workers back to their native districts. Besides, instructions have also been given to bring these workers back in case no family members are found in their given addresses. Meanwhile, the district administration has continued providing accommodation to migrant workers from other States and also to those from the non-construction and non-agriculture sectors, the release said. 847 shifted Hassan Special Correspondent writes: In Chikkamagaluru, the district administration has shifted 847 migrant workers stuck in the district due to lockdown to their native places, following a direction from the State government. A majority of them were from districts in North Karnataka. Superintendent of Police Harish Pandey told the media here on Monday that in Chikkamagaluru town, there were 343 workers all from Ballari and 47 from Gadag district. They were shifted to their native places on KSRTC buses.
28 April 2020||Hyderabad,KARNATAKA||Students in UK gifted ‘KCR Coupons’||To celebrate the 20th Formation Day of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), the ‘NRI TRS UK’ distributed ‘KCR Coupons” to more than 200 Telangana students stuck in the UK due to the lockdown and unavailability of flights. These coupons will help the students buy groceries at their nearest shops, said NRI TRS UK president Ashok Goud Dusari in a statement here. He also thanked TRS MP Joginiapally Santhosh Kumar for launching the coupon and encouraging NRI TRS UK efforts. NRI TRS UK founder president Anil Kurmachalam said they were also giving moral support to students to stay strong in this pandemic and urged the students to approach them on ‘nritrs@gmail.com’ to get coupons. Advisory vice- chairman Ceeka Chandra Shekar Goud, general secretary Rathnakar Kadudula, vice president Naveen Reddy, and other organisers Sathyamurthy Chilumula, Ravi Pradeep Pulusu, Sathish Gottemukkala, Shiva Goud, Suresh Gopathi, Ramesh Essempally and Srujan Reddy Chada contributed generously.
28 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Stop milk and vegetable movement’||The Mahatma Gandhi Gruhakara Hitarakshan Vedika has demanded that the entry of essential commodities into six districts of Kalyana Karnataka region from neighbouring States be stopped to prevent any possible spread of coronavirus in the region. State general secretary of the vedike Vaijnath S. Zalki submitted a memorandum to the Regional Commissioner seeking a ban on the transportation of milk, vegetables, fruits and foodgrains into the region from neighbouring Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Kalaburagi, Bidar, Raichur, Vijayapura, Yadgir and Ballari share borders either with Maharashtra, Telangana or Andhra Pradesh. The vedike also urged the Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner to work out a strategy to ban the entry of milk vehicles and goods trucks from Maharashtra. Mr. Zalki said that commercial vehicles ferrying essential commodities from these States would lead to high risk.
28 April 2020||Mandya/Hassan/Udupi,KARNATAKA||Restrictions on movement of vehicles on Hassan-Mandya border tightened||Hassan district administration on Monday tightened restrictions on the movement of vehicles and public in villages in Channarayapatna taluk bordering Mandya district after a 50-year-old man tested positive for COVID-19 at Sathenahalli village of Nagamangala taluk in the latter district. This is the first COVID-19 positive case in Nagamangala and the 17th in Mandya district. The 50-year-old man, named Patient 505, who was working in Mumbai, returned to his native place on April 22 on a truck. And, another man, a native of Hirisave hobli in Channarayapatna taluk, travelled along with him. The driver of the truck is a native of Shantigrama hobli in Hassan taluk. The district administration has, after tracing them, quarantined them. It is said that the man had attended a marriage and efforts are now being made to trace all those who took part in that event.  Meanwhile, the Udupi district administration on Monday said that it will collect information about the travel history of the 50-year-old man from Sathenahalli. The man had travelled secretly in a truck from Vashi in Maharashtra to Chanarayapatna passing through Udupi district. Additional Deputy Commissioner Sadashiva Prabhu told The Hindu that the administration would get in touch with the 50-year-old man to collect information from him to know at which IOCL petrol pump in Udupi he had stopped. According to information available with the administration, the truck had reached here at around 11 p.m. on April 22. There were three persons, including the 50-year-old man, on the truck. The man had got off the truck and had had his bath at the petrol pump. They cooked food here before leaving for Mangaluru. They were here for about three to four hours before they reached Mangaluru at 4.30 a.m. Asked how the truck was allowed to pass through at the check-posts at Shiroor and Hejmady in Udupi district, Mr. Prabhu said that every truck could carry two drivers and one helper.
28 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Dakshina Kannada sees a rise in COVID-19 cases, as elderly woman, son test positive||The number of COVID-19 positive cases continued to rise in Dakshina Kannada with two more cases being reported on Monday. An 80-year-old woman and her 45-year-old son who tested positive were primary contacts of patient number 432, an elderly woman who died of COVID-19 in the city on Thursday last. Patient 432 had undergone treatment for paralysis at First Neuro Hospital in the city before being shifted to the Government Wenlock Hospital (a COVID-19 designated hospital) where she died. The two who tested positive on Monday were also undergoing treatment in the same private hospital. After they were found positive for COVID-19, they were shifted to the Government Wenlock Hospital. They are residents of Kulashekara in the Mangaluru City Corporation limits. A bulletin issued by the district administration said that the 80-year-old woman is also suffering from high blood pressure and paralysis. Her condition is stable. The condition of patient number 409, also a woman, earlier admitted to the hospital continues to be serious. She is in the ICU at the Wenlock Hospital. Notification After the two positive cases on Monday, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh issued a notification declaring containment zone in Kulashekara. According to the notification, there are 22 houses and five shops/offices with a population of 120 in the containment zone. She appointed the Commissioner of Mangaluru City Corporation as the Incident Commander. This is the first containment zone declared in the jurisdiction of the city corporation after COVID-19 broke out in Dakshina Kannada. The bulletin said that test reports of 340 samples are awaited. In all, 18 persons were admitted for observation and 16 SARI cases were reported in the district on Monday. The bulletin said that the number of persons quarantined at NIT-K building in Surathkal rose to 59 with six new admissions on Monday. In all, 32 persons have been quarantined at ESI Hospital. The district has seven active patients. Of the 21 positive cases reported till Monday, two have died and 12 have been discharged.
28 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||There is no structural damage to Pumpwell Flyover, says NHAI||National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Monday said that there was no structural damage in Pumpwell Flyover on National Highway 66 and one need not worry about cracks and rain-cuts that have appeared following heavy rain. Responding to reports on cracks appearing on Pumpwell Flyover, NHAI Project Director Shishu Mohan said that the work on strengthening the embankment, protection walls and flyover ramps had to be stopped after COVID-19 broke out. Consequently, rain-cuts occurred at some places on the embankment of ramps on both the sides of the flyover. There was no crack either on the flyover, Mr. Mohan said. The crack lines at joints was the result of concrete poured on the thermocol placed at the joints getting settled. There is no damage to the structure, he said. Mr. Mohan said that the authority had obtained permission from the Deputy Commissioner on Friday itself to carry out the balance strengthening works even as the city witnessed heavy rain the same night. The concessionnaire, Navayuga Udupi Tollway Pvt. Ltd., commenced the restoration works on Monday, he said and added that all the works would be completed before the onset of monsoon. Meanwhile, service roads too have been spruced up and rainwater drains have been provided on their shoulders for smooth discharge of rainwater. Pot-hole filling work would be taken up by the concessionnaire on the stretch of service road between Indiana Hospital and Ujjodi soon, he added.
28 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Many tobacco farmers shifting to ginger cultivation in Mysuru||Staring at an uncertain export market and stung by declining earnings, many tobacco farmers in Mysuru have started finding ginger cultivation more lucrative. Several tobacco farmers took to ginger cultivation over the last two to three years and the numbers are expected to increase this year after the Tobacco Board, fearing a dip in global demand for tobacco on account of COVID-19, reduced the crop size from 100 million kg last year to 88 million kg. More than 80% of the superior Virginia Flue Cured (VFC) tobacco cultivated in Periyapatna, Hunsur, H.D. Kote, and K.R. Nagar taluks of Mysuru is exported to cigarette-manufacturing companies abroad, particularly to European countries, which are reeling under impact of COVID-19. The area under tobacco cultivation in Mysuru, which spread across 80,000 hectares two to three years ago, has now shrunk to around 65,000 hectares, with the growers opting for alternative crops like ginger and maize. “The area may come down by another 10,000 hectares this year with a lot of unlicensed tobacco growers shifting to other crops,” said Joint Director of Agriculture Department in Mysuru, Mahantheshappa, referring to the challenges before tobacco growersincludingthe inability to sell about 2.5 to 3 million kg of tobacco grown last year after the auction platforms were abruptly closed due to the lockdown. President of VFC Tobacco Growers’ Association Javare Gowda said the shift from cultivation of tobacco to ginger is expected to be quite substantial this year. “Farmers are opting for ginger purely for economic reasons. In view of the remunerative market for ginger, they are giving up tobacco,” he said. The emergence of ginger as a commercially viable alternative to tobacco comes after years of campaign against tobacco cultivation by anti-tobacco crusaders. Even though ginger requires drip irrigation unlike tobacco, which can be grown in rain-fed areas, the monetary returns in ginger cultivation will more than make good the input expenditure incurred by the farmer, said Mr. Gowda. However, farmers will not be able to grow ginger again on the same soil for at least three years as it is considered a nutrient-exhaustive crop. They can grow crops such as ragi, jowar and even tobacco. Farmers, who own more than 7 acres, are growing ginger in a portion so that they can grow it in other parts later.
28 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Has lockdown eased stress in zoo animals?||If the lingering lockdown over COVID-19 has caused a major impact on the lives of millions of people, there is also a “positive side” of the lockdown on the animals at Mysuru zoo that seemingly appear to be “stress-free” and relaxing in their enclosed spaces. Much before the lockdown was announced, the zoo had shut its doors to visitors as a safety precaution to contain the virus. It has been more than a month that the zoo has been closed (since March 15) and the closure is apparently the longest in its history. The zoo is Mysuru’s most famous tourist destination with average footfall ranging between 8,000 and 10,000 a day. Today, the hustle bustle of tourists has gone and the human imprint on the captive animals has come to a nought. The absence of humans, coupled with minimal or zero noise on the busy roads abutting the zoo, has also brought some “behavioural” changes in animals. “I could see the usually quite and shy animals freely moving in their enclosures with their young ones. It could be hyenas, jackals, wolves, or the wild dogs. Even large carnivores like tigers could be seen gleefully moving in its day crawl. These animals are normally timid in nature and used to lie down in a corner of their enclosures. They now appear more poised, active and relaxed with least noise around,” explains B.P. Ravi, Member Secretary, Zoo Authority of Karnataka, Mysuru. Mr Ravi, who has been going around the zoo and observing their behaviours since the lockdown, told The Hindu that the animals are feeling at home. “Sensing the opportunity and favourable conditions, we have kept some animals off from display section and housed in the holding rooms in pairs hoping to enhance breeding. We are hoping for the best results as the present conditions for breeding appear prospective,” said Mr Ravi. However, certain animals love to see humans and hear their noise. Chimpanzees behave in a different way on seeing humans. “With no humans around, the primates, particularly one Chimp Mason, appear to be bored,” he observed.  Scientific study Mr. Ravi said ZAK has decided to carry out a study on the stress levels in zoo animals and the same had been discussed with the Zoo Executive Director and the veterinarians. “Instead of keeping the observations subjective, I want to take it a little further instituting a scientific study to examine the physiological stress factors using the faeces of important animals like tigers to measure their stress levels, if any. The results can be tallied with the previous data, if available. We had done some studies on our elephants and also on leopards in the past. The data can help us in developing management strategies,” he explained. Mr. Ravi said the study will not be confined to Mysuru zoo as the animals at the Bannerghatta Biological Park in Bengaluru will also be covered.
28 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Activists decry road works in tiger reserve||Wildlife activists have taken umbrage over the alleged use of heavy earth-moving machines for road works inside Biligiri Ranganathaswamy Temple (BRT) tiger reserve in Chamarajanagar district. This is not only in violation of the conservation guidelines but also contravenes the directions of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), which has called for least field interventions in core and critical tiger habitats, activists said. Speaking on conditions of anonymity, the activists claimed that there was a sharp increase in wildlife poaching across the State but instead of stepping up protection measures only contractor-related activities were being taken up. The concern over construction works of any kind in forests stem from disturbance caused to the habitat. Already BRT Tiger Reserve is fragmented thanks to coffee estates, existing roads, and tourism infrastructure and continued interference through road construction would add to the habitat fragmentation, activists said. Pointing to the recent spike in wildlife poaching and report of the appearance of wildlife poaching syndicates from Central India to the neighbouring States, the activists said emphasis should be on stepping up protection measures. BRT tiger reserve already had nearly 395 km of forest roads, which should be utilised for better patrolling, they added. When contacted, G. Santoshkumar, Deputy Conservator of Forests and director of BRT Tiger Reserve, denied that any new road work had been taken up. He said approach pathways and fire lines were being maintained and in some cases the water holes may have been desilted by the range forest officers. However, wildlife activists from the region said there were instances of use of machinery in Bylur and Kollegal range of BRT tiger reserve. “Last year too a road was laid in the Punajanur range and after an year, it was overrun by weeds which indicates that some of the works are redundant,” the activists added.
28 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Container truck caught ferrying vendors||Cases have been booked against the owner of a container truck and its two drivers for allegedly trying to ferry door-to-door cloth vendors to Rajasthan and Gujarat from Shivamogga city on Sunday evening by violating the lockdown order. As many as 31 petty vendors from Gujarat and Rajasthan had come to Shivamogga six months ago for door-to-door sales of clothes. They were staying at rented rooms in Budha Nagar and New Mandli localities. After the enforcement of lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the Shivamogga City Corporation was providing food for them three times a day. On Monday, they requested the driver and owner of a container truck that had brought surgical equipment and medicine from a pharmaceutical firm in Rajasthan to Shivamogga city, to ferry them to their native places. After the consignment of medicine and surgical equipment was unloaded, these vendors boarded the truck near Manjunatha Badavane. A few people in the vicinity noticed this and alerted the police. When the vehicle was about to cross the border of Shivamogga city, the intercepted it and found 31 vendors in the truck. No permission The police said that they had not taken permission from the district administration to return to their native. The police have booked cases under section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code against Ismanuddin, owner of the truck, and Fairoz Khan and Mohammed Saijad, its drivers. All the 31 vendors, the truck owner and two drivers have been sent to a quarantine facility.
28 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Two test positive for KFD in Shivamogga district||Two persons were diagnosed with Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), also known as monkey fever, in the district on Sunday. The blood samples of a 47-year-old farmer from Basavani in Tirthahalli taluk tested positive for KFD on Sunday. Though he had taken vaccination against the monkey fever, he contracted the disease. The patient is being treated at JC government hospital in Tirthahalli. A 38-year-old housewife from Hosagadde hamlet in Aralagodu gram panchayat limits, the epicentre of the outbreak of KFD in 2019, has also tested positive for the disease. She has been admitted to a private hospital in Manipal in Udupi district for treatment. Total cases With this, the total number of positive cases of KFD in Shivamogga district since January 1 has become 165 including 128 cases from Tirthahalli taluk and 37 cases from Sagar taluk.
28 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||A message with a greater effect||While several efforts are being made by the authorities concerned to create awareness among the people to check the spread of COVID-19, Nityananda Volakadu, a social worker, donned the costume of “coronasura” (corona-demon) to do the same with greater effect here on Monday. This “coronasura” came out on Maruti Veethika Road here during the relaxation of lockdown by the authorities to allow people to buy vegetables, groceries and other essentials in the morning. What caught one’s eyes was the frightening costume donned by “coronasura”. People who were passing by were surprised to see this “coronasura” on the road. Normally such unusual costumes are donned by youth during Krishna Janmashatami festival in the temple town for collecting funds for charitable purposes. But there was no such festival here on Monday, adding to the curiosity of passers-by. “Coronasura” gave a brief performance titled “Coronasura Attahasa”, in which the essential points were emphasised. Nityananda Volakadu said that while people by and large were following the guidelines of the authorities, some were ignoring them and were unnecessarily loitering around and standing in groups. “I want even these people to adhere to the guidelines in the battle against COVID-19,” he said.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Social distancing missing||
28 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Row over using houseboats as COVID-19 care centres||The idea to use houseboats as COVID-19 care centres has not gone down well with a section of experts and boat owners with some of them calling for more clarity regarding waste management and the risk of spreading the virus in the waters of Vembanad Lake. The administration is expecting an inflow of people from overseas and other States after the end of the COVID-19 lockdown period. In the first phase, the district administration has taken over 180 houseboats with a combined 495 bedrooms as part of converting them into COVID-19 care centres. It is planning to set up as many as 2,000 isolation beds in houseboats as part of a contingency plan. K.G. Padmakumar, Director, International Research and Training Centre for Below Sea level Farming, Thottapally says that the authorities need to address the concerns of the public. “We used to conduct an analysis of water from Vembanad Lake on a routine basis. Compared to other places, water samples collected from Punnamada Finishing Point and Pallathuruthy, two houseboat terminals in the district, always contained coliform bacteria exceeding permissible limits. This was from the wastewater from vessels directly discharged into the lake in the absence of proper waste treatment facilities in the district. As the virus that causes COVID-19 can live in faecal matter, it adds to the risk of spreading the virus as the water in Vembanad Lake is being used for bathing, washing among other purposes. There is also water from the washbasins in houseboats directly drained to the lake. The authorities should ensure nothing is going into the water when the vessels are used as COVID-19 care centres,” Mr. Padmakumar says. Risk for the poor G. Nagendra Prabhu, Principal Investigator, Centre for Research on Aquatic Resources, S.D. College, Alappuzha, says that the risk for the poor and marginalised living in rural and impoverished areas of Kuttanad is higher as they lack basic infrastructure to remove common contaminants from water. “The reports of several animals like tiger, cat, bats and rats contracting COVID-19 (human to animal transmission) raises serious concerns on the aquatic fauna of Kuttanad,” Mr. Prabhu says. Kevin Rozario, general secretary, All Kerala Houseboat Owners and Operators Samiti says that the houseboat owners too are concerned on the matter. However, officials with the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority and district administration say that there is no basis for any such concerns. “We will only use houseboats as a last resort. Majority of the boats are fitted with bio-toilets. We have facilities to collect septage from boats. As the sewage treatment plant at the H- Block remains dysfunctional, the waste will be treated at a plant of the NTPC,” said an official. The official, however, said that a solution should have to be found in regard to the draining of water into the lake from washbasins.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,KERALA||State govt. freezes DA for its employees||The State government on Monday issued two orders, one suspending encashment of earned leave “initially” for one year and the other freezing the Dearness Allowance (DA) at the current rate till July 2021 for its employees, teachers and pensioners. According to an order issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, the decision was taken in view of the ongoing fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.
28 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Cement, electronics shops exempted in non-hotspots||Despite one more person testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, the district administration on Monday decided to relax restrictions in non-hotspots. District Collector T.V. Subhash said exemption had been granted to shops selling cement and electronic goods in non-hotspot areas. He added that the order was issued following a request from the district unit of the Kerala Cement Dealers Association and the North Malabar Chamber of Commerce. Accordingly, cement shops will be allowed to open on April 27 and April 29, while electronics stores will remain open on April 28 and April 30. Similarly, tarpaulin shops will be allowed to open on April 27 and 28. The shops will be open from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., the Collector said. Though shops selling air conditioners and other home appliances can be opened, Mr. Subhash said goods should be home-delivered. He also advised shop owners to strictly comply with the Health Ministry’s guidelines. He added that a maximum of five employees should be allowed at a shop. They must wear mask. Those who are close to the business establishments should be engaged. Besides, the staffers should be medically examined to ensure that they have are no COVID-19 symptoms. 113 under treatment Meanwhile, the Collector said the 49-year-old resident of Mokkeri who was tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 on Monday had contracted the disease from an infected person. Her swab was sent for testing on April 23 to the Thalassery General Hospital. With the addition of the new case, the number of COVID-19 patients in the district stands at 113. Six more were discharged from the Kannur District Hospital on Monday, while 48 persons are undergoing treatment. The district now has 2,768 persons under surveillance.
28 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Hotels to revise SOPs to ensure safety of guests, staff||With the impending lifting of COVID-19 curbs in a phased manner, premium and other hotels are gearing up to revise their standard operating procedures (SOPs) to ensure the safety of guests and staff. At a webinar on Saturday, representatives of the Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) and Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) suggested a slew of measures to get the hospitality industry, which is reeling under the impact of cancellation of bookings and Meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions (MICE), back on track. The proposals include restrictions on buffet service, encouraging usage of pre-portion (pre-packed) food, and having only trained associates serve food from displayed buffet, as per FSSAI instructions, if needed. The other measures that will be considered include all employees becoming housekeepers as well, ensuring clinically clean premises and food, sanitising guest luggage, curbs on reuse of materials (like in mini bar) kept in hotel rooms, reliance on sanitised, water-proof mattress and pillow protector which have to be cleaned in warm water, division of kitchen into three areas to ensure social distancing, usage of chlorine to sanitise both vegetarian and non-vegetarian items, and earmarking of an isolation room for every 50 rooms. Stakeholders were also keen on FHRAI and FSSAI conducting conducting hygiene audit. “Hotel groups have to brace for increasing competition since caterers and a whole lot of others have freshly ventured into home delivery of food. Even in the absence of buffet, guests can order a la carte dishes,” said Tejus Jose, general manager, Le Meridien, Kochi. “And those displaying buffet can set up a sneeze-guard glass pane along the counter to prevent contamination of food. Cooked food kept at a steady temperature of 60 to 70 degrees Celsius is safe to eat. Being a premium brand of Marriot International, we are awaiting feedback from our corporate office on the new list of SOPs that have to be adopted as part of COVID-19 precautions,” he added. A spokesperson of another hotel chain said room delivery of food would be encouraged to ensure social distancing. Moreover, guests will be dissuaded from frequenting common spaces. Several hotel chains have global advisory boards, which are expected to provide SOPs to ensure safe functioning post-COVID-19.
28 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC moved against salary deferment||A slew of writ petitions challenging the State government order on deferment of salary of its employees have been filed in the Kerala High Court. The petitions were filed on Monday by employees unions of various State government undertakings, including the Kerala Water Authority Staff Association owing allegiance to the INTUC and Kerala Vyduthi Mazdoor Sanghom (BMS). The petitioners contended that the government order to defer payment of six days salary of employees every month from April 2020 to August is illegal and without authority. Even though it is named as deferred payment, nothing has been mentioned about the time when the payment would be effected. It is really a deduction of salary permanently. Against rules They also pointed out that Kerala Service Rules (K.S.R) or Kerala State & Subordinate Services Rules (K.S.&S.S.R.) did not empower the government to withhold a portion of the employees’ salary. In fact, the employees should have been given an option for making voluntary donation as was being done by other State governments and the Centre. Moreover, the financial capacity of each employee should be taken into account. Even the deferred payment was admissible only when there was an assurance for release of the deferred payment within a fixed time limit.  The petitioners sought a directive to the government not to defer the employees’ salaries. Approaches KAT too Meanwhile, some of the service organisations such as Kerala NGO Sangh have also approached the Kerala Administrative Tribunal (KAT) against the government order.
28 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Modified TB machine for COVID-19 testing at Ernakulam medical college||The cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) has been made available for COVID-19 testing at Government Medical College, Ernakulam. The State Tuberculosis (TB) Centre has made available 360 test kits for the same. The CBNAAT machine is used to detect tuberculosis and it was readied for COVID-19 testing after modifying the software for the cartridges. The CBNAAT will help in quicker testing of COVID-19 samples as it will provide results in 45 minutes. The reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing takes about four hours for test results. At a time, four tests can be done with the CBNAAT machine. The medical college got the registration on April 24 and COVID-19 tests were conducted on Sunday. Seven samples were tested with the facility. Six were for patients who required liver transplantation, and one sample was of a person who died. The CBNAAT can identify ‘E’ and the ‘N2’ genes. E gene is a coronavirus group gene of the RNA viruses, while N2 gene is specific to SARS-CoV-2 (Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2) that causes COVID-19. The tests will be helpful in identifying whether SARS-CoV-2 was the cause of death and can help in COVID-19 screening before surgeries. The State government has made the facility available at medical colleges in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Kozhikode. Lancy Justus, head of the microbiology department at Government Medical College, Ernakulam, led the setting up of the laboratory and the first COVID-19 test using the facility. The tests will be conducted by two teams.
28 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||NIA files chargesheet in Maoist case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) filed the chargesheet in the Pantheerankavu Maoist case at the Special Court for NIA Case, Ernakulam, on Monday. The agency has said in the chargesheet that the two youths accused in the case, Alan Shuaib (20), and Thaha Fasal (24), are “members of the proscribed terrorist organisation, CPI (Maoist)” and held that “they had conducted secret meetings as well as committed certain unlawful activities for furthering the terrorist cause of CPI (Maoist) in Kerala.” A third accused, C. P. Usman, is absconding. UAPA The case had generated much heat in the State as the CPI(M), which is leading the LDF government, was against the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), which was slapped against the youths. Several top leaders of the party had come out against the slapping of UAPA against the two, though Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had maintained that the investigation agencies had gathered enough evidence against the youths.
28 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Malappuram native discharged after 41 days||A Malappuram native who had been under treatment for COVID-19 for the last 41 days at the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam, was discharged on Monday. He was admitted to the hospital on March 18 on his arrival here from London via Sharjah. The 22-year-old had slight fever and it was detected during the screening at the airport. The last two swab sample tests showed negative for the virus, resulting in his discharge from the hospital. Though it took time to clear the virus traces from the body, the youth had faced the isolation in the hospital ward quite bravely, said medical college Principal Thomas Mathew. Besides the treatment for the infection, supportive mental health care was also provided to him.
28 April 2020||KOTTAYAM /Idukki,KERALA||Kottayam, Idukki in Red zone||In view of a sudden spike in the number of COVID-19 cases over the last five days, Kottayam and Idukki districts have been upgraded as Red zones. In Kottayam, where the total number of active cases on Monday rose to 17, seven grama panchayats and five wards in Kottayam municipality have been declared as hotspots. Locations surrounding the residences of COVID-19 patients have been marked as containment zones. The movement of people and vehicle are strictly regulated in these areas while essential items will be supplied to households by designated groups. The six cases tested positive on Monday include a 40-year-old headload worker in Kottayam town market and a 40-year-old health worker in Vadavathoor, who are the primary contacts of the worker. The headload worker is undergoing treatment at the corona ward at the Government Medical College Hospital here. T.N. returnees The other persons who turned positive are a 56-year-old woman from Kuzhimattom, a 43-year-old truck driver from Manarcad who had travelled to Kozhikode earlier, and a 28-year-old woman at Melukavumattom who worked in a bank in Salem. The sixth person to be confirmed positive is a 46-year-old scrap dealer from Tamil Nadu. He had travelled to Thoothukkudi earlier. Regarding the sharp rise in cases since last week, District Medical Officer Jacob Varghese attributed the trend primarily to two factors. “The first is the inability to break the inter-State food supply chain while the second is directly linked to the rapid outbreak in various districts of Tamil Nadu. Majority of the cases reported in the past few days are either related to the mix-up in the Kottayam market or with the arrival of a few persons from Tamil Nadu on emergency passes,” he said. Taking serious note of the situation, the Health Department has extended the scope of sampling to include people who are asymptomatic. “Given the trend, the cases may well go up to a hundred and will come down eventually,” the official added. Sample testing Confounded by delay in tracing the origin of infection in some of the COVID-19 cases reported here since last week, the authorities have decided to expand sample testing in Kottayam. According to officials, arrangements are in place to collect up to 200 samples daily. Sample collection will be held at centres including the Government Medical College and at the General Hospitals in Kottayam, Changanassery, Pala and Kanjirapally. A meeting convened by the Food and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman decided to continue the restrictions for three more days. As per the decision, no government offices other than hospitals will be functional in areas marked as hotspots.Traffic regulation will continue and arrangements will be made to accommodate the healthcare workers on duty at the corona ward of the District General Hospital in the town limits.  Curbs in Idukki With four more positive cases reported in Idukki on Monday, the number of patients rose to 14. With this, the district has been shifted to the Red zone. The district administration has imposed more restrictions declaring the grama panchayats that reported positive cases as hotspots. The restrictions imposed till May 3 were on all wards in the Vandanmedu grama panchayat, ward number 3, 9 and 10 of Erattayar grama panchayat, ward number 3, 6 and 7 of Kattappana municipality, and ward number 3, 4 and 6 of Chakkupallom grama panchayat. Traffic is being allowed through specified roads to the wards only for essential needs. Those reported positive on Monday include a 17-year-old girl who came from the U.S. to Karikode on March 22, a 28-year-old woman who came from Tirupur to Devikulam on April 11, a 14-year-old girl who came from Chennai to Nedumkandam on April 14, and a 60-year-old woman in Munnar. District Collector H. Dinesan said tracing was going on for those who came in contact with the doctor at the primary health centre who was diagnosed positive.
28 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Saudi Arabia airlifts its citizens||A special rescue aircraft of Saudia (Saudi Arabian Airlines) repatriated 135 Saudi nationals stranded in different parts of north Kerala following Covid lockdown from Calicut International Airport on Monday. The flight SV747 left the airport at 4.44 p.m. for Bengaluru to lift another 126 passengers before flying to King Khalid International Airport at Riyadh. Calicut airport Director K. Srinivasa Rao said that all international protocols were observed before the passengers boarded the flight. All the stranded Saudi nationals, who came here on tourist or health visa, were either staying at hotels or undergoing treatment at hospitals. The Saudi government has banned the entry of travellers from mid-March to prevent the spread of the pandemic. However, the travel restrictions do not apply to Saudi nationals. India has also suspended the operations of commercial international flights from March 22.
28 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Black men’ strike terror in Kozhikode||The lockdown has turned out to be a period of anxiety for many residents of Mavoor and surrounding villages, with “black men” out to create trouble during the night. Even after three youths who allegedly used the disguise were arrested recently from the outskirts of the city, miscreants continue to target locals and engage in thefts and other criminal activities. The men in disguise are mostly targeting women. Though burglary was believed to be the prime motive of the “black men” initially, many are suspected to be peeping Toms or vandals. A Mavoor resident said families could not form their own squads and trap the unidentified persons due to existing lockdown norms. Only the police would be able to take action, he added. The Mavoor police said efforts were being taken to address the residents’ concerns. Besides appointing additional patrol squads, high-end surveillance measures were already put in place, they said. Arrests were made based on complaints received from the residents of Beypore, Marad, Pantheerankavu, Payyadi Meethal, Puthoor Madom, Olavanna and Perumanna. A majority of the complaints related to stone-pelting at houses during the night. The Beypore police arrested a man who was allegedly a drug addict. He reportedly carried crude weapons and plastic models of snakes to frighten people.
28 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Career centre to launch ‘virtual school’||The Labour Department-run Career Development Centre (CDC), Perambra, has joined hands with Kozhikode-based start-up Oroboro Global to build a ‘virtual school’ of sorts for teachers and students. The customised platform or dashboard can be used to keep track of classes. It is now up and running and will be officially launched by Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan this week. It is under the ‘Dhanus’ project of the National Employment Service, Kerala, and the Department of Higher Education, for skill development. “Most of our students are new to all this, so we are taking baby steps to ensure everyone is on board. This is one solution which can address important factors like student learning curves, student analytics and teacher analytics,” said Nidhin K., academic coordinator, ‘Dhanus’.
28 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Four more persons discharged in Kozhikode||The number of people from Kozhikode who recovered from COVID-19 has gone up to 17, with four more being discharged from hospital on Monday. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, they belong to Eramala, Edachery, and Azhiyoor. Right now, six persons from the district and one each from Kannur and Tamil Nadu are undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital. The number of people under surveillance further came down to 1,019, with 143 more completing the observation cycle on Monday. Of them, 58 are at hospital. Meanwhile, 50 of the body fluid samples collected from Thiruvallur, Azhiyoor, and parts of the Kozhikode Corporation turned negative for SARS-CoV-2. The samples were collected on April 21, 23, and 25.
28 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||IUML leader held on charge of sexual assault||The Thamarassery police on Monday arrested a local leader of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) on the charge of sexually abusing a minor boy. O.K.M. Kunhi, who was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, had been at large following the incident. According to the police, the victim, a 16-year-old boy, was allegedly brought to the home of the accused for domestic work. The alleged assault took place on March 19. Kunhi was booked for the suspected offence last Thursday.
28 April 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad lorry driver tests positive in Idukki||A 38-year-old man from Kizhakkankadu, Perinkulam, near Alathur in the district, who has been under observation in Idukki since April 21, was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. The man is a tipper lorry driver. His route map and source of infection are yet to be identified. District Collector D. Balamurali said that Idukki district administration would prepare the route map. The health authorities in Palakkad would contact him and zero in on his secondary contacts in the district. “We will have to trace his contacts and conduct tests,” said Mr. Balamurali. Meanwhile, the health authorities were yet to identify the source of infection for the two existing COVID-19 cases in the district. The cases from Vilayoor and Kanjikode continued to be a riddle for the district administration. Mr. Balamurali said that enhanced sentinel surveillance in those areas would help them control the disease. “We have taken 55 more samples than usual from Kanjikode. We will take as many from Vilayoor too. If the tests prove negative, then will not have to worry,” he said. Six under treatment Health and police departments stepped up vigil in the district on Monday. Six positive cases are currently being treated in the district, including a teenager from Othukkungal near Malappuram. As many as 3,352 people are currently in home quarantine in the district.
28 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new case in Pathanamthitta in two weeks||The district that was the epicentre of the second spell of COVID-19 in the State has reported no new case in the past two weeks. The total admissions to the isolation wards at different hospitals in the district have reduced to nine, with three more persons getting discharged from the hospitals on Monday, sources said here. As of now, five persons, including three COVID-19 patients, have been admitted to the isolation ward at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, three others at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, and one person at the General Hospital at Adoor. No patient has been admitted to any private hospital in the district as on Monday, according to an official bulletin issued by District Collector P.B. Noohu here in the evening. 165 discharged District Medical Officer A.L. Sheeja said, so far, a total of 165 persons, including the 14 persons who got cured of COVID-19, got discharged from the isolation wards at various hospitals in the district. The District Medical officer said a total of 3,546 throat and nasal swab samples were sent from the district to the virology laboratory in Alappuzha for clinical examination and only 17 of them tested positive for the virus infection, so far. The department awaited test results of 319 throat swab samples, she said. Quarantined The number of home-quarantined persons in different parts of the district came down to 388 on Monday evening. Of them, 344 persons were who came from various other States and 44 were primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons.
28 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||103rd birthday of Mar Chrysostum celebrated||The Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church celebrated the 103rd birthday of its Metropolitan Emeritus, Philipose Mar Chrysostum, strictly adhering to the lockdown norms, on Monday. The Metropolitan of the Church, Joseph Mar Thoma, led the special prayers and holy eucharist at the Fellowship Mission Hospital at Kumbanad near Thiruvalla, where Mar Chrysostum is undergoing treatment for old age-related illness, in the forenoon. The Metropolitan also cut the specially made birthday cake on the occasion. Fr K.G.Joseph, Church secretary; Fr Binu Varghese and P.P.Achenkunju, Church trustee, were the other three persons who attended the function held at the exclusive hospital ward. Arif Mohammed Khan, Governor of Kerala; Pinaryi Vijayan, Chief Minister; Ramesh Chennithala, Leader of the Opposition; Catholicos of the East Baselius Mar Thoma Paulose-II, V.M.Sudheeran and P.J.Kurien, senior Congress leaders, were among those who offered birthday wishes to the Metropolitan Emeritus on Monday.
28 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sentinel sample survey starts paying off||The State’s decision to widely use RT-PCR diagnostic modality to test select groups in the population to pick up fresh COVID-19 cases from the community is beginning to pay off. Sentinel surveillance sampling done amongst select groups using RT-PCR tests in the past five days has thrown up a number of new cases with no clear epidemiological link from different parts of the State, indicating unknown local transmission in the community. It was on Thursday that the State launched sentinel surveillance sampling in all districts for the pandemic thrice a week, wherein nasopharyngeal swabs from selected groups are collected and tested using RT-PCR. This sample survey is being done separately from the routine testing amongst the quarantined pool. The number of such new cases — mostly active, asymptomatic cases — that spring up will determine the extent of community transmission of the epidemic. Vaguely classified However, instead of announcing the positive cases from sentinel survey separately and acknowledging that the source of infection is unknown, these cases are being vaguely classified in daily bulletin as “contacts”, along with the results from the routine daily samples. On Saturday, it was made known that one of the positive cases, who had contracted the disease through “contact” was a health worker in Kollam. Enquiries revealed that the case was that of an ASHA worker from Chathannoor, who had been tested along with 17 other ASHA workers, as part of the sentinel survey. “The data from sentinel sampling is very important and is different from the data of routine PCR sampling done daily and should be accounted for separately. Till now, the surveillance pool consisted of people who had brought the infection from abroad or from other States and their contacts. This situation has changed and the element of uncertainty goes up as we pick up indigenous cases in the community,” a senior epidemiologist told The Hindu . “Every positive case thrown up in the sentinel survey indicates an area of transmission around that person, which has to be identified, locked down immediately and disease containment activities initiated on a war-footing to limit the spread,” he said. “In these cases, it is more important to know how the person got the disease than going after the contacts. Intensive surveillance should be initiated in the locality and a bigger sample of those with mild symptoms should be studied. All SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Illness) cases in clinics and hospitals within a core geographical area and a buffer zone around it should be tested for COVID-19. This should be a systematic process for every positive case thrown up in sentinel survey as part of containment,” he added.
28 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State for partial curbs till May 15||The State government has pitched for a partial lockdown till May 15. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government had argued against an abrupt lifting of the COVID-19 lockdown regulations on May 3. It had instead sought a progressive dialling down of lockdown stipulations aimed at liberating relatively safe localities first and high-risk areas later. Kerala has asked the Centre to give States more latitude in the matter. Mr. Vijayan said Kerala had sent its suggestions to the Centre on Sunday and was awaiting it to issue new guidelines for States. The government could not ignore the spectre of a resurgence of the disease. Tens of thousands of non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) were expected to arrive in the State as soon as the Centre allowed special flights. As of Monday, an estimated two lakh NoRKs in the Gulf had registered themselves on the NoRKA website to return home. A significant number of Keralites stranded in other States were also expected to come back. Many were from epidemic epicentres. Kerala could ill afford to have its COVID-19 caseload shoot up with their arrival. It could not let its guard down. The State was ready to receive them. It had made a 14-day quarantine mandatory for all arrivals. Health workers would test them at airports, seaports and inter-State land borders. Those with flu symptoms would be hospitalised, the Chief Minister said. Carrying mothers, amnestied prisoners, aged and critically ill persons, COVID-19 displaced blue-collar workers with no means and students would be given preference on homebound flights. Mr. Vijayan asked the Centre to bear the air-ticket charge of poor persons hard-pressed to afford it. Farmers in Kodagu The Chief Minister flagged the plight of farmers from Malappuram and Kasaragod trapped in the Kodagu district in Karnataka. They had gone there to cultivate ginger and plantains on leased land. The lockdown had upended their lives. Kerala had asked the Centre to ensure that the farmers had food and medicines till it lifted the lockdown. The videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday focussed more on what Chief Ministers of “smaller States” had to suggest. Chief Secretary Tom Jose represented Kerala.  Kerala has also urged the Centre to operate special trains to transport an estimated 3.5 lakh migrant workers in Kerala to their homes. Most are living without wages or work in scores of labour camps spread across the State. Supplies Mr. Vijayan stressed the need to keep Kerala, a predominantly consumer State, well supplied to ensure food security. He said cross-border movement of freight was essential to keep the State’s rice, wheat, sugar, pulses and edible oil stock at the optimal storage level. The government has made masks mandatory for persons who ventured out when the Centre eased lockdown restrictions. He also warned legal action against those who abandoned used masks in public places.
28 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Six districts are now ‘high-risk’||The government has declared Kottayam and Idukki as COVID-19 Red zones. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said a flare-up of new infections necessitated the harsh measure. He said the number of ‘high-risk’ districts in the State had increased to six. Kasaragod, Malappuram, Kozhikode, and Kannur were the other districts. The government declared four panchayats in Kottayam as epidemic hotspots. They were Aymanam, Velloor, Ayirkunnam, and Thalayolaparambu. Vandanmedu and Irattayaru were the COVID-19 hotspots in Idukki. Curbs may ease Mr. Vijayan said Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Thrissur, and Wayanad had been spared of new COVID-19 positive cases. The public could expect lockdown restrictions to be less stringent in these localities. He said the police had already sealed off hotspot localities across the State. The government had ordered them to vigorously impose lockdown restrictions in such sectors to prevent disease spread. People in epidemic hotspots must mandatorily remain at home. Food, medicine, and essential supplies would be brought to them. Hotspots would have only one entry and exit point manned by police officers. Special officers Following the declaration of Kottayam and Idukki as red zones, two IPS officers have been appointed as special officers for the two districts. R. Viswanath, Commandant, Fifth KAP Battalion, will be the special officer for Kottayam and Vaibhav Saxena, Commandant, First KAP Battalion, in Idukki, a release said.
28 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Varkala native tests negative, no active cases in capital||There were zero COVID-19 cases in Thiruvananthapuram district on Monday with the Varkala native, who was diagnosed with the disease a few days ago, testing negative. The 44-year-old man was found to suffer from the disease on April 23 following which he was admitted at the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital. He had tested positive for the disease on the 34th day of his arrival from Sharjah on March 19. With the patient’s recovery, the district has no COVID-19 cases now. An 80-year-old patient was confirmed to be safe from the infection a day ago after testing positive four times before. Both the patients will soon be discharged. Under quarantine As many as 195 people were ordered to isolate themselves. The number of people under quarantine has gone up to 2,025, and 146 people were removed from quarantine. Besides, 11 symptomatic people were admitted to hospitals, while 10 others were discharged. Confusion prevailed among traders here over reopening their shops. Some outlets selling garments and other non-essential items registered average business. Air-conditioned shops were not permitted to operate. A few traders demanded clarity on the relaxations. The City police registered 170 cases and confiscated 144 vehicles, while the Rural police registered 498 casesfor violating lockdown. Sixty-one people were booked for not wearing masks. The police ordered traders to adopt steps such as increase the number of counters and use ropes to streamline customer flow.
28 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Leaders warn against fiscal emergency||Finance Ministers of non-BJP-ruled States and an array of political leaders have demanded the Centre to avail itself of loans from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to ease the fiscal strain induced by COVID-19 on State governments and warned against tax rate hike to garner resources. Participating in a two-day webinar on “COVID-19 pandemic and fiscal federalism in India” organised by the Gulati Institute for Finance and Taxation Studies here, they suspected a bid to precipitate the crisis and set the ground for imposing a financial emergency in the country. States were scraping the bottom of the barrel for disbursing salary and pensions and need a fiscal support, they felt. Inadequate steps Congress leader Jairam Ramesh while participating in the discussions said the country now had the milieu of a fiscal emergency. The steps taken by the Centre to tackle the pandemic spread were too inadequate and it would only deepen the crisis. COVID-19 would alter the fiscal and political architecture of the country, he said. Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechuri said that the steps adopted by the Centre were too inadequate to meet the crisis. A large chunk of the migrant workers were wallowing in hunger and distress. The onus for taking care of them had been pushed on to the State governments. As many as 14 crore people had been rendered jobless. The Centre should extend liberal financial assistance to the States, release the pending grain stock and provide assistance to the jobless, he said. CPI general secretary D. Raja called for taking forward the discussions for ironing out a common Opposition policy to manage the crisis. Delhi Finance Minister Manish Sisodia and Kerala Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac supported Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s demand for raising the annual borrowing limit from 3% to 5%, immediate release of GST compensation and additional grant for COVID-19 management. Mr. Singh said that no mask or vaccine was available to contain the crisis and the Centre should step in to bail out the States. Dr. Isaac also explained how GST had undermined the fiscal space of States and reminded that the late Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley had assured to borrow money to pay the compensation to States, if need arose.
28 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Economic situation grim: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said Kerala’s economic situation was grim. The COVID-19-spurred lockdown had cost the State an estimated Rs. 80,000 crore by a conservative estimate. It had brought the State’s economy to its knees and losses were continuing to mount as the lockdown endured. Losses Casual labourers had lost Rs. 14,000 crore in wages alone. The lockdown had deprived hotel and restaurant business of business more than Rs. 20,000 crore. The hospitality sector had braced itself for more losses, the Chief Minister said. Retail business had suffered. The lockdown had pushed convenience stores and mom-and-pop neighbourhood shops almost out of business. The epidemic had caused a steep rise in public health expenditure. It had shut down State’s conventional sources of revenue. Unemployment was on the rise. Kerala, like other States, required a special financial package to steer its economy safely out of the lockdown and nudge it back on the course to normality. Mr. Vijayan said Kerala required money to provide relief to small businesses initially. Loans sought He urged the Centre to extend small interest loans to traders and lay the ground for enhanced EPF and ESI contributions. The welfare component of the incoming financial stimulus should focus more on the needy and help them, including Gulf returnees, rebuild their lives. Mr. Vijayan said the government wanted the State to return to normality soon. Hence, it had decided to go in for widespread testing. Public transport The Centre was expected to issue a fresh set of guidelines for States soon. Kerala hoped to restore public transport and mobility in a limited manner. However, it would continue to impose social distancing norms well into the future. Mr. Vijayan said the State had to prepare itself for a vigorous monsoon. District administrations had come up with distress mitigation plans.
28 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. measures to prop up IT sector||The State government on Monday announced a slew of relief measures, including rent waivers, to prop up IT/ITES companies which have been hit hard by the pandemic and the lockdown. The government order (GO), applicable to companies operating out of buildings owned by government IT parks, came in response to the demand for a stimulus package made by GTech, the organisation of IT companies in the State. Rent for the months of April, May and June has been waived for all companies who have taken up to 10,000 sq ft of IT space on rental. For incubation centres, rent is waived irrespective of the area. Moratorium IT/ITES companies which occupy more than 10,000 sq feet have been offered a moratorium on rent payment. Rent waiver for the three months is also applicable to all non-IT shops and establishments such as restaurants functioning in government-owned buildings. The government has also put on hold the annual rent escalation during 2020-21, while the surcharge on rental has been waived for six months (April-September 2020). As a special scheme, IT/ITES companies that start operation on or before March 31, 2021 in any of the government IT parks will enjoy a rent waiver during the first three months. The government has also announced that the electricity charge for the months of April, May and June will be re-assessed. Private buildings Meanwhile, IT companies are unhappy that the relief measures are not applicable to private buildings within the government IT parks. They also express dismay over the decision to limit the rent waiver to companies occupying up to 10,000 sq ft.  Rent waiver for companies operating out of buildings owned by government IT parks and power bill reassessment.
28 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IT, ITES firms face a bad patch||Decline in revenue, direct and indirect job losses and a recovery scenario mired in uncertainty stare at the Information Technology (IT) sector in Kerala which is reeling under the global economic fallout of the pandemic, a recent study by GTech, the organisation of IT and Information Technology Enabled Services (ITES) companies across Kerala, reveals. By the end of 2020, the IT sector in Kerala is expected to suffer an overall revenue decline of $594 million (Rs. 4,500 crore). This revenue loss would translate into over 26,000 jobs of IT engineers lost in the State, the study reveals. A further 80,000 people are likely to lose their livelihoods due to the indirect job losses in support services. Predictably, the impact would be harder on the smaller and medium IT companies, which contribute 45% of the State’s IT revenue.  Existential challenge The current scenario poses an “existential challenge” for many IT companies in the State, GTech chairman Alexander Varghese was quoted in a statement. “It is fair to expect that once the COVID-19 situation starts to ease and businesses resume, our primary markets of U.S., Europe and the GCC will look to a significantly higher order of outsourcing to India. But the period until then will remain critical for many start-ups, small- and medium-sized IT companies,” he said. An initial survey had already indicated that the sector was heading towards a slump. It had also revealed that the smaller companies were in for hard times. “IT companies in the SME sector typically maintain low cash reserves as they reinvest profits to funnel growth. The drastic drop in revenues along with the earlier levels of expenditures on salaries, infrastructure etc., are moving these smaller companies into the red,” Mr. Varghese said. GTech had submitted recommendations to the State government seeking immediate support measures. The intervention of State and Central government would prove critical in preserving jobs and helping companies overcome the business slump, GTech secretary (Hon.) Dinesh Thampi said.
28 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Entry to State via four check-posts only||Kerala may grant entry for those stranded in other States after the lockdown only via the interstate check-posts at Amaravila, Walayar, Muthanga, and Manjeswaram and after a thorough screening. The Transport Department, which chalked out a protocol for Keralites returning from other States, also favours entry of private vehicles only through these four check-posts. Entry will be permitted through these check-posts only between 8 a.m. and 11 a.m. The operation of interstate buses will have to be decided by the Centre as air-conditioned contract carriages will not be allowed. Those reaching the check-posts will have to carry COVID-19 negative certificate and wear masks and subject themselves to screening. The police, health and local body officials will be present at the check-posts. A 14-day compulsory home quarantine has been proposed for all those entering the State. Those with symptoms of fever, cough, and breathlessness will be shifted to a COVID centre/ hospital directly from the check-posts. The Department of Non Resident Keralites Affairs (NORKA) will commence online registration for those wishing to return from the other States on Wednesday. Sources said the protocol would come up at a meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday.
28 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tubers to ensure food security||Fears of a COVID-19 lockdown-triggered food shortage in the months ahead is prompting Kerala to go back to its “roots” to guarantee food security. Responding to a request by the State Agriculture Department, the Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (ICAR-CTCRI) on Monday submitted a concept note to the Planning Board on developing a State-level plan for popularising tapioca and other tuber crops. The one-year-long programme, which banks on the enduring reputation of tubers as ‘food security crops’, aims to boost homestead-level farming of cassava (tapioca), greater yam, lesser yam, elephant foot yam, sweet potato, taro and Chinese potato. The CTCRI is collaborating with the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU), Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK), and State Agriculture Department farms for the ‘tuber campaign’. Under it, 1.38 crore numbers of planting material will be distributed over the next one year through local self government institutions. The concept note prepared by Dr. G. Byju and Dr. K. Sunil Kumar, principal scientists with the Crop Production division of CTCRI, outlines a cultivation plan for five cents of land, with one cent each dedicated to a tuber variety. Thirty to 40% of the planting materials are expected to be distributed over the next two months. Food shortage Disruption of supply chains and constraints on farming due to the coronavirus pandemic have triggered fears of a food shortage. Last week, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar had met CTCRI scientists for exploring the possibility of promoting tuber crops.
28 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Agri work to be started in district’s fallow lands||The district panchayat has decided to begin cultivation in the fallow land spread across the district. The decision was taken at a steering committee meeting on Monday, following Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s call to increase agricultural production to achieve self-sufficiency. An action plan has been prepared by the agricultural officers. According to the district panchayat’s estimates, the district has more than 5,000 acres of land lying fallow. The project aims at turning this into cultivable land and to make the district self-sufficient in vegetable production. Considering the peculiar situation due to the COVID-19 outbreak, 20 plots in 18 grama panchayats, covering an area of 200 acres, have been chosen for farming in the initial stage. Volunteers in the grama panchayats, Kudumbashree groups, and Haritha Karma Sena members, will be taking up the farming work. Meetings will be held in the panchayats on Tuesday to organise the groups and volunteers for the work. In the initial phase, vegetables, rice, tapioca and plantain will be cultivated. The Deputy Director of agriculture has been given the responsibility of procuring the seeds and saplings. The second phase of the cultivation in fallow land will be taken up after the lockdown. District panchayat V.K. Madhu appealed to the public to join in the effort.
28 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Students worry about rent payment in Delhi||Students from the State who are studying in Delhi have flagged the issue of their inability to pay rent in lumpsum against the backdrop of COVID-19 whenever they return to the national capital to resume their studies. The Delhi government had on April 22 issued an order waiving one month’s rent on students’ accommodation and making their forcible eviction an offence under the Disaster Management Act after students’ groups wrote to the Delhi government seeking their intervention. Maithri, a Kerala students’ fraternity, had written to the Kerala Chief Minister too. While the order has stopped the barrage of threatening phone calls from landlords asking for rent, some of the students from the State say with the lockdown getting extended, the waiver of one month rent would help them only to an extent. Room rent factor A student from Kollam who lives in a rented flat along with another girl from Alappuzha says they have to pay Rs. 7,000 a month as room rent alone. Her father is a cancer patient and mother runs a shop which too is taken on rent and she worries about the rent she will have to pay when she goes back. Her roommate says her stepfather has lost his job in the Gulf and her mother too is not employed. Without any source of income, she cannot afford to pay the rent in bulk. Government order Another student who puts up in a private hostel near the Delhi varsity campus says they paid the rent of Rs. 8,000 for March, but the hostel is seeking fees for April and May, claiming that the Delhi government order is not applicable to them. A security deposit of Rs. 15,000 that the students had paid initially remains with the hostel authorities. Amal K. Simon, president of Maithri, the Kerala students’ fraternity in the university, says that with their families’ livelihoods getting affected in the wake of the lockdown, many students are in a fix over what to do about the rent beyond what has been waived. There is also the question of whether the students should pay the rent at all when they return. The Delhi government order does not say anything about paying rent to the landlords either. Govt. intervention “We are hoping that the Kerala government intervenes or the Delhi government pays part of the rent so that students are not burdened and the landlords too do not feel the pinch,” he says.  We are hoping that the Kerala government intervenes or the Delhi government pays part of the rent Kerala students’ fraternity
28 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Funds to CMDRF every month||Adersh R.A. was in Class 5 when a fireworks celebration at the Puttingal temple went awry in 2016, killing more than a hundred people. In the news, he heard the Chief Minister’s directive to the District Collector on using the funds from the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) to help the victims and their families. Young Adersh asked his parents about CMDRF, and sought to gather more information on the fund. Realising the purpose the fund served, he decided to contribute his meagre pocket money to the fund. The student of Vrindavan High School in Vlathankara, near Neyyattinkara here, went to the nearest post office to send the Rs. 10 he had in his possession then. Since then, he has been sending his pocket money to CMDRF every month, without fail. “I am contributing a portion of the pocket money to the fund. The amount I donate depends upon my own needs that specific month, but I have sent a donation every single month. After I make the remittance at the post office, I have been promptly getting certificates from the Finance Department,” says Adersh. But, he did not stop at this individual effort. Idea of Money Box When the Chief Minister called him to appreciate the gesture, he presented a project called Money Box, a box which could be placed in all schools so that the students could contribute to relief efforts. In September 2019, following a second successive year of massive floods in the State, the government tried out this idea on an experimental basis. Over a period of four days, from September 2 to 6, an amount of Rs. 2.81 crore was generated from money box placed in schools across the State. The public heard about Adersh’s story when Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan mentioned it in his daily press conference this Saturday. When the schools reopen after lockdown, he will be in Class 10. The youngster says he wants to become an IPS officer. He is clear on that front.
28 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A resilient food crop||Popularisation of tapioca (cassava) can help Kerala stave off food shortages during the COVID-19 pandemic, says Dr. G. Byju, principal scientist, CTCRI. He presents an interesting tapioca statistic.“If all households in Kerala were to do so, we will be able to produce an additional 380-crore kg of tapioca. Together with the current production level of 270-crore kg, we can ensure half-a-kg of tapioca to every person every day throughout the year,” Dr. Byju says. Globally, the resilient cassava is the most important food crop that has helped overcome food shortages. “Half-a-kg of cassava will provide 785 kilocalories of food energy that is about 40% of the recommended dietary allowance,” he says.
28 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chief Minister orders probe||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday ordered an inquiry into the alleged leak of the personal medical information of COVID-19 positive patients in Kasaragod district. Mr. Vijayan said initial reports suggested that some persons had canvassed the “cured” persons for more treatment. It was not a severe breach of confidentiality as alleged by the Opposition, the Chief Minister said.
28 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Opposition for CBI inquiry||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has called for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into the leakage of data of COVID-19 patients in Kannur and Kasaragod. In a press note, he said the concerns over the Sprinklr deal had been proved right. “The government has failed in its duty to ensure the security of health data,” he said, demanding stern action against those responsible for the breach.
28 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||World lauds State’s tackling of pandemic: Gurukkal||Lauding the State’s management of the COVID-19 pandemic, Kerala State Higher Education Council vice-chairman Rajan Gurukkal P.M. has said the efforts have drawn global attention to the efficacy of local bodies in tackling the crisis through cooperative production, consumption, and exchange of local goods without profit motives. In a statement, the noted social scientist also credited Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s leadership under democratic centralism in containing the pandemic.
28 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Treatment aid||The government has issued an order allowing the District Collector, Kasaragod, to spend Rs. 2 crore to fund the treatment of endosulfan victims. The amount is to be utilised to foot treatment and the cost incurred on medicines and transportation of patients.
28 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Medical care for indigent families||Indigent families not covered under the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi (KASP) could seek treatment for a year from hospitals that have entered into an agreement with the government to provide medical care at concessional rates. The upper limit for availing of the benefit has been capped at Rs. 3 lakh and rates would be those applicable for Karunya scheme. Upon integrating the Karunya Benevolent Scheme with the KASP the government had permitted the beneficiaries of the former scheme to submit till March 31 their medical claims up to July 3 last year. The date has now been extended to May 31, according to sources.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Clearing the channel||
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Caution goes missing||
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In high demand||
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||High-voltage event||
28 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No new cases in Anantapur, three discharged||No new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Anantapur district, while three persons were discharged from COVID Hospital on Monday, following their testing negative twice in 48 hours. While two women a 55 year-old and a 20 year-old were from Manirevu village in Kalyandurg mandal, the third patient was a 34-year-old person from Hindupur, and all of them were treated in the RDT Bathalapalli Hospital, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said in a release. Meanwhile, of the 56 positive cases, the total number of patients undergoing treatment has come down to 32 now, and four persons had died earlier. Of the 32, two persons were being treated in State COVID Hospital in Tirupati.  Relief centres While 138 persons were discharged from quarantine centres in the district on Sunday, 48 perons who have been suspected of contracting the virus were brought there, and the health of all 634 persons in 36 quarantine centres was being monitored and 1,318 other persons were being supported at 30 relief centres. In all 7,485 beds were available at the quarantine centres, he added. COVID Special Officer K. Vijayanand, meanwhile, toured all the red zones in the city and reviewed the processes in place for providing medicines, grocery and other essentials. Municipal Commissioner P. Prashanthi, who accompanied the Special Officer, said that from April 29 the third tranche of rice and other essential items would be given to all 12.5 lakh card holders in the district and 61,800 of them were in the Anantapur Municipal limits. Thumb impression has to be taken from all beneficiaries, but in the 11 red zone areas, an exemption would be sought from the District Collector, she added and the volunteers have been given the task of distributing them at their doorstep. The remaining people will get their items from 137 shops in the city.
28 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uncertainty ends for two major units in Anantapur||The State government on Saturday issued two GOs — Ms. Nos.23 and 24 — exempting two major proposed industrial units in Anantapur district from a November 2017 order, which was coming in way of granting them environmental clearances. The Bengaluru-based Veera Vaahan Udyog (P) Limited, which had got 120 acres of land allotted in the Gudipalli industrial area in March 2017 for setting up electric and diesel buses body building facility, began land levelling last year, but could not progress further as it was denied environmental clearance from the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB). GO 151 prohibited any red / orange air-polluting industrial units to be set up within 10 km of the KIA Motors India factory at Erramanchi. The government through GO No 24 on Saturday amended the clause in GO Ms. No.151 facilitating Veera Vaahan to obtain environmental clearance. In February this year, during a meeting with the District Collector here, the APPCB had raised the objection citing GO 151, but in the current amendment, the government said while the KIA Motors factory was 25 km away, only its ancillary units were nearby. Physical Possession of land was given on November 6 last year. In a similar move, the government through GO 23 said exemption from the GO 151 was being given to M/s. A.P. Aerospace & Defence Electronics Park (P) Ltd., (AP-ADE) for establishment of “Aerospace, Defence, Water innovation and ESDM (Electronic System Design & Manufacturing)” under Special Purpose Vehicle with the APIIC Ltd. The APIIC Ltd had allotted 246.06 acres abutting NH 44 in Palasamudram village in Gorantla mandal of the district.
28 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||JC brothers’ follower attacked in Tadipatri||The ugly face of group clashes raised its head in Tadipatri on Monday even while the town is under COVID-19 lockdown. A group of eight unidentified persons wearing masks attacked municipal water works inspector Tirupal Reddy, 55, at his house with sticks at 7 a.m. while he was reading a newspaper. He escaped with minor injuries and is said to be out of danger. Tadipatri circle inspector Thejomurthy said that a case of attempt to murder under Section 307 of IPC was registered and investigation taken up. Tirupal Reddy is a follower of former Anantapur MP J.C. Diwakar Reddy and his brother J.C. Prabhakar Reddy. He had joined the municipal service in 1990, but has not been going to the office for the past one year.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patient ends life in Bengaluru hospital||A 50-year-old autorickshaw driver from Bengaluru, who was being treated in the COVID-19 ICU ward at Victoria Hospital, ended his life on Monday morning. Sources in the hospital said that the patient [P-466], who had suffered renal failure and was on dialysis for the last four years, was depressed after he saw P-465 succumb to the infection on Sunday. ‘Not a COVID-19 death’ The Health Department’s bulletin issued on Monday said the patient died of “non-COVID” reasons and the death was not considered as a COVID-19 death. A statement by Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) Dean and Director C.R. Jayanthi stated that a psychiatrist evaluation revealed that the incident could have been due to an impulsive decision as he did not have any earlier symptoms of depression. “The patient Syed Babu, who was admitted on April 24 in the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre, had also tested positive for hepatitis C infection and was admitted in the ICU on the sixth floor,” the statement said. “He was dialysed on April 25 and was due for another dialysis on April 27. He was all right the previous night. He had breakfast in the morning on Monday and requested for another helping. The doctors and nurses, who were on duty at the time, were attending to another critical patient in the ICU and by the time the second round of breakfast came, he slipped out of the ICU, opened the fire exit, and jumped off the sixth floor staircase and fell on the roof of the patient attenders’ waiting area. He died on the spot at 8.15 a.m.,” the statement said. Autopsy performed “Immediately, the police were intimated and necessary steps were taken and the body was shifted after disinfection with proper precautions to the mortuary where an autopsy was done. The body was handed over to the relatives of the patient as per protocol for the final rites,” the statement said. DCP (South) Rohini Katoch said that the patient died after he jumped from the sixth floor of the Trauma Care Centre and crashed on a sheet on the first floor. “Our staff do not have access to the building and our men have been stationed about 500 metres away from the block. We have asked the hospital to submit a detailed report about the incident and based on that, the investigation will be carried out,” she said. “The V.V. Puram police have taken up a case and are awaiting detailed report from the hospital,” Ms. Rohini added.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani helpline on Ph: 104 for help.)
28 April 2020||Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fewer districts in T.N. report fresh cases||Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka reported one death each from COVID-19, while all big southern States had new positive cases on Monday. Andhra Pradesh had 80 new cases in six districts. The State reported over 80 cases in a single day for the third time in the past five days and 30% of the total reported so far were detected during this period. The State tally went up to 1,177 and the death toll was 32. Four patients recovered and the number of active cases stood at 911. Kerala reported 13 new cases on Monday, Telangana two cases from Greater Hyderabad area, and Karnataka, nine cases. Health officials in Nellore said a 65-year-old person succumbed to the disease. Seven more persons, including six of a family, tested positive in the district. The Health Department revealed that over 60% of those infected were in the 16-45 age group. While 6.54% were in the age group of 0-15, 21.48% patients were 45-60. Most vulnerable patients were those aged 61 or more and there were 11.12% such patients in the State. Krishna district crossed the 200-mark with 33 fresh cases and the tally went up to 210. Guntur district reported 23 cases while Kurnool had 13 and Nellore seven, West Godavari three and Srikakulam one case. Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna were the worst-hit with 292, 237 and 210 cases respectively. The three districts account for 62.7% cases. Kalaburagi district, one of the worst-hit in Karnataka, registered its fifth fatality on Monday. A 47-year-old person from Aland, who was first treated in Solapur and shifted to ESIC Medical Complex later, was the latest victim. His 65-year-old mother had also tested positive and was in hospital. The district reported India’s first COVID-19 fatality on March 10 with the death of a 76-year-old man who was later found positive for the disease on March 12. A total of 44 positive cases have been reported from the district, including the four on Monday. Kerala tests community In Kerala, apart from the routine sampling among those quarantined, 875 samples were randomly collected from healthcare workers, migrants and people interacting more with the community, such as police, from all districts over five days. Of these, 611 were negative, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday. As part of an intensive drive, the Health department collected 3,056 population-level samples from select groups across the State on Sunday as a single-day “augmented sampling.”
28 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3,000-bed facility getting ready in Tirupati: Collector||The Chittoor district administration is gearing up to set up a facility with 3,000 beds by utilizing the services at SVRR Hospital, ESI Hospital and Old Maternity Hospital zone in Tirupati on a war-footing, said Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta. Since the SVRR Government Hospital is now a full-fledged COVID-19 hospital, all non-COVID patients would be treated at all 15 hospitals in Tirupati that come under the Arogya Sri network. Addressing a press conference in Tirupati on Monday, the Collector said they are fully prepared to meet any eventuality in view of the ballooning number of cases in the district. “Though there are no fresh cases for three days, it doesn’t mean that the cases have altogether stopped,” he said. The Collector said that so far 11,000 tests had been conducted in the district, of which 240 tests were awaiting results. “TrueNAT machines are available at all area hospitals, and five more machines will be arriving soon. At SVIMS virology lab, we are conducting 600 to 700 tests every day,” he said. ‘Public is cooperative’ Referring to the alarming number of cases in Srikalahasti, Mr. Gupta said that the authorities were investigating if the town has reached the third stage. However, allaying fears, Mr. Bharat Gupta said: “We had conducted 920 rapid tests in the town and not even a single positive case was registered.” The Collector said that the public was cooperating with the civic authorities by following the social distancing norm while availing the mobile vegetable markets at their respective areas. Meanwhile, the police officials had mounted surveillance at all the vital junctions in Srikalahasti, which is under total lockdown since April 24.
28 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Industries providing essential services to get emergency pass||The State government has opened a window for issuing COVID-19 emergency passes to organisations engaged in manufacturing, transport and the sale of essential commodities and those providing essential services by working with limited number of staff. Such organisations can apply for e-passes by registering on the portal:https://gramaward sachivalayam.ap.gov.in/ CVPASSAPP/CV/ CVOrganization Registration The essential commodities and services are defined in the GO 289 issued by the Agriculture and Cooperation (MKTG II) Department on March 26. Whenever any new services are added under the essential services category, the required services are also included in the e-pass system. The organisations, government, government undertaking, owner or authorised person can apply for e-passes on behalf of all employees. The owner or authorised person of the organisation should only apply for passes and they need to do OTP-based registration of their cellphone numbers. After filling the details, the applicants need to exercise the upload option and a message would appear on screen informing whether the application is accepted or rejected. Categories The essential services have been divided in two categories—organisations involved in supplying and retail sale of essential commodities and supply of essential services; organisations involved in manufacturing of essential commodities. The government allows only 20 % of the total staff strength to work (minimum of five). The GST is not mandatory for government and government undertaking category while applying for e-pass. The GST limits are exempted for the firms including transport, retail sale of essential commodities and essential service providers and manufacturing.
28 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||FCV tobacco auction begins on a dull note||The auction of flue cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco began on a low note on Monday after the State government’s nod even as the lockdown entered the fifth week. The auction began at four Southern Light Soils (SLS) platforms at Tanguturu and Kondepi in Prakasam district and one NLA platform at Jangareddygudem in West Godavari district. Bid prices A release from the Tobacco Board said that 260 bales of produce have arrived to the auction platforms, of which 218 bales were sold on Monday. The highest bid was offered at Rs. 175 per kg, while the lowest was Rs. 125 per kg. More auction platforms The Tobacco Board said that more auction platforms would be set up in the coming days, after assessing the local conditions and assured all help to the farmers.
28 April 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown comes in handy for ID liquor makers||The lockdown following COVID-19 scare has led to an increase in distilling of illicit liquor across Chittoor district, where groups of people are finding their way atop hillocks and forest locations to carry out the illegal trade. A month after the lockdown came into force, several thousand litres of illicitly distilled (ID) liquor and fermented jaggery wash, chemicals and utensils used for brewing the contraband were destroyed in the district, particularly in the forest locations. The clandestine activity has even surfaced in areas with no previous history. This is attributed to the closure of wine shops and non-availability of liquor, despite people willing to shell out 10 times the normal price. The police have observed that in the last three weeks, even those who do not have any experience in making ID liquor are hitting the trail in search of booze, or preparing it themselves. They are allegedly joining the seasoned hands, increasing the possibility of a potential syndicate in future. Addicts join hands Prior to the lockdown, the areas where ID liquor was brewed used to be limited to the western mandals, which included Chittoor rural, Irala, Bangarupalem and some hillock villages of Madanapalle division. Now, the menace has spread at an alarming pace, even covering the eastern mandals of KVB Puram and Varadaiapalem. The customers from this part used to receive the ID liquor stocks from other areas. On the illicit trade in KVB Puram mandal in recent days, sub-inspector D. Gopi said that following the lockdown, those addicted to liquor were joining hands to make the contraband themselves, using hazardous chemicals. “Addicted to intoxication, some youth go to any extent for the ‘kick’ at the cost of their lives. The hazardous chemicals used in making ID liquor can not only cause cancer, but also prove fatal,” he said, adding that flash raids were being conducted at all forest areas and isolated spots in the mandal check the menace. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar said that in order to prevent ID liquor making, special parties were formed to conduct cordon and search operations at all the vulnerable areas.
28 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister promises all help to farmers||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu said here on Monday that various crops, mostly paddy, were damaged in over 8,300 hectares across the State due to rains in the last two days. Mr. Kannababu, who inspected the paddy fields in East Godavari district, promised support to the farmers by procuring the damaged paddy (discolored paddy) by offering the Minimum Support Price (MSP). Mr. Kannababu said: “The damage of the paddy crop has been estimated in over 7,453 hectares across the State due to the rains. In East Godavari district alone, over 2,200 hectares of paddy has been damaged”. Maize in 539 hectares and sesame in 270 hectares were damaged in the State. “Input subsidy of Rs. 54 crore was released on Monday, offering financial aid to the farmers who suffered crop loss during the kharif season,” said Mr. Kannababu. The Minister directed Joint Director (Agriculture) V. T. Rama Rao and the field-level staff to speed up the paddy procurement.
28 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Policemen in E. Godavari campaign for Punjab SI||Responding to the call given by Punjab police, East Godavari Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi on Monday led the ‘I’m Harjeet Singh’ campaign by changing his name badge with Mr. Singh’s for the entire day on duty, extending solidarity to the Sub-Inspector for his bravery. On April 12, a gang had chopped off Mr. Singh’s hand while he was on duty to implement the lockdown in Patiala. The officer had to undergo two medical surgeries later. In an official release, East Godavari police authorities confirmed that all the senior officials joined the campaign by changing their name badge to that of Mr. Singh. ASP (Operations) Arif Hafeez and ASP (Administration) K. Kumar were among those who participated.
28 April 2020||KASARAGOD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Data of virus patients in Kerala leaked||Reports of breaches in the data of COVID-19 patients have emerged from Kasaragod and Kannur districts. Following reports that the patients had received calls from unknown numbers seeking various details, Kasaragod District Medical Officer (DMO) A.V. Ramdas has sought a thorough inquiry. He said though he had received no complaints from anyone so far, he had written to SP P.S. Sabu seeking an inquiry to ascertain the truth. In the past few days, many people who recovered from COVID-19 reportedly received calls from unknown numbers. Kasaragod District Surveillance Officer A.T. Manoj said the control room had collected details of the patients and their contacts and the information was shared with the State control room. From national cell too There was no possibility of a breach from the control room which was manned by the staff from the Health Department and the National Health Mission. More information needed to be obtained to ascertain how such details went out. Mr. Sabu said an investigation would be held. He said many patients had been in private hospitals too and the details were with the local bodies as well. It was reported that the people had received calls from the National COVID Cell too. Some of the incoming numbers were traced to a Bengaluru-based private company involved in data collection, he said. However, the company could not be contacted, he said. Google Maps link In Kannur, a Google Maps link prepared by the cyber cell using the mobile number and address of the SARS-CoV-2-affected patients and their contacts came out in the open. The police team headed by IG Vijay Sakhare, deputed as the special officer to curtail the spread of the disease, prepared the link including details of 54 COVID-19 patients and 9,000 of their contacts. This link was used to track the people and was shared with higher police officers. Report to be submitted “It is a serious breach. The police team should have ensured data security while preparing the link,” said T.V. Subhash, Collector. A report would be submitted to the Chief Secretary, he said. Since similar methods were used in Kasaragod as well, it was suspected that private companies could source the details through these web-based links. Mr. Sakhare was unavailable for comments.
28 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||303 persons sent home from quarantine centres||Quarantine centres in Kurnool district are slowly turning empty with suspects returning to their homes after completing 14 days of mandatory stay and testing negative twice in 48 hours. The number of such persons went up to 303 on Sunday evening. Meanwhile, 13 new cases were reported in the district with 10 of them belonging to Kurnool municipal limits, one from Aspari village and two from Kodumur. In all, 1,755 COVID suspects, either being the primary or secondary contacts of the 292 positive cases, were lodged in 24 quarantine centres run by the government, but out of them 703 persons have already gone home leaving seven of these centres totally empty. Housing Principal Secretary and COVID Special Officer Ajay Jain on Monday said that only 1,052 persons were lodged in 24 active quarantine centres and being looked after in the best possible way. “All of them were sent home and advised to confine to their homes for the next 14 days so that there was not even an iota of doubt about spreading the virus as some show symptoms / turn positive after 28 days,” Mr. Jain observed. Eleven of these centres were in and around Kurnool city and remaining at different places in the district. The satisfaction with which these persons have been going back home stands testimony to the administration's efforts in taking care of the suspects in quarantine cenres, said District Collector G. Veerapandian.
28 April 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||92 fishermen from North Andhra stranded off Nagayalanka coast||At least 92 fishermen belonging to northern Andhra Pradesh who had set sail from Chennai on four boats to reach home were stranded off Nagayalanka coast in Krishna district, owing to inclement weather. The fishermen reportedly bought the boats and started their journey off Chennai coast on April 24. The fishermen, a majority of them natives of Uddanam region in Srikakulam district, went to Tamil Nadu in early March and were engaged in marine fishing activity. They decided to reach home through the sea route after they lost their jobs owing to the lockdown. Bad weather According to the revenue officials, the fishermen tried to reach the mainland near Edurumondi island on Sunday night owing to bad weather. “All the 92 fishermen were allowed to anchor their boats at Edurumondi island. They have been accommodated in a local school on the condition that they would not come in contact with the locals. All of them are healthy,” said Bandar Revenue Divisional Officer N. Sk. Khazavali on Monday. Krishna district Collector A. Md.Imtiaz told The Hindu that all the fishermen were safe. “Arrangements are being made to send them back to their native places,” he said. Quarantine facility The police have been instructed to set up a temporary quarantine facility for the fishermen on the island itself. The fishermen will undergo test for the COVID-19.
28 April 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||One succumbs, seven test positive in Nellore||An elderly person died of coronavirus here on Monday, while seven more persons tested positive for the dreaded disease in SPSR Nellore district. With the death of the 65-year-old man in the COVID-19 Isolation ward, the death toll rose to three in the district and the total number of infected persons to 79. Six of the persons who contracted the virus belonged to one family from a hotspot area of Kottamitta in Nellore city, health officials here said. One of the family members had returned after attending a religious congregation in New Delhi and had spread it to his family members. Twenty-three persons had been cured of the disease in the district, where 54 persons are undergoing treatment. As many 213 persons, including the primary and secondary contacts of the family, are quarantined. The results of 721 mouth swab samples are still awaited. Lockdown Following the detection of fresh cases, police enforced lockdown strictly in Kottamitta and other parts of the city. Police seized vehicles of persons who stirred out of their homes without valid reasons and booked cases against them. Each and every person who came out on one pretext or the other were doubly cross-checked before being allowed to proceed. Police personnel at the traffic junctions held placards pleading with the motorists to stay safe at home and follow personal hygiene to keep the viral disease at bay.
28 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police beats ease lockdown blues in Pathanamthitta||Music is soothing and relaxing. For many stuck in houses due to the lockdown, it is a stress buster that eases anxiety and boredom. Now, the police in Pathanamthitta have taken a leaf out of their counterparts’ book in Maharashtra and formed a music troupe to lift the spirits of the people laid low by the pandemic. The troupe performs at hospital and apartment complexes to enliven and entertain those stuck indoors. Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Sajeev, who is in charge of the troupe, said it was music therapy for people in isolation wards and people confined to homes. He said the police were inspired by a video of the Maharashtra police performing in a pandemic-hit area. The initiative came from District Police Chief K.G. Simon, himself a pianist. The troupe was constituted in association with Cochin Kalastar, a music troupe, and Santhosh, a sound system operator. Kabeer of Cochin Kalastar and Anila, a woman singer, were roped in to assist singers among the force. Sureshkumar, Jayakumar, Sadasivan, and Hareendran, sub-inspectors, and Sreeraj, Arundev, Rajesh, and Sreejith, civil police officers, are the mainstay of the troupe. Cochin Kalastar supports the troupe with orchestra and sound mixing. The maiden performance on an apartment premises on March 31 was much appreciated. Families enjoyed the programme from their balconies and rooms. The programme began with a universal prayer, followed by popular numbers in Malayalam, Tamil, and Hindi and concluded with the national anthem. The troupe has performed at 32 venues so far, including General Hospitals at Pathanamthitta and Adoor, District Hospital at Kozhencherry, Taluk Hospitals at Thiruvalla and Ranni, Muthoottu Medical Centre at Kozhencherry and Pathanamthitta, Police Quarters ground, and at open spaces in front of many apartments in the district. Mr. Sajeev says the enthusiastic response was a testimony to the fact that their performance could help the people keep a positive frame of mind.
28 April 2020||PIPPARWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||117 students head home after return from Rome||Youngsters from the five States in south India, as many as 117 of them, who were pursuing their masters course in various subjects in Rome, Italy, crossed over into Telangana on Monday afternoon on their way back home. They, however, had to wait for clearance from the Telangana government for transit entry into the State for over eight hours. The students had been brought to India by the Union government on March 22 and had undergone 30 days of quarantine at a centre maintained by the Indo Tibetan Border Police in New Delhi. They also underwent three tests for COVID-19 infection in Rome as well as New Delhi before being permitted to go home in different destinations. Nidheesh Chandra, from Kottayam in Kerala, who is a Masters student of Mechanical Engineering in the famous Sapienza University of Rome (SUR), recalled the scary days of the spread of COVID-19 in Italy. “Rome was much better when compared to the northern parts of that State,” he observed. Raghu Ramakrishnan from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu, a student of Space and Astronautics department also in the SUR, said the Indian Embassy had to get a doctor from India to conduct tests on about 264 students. Nakeertha Raghunath from Warangal in Telangana was happy to be going home after a prolonged period of isolation but showed no hurry. Vignesh Sairam from Tiruchy in Tamil Nadu, who is studying Mechatronics revealed that the students had to fund their own travel from Delhi. Each of us is paying about Rs. 8,000 per head on an average for transport, he said. The youth were, nevertheless, unable to understand why there was such a long delay in allowing the buses carrying them at the inter-State border of Telangana and Maharashtra at Penganga river bridge on NH 44. The delay was because of the delay in approval from the State Secretariat in Hyderabad.
28 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID survey going on briskly in Patapatnam, Palakonda||The Srikakulam district administration is leaving no stone unturned to control COVID-19 spread in the red zone of Patapatnam mandal where four positive cases were identified a couple of days ago. All the 12,500 residents of 18 villages, including Kaguvada Sidi, Tamara, Timara, Patapatnam and others have been told to remain indoors. Special teams with 23 doctors, 265 ASHA workers and 265 volunteers have been formed to conduct medical tests for all the families.  Special control room All essential goods, including milk and vegetables, were being supplied at the doorsteps of the people and residents had been asked not come on to the streets even during the early hours. A special control room had been set up in Patapatnam to monitor the situation in the containment area. The district administration has focussed on the situation in Palakonda mandal as it is adjacent to Patapatnam. Palakonda panchayat Commissioner L. Pushpanatham said that COVID-19 survey was being taken up in the entire mandal and data of persons aged above 65 years was being prepared. He said that health condition of senior citizens was being closely monitored. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas directed officials to monitor the situation in the quarantine centres and watch the movements of New Delhi and Mumbai returnees although they had completed 28 days of incubation period.
28 April 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Many red zones may turn to orange after May 3’||Many containment or red zones in the city may turn into orange and later into green after May 3, if no further positive cases are recorded from these areas. The city has six containment zones apart from Elamanchili and Narsipatnam in the rural. The containment zones in the city include Akkayyapalem, Thatichetlapalem, Gajuwaka, Poorna Market, Padmanabham and Allipuram. The last active positive case was recorded from Akkayyapalem and Thatichetlapalem area on April 23. But there is a gap of over 17 days from the last case and the previous ones that were recorded on April 6 from Narsipatnam (2 cases) and Thatichetlapalem (3 cases). In between there was one case from Sheelanagar area, but that was from a quarantine facility. “If we do not record any more positive cases from the red zone areas, then except for Akkayyapalem and Thatichetlapalem, the other areas qualify to be declared as orange zone, as per the Union government’s guidelines and protocol,” said Police Commissioner Rajeev Kumar Meena. “Within these 28 days, we sanitise the area and complete at least four rounds of screening and testing,” said Mr. Meena. If no other positive case is detected within 28 days, it turns into orange and it stays as orange for 14 days and finally turns to green. Once declared as red, the area is completely frozen, orange extends some relaxation and green is when the area is declared as normal, explained Mr. Meena. According to him, there are still 1,192 persons in around 15 quarantine centres in the city. Relaxation for Ramzan “The holy month of Ramzan has already begun from Saturday and keeping the fasting regime in mind, we have decided to allow shops to open from 3.30 a.m. to 11 a.m. All grocery stores and fruits and vegetable stores and shops selling essentials can open,” said Mr. Meena. In Visakhapatnam there are about 86 masjids, and since religious congregations have been put on hold for some time, only five senior persons from the faith concerned will be allowed to offer prayers at the masjids on a daily basis. Applications for passes Ever since the government has asked people to apply for passes for inter-district or inter-State travel, the Commissionerate has been flooded with over 10,000 applications. After screening, the commisionerate has issued 1,200 passes.
28 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||CMs for calibrated easing of curbs||Chief Ministers of Kerala and Karnataka pitched for a continuation of restrictions till May 15 during the video-conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government had argued against an abrupt lifting of the regulations on May 3 and sought a progressive dialling down aimed at liberating relatively safe localities first. Kerala has asked the Centre to give States more latitude in the matter. The government could not ignore the spectre of a resurgence of the disease with several thousand non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) expected to return as soon as the Centre allowed special flights, he said. Sources in Karnataka indicated that the State is inclined to have a stricter vigil in red zones until the areas transit to green zones over a period of time in respect to COVID-19 control. “The decision on how to provide exemption will be based on the Union government’s directive,” sources added. Following the interaction with the Prime Minister, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had a long discussion with the Deputy Commissioners all districts in the evening. Government sources indicated that economic activities could be further eased in districts coming under the green zone post May 3. Last week, rural industries were permitted to function keeping social distancing in districts under the green zone. A stricter vigil could be mounted in red zones. “The ban on sale of liquor could continue till the end of May as PM is for this,” sources said.
28 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gulf region tops NoRK registration list||Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) from the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries form the bulk of the 2.20 lakh persons to register online till 7 p.m. on Monday on the website of the Department of Non-Resident Keralite Affairs (NoRKA) to return to the State. Among the GCC countries of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), most of the registrations from Sunday evening onwards on thewww.registernorkaroots.orgare from the UAE. NoRKA sources said they were yet to analyse the countrywise breakup of those who had enrolled. The process was launched for making quarantine arrangements on their return to Kerala. The registration is available round the clock and no date has been fixed for closure. The response to the government’s request for registration, despite it being made clear that no priority would be accorded to those who registered early, has surprised the authorities. The registration touched 30,000 in two hours after it was opened on Sunday evening. It went up to 1.5 lakh on Monday noon and crossed the two-lakh mark in the evening. According to official estimates, there are 33 lakh NoRKs in various countries, including 22 lakh from the Gulf region. The government is expecting around three to 5.5 lakh of them to return once the flight services are resumed to Kerala. About 1.4 lakh beds have been identified in government and private healthcare facilities in the State. The Public Works Department has already examined the facilities identified as COVID care centres. Criteria As per the guidelines issued by the government, the NoRKs who are returning will have to get tested in the country they are staying and should carry with them COVID-19 negative certificates.  Within a day, number of registrations crosses two lakh
28 April 2020||VELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vellore officials pull down walls on two roads to A.P.||Temporary walls built on two roads connecting Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh were pulled down by the Vellore administration on Monday. The walls were constructed by the authorities on Sunday to prevent movement of vehicles between the two States in the midst of the COVID-19 lockdown. On Monday, however, taking note of the difficulties in the movement of vehicles carrying essential commodities, tahsildars from Katpadi in Tamil Nadu and Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh ensured the demolition of a seven-foot wall constructed at Ponnai. Officials also ensured the demolition of the wall at the Sayanakunta checkpost. “This was only a temporary arrangement, and the walls were constructed using hollow blocks,” a revenue official said. The district authorities initially wanted vehicles that would pass via the Sayanakunta and Ponnai checkposts, to enter Vellore by taking the Baradharami and the Christianpet checkposts. However, since milk and vegetable supply from Chittoor and beyond were disrupted, officials chose to demolish the walls. Officials said six checkposts connecting Andhra Pradesh with Vellore district were under surveillance with health, police and revenue officials monitoring the movement of vehicles. Only vehicles transporting vegetables, fruits and medicines are allowed from Chittoor, Palamaner, Bagala and V. Kota.
28 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State overtakes TS as tally jumps to 1,177||The number of positive COVID-19 cases continues to rise in the State with 80 new ones reported in six districts during the past 24 hours out of 6,517 samples tested. This is the third time the State reported more than 80 new cases in a single day in the past five days and 30% of the total cases reported so far have been detected during the same period. The tally in the State has gone up to 1,177 and the death toll was 32. Four patients have recovered and the number of active cases stands at 911. In a related development, health officials in Nellore said a 65-year-old person succumbed to the disease in the city on Monday. Seven more persons, including six of a family, tested positive in the district. The family resides in the Kottamitta area of the city which was designated a hotspot. One of them had attended the New Delhi event. Vulnerable age group Meanwhile, the Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare revealed that over 60% of the persons infected by the virus in the State are in the 16-45 age group. While 6.54% of the patients are in the vulnerable age group of 0-15, 21.48% patients are in the 45-60 age group. Most vulnerable patients are those aged 61 or more and there are 11.12% such patients in the State. Krishna district crossed the 200-mark with 33 fresh cases and the tally went up to 210 which is double the number of cases reported until three days ago. Guntur district reported 23 fresh cases while Kurnool reported 13 fresh cases and Nellore reported seven, West Godavari reported three and Srikakulam reported one new case. Top three Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna are the worst-hit with 292, 237 and 210 cases respectively. The three districts account for 62.7% cases. The State has also crossed the neighbouring State Telangana’s tally of 1,004, according to Telangana’s COVID website. While Andhra Pradesh detected only 23 cases a month ago, Telangana detected 77 and the scale of outbreak in both States changed due to Delhi returnees. However, Andhra Pradesh is far ahead of Telangana in testing. While Andhra Pradesh tested 74, 551 samples, Telangana tested only 18, 721 samples, as per the latest information available on Telangana health department’s website.
28 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No shortage of medicines, essential commodities in State, says official||Inspector General of Police (IGP) and Controller of Legal Metrology (LM) M. Kantha Rao has said that there is no shortage of essential commodities and medicines in the State, and hence there is no need for worry on this count. In view of the lockdown, the Legal Metrology officials, entrusted with the monitoring of the implementation of the Essential Commodities Act, reviewed the situation with the wholesale merchants’ associations of various trades, owners of malls, supermarkets and the druggists’ association members. Mr. Kantha Rao enquired about the availability of rice, pulses, oil, onion, jaggery, sugar, milk and allied products, medicines, dry fruits, vegetables and fresh fruits. “As per the information shared by the wholesale traders and the inspections of the Legal Metrology teams stocks of essential goods, milk, onion, red chilli and other commodities are available for the next two months in the State and there is no need for panic,” the IGP told The Hindu on Monday. During the relaxation time from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m, supermarkets, malls and provisional stores were doing about 25% business and 10% of the transactions were being done online every day.  Shortage of soaps Medical outlets had enough stock of medicines for diabetes, hypertension, heart ailments and other emergency drugs. However, there was a shortage of soaps, detergents, sanitisers (branded) and cleaners, the IGP said.  Surprise raids  “All shops should display the price list and stock position. Inspection teams have been told to verify the stock ledgers and weighing machines and look for violations related to the LM Act and EC Act. Stern action would be taken against the hoarders,” the Controller warned. In the last one month, officials conducted about 29,000 inspections and registered 2,300 cases for various violations. The LM teams registered 1,126 cases against kirana shop owners, 23 in rythu bazars, 65 on vegetable vendors, 164 on milk parlours and 135 cases on FP shops and others, Mr. Kantha Rao said.
28 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Probe purchase of kits from South Korea’||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana appealed to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to order an inquiry into the procurement of COVID rapid test kits from a South Korean company, alleging that the government flouted the norms thereby causing a substantial loss to the exchequer. In a letter to the Governor on Monday, Mr. Lakshminarayana said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) permitted States to buy the kits from South Korean firm SD Biosensor but the A.P. Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC) entered into negotiations with M/s Sandor Medicaids Limited for procurement and distribution of the test kits and eventually placed a purchase order with it (Sandor) for two lakh kits for a contract value of Rs. 14.60 crore excluding the GST. Each kit was priced at Rs. 730 plus GST and the order had to be executed in seven days. In turn, M/s Sandor Medicaids dealt with SD Biosensor. Meanwhile, the Chhattisgarh government purchased the same kits from a South Korean company at Rs. 337 plus GST through the tender route after high-level interactions with the Ambassador of South Korea. In contrast, the government involved middlemen in the public procurement process.  ‘Personal attack’ Mr. Lakshminarayana further said favouritism and nepotism were also conspicuous in the deal and that when he questioned the price variation (the Special Chief Secretary of Health, Medical and Family Welfare said the purchase price was Rs. 640), YSR Congress MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy and other ruling party leaders mounted a scathing personal attack on him. He wondered what prevented the government from directly dealing with the South Korean firm which was having a unit set up in Haryana and when Andhra Pradesh could manufacture the kits on its own.
28 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s positivity rate less than half of nation’s average||Even as the State’s testing capacity is going up by the day, the positivity rate of COVID-19 cases was not more than 2% daily during the recent past and the overall positivity rate as of Monday was less than half of the country’s overall positivity rate. The State tested 74,551 and 1,177 cases turned positive which puts the positivity rate at 1.57%. Across the country so far 6.65 lakh tests were conducted and 27,964 cases turned positive making the positivity rate 4.20%, which means more than four persons for 100 persons tested in the country are testing positive for novel coronavirus. However, the daily positivity rate in the State has been hovering around 1% for the past week. On April 10 when 414 tests were conducted in a day, 18 cases turned positive and the positivity rate was high at 4.34%. Since then it has gradually come down to 0.79% on April 19. However, the rate increased to 1.98 the next day even as 5,022 tests were conducted and a high rate between 1.19 and 1.22 was witnessed four times between April 23 and 27 as 80 cases were reported on each day.  Highest no. of tests The doubling rate of COVID cases stood at 9.8 days against the country’s rate of 9.1 days. The lesser positivity rate with higher samples tested and higher doubling rate indicate a decrease in the spread of the virus. The State’s tests per million population stand at 1,396, the highest in the country, according to the Health Department.
28 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Governor’s power to issue ordinance unquestionable’||State Election Commissioner (SEC) V. Kanagaraj filed counter-affidavit in the High Court on Monday in response to the batch of writ petitions which challenged the validity of A.P. Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 through which the term of the office of SEC was reduced from five to three years, and the consequential GOs. In his counter, Mr. Kanagaraj submitted that the courts would not normally interfere with the adequacy or sufficiency of the material before the Governor for promulgating the ordinance as it was settled law that the satisfaction under Article 213 (1) of the Constitution was subjective in nature. Therefore, motives could not be attributed to the exercise of the Governor’s powers in issuing the ordinance and the wisdom of his legislative functions cannot be questioned. He also said the petitioners have no right to plead that a particular person should function as the SEC and the allegation that the ordinance was intended to remove his predecessor was not legally tenable because the State had changed the law related to the qualifications, appointment and tenure of the office of SEC as part of election reforms. ‘Incidents common’ He observed that incidents of prevention of filing of nominations, instances of forcible withdrawal of the nominations, violence and targeting of candidates were not peculiar to the election process. Mr. Kanagaraj maintained that the competency of the State Legislature in making laws pertaining to the office of SEC could not be described as a colourable exercise of power. Basically, the cessation of the office of the SEC consequent on the change in law does not amount to his or her removal, he contended, adding that he took charge as the SEC after he was appointed in that post as per procedures.
28 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aqua authority soon to monitor hatchery activity||The State government will soon set up an aquaculture authority to monitor the hatchery activity from seed level to marketing and will ensure MSP to farmers. Addressing a press conference on Monday, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Minister Mopidevi Venkata Ramana said the authority would monitor the activity from brooding to shipment. The imported prawn seeds would be kept in the quarantine facility for five days. The seeds would be brought to the State only after ensuring that there was no virus. As part of it, the seeds would be distributed to farmers only after the seed was kept at Rajiv Gandhi Aqua Quarantine Centre for five days, he said, adding out of 550 prawn hatcheries in the country 420 were located in the State. According to him, the State has the largest number of hatcheries in the country, and with the lockdown, brooding seed has become a Herculean task. As 80 % of the broader prawns are to be imported from the US, with the lack of proper cargo facilities, there arises a gap in the production activity. In this regard, the State government has already written to the Union Ministry of Commerce and Fisheries to permit the cargo for aqua production and sale. The farmers were requested not to sell their aqua products in distress as the ports have opened up and exports would pick up once there was movement of the cargo ships, he said, adding, “ As of now, exports of the aqua produce have begun in various ports across the State.” Referring to the stranded fishermen in Gujarat, the Minister said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has already spoken to Union Minister Nirmala Seetharaman regarding the issue and he was constantly pursuing the matter. Reacting to BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana's comment that the State government was purchasing the rapid test kits at higher cost, the Minister said the lowest price offered to other States would be taken into account while making the payments. Charge against TDP On the spread of coronavirus, the Minister levelled serious allegations against the Opposition Telugu Desam Party. The TDP might have sent 'sleeper cells' to the rural areas to spread the virus with a view to defaming the government, he alleged.
28 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brace for a long-drawn battle: CM||Asserting that the battle against COVID-19 is going to be a long- drawn affair, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the State stood first in the country in conducting tests. Mr. Jagan pegged the number of tests at 1,396 per million population, and the total number done so far at 74,551. Addressing the public through video-conference from his camp office on Monday, he said infected persons should not be treated as untouchables lest they should suffer from the social stigma, and insisted that no one was safe. “It is like any fever but those with low immunity need to be extra cautious,” he added.. Nine viral research and diagnostic laboratories and 44 TrueNat facilities had been set up in the State since the outbreak of COVID, the Chief Minister said. Red zone Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy further said that 63 mandals were in the red zone and 54 and 559 mandals were in orange and green zones respectively and five critical care hospitals were established. He observed that 80% of the infected persons might never exhibit any symptoms and only 14% would require hospitalisation. The positivity rate in the red and orange zones was 1.61%. The Chief Minister said of the 40,000 beds, 25,000 were single isolation ones and adequate number of personal protective equipment were distributed to doctors, paramedics and others serving the masses at great personal risk. Telemedicine centres The government had set up 14,410 telemedicine call centres apart from filling doctor, nurse and lab technician posts. “We have to make a concerted effort to stave off the crisis. Remember, the virus is here to stay for a long time. We have to live with it,” he observed.
28 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New dress code for govt. school students from this academic year||The government has decided to change the dress code and colour of students of classes 6 to 10 classes in all government schools in the State. The new rule will come into force from this academic year. The decision, which is likely to be announced in day or two, was taken by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at a review meeting with School Education Department officials on Monday. Principal Secretary (School Education) Budithi Rajashekar said the change in dress code would come into effect from this academic year and the exact colour of the school uniform would announced soon. The government would distribute the new uniforms to all students studying in government, aided, municipal and panchayat raj, tribal and social welfare schools in the State.
28 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||20 Grama Volunteers, ten police personnel test positive in city||Ten police personnel tested positive for COVID-19 under Vijayawada Police Commissionerate. The patients were sent to quarantine and steps were being taken to find out their contacts. Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said an officer of the rank of Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP) and sub-inspectors were among those who contracted the virus. “In the last two days, nine policemen tested positive and one case was confirmed on Monday. Instructions have been given to the police to take all measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” Mr. Tirumala Rao said.  Grama volunteers infected Twenty grama volunteers who contracted the virus in the city, were sent to quarantine. Tests were conducted on more volunteers and the results were awaited, the officials said. The grama volunteers were making door-to-door visits since the lockdown to collect the details of NRIs, Delhi returnees and to distribute ration to the beneficiaries. About 3,500 police personnel deployed on COVID-19 duties were discharging duties at various pickets and were implementing lockdown in the Police Commissionerate limits for over one month.
28 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four Raj Bhavan staffers test positive for COVID-19||Four staff members of the Raj Bhavan have tested positive for COVID-19 and are being treated in the designated hospital on the Government General Hospital premises. The government has sent a report to the Ministry of Health and other wings of the Government of India on the situation at the Raj Bhavan as per protocol. Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy told The Hindu that the cases had emerged on Sunday. The four infected staff members reportedly include a female health care professional and a senior security officer. It is unclear if the officials initiated further action at the Raj Bhavan as per COVID protocols. On Saturday, the authorities had disinfected the Raj Bhavan premises using a drone sprayer . Offices vacated Health officials conducted tests on all Raj Bhavan staff on Monday and collected samples . As a precautionary measure, the administrative staff, clerical and Class IV employees and security personnel were asked to vacate their offices. The security personnel, who were guarding the Raj Bhavan, have been replaced completely .
28 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Scrap completed part of local body polls’||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana on Monday urged Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to cancel the completed part of local body elections (nominations, withdrawals and unanimous declarations), saying giving them legal validity would be disastrous for the democratic fabric of the State and the country. In a letter, he said the ruling party leaders got their candidates unanimously declared through blackmail and abuse of political power and that he had taken the violations of Model Code of Conduct and violent incidents to the notice of the State Election Commissioner through several representations. He said candidates belonging to the opposition parties were not allowed to file nominations . Besides, government officials were abused by the ruling party leaders, nomination papers were snatched and there were many kidnaps.
28 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||App launched to request for COVID test||The Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare has launched ‘COVID-19 AP’ mobile application through which one can request the authorities for COVID test. Aimed at the dissemination of information regarding the COVID outbreak and government facilities available, the application was launched on Monday on Android platform. Users can access the application by registering with phone number. Before requesting a test, users need to provide information about symptoms, comorbid diseases and their location and village/ward secretariat number. Further, users can get contact numbers of their local Asha workers, consult doctors online, go through the list of COVID hospitals, quarantine centres, test centres and also register as a volunteer.
28 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rly. hospital to supply medicines at doorstep||To help the railway employees and pensioners, residing in and around the city, the South Central Railway (SCR) Railway Hospital, Vijayawada, will supply medicines at their doorstep during the lockdown.Eligible staff and pensioners, undergoing treatment in the hospital for hypertension, diabetes and other ailments can avail themselves of the facility, launched on Monday. The facility will help the patients during this lockdown, according to Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas. Patients can WhatsApp their details such as mobile phone number, medical ID card, last received doctor’s prescription photo and present address with landmark to Nos. 7569305668, 7675928721 and 7569305636 (medicines will be delivered on Monday, Wednesday and Friday). On Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, medicines will be supplied if details were sent to WhatsApp Nos.7673927677, 7569305620 and 7013826171, the DRM said and appealed to the staff and pensioners to make use of the facility.
28 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Road caves in after heavy rain||The heavy rain, which lashed the city in the early hours of Monday, resulted in the caving of the road at a few places and piling up of garbage, mud and pebbles on some main roads in the city. The works taken up on Beach Road caved in at a few places posing danger to motorists. The downpour resulted in garbage from the upland areas being washed down on to Beach Road. Sanitation workers had a tough time cleaning the roads after the earthmoving equipment lifted the garbage piles and poured them into dump trucks. Rocks and pebbles were washed on to the Siripuram – AU Engineering College Road and red mud was washed on to the Maddilapalem Main Road from the higher plane from AU College of Engineering campus. Branches of trees fell across the road at some places between Peda Waltair and MVP Colony. The tin roof at the temporary rythu bazaar, set up at AU College of Engineering Ground, to provide shelter to vendors and buyers, partially collapsed in the rain. Thunderstorm and lightning accompanied with gusty winds, speed reaching up to 30 to 40 km/hr is likely at isolated places in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts in north coastal AP, Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore of south coastal AP, Anantpur, Chittoor and Kurnool of Rayalaseema and in Yanam (Puducherry) on Tuesday. Heavy rain is also likely at isolated places in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts and in Yanam on Tuesday, according to the IMD. Thunderstorm and lightning are likely at isolated places over north and south coastal AP, Rayalaseema and in Yanam on Wednesday and at isolated places over north coastal AP and Yanam during the next two days. Heavy rainfall occurred at isolated places in Visakhapatnam district of coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam of Puducherry. The chief amounts of rainfall (in cm), received during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Monday are: Visakhapatnam 8, Yanam 7, Ranasthalam (Srikakulam) 6, Garugubilli (Vizianagaram) 5, Visakhapatnam Airport 5 and Kakinada (East Godavari) 5.  Fishermen cautioned The Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam, has warned of squally weather, with wind speed reaching 45 to 50 km/hr, gusting to 60 km/hr, likely over west central Bay of Bengal off AP coast. It advised fishermen against venturing into the sea.
28 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure there is no hindrance to works in rural areas, Minister directs officials||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetto Srinivasa Rao has directed the officials to ensure that there is no hindrance to works in the non-containment zones in the rural areas of the district. The Minister held a review meeting with officials here on Monday. Later addressing the media, he said that shops selling agricultural implements and fertilizers would be kept open in green zones in the rural areas. Orders would be issued by the officials concerned in this regard. While works under MGNREGS could be taken up, the workers should maintain social distancing norms and wear masks. The officials would ensure availability of sanitisers at the workspots. The Minister explained that doctors, revenue, police, ANMs, ASHA workers and ward volunteers, involved in COVID-19 services, were supplied protective equipment. Sanitation workers, deployed in red zones, were also given PPE kits. There were 330 mobile rythu bazaars in the GVMC limits and 35 shelters providing food and accommodation to migrant workers and homeless persons. Recalling the Chief Minister’s discussions with Muslim religious leaders, Mr. Srinivasa Rao appealed to Muslims to celebrate Ramzan at their homes in view of the threat of COVID-19. He said that 3,000 persons were quarantined and tested at NRI Medical College and all of them have tested negative for COVID-19 and they were all sent home. Police Commissioner R.K. Meena told the Minister that police personnel with complaints of diabetes, hypertension and those over 50 years of age, were not being deployed for field duties. He said that Section 144 would be in force in the containment zones till May 3. District Collector V. Vinay Chand explained that 7,237 PCR tests and 4,076 Truenat tests were done in the district so far. Of the 11,313 persons, 22 have tested COVID-19 positive so far. The sample of one more suspected patient was taken and sent for testing. Hereafter, COVID-19 positive cases will be sent to GITAM Hospital. All doctors and frontline staff, involved in COVID-19 operations, have been provided PPEs. The fourth round survey on COVID-19 was in progress in GVMC limits, he said. SP Attada Babujee, JCs L. Shiva Shankar and M. Venugopal Reddy and GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana were among those who attended the review meet.
28 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown deprives Maoists of rations and revenue flow||Ever since the COVID-19 lockdown has come into force, a number of interior villages in the Andhra Odisha Border (AOB) region have been using innovative means to restrict the entry of outsiders and prevent local residents from venturing out, except for the purchase or collection of essentials. This has hit CPI (Maoist) cadres hard, as they have been depending on the villagers for their regular ration. “When getting enough ration for our own families has become difficult, how can we supply essentials to Maoists?” wonders a tribal from the Pedabayalu mandal. Earlier, the Maoists had been depending on the PDS supply to tribals for their regular ration. Now that it is being regulated, this supply line has been cut off. Moreover, most of the villages have a self-imposed ban on entry. Recently, some Maoists tried to enter a village but were stopped by the residents at the entry point. Because of this, the supply of rations, vegetables and livestock were affected, hitting the left wing extremists, says Superintendent of Police Attada Babujee. Virus fear The fear of being infected by the novel coronavirus has also restricted their (Maoist) movement. The Maoists who have retreated to the cut-off area in AOB, have not been coming out due to the outbreak of COVID-19. “If one gets infected then the entire squad gets infected and treatment is far from their reach. This has restricted their movement to sporadic forays into the villages, where they are being rejected,” says ASP of Chintapalle Satish Kumar. Revenue hit The lockdown has also hit the revenue flow of the Maoists. Their main sources of income are collections from contractors, weekly shandies and smuggling of ganja. All the three have come to a standstill.
28 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dead, 2 hurt in roof collapse||A 40-year-old woman died and two other women, including an 11-year-old girl, suffered injuries when the roof of a building collapsed, on Monday afternoon. The three were sitting on the terrace of the single-storied house located in Indira Gandhi- Sanjay- Bhim Nagar (ISBN) near Shankaramattam, when the roof collapsed. The deceased have been identified as M. Krishnaveni. The injured are K. Appala Konda (40) and Divya (11). According to Assistant Commissioner of Police (East) J. Kulasekhar, who is investigating the case, the building was constructed about 30 years ago under a government scheme, and probably weakened due to the heavy rains that the city has been receiving for the last two days. It may be remembered that the city received heavy rains accompanied by gale on Saturday and Sunday. “This must have weakened the roof and it collapsed. A major accident was averted as most of the neighbours were not present at home, as they rushed out at the moment to collect the vegetables that were being distributed by some NGOs at the street corner,” said Mr. Kulasekhar. According to the police, the injured have been shifted to a hospital and are said to be out of danger. The body has been shifted to KGH for post-mortem and investigation is on. Krishna Veni is survived by her husband Papa Rao and a daughter Madhu (20), who lives in Chennai.
28 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 positive patients under treatment in the district: Collector||Of the total of 22 cases in the district, treatment is being given to only to three COVID-19 positive patients and the remaining 19 have been discharged, according to District Collector V. Vinay Chand. Of those who tested positive, two are foreign returnees and four their close associates, eight returned from a religious gathering in New Delhi, one returned from Mumbai and five who moved closely with them and others two, he said in a statement here. Of the seven containment zones, Allipuram, Muslim Tatichetlapalem, Railway New Colony, Poorna Market and Gajuwaka are in the city. The other two are, Narsipatnam municipality and Revidi (Padmanabham and Bhimili mandals). A total of 2,06,322 families comprising a population of 7,28,961 are living there. Medical infrastructure Mr. Vinay Chand said the Government Hospital for Chest Diseases (GHCD), VIMS, GITAM and Pradhama hospitals were recognised as isolation hospitals and 54 persons were being treated there. The six COVID hospitals in the district have 2,160 beds, 158 intensive care units and 62 ventilators. In the 84 quarantine hospitals with 3,637 rooms and 3,650 beds, 1,435 persons have been quarantined. In GHCD and Pradhama which are sample collection centres, 41 are being treated. Of the 1,140 were admitted, 1,099 were discharged. Foreign returnees The Collector said 3,117 persons who returned from abroad were kept in home quarantine for 28 days and 221 doctors and staff monitored them. As many as 2,602 persons are lodged in 26 urban and 10 rural rehabilitation centres. Of the 1,772 calls received at the Control Room, 983 related to COVID-19. A total of 14,520 medical personnel —189 specialist doctors, 108 PG doctors, 93 doctors, 272 nurses, 25 pharmacists and 765 others — are on duty.
28 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU Foundation Day a low-key affair||Andhra University celebrated its Foundation Day in a low-key manner due to the lockdown on its campus here on Sunday. Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy garlanded the statue of Sir C.R. Reddy, the founding Vice-Chancellor, along with a few other officials. Prof. Prasada Reddy said that the administration is contemplating to introduce several reforms to make the university student-centric and maintain quality and standards in both teaching and research. He said that digitisation is the need of the hour and the varsity is looking forward to adopt itself to online platforms. “The university is committed to excel in teaching, research and extension activities and make a mark in the world,” he said. The V-C thanked Rajya Sabha member V. Vijayasai Reddy, who sent greetings.
28 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Consumers can order provisions online’||Consumers can now book their daily needs like provisions and vegetables online through Swiggy. This will save them the hassles of standing in queues at Rythu Bazaars and at department stores. Consumers will, however, have to pay 16 % extra for the door delivery service. Launching the service at the Seethammadhara Rythu Bazaar on Monday, Joint Collector L. Shiva Shankar said the online booking of vegetable and provisions was being facilitated by the government to avoid unnecessary crowding at rythu bazaars and general stores. This was in addition to the temporary rythu bazaars and mobile rythu bazaars already in operation. The Swiggy service will be available from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. and all the commodities would be graded.
28 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||69 cases booked||Sixty-nine cases were booked on Monday after inspection of 272 shops selling essential commodities to check irregularities in weighing, prices and other rules, according to District Collector V. Vinay Chand. A total of 632 cases were booked after inspecting 2,147 shops till now for violations during the lockdown. Complaints relating to selling commodities at prices higher than those specified by the government may be made to 1902 or 180042500002.
28 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Modi, Jagan should own up COVID deaths’||The CPI (Maoist) has said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should own moral responsibility for the COVID-19 deaths in India and Andhra Pradesh respectively. In a letter on Monday, CPI (Maoist) East Visakha Division Committee secretary Aruna alleged that the negligent attitude of the governments towards COVID-19 control was responsible for its proliferation. The Jagan Mohan Reddy government was keen on holding local body polls at a time when the number of cases was growing in the State. ‘Masks not distributed’ The governments, which were boasting of purchasing crores of masks and lakhs of testing kits, had not taken up any control measures in the Agency areas so far. She claimed that not even a single mask or sanitiser was provided in tribal areas. She mourned the loss of lives due to COVID-19 outbreak.
28 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Interview||Interviews for selection of 652 for ward volunteer posts that remained vacant in GVMC limits began Monday, duly observing physical distancing and wearing masks. The interviews will continue till April 29. A total of 5,512 applications were received.
28 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||152 persons held for ‘lockdown violations’||The district police have 1,808 cases including 1,693 traffic violation cases on person who violated lockdown orders and came onto roads in the rural areas in Visakhapatnam district on Sunday. The police said that they have arrested 152 persons and also seized 63 vehicles . A fine of about Rs. 7.85 lakh was also imposed on the violators.
28 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay pending wages to sanitation workers in panchayats: CPI(M)||CPI(M) district secretary K. Lokanadham on Monday appealed to the District Collector to take steps for payment of wages to sanitatation workers in the panchayats in the district pending for months together. They were being made to work by giving meagre advances instead of pending wages, he said. They should also be provided gloves, masks and sanitisers, he demanded.
28 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Freeze of DA deplored||All India Insurance Employees’ Association on Monday decried the decision to freeze payment of dearness allowance to the Central employees and pensioners. In a statement, AIIEA general secretary Srikant Mishra termed the decision arbitrary.
28 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramp up random testing: Botcha||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana on Monday directed the Vizianagaram district administration to conduct at least 500 COVID-19 tests randomly every day. Speaking at a meeting with the task force officials, Mr. Satyanarayana said: “Fortunately, there have been no positive cases in the district so far. But we can not negate the possibility of infected but asymptomatic persons among us. Rapid and intensified testing is the only way to identify such cases.” Minister tests negative He also asked Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal to send all migrated labourers and fishermen to quarantine centres. Earlier, the Minister and his wife Botcha Jhansi underwent the COVID tests. The results were negative, medical teams told the media.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Had discretionary power to defer civic polls: ex-SEC||N. Ramesh Kumar, who ceased to be the State Election Commissioner (SEC) upon the promulgation of an ordinance by the Governor, filed an affidavit in the High Court on Monday, reiterating his stand on the deferment of local body elections. He reportedly claimed to be not under the obligation to reveal the reasons for the decisions taken by him to officers and staff in the Commission and that the legal department duly looked into the matter. He maintained that he had the discretionary power to postpone the elections. It may be noted that State Election Commission Secretary S. Ramsundar Reddy, who is one of the respondents in the petition filed by Mr. Ramesh Kumar against his removal through the ordinance route, submitted his counter to the High Court on April 25. Mr. Ramsundar Reddy informed the court that the petitioner (Mr. Ramesh Kumar) took the decision to defer the civic polls without consulting the State government officials concerned. Final hearing today He also stated that there was no communication from the Central or the State government on the assessment of the threat posed by COVID-19. The petition is scheduled for final hearing on April 28 (Tuesday).
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Joy ride||
28 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Haimendorf’s approach on tribal education still relevant?||The Supreme Court’s order of April 22 quashing GO Ms. 3, issued on January 10, 2000 by the then combined State of Andhra Pradesh, to reserve 100 % government jobs for tribals in Scheduled Areas will have far reaching consequences in the Agency areas. The 152 page judgement by a Constitution Bench of the SC which holds that 100 % reservation for tribal teachers in schools located in the Scheduled Areas was unconstitutional as per the GO in question is being considered as a setback to socio-economic development of the tribals living in Scheduled Areas in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana States. The 100 % reservation of teacher jobs for tribals in Scheduled Areas was to provide focussed development for this grossly under developed section of society. The SC, however, found the idea of only tribals teaching tribals by virtue of the GO, ‘obnoxious’. It was way back in the 1940s that the need for education among tribals in Adilabad district, which had formed part of the erstwhile Hyderabad State ruled by the Nizam, received attention. The Gond Education Scheme was launched by none other than the famous Austrian Anthropologist Christoph von Furer-Haimendorf who had come to these parts to study various problems besotting the aboriginal people. Relook needed This concept was evidently an Anthropologist’s approach to the problem. The subsequent failure of modern education in improving the condition of the tribals in terms of education does necessitate to have a relook into what Professor Haimendorf had achieved through his model. An insight into the education system brought about to churn out teachers from within the Raj Gond tribe in Adilabad and Koyas of Godavari valley is gained from the paper published by Social Anthropologist Urmila Pingle, herself a student of the legendary Austrian researcher, titled ‘C. von. Furer-Haimendorf: Half a century of his imprint on Tribal Welfare in Andhra Pradesh’. Professor Haimendorf had formulated the Gond Education Scheme (GES) in 1943 to improve literacy among the aboriginal people to handle exploitation by non-tribals. Worked in harmony Under the GES, a training centre was established at Marlavai in the present day Jainoor mandal of Kumram Bheem Asifabad district headed by a Gond teacher. It worked well as the new set of tribal teachers-patwaris (trainees) worked harmoniously with old leaders trainers as the former were sons of the soil, the paper claims. The GES identified and trained Gondi speakers to become primary school teachers. By 1951, the teacher training centres at Marlavai and Ginnedhari produced 95 teachers, five village officers, one revenue inspector, five clerks and seven forest guards, indicating a success on a grand scale. The accession of Hyderabad in the Indian Union saw a change in the education policies. Nevertheless, no intiative of the successive governments was as successful as the one by the legendary Anthropologist which had tribals teaching tribals.
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS tones down celebrations for its Formation Day||For the second consecutive time in the 19 year journey of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) since inception, the grandeur associated with Formation Day celebrations of TRS was missing on Monday. While the occasion was not celebrated last year due to election code in force for Parliament polls, it was lockdown which prevented the same this year. All that the party did now was hoisting its flags at the hands of Chief Minister and TRS president K. Chandrasekhar Rao here and ministers in their respective districts. The TRS leadership gave a call to the cadre to hoist the flags at their houses. The party had been organising the event with mass public meetings addressed by Mr. Rao in districts and Hyderabad few times since inception in 2001. The practice was given up now in present circumstances. Apart from Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao, TRS Parliamentary party leader K. Keshava Rao, ministers K.T. Rama Rao, Mohammed Mahmood Ali, V. Srinivas Goud and Eatala Rajender and MLCs Palla Rajeswara Reddy and M. Srinivas Reddy were present at the flag hoisting in party office. Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod had lunch along with poor, sanitation, migrant and health workers after hoisting the flag at Mahbubabad. Endowments Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy and Roads and Buildings Minister V. Prashant Reddy unfurled the flag at their residence at Nirmal and Velpur in Nizamabad district respectively. Later, Mr. Prashant Redy participated in a blood donation camp at the local public health centre. Panchayat Raj Minister E. Dayakar Rao distributed essential commodities on behalf of a trust run by him to nearly 1,000 sanitation workers, autorickshaw drivers, temple priests, imams and pastors at his native Palakurthy in Warangal district. He also participated in low key flag hoisting ceremonies at several centres in the district. TRS MLA Haripriya Naik organised a procession from her camp office for garlanding the statue of Telangana thalli at Illendu in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district.
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM confident of TS joining ranks of COVID-free States soon||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has exuded confidence that the State will soon join the ranks of those declared coronavirus-free if the significant decline in COVID-19 positive cases is any indication. The Chief Minister said the government is firm on continuing the ongoing lockdown till May 7 as Telangana is set to see a rapid decline in the spread of the virus as well as the number of affected persons. He requested citizens to continue to extend their cooperation in letter and spirit to help the government successfully tackle the virus and ensure safety of public health in the State. Illustrating the progress made by the State, he said as many as 21 districts are set to be placed in the category of districts with no COVID-positive cases. There was significant progress in checking the impact of the virus in the State as it has witnessed 97% of the affected people recovering and being discharged from the hospitals. Equally impressive was the decline in the number of containment zones over the past few days. The Chief Minister reviewed the situation in the State during a marathon meeting with senior officials after participating in the video conference conducted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. The meeting was convened to review measures initiated for treating the affected people, relief operations as well as the impact of lockdown. Officials concerned informed the Chief Minister about the steep reduction in the number of positive cases over the past few days. Only two of the 159 samples tested on Monday tested positive while 16 were discharged after being treated/cured. Mr. Rao said the strict implementation of lockdown has helped the State check the spread of the virus. Stating that the virus spread to different parts of the State because of the persons who attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi, Mr. Rao said the government had succeeded in identifying all the links of the Markaz returnees and steps had been taken to conduct tests on all of them. Coupled with these were the cases relating to people who returned from abroad and the government effectively tackled such cases with the help of the police and health departments. There was no cause of concern as the trends indicated that there was rapid decline in the impact of the virus across the State. The government, however, continues to be alert and has, accordingly, kept the health administration ready to tackle the situation in case of an increase in the number of positive cases. As many as 332 out of the 1,003 COVID-positive cases detected so far had been discharged. Ten districts — Mulugu, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Narayanpet, Warangal Rural, Wanaparthy, Nagarkurnool, Mahbubabad, Siddipet and Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri — had zero positive cases while another 11 districts including Jagtial, Jangaon, Peddapally, Sangareddy, Bhupalpalli, Kamareddy and Mahbubnagar were set to become districts without incidence of any cases from Tuesday. Four areas, including the GHMC limits, Suryapet, Jogulamba-Gadwal and Vikarabad, reported high incidence of the virus-affected people while the impact was nominal in other areas. There were no positive cases in a majority of circles across the GHMC limits with few circles reporting zero active cases in the corporation. As a result, the areas declared as containment zones were becoming free of the virus.  The government is firm on continuing the ongoing lockdown till May 7 as Telangana is set to see a rapid decline in the spread of the virus as well as the number of affected persons. K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Chief Minister
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Central team inspects facilities in Gandhi Hospital||The Inter-Ministerial Central Team on a visit to the city with respect to COVID-19 treatment facilities, inspected the Gandhi Hospital on Monday, which is the major novel coronavirus infection treatment facility in the city. Accompanied by the Principal of the Gandhi Medical College G. Prakash Rao, Gandhi Hospital Superintendent M. Raja Rao, Director of Medical Education Ramesh Reddy and others, the team inspected the treatment methods and facilities being provided to patients. The team headed by Additional Secretary, Ministry of Jal Shakti, Arun Baroka, and consisting of senior public health expert Chandra Sekhar Gadem, Director, NIN, Hemalatha, Director, Ministry of Consumer Affairs S.S. Thakur, and associate professor Shekhar Chaturvedi enquired about the availability of sufficient sanitation, paramedical and security staff at the hospital, number of beds, ICU facilities, ventilators and the safety measures for doctors and staff. The team also visited Humayun Nagar Containment Zone in Khairatabad zone, and government quarantine centre at Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital. At Humayun Nagar, the team members interacted with GHMC officials about the services rendered to the residents with health issues such as diabetes, hypertension, and also about the fever survey. Interacting with the residents, the team enquired about the services being provided. GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar apprised the team of the measures taken to arrest the disease spread. At the Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital, the team inspected the central drug store and enquired about supply of medicines to the other districts. They also asked about the quality of PPE kits provided to doctors and supporting staff who are attending to the COVID-19 patients, and method of their disposal. The team also inspected register distribution of medicines. GHMC Zonal Commissioner Ravi Kiran, Praveenya and other senior officials accompanied the team during visit.
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Quick action, strict implementation of lockdown brought down cases’||Prompt action on the part of the Telangana government in anticipating the spread of COVID-19 pandemic helped contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. Strict implementation of lockdown norms without any relaxation has resulted in fewer number of positive cases in the past four days, asserts Arvind Kumar, Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration and Urban Development and also Commissioner of Information and Public Relations Department. In an exclusive interview with The Hindu on Monday after distributing PPE kits to journalists, Mr. Arvind Kumar elaborated on how the government was closely monitoring the situation. Edited excerpts: How is the COVID-19 situation in Telangana, particularly Hyderabad, which has seen a number of positive cases? The situation is vastly improving. Officials are closely monitoring the developments and there is a sharp decline in the number of positive cases being reported daily. The average positive cases has seen a dip in the past four days. This is a good sign. Our focus is on the containment zones in the twin cities. We were able to contain the spread from the initial foreign returnees and those who had attended Markaz in New Delhi. Our assessment has revealed that from 40 families, 250 positive cases were reported. There were fewer secondary transmissions, which shows that the spread has been contained to a large extent. How is the lockdown being implemented in the State? Telangana government was the first to realise lockdown is the only solution to contain the spread of pandemic. The strict measures taken by the government ensured that we were able to bring down the number of positive cases. There was an initial spurt but the spike has been contained. The good sign is that after the initial numbers, there is visible reduction in the positive cases. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has already said he would review the situation on May 5 ahead of the deadline of May 7 lockdown. What steps are being taken to keep the situation under control in containment zones and clusters? We are not leaving anything to chance. From initial 180 containment zones in the twin cities, we have now brought it down to 110 as the situation is improving to some extent. People, after the initial phase of difficulty, have cooperated very well with the administration. The seriousness of coronavirus spread is slowly going away. We have no immediate plans of reducing the number of containment zones. We are monitoring the situation on a daily basis. As the new cases are coming down, we are removing the old cases as per government protocol. But the houses from where the positive cases were reported will continue to be under close watch. They will be sealed till the situation becomes normal. What are the precautions taken by employees deployed at containment zones? We are taking extra care of all the workforce in the containment zones. They have been given safety kits and all the staff members who show any symptom of COVID-19 are asked to report immediately. Migrant workers seem to be at the receiving end and there are dozens of instances of the desperate workers trying to exit the city for their native places. What steps has the government taken to convince them to stay put in their respective locations? Our approach towards the migrant workforce has been different from the beginning. As soon as COVID-19 hit the State, we anticipated migration of labour due to lockdown. We began to trace the migrant workforce in construction camps within in the Outer Ring Road limits. We mapped 289 on site construction camps where close to 45,000 labourers used to stay. GHMC officials and Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao had a meeting with builders and requested them to take care of migrant workers. From GHMC side, we have appointed one officer for each of the 289 camps. Workers are given ration, healthcare facilities and told to maintain social distancing. What about the other migrant workers and distressed people? There are around 10,000 standalone migrant labourers in the city working in different sectors. We have set up two temporary shelters for them. All these workers have been tied to Annapurna centres for free meals. Wherever necessary, essential commodities are also provided to them. How is the government addressing the request for shortage of essential commodities and food for the needy? The EVDM wing has been pro-active in reaching out to the retailers in the twin cities to enquire about the supply of essential commodities. Initially, there was shortage of commodities in the market but that has been resolved. Now the supply chain is working perfectly. We do not foresee any severe shortage of essential commodities in the markets. While the lockdown is being strictly implemented, there are complaints from citizens and shops are being forced to close early... We also received complaints that many shops were closing down by 1 p.m. We have issued orders that all shops will be opened till 6 p.m. and no customer should be put to inconvenience. We have prepared zone-wise list of shops and the timings. What is the role of Annapurna canteens in lockdown times? Before COVID-19, the 120-odd Annapurna centres used to serve 40,000 meals at Rs. 5 each. After the lockdown was announced, we scaled up our operations with the help of Akshaya Patra Foundation by increasing the number of centres to 300. We are now serving 2.2 lakh meals, both lunch and dinner, absolutely free of cost. We also pressed into service mobile vans that go around the city with cooked food and serve the needy wherever they are found. The government appears have to taken advantage of the lockdown to take up works in the twin cities on a war footing... Right now, Rs. 1,500 crore worth of works are going on in Hyderabad. All major roads are being given a fresh look. Earlier, we used to get only three to four hours to take up road repair works. Due to lockdown, now we are able to get 12-14 hours of quality time and the work has been expedited by four times. The work on the new bridge near Punjagutta crematorium has been expedited. So is the case with several flyovers in the city. The flyover work near Owaisi Hospital, which was delayed for almost two years, is now being taken up on a war footing. By May 5, we are confident of completing the foundation works of all the pending flyover works. Once the foundation is laid, laying of other structures is easy. Flyover work at Balanagar has been expedited. As regards roads, almost 160 kms of BT roads in the city have been relaid in a short span of time. The government has given safety kits to journalists. Is there any move to request journalists covering COVID-19 activities to undergo precautionary tests? Journalists, particularly those from electronic media and photographers, are in the frontline, so it was decided to provide them safety kits. Whenever a journalist shows COVID-19 symptoms, he or she should immediately report to the designated hospital for the requisite test.  We have no immediate plans of reducing the number of containment zones. We are monitoring the situation on a daily basis.
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State reports two new cases||There was a further drop in the number of new COVID-19 cases in Telangana as only two samples tested positive on Monday. Sixteen patients were discharged from the hospital. Till date, 1,003 cases have been recorded in the State. Of those, 646 are active cases, 332 discharged and 25 people have died. The two new cases were reported from GHMC area, which includes some parts of Rangareddy and Medchal districts. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar had issued directions last week that asymptomatic secondary contacts should not be tested. “However, they shall be identified, stamped and placed under strict home quarantine for 28 days and monitored daily by the local area Multi Disciplinary Surveillance teams,” Mr Kumar said. He also instructed that only primary contacts of positive cases shall be brought to the government-identified quarantine centres and their samples be collected for testing. Judicious use of test kits Asked whether more tests will be conducted which could lead to detection of further cases, senior officials from the State Health department said they were taking all measures to identify possible positive cases. They said that testing kits were used judiciously as the resources are imported. “The kits are not manufactured here. So we have to be careful. We do not know what kind of situation will arise in future. However, we are following the guidelines framed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Tests are also being conducted on those with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), Influenza-like illness,” the officials said.
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC usurping park space, allege Jubilee Hills residents||Diversion of park space for development of a road by the civic authorities has got residents of HUDA Enclave, Jubilee Hills, rise in unison against the move. On Monday, several residents complained about the compound wall of the park being razed and scores of trees in various stages of growth being uprooted by the contractor in order to lay the road. The new road is one among various slip roads being developed by the Hyderabad Road Development Corporation (HRDCL), in order to ease the vehicle pressure on the major thoroughfares. It was being laid from Journalist Colony up to Narne Road via HUDA Enclave, to facilitate traffic towards Jubilee Hills Checkpost. “The road works were going on for five days, and we had already complained about heavy rock blasting which shook our walls. Later the blasting came down, but the contractor had silently razed the compound wall of the park in the dead of the night which we noticed only on Monday morning,” said Juhee Ahmed, a resident. While the residents assert that they were not against development of road, they complain that the area being used for it was shown as park in the HUDA layout. ‘Mini-forest’ “It resembled a mini-forest, and was home to several species of fauna such as peacocks, parrots, and mongoose. This is loss of precious biodiversity and lung space,” said Kavita Bhatia, another resident. Office-bearers of the HUDA Enclave Resident Welfare Association (RWA) claim that the High Court ruled for protection of open spaces in the area, when government had tried to auction them back in 2013. “The agency uprooted about 100 trees, of which about 50 were planted personally by me. I even got red soil for the plants, and watered them regularly. Several other residents too planted saplings here,” said treasurer of the RWA, Phani Kondepudi. The road consumed about 45 feet of the park space, apart from more from an adjacent private plot, he said. Unavoidable, says GHMC Meanwhile, officials from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation clarified that the park space was taken over, in order to avoid a detour. “For development of link roads and slip roads, we are using government lands wherever possible, as it would save us the troubles associated with land acquisition. In this case, the straight road required park space. Loss of greenery is regrettable, but some times unavoidable for public purpose,” said a senior official. GHMC prepared plans for a total 131 link roads and slip roads, and handed over 35 of them to HRDCL for development.
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call to focus on shortage of local labour||The issue of lakhs of migrant workers and their travails in going back to their home States in the midst of nation-wide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus has brought into focus another major concern of Telangana State. The crisis inadvertently brought to light the shortage of local labour and dependency on migrant workers in many sectors, says Telangana State Planning Board Vice-Chairman B.Vinod Kumar. Time has come for political leaders, people’s representatives, policy makers to draw lessons from the situation and revisit the State policy to focus big time on training youth in vocational skills, he said.  Labour vacuum The migrant workers have not only filled the urban labour vacuum but also penetrated the rural Telangana in significant numbers taking up even farm-related jobs, he says based on his interaction with several district collectors and local leaders. Youth in the State are routinely opting for degree courses sans any livelihood earning skills and preferring only white-collar jobs. It is time for the State to sensitise society, emphasise on dignity of labour and focus on empowering the youth with vocational skills. “The Planning Board will submit a report to the government on its observations to revisit its policy on livelihoods,” the Vice-Chairman told The Hindu . The lockdown period exposed how functioning of certain sectors has been hampered due to lack of skilled local labour force and dependence on migrant workers from other States. Be it hamalis from Bihar to load and pack harvested paddy and other produce to mills and from there to godowns, migrant workers from Maharasthra and Odisha who come to pick red chillies in Warangal rural, Khammam, even Agency areas of Bhadrachalam and workers from Punjab employed in dairy and poultry farms. The migrant workers dominated the workforce in many sectors either due to the complacency or reluctance of local people to take up these vocations. Working elsewhere While unskilled and semi-skilled workforce from Telangana went to Gulf countries and endured woeful living and working conditions serving as construction workers, their counterparts from other States like Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha over the years were eking a living as plumbers, electricians, stone cutters, PoP workers, painters, carpenters etc. in Telangana. The migrant workers became a dominant workforce in the building and construction industry here. “Some of the jobs in rural areas are well-paying. For instance youth from Punjab come to villages here from February to June to operate mechanical harvesters and repair them and make anywhere between Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 1.5 lakh during the period,” he said. Gulf countries He recalled that Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao proposed to visit Gulf countries and appeal to Telangana workers to come back to the State and take up opportunities available in various sectors in the State. There are about 6.47 lakh migrant workers in the State and the CM was quick to announce distribution of 12 kg of rice and Rs. 500 to them. So far 4.5 lakh migrant workers were provided with the relief and 213 shelters were provided across the State for homeless migrant workers, he said.
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tipplers turn to gudumba during lockdown||With liquor shops shut during the lockdown period, people looking to be in ‘high spirits’ have turned to gudumba or illicitly distilled (ID) liquor. Production of the old form of intoxicant was almost wiped out in Telangana over three years ago. However, between March 22 and April 26, Telangana Prohibition and Excise department officials have seized 7,319 litres of gudumba across the State. This is more than the 6,705 litres of Indian Made Liquor (IML) such as rum and whisky that was seized during the lockdown. Officials also seized 9,184 litres of beer in this period. For ID liquor, people are shelling out four to five times more than the usual price of Rs. 70 to Rs. 100 per litre. Against this backdrop, Prohibition and Excise Minister V. Srinivas Goud has directed officials to curtail sale of gudumba and black jaggery, a key ingredient in preparation of the ID liquor. Former ‘experts’ in preparation of the ID liquor are under the radar of the officials. “However, amateurs too are preparing it. So, we are more vigilant about them,” said a senior official from the department. “The process of preparing it needs loads of water. Usually, on the outskirts, people choose a place between thick shrubs as their hideout. But gudumba is prepared even in homes,” said another official from the department. The department’s staff have destroyed 1.25 lakh litres of fermented jaggery wash, an intermediate product in preparation of the ID liquor. Mr Goud opined that due to lockdown, people addicted to alcohol have turned to gudumba, resulting in reports of illegal manufacture and sale of ID liquor. In Hyderabad, Dhoolpet is under focus. In fact, officials have caught over 60 people involved in preparation of the ID liquor. The Minister has instructed officials to book cases, if necessary, under PD Act against people who resort to grave violations in illegal gudumba sale. Ganja sale With the lockdown restricting the movement of people, officials opined that peddlers who had stash of ‘ganja’ might have sold it out by now. They are expecting that huge quantities of ‘grass’ would be smuggled through State borders after lockdown is lifted. “Ganja too is sold at a high cost. Earlier, 10 grams of it was sold for Rs. 100. We got to know the same quantity was being sold for Rs. 400 to Rs. 500 during the lockdown,” said an official.
28 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Government failed to help farmers cover losses: Revanth||Congress MP and TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy has charged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with failing to come to the rescue of farmers who suffered losses due to the unseasonal rains while making tall claims at press conferences. In an open letter to the Chief Minister, Mr. Reddy said the CM was taking credit for the increased production due to good rains and hardwork of the farmers but he could not even ensure minimum support price. The CM is not even mentioning the losses in thousands of acres due to unseasonal rains. He reminded the CM of his assurance that every grain will be bought by the government and even announcement of Rs. 30,000 crore for the same but officials on the ground were denying the farmers the remunerative price for silly reasons. Is the CM not aware of farmers burning the produce, he asked? Referring to the unseasonal rains, he said paddy was damaged in combined Adilabad, Nizamabad, Karimnagar, Medak, Rangareddy, Nalgonda and combined Warangal districts. Rains damaged the harvested paddy to the tune of 1500 quintals while mango groves in 150 acres too suffered. In Jogipet market 2000 quintals was damaged. But the government was nowhere to be seen to assure the farmers. Turmeric farmers in Nizamabad suffered with the falling prices. Turmeric was selling at Rs. 7,000 per quintal before the lockdown while now it is just Rs. 4,500. However, in neighbouring Maharashtra it was selling at Rs. 7,500 per quintal. Cotton farmers were suffering as the ginning mills were closed, he said and demanded that they be opened like in Gujarat and Maharashtra with some restrictions. He also alleged government’s failure in estimating the need for gunny bags when they were aware of the increased cultivation and good crop. Even the tarpaulines could not be secured to save paddy from rains, the Congress MP said.
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Convergence helps Mahabubnagar stop spread||A concerted effort with the convergence of all government departments has helped the administration of Mahabubnagar district in not only restricting COVID-19 cases to 11 but also in finding solutions, including managing migrant workers and providing them wage work by involving them in paddy procurement exercise at rice mills. Although the district had 327 persons with overseas travel history and 5,981 inter-State travellers till the lockdown was imposed, the administration identified all of them and made them complete home quarantine with the help of community watch teams both in rural and urban areas. A constant eye on them, including periodic health check-up conducted by the health machinery, prevented the possibility of communication of any infection. “As soon as instructions were received from the government to gear up the administration to the situation, we have trained all our medical officers of PHCs and government hospitals and health workers on COVID prevention and control measures online and with video-conference,” District Collector S. Venkata Rao said. Immediately, steps were taken to identify vulnerable groups such as foreign returnees, inter-State travellers and Markaz attendees. Together with taking up information education and communication (IEC) exercise by distributing over 4.42 lakh pamphlets among people and 20,000 folders among health workers, two quarantine centres were arranged with 500 beds at Government Medical College and a private educational institution complex. Two isolation centres with about 100 beds were also readied at Government General Hospital and SVS Medical College. According to medical and health department officials, three of 39 Markaz attendees and five of their 108 primary contacts tested positive for COVID-19. Nine out of 11 positive cases had been discharged from hospital by April 25. Migrant workers As the lockdown was clamped, the district administration has identified nearly 10,300 migrant workers at 15 places in the district and all of them were provided 6 kg per-head free rice and Rs. 1,500 per family as survival assistance.  “We have also been encouraging them to avail wage work at rice mills and over 3,000 of them were already engaged in the exercise of paddy procurement,” the District Collector said, adding that about 28,700 tonnes of paddy had been procured so far at 186 purchase centres.
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jagga Reddy wants govt. to extend lockdown||Senior leader of Congress and Sangareddy legislator T. Jayaprakash Reddy alias Jagga Reddy has suggested that the State government continue the lockdown being implemented to contain the spread of coronavirus for the next two or three months. In a statement issued here on Monday, he said the positive impact of lockdown was appearing just now in the slowdown of the virus spread and it would be meaningful to continue the lockdown till the spread was flattened and stopped. He felt that economists were required to play a proactive role in the present situation by giving timely and feasible suggestions to the governments to enable them sustain financially. He urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to hold discussions with economists on working out ways to improve the revenue of the government in the adverse conditions. Further, the MLA suggested the government to provide every possible facility to doctors, paramedical staff and the police who were serving society in the difficult times knowing well that their health and lives were at risk.
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC seeks report on aid to LGBT community||The Telangana High Court on Monday sought a detailed report from the State government on different issues being faced by the LGBT community during the lockdown imposed to check spread of coronavirus. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A. Abhishek Reddy directed the government to provide accommodation, food and medicines to the LGBT community living in different parts of the State. The bench was hearing a PIL petition filed by social activist Vyjayanti Vasanta Mogli seeking a direction to the government to take up a slew of measures for the protection of LGBT community in the State. The bench instructed the government to furnish a report on different steps taken by administrators to support and aid the community during lockdown before May 11. The petitioner wanted the government to supply groceries and vegetables to LGBT community though the members did not have ration cards. She requested the court to instruct the government to supply medicines related to HIV treatment, hormone therapy and other physical ailments. In another PIL plea, the bench issues notices to Central and State governments over the condition of migrant labourers in the State. The bench observed that governments should not have any objection over the workers preferring to go back to their respective States.
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor announces contest for students||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday announced a novel initiative to provide an opportunity to university students to project their novel ideas in form of articles, stories and poems. Any student of State universities in Telangana, presently pursuing graduation or above courses, is eligible to participate, a release said. Top three papers in each of the languages will be awarded Rs. 15,000, Rs. 10,000, and Rs. 5,000 respectively.    For more details, log on tohttp://governor. telangana. gov.in,tsche.ac.in- and Telangana State universities.
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SBI gives aid to migrant workers||The State Bank of India (SBI), Local Head Office (LHO) Hyderabad, donated essential items worth Rs. 1 lakh among 500 migrant workers and others residing at three GHMC shelters. Apart from groceries, pyjamas, towels, floor mats, buckets and mugs were distributed to the beneficiaries at GHMC shelter for urban homeless in Marredpally, Golnaka and Koti (under Sultan Bazar supervision where 185 workers from Jharkhand are staying). The migrant workers appreciated the gesture of the SBI, a release from the bank said.
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Safety kits for journalists||Information and Public Relations Commissioner Arvind Kumar on Monday distributed 150 safety kits to journalists at Samachar Bhavan. Speaking on the occasion, he reiterated that the safety of journalists, both in print and electronic media, who are in the frontline in the fight against COVID-19 is of paramount concern. He thanked IxoraFM for partnering with the State government in providing safety kits to the journalists. He informed that another 500 kits will be provided in a couple of days. The safety kit contains one face shield, mask, three ply masks, two sanitiser bottles and a pair of gloves.
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hussainsagar water quality improves||Hussainsagar water quality has seen improvement during the four month period between January and April, a statement from the State Pollution Control Board has informed, and attributed the same to reduction in pollutants during lockdown period. The water samples were collected from nine locations in the lake, while samples could not be collected midstream during lock down period owing to lack of access. The samples were analysed for parameters such as pH, coliform contamination, dissolved oxygen, biochemical oxygen demand, total dissolved solids, nitrates, free ammonia, besides others. Of these, the DO has increased and BOD has decreased between January and April, while decreasing trends were noted in the faecal coliform count too, the statement said. The analysis before and after lockdown showed improvement in water quality, which could be due to arrest of human and anthropogenic activities such as boating, recreation, eateries around the lake, it said. Lake remediation work, which had started from March 3 too, could have impacted the quality, it said.
28 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Minor found dead||A minor girl was found dead under suspicious circumstances in Wanaparthy district on Monday. Police said they have registered a case against one of her male friends under relevant sections of IPC and POCSO Act. Police said the 17-year-old girl’s friend took her to the Government Hospital in Wanaparthy from a village in Pebbair mandal, where doctors declared her brought dead. “After admitting her at around 5.30 p.m., he fled. A case was registered and probe is on,” police said.
28 April 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Ingenious ways to curb coronavirus||With the threat of coronavirus looming large mainly in the areas straddling the borders of neighbouring States, some proactive elected representatives are coming up with ingenious ways to help curb the spread of the deadly virus in the erstwhile composite Khammam district. The elected representatives of Nadikudi Gram Panchayat in Dummugudem Agency mandal of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district have set up an improvised pedal-operated hand-washing facility at the entrance of their village. They designed it in a cost-effective manner by using the locally available natural resources such as bamboo logs and small ropes made from locally available plant materials. It dispenses sanitiser/soap water from bottles after pressing the wooden pedal with foot, sources said. All-round appreciation The timely initiative of the local leaders to promote frequent hand-washing in a safe and convenient way to stave off the spread of coronavirus earned them the appreciation of the Mandal Parishad Development Officer (MPDO) Malleswari and other officials. In Madhira town of Khammam district, a pedal operated unit was set up at the vegetable market near the market yard to help farmers and consumers wash their hands with sanitiser/soap water to help prevent the spread of the COVID-19. Madhira legislator Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka took keen initiative to popularise the facility and sensitise the vegetable vendors and consumers on the paramount significance of frequent hand washing and wearing face masks to keep the deadly virus at bay.
28 April 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||‘Pay full wages to coal miners’||The Singareni Coal Mines Karmika Sangh affiliated to BMS has launched three-day agitational programmes in the coal belt regions demanding that the Singareni management provide full wages to the coal miners and opposing the deduction of 50 % salaries in the name of lockdown. Accordingly, on Monday, the coal miners attended to the duties by wearing black badges as a mark of protest demanding the management of the collieries to provide complete wages without any deduction for the month of April. They also demanded the management to refund the deducted March month salary to the coal miners in the April month salary. BMS state president Kengerla Mallaiah said that they had informed the coal miners to observe one day fast along with their family members on April 28 by remaining in their houses and on April 30 the miners were told to ring the bells and make noise by banging plates in the evening at their homes.
28 April 2020||Siddipet,TELANGANA||Kondapochamma oustees told to vacate before April 29||Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy has urged the 23 families under Kondapochamma project to vacate their houses in Bahilampur and Mamidyala before April 29. The Collector held a meeting with 23 families at Integrated Office Complex on Monday along with RDO D. Vijayender Reddy and tahasildar Yadagiri. He has explained to the oustees the directions issued by the High Court stating that they have to vacate the village before the deadline. He said that transport vehicles would be made ready by April 29.
28 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana districts on Delhi border restrict movement||Haryana districts that share a border with Delhi have issued separate directions restricting “unnecessary” movement of people and goods. The move comes in the wake of several COVID-19 cases in Haryana being traced back to Delhi. Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij had on Sunday asked Delhi Chief Minister to make arrangements to control the number of daily commuters between Haryana and the national capital. He had also asked the CM to make arrangements to accommodate Delhi government employees who live in Haryana.  Though it remains business as usual between Delhi and Gurugram, Faridabad Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav told The Hindu that movement between Delhi and Faridabad was now being regulated to prevent “unnecessary” movement. He said that people entering Faridabad from Delhi were being questioned and frisked, and attempts were being made to prevent unwanted movement. Essential goods He, however, said the border between the two cities was porous and people from Delhi could just walk up to Faridabad. Mr. Yadav also added that the movement of those providing essential services and transportation of goods could not be completely stopped. He said that two of the three recent COVID-19 cases in Faridabad were traced to Delhi. Director-General of Police Sateesh Balan, who is also the COVID-19 nodal officer for Jhajjar, said the Superintendent of the Police was directed on Monday to stop unnecessary movement of goods and people between Jhajjar and Delhi. Mr. Balan said the district administration has been directed to issue fresh curfew passes to reduce movement of people and goods. Sonipat Deputy Commissioner Anshaj Singh, in written orders, has banned the movement of government employees and people between Delhi and Sonipat. In separate orders on Sunday, Mr. Singh also stopped the supply of fruits and vegetables from Azadpur Mandi to Sonipat. Of the 21 COVID-19 patients, at least 16 have been linked indirectly to those travelling between the two cities.
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||No deaths, 190 new cases in city||A total of 190 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 3,108. No deaths were reported. Of the 3,108 cases, 877 people have recovered and there are 2,177 active cases. Age factor A total of 54 people have died due to the virus in the city so far. Of the total number of deaths, 53.7% were above 60 years of age. Of the total positive cases, 66.6% are people under 50 years of age, according to the Delhi government. The Delhi government also added two more areas to its list of containment zones, taking the total number of such localities in the city to 99. A containment zone has a stricter form of lockdown and entry and exit of people are not allowed in these areas. A total of 4,28,484 people are living in these zones. Also, till now 5,438 people in these localities have been tested for the virus and 273 were found to be infected, read an official statement. Till Monday, 39,911 COVID-19 tests have been done by the government. Earlier in the day, Health Minister Satyendar Jain held a meeting with senior officers of the Health Department as well as medical directors and medical superintendents of designated COVID-19 hospitals to review the status of the fight against the virus.
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||11 more infected at Babu Jagjivan Ram hospital||Eleven more people working at Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital in Jahangirpuri, including a doctor, tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, taking the total number of infected employees to 75, said hospital authorities. “Apart from this, three Delhi Police officers posted at the hospital also tested positive today [Monday]. The hospital is not functioning at present and there is no OPD or patients admitted,” a hospital source told The Hindu.  Meanwhile, the Medical Director (MD) of Delhi government-run Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital and 68 other people who work at the hospital were quarantined after they came in contact with a doctor at the hospital who has tested positive for the virus. “...healthcare workers were traced as per protocol and informed telephonically for quarantine,” read a hospital document accessed by The Hindu . M.M. Kohli, MD of the hospital, did not respond to multiple calls and messages. At least 29 people working at the hospital have tested positive for the virus so far. At Max Super Speciality Hospital at east Delhi’s Patparganj, 33 healthcare workers, including two doctors, have tested positive for COVID-19 so far, the hospital spokesperson said on Monday. On April 15, the hospital had announced that it would test all its workers and the 33 cases, as per the hospital, were reported during this process. “The hospital is being sanitised and the staff who have tested positive were moved to Max Hospital, Saket, East Wing, which is a COVID-19 treatment facility. Also, 145 nurses working at the Patparganj hospital have been quarantined,” the spokesperson added. Max Super Speciality Hospital in Patparganj is not a COVID-19 treatment facility and earlier this month, a patient admitted at the hospital for dialysis had tested positive for the virus. Still functioning The hospital is functioning and it was never closed completely, authorities said. Earlier in the day, the president of the Nurses Association of GB Pant Hospital, L.D. Ramchandani, said they had complained to the Medical Superintendent of the hospital that accommodation was not provided for quarantine of six healthcare workers who had come in contact with a patient at the hospital, who later tested positive Letters to government Multiple associations of doctors and nurses on Monday wrote to the Delhi government requesting him to make a hospital a designated hospital for treatment of healthcare workers infected by COVID-19 for the “speedy recovery” and “better care”.
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||Netflix told to reply on plea against web series||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked Netflix and producers of web series ‘ Hasmukh ’ to respond on a petition seeking to stop airing of the web series as it allegedly maligns the image and reputation of lawyers. Advocate Ashutosh Dubey, who filed the lawsuit, has also sought directions to the web series producers, directors and writer to “tender unconditional apology online for maligning the image of the lawyer community, which includes judges as they too had been lawyers at one point of time”. He has claimed that in episode 4 of the web series, lawyers have been allegedly referred to as thieves, scoundrels, goons and rapists. Mr. Dubey has contended that the “statements [made in the series] are highly disparaging and defamatory”.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Health check-ups sought at shelter homes in city||The Centre for Holistic Development (CHD) on Monday wrote to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) seeking urgent measures for conducting health check-ups and sanitisation drives in and around shelter homes to contain the spread of COVID-19 among the homeless and destitute people residing there. Stating that central Delhi had a high concentration of homeless people living on the streets, the CHD said that mass awareness camps and special medical vans and health camps at shelter homes should be arranged. “The government has been using mostly virtual mediums to spread information. Most of the homeless community are illiterate and do not use mobile phones or radios. This limits their access to information about the pandemic. Government should ensure community based direct information campaigns to bridge the information gap,” read the letter. The letter also read, “Geeta Ghat to Loheka pul has been identified by the Rajan Babu TB hospital as a high-risk zone. People have been living without proper health services and nutritious food which has deteriorated their already poor health condition leading to death. Special medical vans and health camps at shelter homes or detention centre for homeless should be arranged for.” The organisation also demanded that a thorough investigation of the cause of deaths taking place at shelter homes are carried out.
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi to await Centre order on extending lockdown||Extension of lockdown in the Capital beyond May 3 will depend on directions issued by the Centre, it emerged on Monday after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal participated in a video conference, alongside his counterparts, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Delhi government sources said that Mr. Kejriwal was not among the nine CMs who interacted with the PM on Monday. This was because the CM had already done so on April 11 where he had favoured the extension of the lockdown to April 30. No stance On Monday, the Delhi CM merely submitted details and required information related to the management of the pandemic, including the number of patients and containment zones. The Delhi government does not have its own stance on the issue of further extension of lockdown and now awaits directions from the Centre, said sources. ‘Dual role of Delhi’ The Delhi government is awaiting directions pertaining to a graded exit strategy or status quo, sources said, adding that some clarity is expected over the next day or two. On April 11, Mr. Kejriwal had sought to make a case for a Centre-sponsored relief package and funding on par with other States to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. He had submitted that Delhi had “a dual role” and added responsibilities given the presence of foreign missions in its jurisdiction, a “significant population of foreigners” residing in it, and migrant workers being sustained by it at shelter homes.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress launches sanitation drive in wards||The Delhi Congress on Monday launched a sanitation drive across the city titled ‘Congress Ke Sipahi, Karenge Corona Ki Dhulai’ and distributed 1,120 sanitation machines and chemicals to 280 Block Congress Committee wards. Launching the initiative, Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that each ward will be given four machines and party workers will carry out the drive. “Congress workers will make announcements about the sanitation drive on loud speakers to alert people, and will also press into service sprinklers with a capacity of 1,000 litres each to sanitise wide roads,” Mr. Kumar said. He added that the workers will have PPE gear, and maintain social distance during the exercise. “The AAP government and the BJP-ruled civic bodies have abysmally failed to effectively carry out sanitation drives,” he added. The party said that over 106 ‘Congress Ki Rasoi’ had been set up across the Capital to provide meals to thousands of poor people who did not have access to food.
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||Compensation announced for families of SDMC workers||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation approved relief measures for those involved in frontline services provided by the civic body, South Delhi Mayor Sunita Kangra said on Monday. If doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, malaria workers, sanitation workers, gardeners or other field workers die while performing their duties to combat COVID-19, their families will be given a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh, she added. The cost of treatment for those involved in such frontline jobs who contract the virus will also be borne by the municipal corporation. The Mayor, however, sought to assure that all precautions were being taken to ensure safety of all workers.
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||Make arrangements to bring students to Delhi from Kota: Bidhuri writes to CM||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Monday demanded that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal take urgent steps to evacuate students —belonging to the Capital — who are trapped in Rajasthan’s Kota due to the ongoing lockdown. Mr. Bidhuri said Delhi needed to follow the example of other States in getting its students back from Kota. “...I also request you to please make proper arrangements to bring back the students of Delhi present in Kota,” the LoP wrote.
28 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||ITI makes low-cost aerosol box, face shields||The government-run Industrial Training Institute (ITI) in Odisha’s Berhampur has prepared low-cost ‘aerosol box’ and ‘face shields’ for the medical staff involved in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. Receiving information about it, Director General of Employment and Training (DGET) and the Union Ministry for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship have organised a videoconference of different ITIs of the country on April 30, where ITI-Berhampur will provide technical training for preparation of these equipment to other ITIs for local production at their end, said ITI-Berhampur principal Rajat Panigrahy. At the request of the Ganjam district administration, ITI-Berhampur successfully created cost-effective ‘aerosol box’ and ‘face shields’. The market price of an ‘aerosol box’ is Rs. 10,000, whereas the ITI-Berhampur has made it at a cost of Rs. 3,000. Each ‘face shield’ is sold for Rs. 200, while its production cost at ITI-Berhampur is just Rs. 11. While the institute remains closed for students during the lockdown, the principal and staff members designed and made them at the institute’s workshops. These ‘aerosol boxes’ and ‘face shields’ will be provided to COVID-19 hospitals in Ganjam district. An ‘aerosol box’ is a transparent box with holes to enter gloved hands, which is put over the head of a COVID-19 patient placed on ventilator in ICU during the intubation process. The ‘aerosol box’ serves as a barrier to check possible transmission of COVID-19 droplets from the patient to the treating doctors during intubation. The ‘aerosol box’ is made of 4 mm transparent acrylic sheets cut by a laser cutting machine to make the joints completely airtight, said Mr. Panigrahy. These are reusable after sanitisation, he added. The ‘face shields’ are A4 transparent shield with foam-lined elastic bands to keep them attached to the head of the user.
28 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||8 new cases in Odisha, total now 111||Eight new COVID-19 cases were reported on Monday taking Odisha’s total to 111. Of these, 72 patients are under treatment, 37 have recovered and one has died so far. While six of the eight new cases were reported from Balasore, one was from Jajpur and one from Koraput, the first case in the district, according to the State government. The Koraput case pertains to a 22-year-old staff nurse who had come from Kolkata on April 14. He was quarantined and tested, the government said.
28 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Allow opening of industries, shops in some areas: Amarinder||Amid the ongoing lockdown, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has urged the Union Home Minister to allow opening of small shops, businesses and industries in all areas except the containment zones, with full compliance of COVID-19 prevention measures.  Centre’s request In a letter sent to Home Minister Amit Shah, in response to the Centre’s request for a written submission of issues faced by the State, the Chief Minister has highlighted the pending issues that need the urgent attention of the Centre. Among the various State-related issues pending for the Centre’s attention, Captain Amarinder listed release of Punjab’s GST arrears of Rs. 4,386.37 crore, as well as a revenue deficit grant to meet the shortfall in revenue combined with need for higher expenditure on relief and healthcare to manage and contain COVID-19. Other pending issues cited by the Chief Minister include bonus to farmers for staggered purchase of wheat, as well as direct cash assistance to daily industrial and agricultural labour including the migrant labour. He also reiterated the State’s demand for assistance to MSMEs and power generation and distribution companies by way of interest subvention, deferment of loans by commercial banks and reduction in GST on coal. ‘Early action’ These issues were of paramount importance and needed immediate attention, said Capt. Amarinder, urging the Home Ministry to “appreciate and ensure an early action on these issues for further effective management of COVID-19 as also to provide requisite relief to all those who are adversely affected by this crisis.’
28 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Manmohan to guide Punjab revival plan||The Punjab government on Monday took initial steps towards formulating a post-COVID revival strategy for the State with the Montek Singh Ahluwalia-led group of experts setting up five subgroups. In a boost to the government’s plans, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh accepted Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s request to provide overall guidance in restoring the State’s economic growth. Introductory meeting The group of experts, headed by Mr. Ahluwalia, had its introductory meeting through videoconference with the Chief Minister, who disclosed that he had written to the former Prime Minister to guide the State government along with the group of experts, and that the latter had agreed to do so. “We have been working hard to steer Punjab to the path of economic growth & post Covid 19, we will again focus on same,” he tweeted. An official statement said Capt. Amarinder told the group that the State’s financial situation was grim, with monthly revenue losses to the tune of Rs. 3,360 crore. This includes losses on account of GST (Rs. 1,322 crore), State excise on liquor (Rs. 521 crore), motor vehicle tax (Rs. 198 crore), VAT on petrol and diesel (Rs. 465 crore), electricity duty (Rs. 243 crore), stamp duty (Rs. 219 crore) and non-tax revenue (Rs. 392 crore). In a related development, former Union Law Minister Ashwani Kumar, in a letter to Capt. Amarinder, urged him to take several initiatives. Citizens’ committee Among others, he suggested setting up a committee of prominent citizens of the State on the possible humanitarian measures required to bring succour to the poorest of the poor, particularly those in the most backward rural areas who have little means of subsistence. He also asked for more resources to be placed at the hands of District Collectors so that discretionary financial aid for the victims can be increased and immediate assistance provided to the destitute people.
28 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Stress on screening, testing all families in State, says Khattar||The present statistics of the State on COVID-19 are quite promising and the government is putting a lot of emphasis on screening and testing, said Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar at a video conference of the Chief Ministers chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. “A total of 20,792 teams with ASHA workers, anganwadi workers have been formed. The target of conducting screening of 100% families of the State is being carefully carried out and while carrying out the screening, samples are being taken of all those who are found to be possibly infected with COVID-19 infection,” he said. He said that presently there are 155 containment zones in the State where the lockdown is being strictly implemented. Isolation beds “Presently, quarantine arrangement has been made for 19,000 patients and an arrangement of isolation beds for 9,444 patients has also been made. As many as 1,101 ventilators are in working condition in the State,” he added. Mr. Khattar said that guidelines of the Union Home Ministry regarding relaxation during the lockdown have been fully implemented. “However, strictness is being implemented in some activities in some districts. Where there are arrangements to keep in the place of working (in situ), in such places industrial and construction activities have been started all across the State, excluding the containment zone. Similarly, 18,750 workers are working in situ in 415 such units,” he said. He also urged the Centre to take immediate steps to remove the prevailing uncertainty around dates of competitive examinations amid the ongoing lockdown.
28 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Jalandhar-based media house office is ‘hotspot’||With 78 positive cases of COVID-19 being so far detected in Jalandhar, the district has become the latest hotspot in Punjab. Among these, as many as 27 are either employees of the Jalandhar-based media house Punjab Kesari group or their contacts, a senior official told The Hindu . “Out of the 78, there are 27 cases, which include employees of Punjab Kesari group and their contacts. The sample of first employee, who showed symptoms, was taken and sent to Amritsar. The reports came in around two days and the person was quarantined soon. However, till the time he was sampled, he continued to work. So, probably the infection spread in that time. After the first case, we sampled the rest of the employees — around 200 who were working in that complex,” said Shena Agarwal, Chief Administrator Jalandhar Development Authority. “The area has been sealed. All the positive cases are in civil hospital at isolation facility. And all contacts are home quarantined,” she said. Punjab reported one more COVID-19 related death, taking the tally to 19, according to an official statement. The Health department said the patient who died was from Patiala district. The State also reported 8 fresh cases, it added.
28 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Workers in Gurugram plan to walk to their village in M.P.||Around two dozen people, including women and children, all construction labourers, at a construction site in Sector 15 Part-II here decided to walk back to their native village in Madhya Pradesh after they ran out of the cash and food. They were not even allowed shelter at a relief camp and convinced to return to their jhuggis by the administration with the promise to arrange food for them. ‘Not enough food’ “We are even ready to walk for 15-20 days to return our village in Damoh. We have exhausted all our savings. We got no help from the district administration over the past one month except cooked food for two days,” said Neha, one of the workers. She said the families did not even have enough food even for the children. Lachhaman Prasad Ahirwar said they were out of job for more than a month now and could not sustain ourselves. “We got a call from our relatives back home saying that buses were plying from Sonipat and Gurugram transporting labourers to Madhya Pradesh. We, therefore, walked to Rajiv Chowk with the luggage looking for buses. But the police told us to go back,” said Lachhaman Prasad. Vinod Shirvas, another labourer, said they had even not got coupons for the distressed ration cards. The scheme provides for free ration to migrants for the month of April, May and June. Another woman said that both her children were back home and she wanted to return to her village.  ‘Without resources?’ The labourers also went to Sector 15 Part-II community centre relief camp seeking shelter, but were turned away. “They have come thronging to the centre since the people in the relief centres are being transported back to their native places. They actually want to return to their native village in Madhya Pradesh. It is not about food. How they managed to sustain themselves for a month if they were really without resources,” asked Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran, Estate Officer-II, Vivek Kalia, also in-charge relief camps.  We are even ready to walk for 15-20 days to return our village in Damoh. We have exhausted all our savings. A worker
28 April 2020||MANESAR,||‘Opening industries not enough, need more relaxations’||While the Chawlas prepare to open their leather goods factory — V&M — in Industrial Model Township here on Monday, more than a month after the lockdown was announced on March 24 midnight, one thought weighs heavily on the mind of the entreprenuer couple: how long will they able to run the show in case more relaxations do not come their way after May 3, the end date for the second phase of lockdown. ‘Keeping morale high’ Suman Chawla, the owner, said the opening of the industry as of now was more an attempt to “keep the morale of the workers high” than to actually initiate the production. She conceded that running the industry in isolation was not possible. “We need raw material, permission for transportation of the finished goods and buyers to run the industry. The opening of the industry is just a preparation, hoping more relaxations are announced after May 3. In the current situation, we may not be able to run it for more than a week,” said Ms. Chawla, also executive member, Manesar Industries Welfare Association. Her husband, Anil Chawla, said inter-State movement was “a must” for them to run the show since the third-party inspection of the finished products was a pre-requisite for them to sell them off. Post-April 20, the couple was granted permission to resume operations within four days, with the sanctioned strength of 40 people. The industry during normal days had the peak capacity of 245 workers. Before the production resumes, the couple faces another challenge of making their premises Standard Operating Procedures-compatible to ensure social distancing. At the entry to the main gate, the floor has been marked with yellow tapes at a distance of around two metres each to maintain safe distance between the workers. Before the workers enter the premises, they will be screened for fever and made to wash their hands. To continuously remind them of the new norms of social distancing, the owners have got the instruction charts made and pasted on all floors. Open doors “We have decided to keep all doors open so the workers need not touch them. Also, coupons would be issued for using the washrooms and separate water bottles with the names marked on them would be provided. No one would be allowed to go out for lunch. Separate seats will be marked in the sitting area for lunch inside the premises for all,” said Ms. Chawla. Besides, announcements would be made on each floor every hour to remind the staff about social distancing. The couple, however, feels that the gaps still remain. “Despite the workers maintaining the distance, they need to touch the leather bags on the assembly line. In fact, it would be impossible for any industry to completely avoid physical interaction between workers. If we can ensure that none of our workers is infected that would be the real prevention,” said Mr. Chawla.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Doctors’ association in Aligarh condemns BJP MLA’s remarks||The Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital (JNMCH) on Monday condemned the “irresponsible remarks” of Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Dalveer Singh and District Magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh for allegedly linking the spread of coronavirus in the district to the JNMCH. “Such statements will demoralise the doctors who are working day and night to fight the virus. We have been demanding PPEs (personal protective equipment) but what we get are irresponsible remarks. We are in touch with RDAs across the country and if such statements are repeated, we will be forced to go on a strike,” said Hamza Malik, president of JNMCH RDA. Aligarh has seen a sudden spike in cases in the last six days. In the last two days, the district has recorded 12 COVID-19 cases, taking the tally of active cases to 20. Before that, three junior doctors of JNMCH tested positive. Mr. Singh’s remarks, widely carried in local newspapers, held the JNMCH responsible for “community transmission-like spread of the virus in the city”. He said that the question of whether the hospital administration had delayed sharing information on the spread of COVID-19 should be investigated by the district administration. He added that he had requested the State government to take stock of the arrangements in the hospital. After the first case was detected in JNMCH, a senior doctor was suspended by Vice-Chancellor Tariq Mansoor for misconduct and negligence. A private X-ray lab in the city was also sealed by the district administration for testing the same person when he was showing symptoms of COVID-19. On Monday, the AMU PRO refuted the allegations made by the political leader. “Eighty of our health workers attending COVID-19-infected persons have tested negative, whereas five patients who came in contact with COVID-19-positive resident doctors have also tested positive,” said a university spokesperson. ‘Thorough investigation’ He further said that the infected persons had been admitted to JNMCH after visiting different private hospitals and health centres, and that a thorough investigation should be conducted. He said that JNMCH was a front-line hospital in the fight against COVID-19, and 250 samples were tested daily from Aligarh and neighbouring districts at the facility.
28 April 2020||Geneva,||UN warns of a ‘human rights disaster’||The UN rights chief warned on Monday that countries flouting the rule of law in the name of fighting the novel coronavirus pandemic risk sparking a “human rights disaster”. UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet called on countries to refrain from violating fundamental rights “under the guise of exceptional or emergency measures”. “Emergency powers should not be a weapon governments can wield to quash dissent, control the population, and even perpetuate their time in power,” she warned in a statement. “They should be used to cope effectively with the pandemic — nothing more, nothing less.” Her comments came after more than 200,000 people have perished in the pandemic and nearly 3 million have been infected worldwide by the novel coronavirus since it surfaced in China late last year. Ms. Bachelet acknowledged that states have the right to restrict some rights to protect public health, but she insisted that any restrictions should be necessary, proportionate and non-discriminatory, and also limited in duration. “There have been numerous reports from different regions that police and other security forces have been using excessive, and at times lethal, force to make people abide by lockdowns and curfews,” she said, lamenting that “such violations have often been committed against people belonging to the poorest and most vulnerable segments of the population”. “Shooting, detaining, or abusing someone for breaking a curfew because they are desperately searching for food is clearly an unacceptable and unlawful response. So is making it difficult or dangerous for a woman to get to hospital to give birth. In some cases, people are dying because of the inappropriate application of measures that have been supposedly put in place to save them,” Ms. Bachelet said. She also decried the mass arrests in some countries over curfew violations as “both unnecessary and unsafe.” “Jails and prisons are high risk environments, and states should focus on releasing whoever can be safely released, not detaining more people.” The UN rights chief also warned that efforts to rein in dangerous misinformation around the pandemic was in some cases being used as an excuse to crack down on legitimate free speech.“It is important to counter misinformation, but shutting down the free exchange of ideas and information not only violates rights, it undermines trust,” she said. Highest level of alarm Meanwhile, the WHO chief said on Monday that the agency had sounded the highest level of alarm early on, but lamented that not all countries had heeded its advice. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus pointed out that the WHO warned the COVID-19 outbreak constituted a 'Public Health Emergency of International Concern' on January 30, when there were only 82 cases registered outside China. “The world should have listened to WHO then carefully,” he told a virtual press briefing.
28 April 2020||COLOMBO,||In a crisis year, Sri Lanka gears up for daunting debt repayment||As Sri Lanka battles COVID-19 with its public health expertise and military might, it is gearing up for another imminent crisis — servicing its mounting external debt, of which $2.9 billion is due this year. Of the many economic side effects of the global pandemic, is the drastic fall in Sri Lanka's foreign exchange reserves — driven mainly by exports, remittances and tourism that have all suffered heavily post COVID-19 The Central Bank of Sri Lanka recently sought a $400 million currency swap with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), to boost its foreign reserves. “Yes, we have made a request to the RBI for a swap facility for $400 million,” Central Bank Governor W.D. Lakshman told The Hindu on Monday. Sri Lanka has resorted to the currency swap facility with the RBI from time to time to maintain its reserves, but the middle-income country has a daunting road ahead this year, as it must pay a sizeable portion of its foreign debt amounting to 42.6% of the country’s GDP in 2019. Well before COVID-19 emerged a threat, Sri Lanka mulled appealing for loan moratoriums from India and China, two of its willing lenders. Sri Lanka owes about $960 million to India, while its debt to China was $5 billion in 2018. Debt management Contrary to the popular “Chinese debt trap” analysis often made in regard to Sri Lanka’s economy, the country’s debt concerns are not confined to borrowings from China alone. “Sri Lanka certainly has a debt problem, but it is not necessarily a Chinese debt problem,” according to Ganesh Wignaraja, executive director of the Lakshman Kadirgamar Institute of International Relations and Strategic Studies. Along with three other researchers, Mr. Wignaraja recently co-authored a paper on Chinese investments, as part of a study commissioned by the London-based Chatham House policy institute. Citing 2018 data on Sri Lanka’s loans from different lenders, the paper shows that the country’s debt owed to financial markets (holders of international sovereign bonds issued in Sri Lanka) are more significant than that owed to multilateral lenders [such as the World Bank, IMF], and bilateral lenders [including China, Japan and India]. Economists like Mr. Wignaraja argue that Sri Lanka’s economic situation is better off compared to that of Greece or Argentina at the height of their crises, in terms of meeting its domestic and international obligations — using its reserves, domestic borrowings or by printing money. However, everyone agrees that the debt raised through sovereign bonds in the international money markets is stifling, with little wiggle room or scope for negotiation. With a $1 billion-international sovereign bond maturing in October, the alarm bells are already ringing in Sri Lanka.  Unblemished record Asked about Sri Lanka’s strategy, the Central Bank told The Hindu that the country had maintained “an unblemished record” of debt servicing and had entered into a long-term financing arrangement through which it received funds totalling $500 million in March, and expected an additional $300 million soon. Further, the apex bank said liquidity facilitation arrangements with the RBI — in the form of swap facilities — and other major central banks are at “an advanced stage of completion”. Arrangements with the IMF and other multilateral donors are also under review, a spokesman said. However, in addition to managing different lenders, it is time for Sri Lanka to consider some fundamental changes to its policy, economists emphasise, pointing to the need for greater attention to the rural economy, mainly agriculture, and a shift from an “urban bias” in policy, as Mr. Wignaraja put it. Ahilan Kadirgamar, senior lecturer, University of Jaffna, said Sri Lanka’s limited foreign reserves are necessary not only for debt servicing but also for essential imports amid falling foreign earnings. In the current situation, he predicts that the government will be squeezed by its demanding foreign lenders, while facing growing discontent from citizens who are denied imported goods that Sri Lanka has failed to substitute in the past. “Even as the government makes every effort to avoid defaulting on its foreign debt, can it muster the political will to redistribute wealth to ensure the working people can afford a broad basket of goods amidst rising costs for many goods in short supply?” he asked.
03 May 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Where is Kim Jong-un?||The Internet is abundant with speculations about the health of Kim Jong-un. What triggered the rumours was his absence from the ‘Day of the Sun’ celebrations on April 15 marking the birth anniversary of Kim Il-sung, his grandfather and the founder of North Korea. This is the first time Mr. Kim is missing the festivities, the most important holiday in North Korea, since becoming leader in 2011. Mr. Kim was last seen in the state media on April 12 when he visited an air force base.  The first bomb was dropped by Daily NK , a Seoul-based media outlet largely run by North Korean defectors, on April 20. It claimed, quoting anonymous sources in North Korea, that Mr. Kim underwent a cardiovascular surgery and was recovering at one of his countryside villas. Japanese magazine Shukan Gendai reported last week that Mr. Kim had a heart attack and the North Korean doctors did an emergency surgery to insert arterial stents. The procedure went bad, leaving the leader brain dead, the report claimed, quoting an unnamed Chinese medical source. On April 25, Reuters carried a report, saying China had despatched medical personnel to North Korea.    Not the first time This is not the first time Mr. Kim is disappearing from the public. In 2014, he went missing from the state media for over a month, triggering speculations about his health. This time, the rumours are more serious with one report claiming that he’s in a vegetative situation and unnamed American intelligence officials telling the CNN that he’s in “grave danger”. In 1986, when the South Korean military claimed that Kim Il-sung was dead, the state media in Pyongyang immediately denied it and published reports of the leader greeting Mongolian visitors at the Pyongyang airport. But this time, despite speculations, there was no confirmation or negation of the reports from the North Korean side, which in turn is adding fuel to the rumour mills. So what we know for sure is that Mr. Kim is out of the public eye for now, at a time when the coronavirus crisis is shaking the whole world (North Korea’s claim is that there’s no virus case in the country). There could be at least three possibilities. The reports about his health condition could be true and he’s either in a serious condition or recovering. Two, Mr. Kim, a chain smoker and overweight, could be staying away from the public during the time of the virus crisis. Or his retreat could be part of some tactical plan. No world leader or intelligence official has confirmed the reports about Mr. Kim’s ill-health. When U.S. President Donald Trump was asked, he called the reports “incorrect”. Moon Chung-in, a special adviser on national security to South Korea President Moon Jae-in, said on Sunday that “Kim Jong-un is alive and well”. He said Mr. Kim had been staying in the east coast resort town Wonsan since April 13. On Saturday, 38 North , a North Korea-focussed website, had released a satellite image of a train that “probably belongs to Mr. Kim”, parked at the Leadership Railway Station near the leader’s compound in Wonsan. “The train’s presence... does lend weight to reports that Kim is staying at an elite area on the country’s eastern coast,” said the report. Potential successor Mr. Kim’s absence has also triggered speculations on who could be his successor. When reporters posed this question to U.S. National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien last week, he said, the “basic assumption would be maybe it would be someone in the family...” Mr. Kim’s younger sister, Kim Yo-jong, has been seen as a potential successor. His older full-brother Kim Jong-chol has largely stayed out of politics, while Ms. Kim is an important party leader. She is currently the Deputy Director of the Workers’ Party’s Department of Propaganda and Agitation. She visited South Korea during the 2018 Winter Olympics, and had attended Mr. Kim’s summits with Mr. Trump and South Korean leader Moon. Ms. Kim’s rise in a party that has been tightly controlled by the men of the Kim family had made headlines. As journalist Barbara Demick wrote in The New Yorker , if the speculations about Mr. Kim’s health are true and North Korea is trying to identify his successor, “the last man standing” could “quite possibly be a woman”.
28 April 2020||COLOMBO,||Reconvene Parliament: Sri Lanka Opposition||Seven Opposition parties in Sri Lanka have urged President Gotabaya Rajapaksa to reconvene Parliament, pledging “responsible cooperation” to his government in fighting COVID-19. Assuring citizens that they would not draw salaries, attempt to defeat the government or thwart any of the “legitimate actions of the government”, the leaders said in a joint statement on Monday: “As members of the dissolved Parliament, we are duty bound to fulfil our obligations to resolve this crisis in a spirit of responsible cooperation extended to the President.” Political sources said the statement was handed over to President Rajapaksa’s office. He is yet to comment. Snap polls Mr. Rajapaksa, who dissolved Parliament on March 2 and called for snap polls on April 25, has maintained that he had no intention to reconvene Parliament and that the fixing of poll dates was the Election Commission’s prerogative. After COVID-19 hit Sri Lanka — more than 500 cases reported so far — the Commission postponed the election to June 20, a date it said was subject to review. According to the Opposition parties, the political situation is in “a state of uncertainty” due to the dissolution of Parliament and “the absence of conditions conducive to hold parliamentary elections as stipulated”. Several Opposition parties have already voiced concern over holding polls amid a raging pandemic and have instead proposed reconvening Parliament to allow passage of relevant laws to strengthen the novel coronavirus response. Getting new legislation passed to meet the health crisis and obtaining parliamentary sanction to the utilisation of funds from the Consolidated Fund are “important and urgent” functions of Parliament, said the parties. Former Prime Minister and Leader of the United National Party Ranil Wickremesinghe, former Leader of the Opposition and leader of the Samagi Jana Balawegaya (United People’s Front) Sajith Premadasa, Tamil National Alliance leader R. Sampanthan, Sri Lanka Muslim Congress leader Rauff Hakeem, All Ceylon Makkal Congress leader Rishad Bathiudeen, Tamil Progressive Alliance leader Mano Ganesan and Jathika Hela Urumaya leader Champika Ranawaka have signed the joint statement. Spike in cases Sri Lanka has witnessed a spike in the COVID-19 positive cases in the last week, raising the number to 557 as of Monday afternoon. So far seven persons have succumbed to the infection while 126 have recovered, according to official health bulletins. Districts identified as “high-risk” areas including Colombo have been under curfew since March 20. Amid calls from health experts to step up testing rapidly, the health authorities said they would increase testing to over 1,000 a day. “We have failed to use the curfew to reduce the rate of person-to-person spread of the virus to a level where epidemic spread cannot occur,” said Dr. Ravi Rannan-Eliya, executive director of the Institute for Health Policy, in a blog published on the Institute’s website on Sunday. “It is hard to avoid the conclusion that at the root of the failure was a mindset unable to rise to the urgency of the hour, to fully understand the challenge we face, and to think outside the box,” he said.  We have failed to use the curfew to reduce the rate of person-to-person spread of the virus Dr. Ravi Rannan-Eliya Health official
28 April 2020||Sydney,||Chinese envoy threatens boycott of Australia||China’s Ambassador in Australia has warned that demands for a probe into the spread of the coronavirus could lead to a consumer boycott of Aussie wine or trips Down Under. Australia has joined the U.S. in calling for a thorough investigation of how the virus transformed from a localised epidemic in central China into a pandemic that has killed more than 2,00,000 people. In a thinly veiled threat, Ambassador Cheng Jingye warned the push for an independent inquest into the origins of the outbreak was “dangerous”. “The Chinese public is frustrated, dismayed and disappointed with what Australia is doing now,” he claimed in an interview with the Australian Financial Review published on Sunday. “If the mood is going from bad to worse, people would think ‘why should we go to such a country that is not so friendly to China?’,” he added. Mr. Cheng also threatened the flow of Chinese students to Australian universities will be affected. The comments mark a significant escalation in tensions between Beijing and Canberra, whose relations are already strained.
28 April 2020||Islamabad,||Pakistan cleric slammed for misogynistic remarks||A Pakistani cleric whose group has been blamed for spreading COVID-19 is facing ridicule after he suggested the pandemic was caused partly by the “immodesty” of women. Maulana Tariq Jameel appeared on a telethon with Prime Minister Imran Khan last week, when he explained various Islamic religious codes and said humanity had been punished in the past for breaking these. “Who has demolished modesty in my country? Who is making the nation’s daughters dance? Who is shortening their dresses? Who should be held responsible?” Mr. Jameel said during the fundraiser hosted by Mr. Khan. The comment spurred an immediate backlash with leading activists and a government Minister blasting the cleric, while social media users roasted the preacher for ignoring his own group’s role in spreading the virus. Mr. Jameel is a senior member of the Tablighi Jamaat group which has been blamed for seeding the epidemic in Pakistan by holding a gathering with 1,00,000 participants in March after the virus had already been detected in the country — leading to hundreds of transmissions. The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan warned that the remarks “only compound the misogyny entrenched in society”.
28 April 2020||Kabul,||Violence rose after Afghan deal, says UN||Violence surged in Afghanistan in the weeks after the U.S. and the Taliban signed a deal supposed to pave the way for a peace process, a UN agency said Monday. Afghans had enjoyed a period of relative calm ahead of the February 29 accord, but the conflict resumed almost as soon as the deal was signed, and the militant group has since rejected multiple calls for a ceasefire during Ramzan. “The report tracks a disturbing increase in violence during March at a time when it was hoped that the Government of Afghanistan and the Taliban would commence peace negotiations,” said the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan. More than 500 civilians were killed and over 700 injured during the first three months of the year, UNAMA said.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The script of disruption and a new order||The COVID-19 pandemic is unprecedented, involving as it does far too many variables. The very complexity of the novel coronavirus leads to radical uncertainty. Hence, it it unlikely that the world will ever be the same again. Abnormal could well become the new normal.  Pandemics have often changed the world and reshaped human society. Empires have collapsed. Commentators are already talking of fundamental alterations in governance and business norms. What is left unsaid — and likely to pose an even bigger challenge — is the extent to which the pandemic will impact human values and conduct. There is already concern that a diminution in human values could occur, and with this, the concept of an international community might well cease to exist. Each nation is tending to look inwards, concentrating on its narrowly defined national interests.  Institutions under fire It is singularly unfortunate that at a time like this, existing international institutions such as the United Nations, the United Nations Security Council and the World Health Organization (WHO) are seen to have failed to measure up to the grave challenge posed by the pandemic. While the UN Security Council is under attack for being slow in dealing with a situation that appears, at least on the surface, far graver than any military threat in recent decades, WHO has been tarred with the charge of bias and of grossly underestimating the nature of the epidemic. That prestigious global institutions should have been singled out for attack at this time speaks volumes about the mood prevailing across the world.  Economic shock There are many other aspects of the COVID-19 crisis that will drastically impact the globe. On the economic front, the World Bank has already predicted negative growth for most nations. India’s growth forecast for the current fiscal year has been put at 1.5% to 2.8%. Contraction of the economy and the loss of millions of jobs across all segments will further complicate this situation.  What is likely to change even more dramatically are certain other aspects relating to political management and security. Both terms are set to gain new meanings. The role of the state as an enforcer of public good will almost certainly become greatly enhanced. The dominant imperative would be to not put limits on the role of the state even where the situation may not be as grave as the present one. Many pieces of legislation of yesteryears that had been relegated to the archives — they were perceived to be anachronistic in a modern democratic set-up — may get a new lease of life. Some pieces of legislation such as the Disaster Management Act already reflect this reality today. Other pieces of legislation could follow in its wake.  This trend is already becoming evident to some extent across the world. Europe has shown a willingness to sacrifice personal liberties in favour of greater state control. There are no serious protests over the fact that many of the powers being vested in the instruments of state in democracies today, to meet the current challenge, are eerily similar to those already practised by authoritarian regimes such as China. Post COVID-19, the world may have to pay a heavy price in terms of loss of liberty. An omnipotent state could well become a reality.  China in the spotlight Far-reaching changes can also be anticipated in the realm of geo-economics and geopolitics. The world needs to prepare for a sea change. One nation, viz. China, is presently seeking to take advantage of and benefit from the problems faced by the rest of the world in the wake of the epidemic. Already one of the most prominent nations of the world and an important player in international institutions, China remains totally unfazed by the stigma that the current world pandemic owes a great deal to its negligence — the first identified and detected COVID-19 victim in Wuhan was on December 1, 2019, but it was only in the second week of January 2020, that China sounded the alarm. More importantly, it is seeking to convert its ‘failure’ into a significant opportunity. This is Sino-centrism at its best, or possibly its worst.  Already indispensable as the world’s supplier of manufactured goods, China now seeks to benefit from the fact of its ‘early recovery’ to take advantage of the travails of the rest of the world, by using its manufacturing capability to its geo-economic advantage. Simultaneously, it seeks to shift from being a Black Swan (responsible for the pandemic), to masquerade as a White one, by offering medical aid and other palliatives to several Asian and African countries to meet their current pandemic threat. In turn, it seeks to gain a geopolitical advantage by this action.  China also seems to be preparing for the eventuality that the current pandemic could hollow out the financial viability of many companies, institutions and banks across the world. There are enough reports of China’s intentions to acquire financial assets and stakes in banks and companies across the world, taking advantage of the scaled-down value of their assets to support this. India seems to have woken up only recently to this threat, after the Peoples’ Bank of China acquired a 1% stake in India’s HDFC, taking advantage of the sharp decline in the price of HDFC stocks. Across the world, meanwhile, the clamour against China’s hostile takeover bids is becoming stronger. Several countries apart from India, such as Australia and Germany, have begun to restrict Chinese foreign direct investment in companies and financial institutions in their countries, recognising the inherent danger of a possible Chinese hostile takeover of their critical assets.  This may not, however, be adequate to checkmate China, which is poised to dominate the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), thus enabling it to exploit market access across the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, East Asian nations, Australia and New Zealand. Together with its Belt and Road Initiative, which seeks to combine regional connectivity alongside gaining a virtual economic and substantial stranglehold across Asia, China is ostensibly preparing the way for a China-centric multilateral globalisation framework.  A faltering West The geopolitical fallout of this pandemic could be still more serious. One distinct possibility is that COVID-19 would effectively put paid to the existing global order that has existed since the late 1940s. The United States which is already being touted in some circles as a ‘failing’ state, will be compelled to cede ground. Weakened economically and politically after COVID-19 has ravaged the nation, the U.S.’s capacity to play a critical role in world affairs is certain to diminish. The main beneficiary of this geopolitical turnaround is likely to be China, a country that does not quite believe in playing by the rules of international conduct. Europe, in the short and medium term, will prove incapable of defining and defending its common interests, let alone having any influence in world affairs. Germany, which may still retain some of its present strength, is already turning insular, while both France and a post-Brexit United Kingdom will be out of the reckoning as of now.  West Asia and India Coming to West Asia, both Saudi Arabia and Iran are set to face difficult times. The oil price meltdown will aggravate an already difficult situation across the region. There may be no victors, but Israel may be one country that is in a position to exploit this situation to its advantage. In the meantime, the economic downturn greatly reduces India’s room for manoeuvre. In South Asia, it faces the prospect of being isolated, with the Chinese juggernaut winning Beijing new friends and contacts across a region deeply impacted by the economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. Likewise, India’s leverage in West Asia — already greatly diminished — will suffer further, with oil prices going down and the Indian expatriate community (who are among the hardest hit by this downturn) out on a limb. Many of the latter may seek repatriation back to the host country, substantially reducing the inflow of foreign funds to India from the region.  M.K. Narayanan is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||A policy road map to tackle COVID-19||How will it all end? Policies to address the worldwide crisis brought about by COVID-19 must satisfy three criteria. First, they must aim to minimise the loss of life directly resulting from the disease, while recognising that there remain deep uncertainties about its true nature. Second, they must restore the elements of economic and social life as soon as possible, so as to avoid disastrous and lasting consequences, including for other aspects of health, schooling, food security and livelihood. The costs of lockdowns have already been massive and will deepen if they result in foregone health treatments, dropouts from school, and permanent closure of businesses. The direct effect of COVID-19 on the life expectancy of the non-elderly will be modest. But the indirect effects of the lockdown on health and well-being may be severe, especially for poorer persons and countries. An approach that values all lives must give attention to the costs as well as benefits of the lockdown, conceiving the public health comprehensively. Third, they must aim at a glide path out of the crisis, that can reasonably be projected to end it once and for all — not merely to manage it indefinitely through, for instance, periodic lockdowns. That idea has been motivated by abstract epidemiological models which do not take account of other health effects, let alone non-health effects, of draconian policies, and which make mechanical assumptions about individuals. On and off policies can result in deep damage. There are costs involved in starting and stopping schools and business, but beyond this, human beings need regularity to plan and act sensibly. An effective health system Three directions for policy are suggested by these three criteria. First, infections which do not lead to fatalities or lasting illness must be treated as on balance desirable, when determining the right balance of policies. This recognises a central trade-off — avoiding infection versus gaining possible population-level immunity. As long as the disease is circulating and no medical breakthrough has been achieved, lockdowns, mass testing, contact-tracing and quarantining can only buy time. Reducing the flow of persons who get the disease in each moment diminishes the stock of those who have been exposed, which extends the duration of vulnerability of society. This is not speculation but arithmetic, supposing any degree of immunity from having had the disease. Widespread testing and contact-tracing can help to manage the flow of infections and reduce the danger to those especially at risk, but would have to be continued indefinitely until a vaccine is developed, and demands adequate public health infrastructure, severely neglected in many countries. The need to rebuild an effective basic health system is underlined by the few success stories to date in handling the outbreak, such as Kerala. Testing on a mass scale is far from being achieved even in the most advanced countries, let alone others. To add to this, spreading the illness over time will likely not lower the number of deaths in developing countries to the same degree as in developed countries which possess superior, although still constrained, curative health infrastructure. As already noted, lockdowns and other means of delaying the spread of the disease come at enormous costs to other pressing societal objectives, including health itself (the already reduced rates of control of other infectious diseases in India and other countries provides a case in point). Due to different circumstances, the appropriate strategies for protecting life may vary across countries even when the end is the same. Second, policies must make a link between restoration of economic output and adequate investment in containing, indeed ending, the disease. This means that costs of vaccine development, mass testing and other measures attacking the disease must be viewed as enjoying a healthy societal return. The very low contributions so far to the international fund to develop a vaccine for the virus shows the scale of mismatch between the losses already incurred worldwide and likely to be incurred in the future, and investments to limit those losses. Failure to finance vaccine development is not mere free riding, but borders on suicide, since the prospective gains of individual countries would more than justify paying for the needed investment. Private firms are also being encouraged to contribute, but should agree that any breakthrough must be freely available and benefit all. Recognising the interdependence involved in fighting the disease, and its economic and social consequences, the UN must provide the leadership that has been so far missing. Smart policies Third, ‘smart’ design of policies can permit restoration of economic and social life. Such policies should be designed and targeted to allow lower-risk segments of the population to return to daily activities, while protecting higher-risk ones. For instance, systematic collection of test results and other data can be used to manage restrictions so that they are local and temporary. Large and dense gatherings can be prevented, but others allowed, especially those involving younger persons. Financial compensation for lost earnings, and in-kind support to limit social contacts, such as services to deliver essential goods to the home, can be provided to family members and professionals who help the elderly and vulnerable. Public infrastructure for those who have no suitable alternatives, such as residential facilities to support self-isolation where needed, can be developed. Some policy choices will be complementary, for instance because schools must reopen in order that parents can work. Public actions must enable and encourage desired behaviours, rather than restrict and punish undesired ones. Technology can play an assistive role but is no substitute for public understanding and voluntary choices, fostered by supportive public policies that remove obstacles and enhance benefits of the behaviours being sought. An approach that is effective at balancing and achieving the desired goals can and should also be democratic. The aim must be to reduce risks and manage interdependence, rather than to build walls, whether around individuals, localities or countries. Smart policies can include resumption of contacts across nations, for instance by beginning with testing and quarantines of visitors progressively. Now that infection rates have risen everywhere, the benefit of continued isolation on reducing the spread of the disease is limited, but its other costs are great. It is more feasible to bring the disease under control in one’s own society through internal measures than to ensure its control everywhere. That is likely to be impossible because of war zones, weak states and broken health systems. A country that has achieved a degree of control over the disease can, however, sustain links to the world with confidence, and need not wait for universal success to begin to restore international contacts. The right perspective is not one of business versus life nor of life versus life, but of life and life, seeking to reconcile goals through sensible measures. The interest of each and the interests of all now coincide, not only within nations but for all humanity. Sanjay Reddy is professor of economics at the New School for Social Research in New York
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||India in the post-pandemic world||Yes, we all know that the world we once knew has gone, perhaps forever. Much has changed and will continue to. What has not changed though, is human nature itself. The way we react, as a species to the unknown, or to an existential threat, on a scale not experienced in recent times, to something that we cannot quite comprehend as yet, in its entirety. We have arrived, once again, at the boundaries of the human race’s collective knowledge, and it is sobering to be reminded that what we do not know is much greater than what we do know, about ourselves and the world we live in. A leadership role The fact that there is no end in sight to the COVID-19 crisis does not prevent us from making prognoses of what a post-COVID-19 world may look like. The pandemic has added heft to arguments of foreign policy analysts across the entire spectrum of strategic thinking, from nationalists and anti-globalists, to advocating a more robust multilateralism and a leadership role for India in mobilising international cooperation. I believe, however, that before we get too involved in the contours of a post-pandemic world, we first need to think about where we are headed as a post-pandemic India. Yes, there will be a churning as nations scramble for advantage in the world order as the pandemic recedes, but I think we need to be more concerned at this point of time with the social and economic churning under way within our own country, accentuated and magnified by the COVID-19 crisis. The role that India plays in the post-pandemic world order will be determined by how we deal with the crisis now, and how we emerge from it. This, in turn, depends on certain fundamental factors — the quality of leadership, the quality of administration at all levels, (Centre, State, district and village), the robustness of institutional frameworks, the quality of health care, and our social coherence as a people. Admittedly, the manner in which some of these have functioned recently, does not engender great confidence. Further, the manner in which we have dealt with the pandemic until now has made it painfully clear, as nothing else has in recent times, that there are two Indias — an India in which social distancing is possible and an India in which it is not. Crucial investments The COVID-19 epidemic has mercilessly highlighted our shortcomings and our failures, even as we pride ourselves on being the world’s largest democracy and its fifth largest economy. It has highlighted our age-old fault lines of caste, class and creed. There are still too many inequalities, and too many of us who have been left behind, on whom the effects of the lockdown have been the most severe, compounding the economic distress of recent years. Yes, the lockdown was necessary in order to pause the spread of the pandemic. However the manner of its implementation, without the government of India even foreseeing, much less planning for, the consequences of such a step, or coordinating with States in advance, or spelling out how it would support the millions so affected, was harsh in the extreme on the poorer sections of our population. It was starkly reflected in the thousands of migrant workers believing (not without reason) that they were invisible to the Establishment, and not knowing what else to do, leaving by foot, trying to reach the only safety net they had — extended families and homes in their villages. There lies grave danger here, of both the health and the economic consequences of the crisis intersecting amongst our poor, with potentially devastating consequences for them as well as for our overall attempt to manage the novel coronavirus. It often takes a crisis to bring about fundamental change. Can one dare hope that this crisis too will bring about such change for the good? That it will bring about the policies and mindsets necessary to deal with the injustices and inequalities so painfully magnified by recent events? It is time for the government to lay out a comprehensive road map to deal with both the health and the economic consequences of the crisis, and to make long overdue investments on the massive scale needed, in universal health care, education and social security. Or at least to plan for it, and to raise the resources to back these plans with adequate funding, regardless of the fiscal deficit that will follow. In its absence, we run the risk of social disorder, as witnessed in Bandra (Mumbai), Surat (Gujarat) and other parts of India where our poor are in lockdown. Growing perceptions of injustice and of the government’s indifference to their plight could well lead to widespread outrage that would be difficult to control. The investment that needs to be made in the millions of our people who live in poverty, or on the edge of it, are not merely welfare measures. They are fundamental to our socioeconomic transformation, which in itself is an imperative. Also, if India is to be in any position to make use of opportunities that emerge in the reordering of the global economy as the pandemic recedes. On the global stage In parallel with an inclusive, all-of-India effort on the domestic front, India needs to be part of international efforts to deal with the COVID-19 crisis — multilateral, regional or bilateral. It makes sound humanitarian as well as strategic sense for us to supply medicines of which we are the major producers (dependent though we may be, on China for 70% of the active pharmaceutical ingredients needed to produce them), to other countries. It is also important that we participate in international efforts towards finding a vaccine and ramp up capacities to produce it in the quantities needed, both for our own people and for the world. Yes, the world will have changed by the time the crisis recedes, but we, the human race, will continue to be what we have always been — relentless in our search for wealth and power, both within nations and without. On the international front, nations will continue to strive for strategic advantage in furthering their interests and constrained by realpolitik in striving for the common good. Countries that emerge in positions of relative economic advantage will present competing visions for the post-pandemic world order. If we wish to play a leadership role and to present a vision for a more inclusive world defined by international cooperation, then we need to back it with our own example, on the domestic as well as the international fronts. I believe that in any post-pandemic world order that emerges, regardless of whether it is U.S.-centric or China-centric, there is no scenario in which India, a universe in itself, and home to one-sixth of humanity, will not occupy a place. The question is this: Will we emerge as part of the problem or as part of the solution? Will we emerge weaker or stronger as a nation? Will we have been guided by divisive political agendas that deepen our fault lines? Or will we have worked towards an inclusive India that embraces all of us in its fold, regardless of caste, class or creed? The pandemic has brought us to an inflection point. How we deal with it will determine our place in the future world order. Sujatha Singh is Former Foreign Secretary
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Lacking in transparency||The lockdown of the country has had a devastating social impact. A recent survey of internal migrant workers found that 42% did not even have a day’s worth of rations left. The situation in the agricultural sector is also grim. Soon after the lockdown commenced, the Prime Minister apologised for the misery that his decision had caused, but claimed that he had “no other option”. However, it is false that a total lockdown was unavoidable. A lockdown is not a permanent solution for the pandemic. Models suggest that, in the absence of other long-term measures, the epidemic could bounce back when restrictions are eased. Therefore, a lockdown is just a method of buying time to prepare the healthcare system for a long battle. A result of government failure But if the purpose of the lockdown is to gain time, this begets another question. The World Health Organization declared the novel coronavirus outbreak a “public health emergency of international concern” on January 30. India was lucky because the virus arrived here relatively late. Why did the government not prepare itself despite several weeks of advance notice? If the government had scaled up testing capability in February, tested and quarantined international travellers from high-risk countries, including asymptomatic travellers, and established stocks of personal protective equipment, a total lockdown could have been avoided. India could not have escaped the epidemic entirely, but it could have minimised damage to the economy, while keeping infections at a manageable level through testing, contact-tracing and, possibly, targeted lockdowns. It follows that the social catastrophe caused by the lockdown is the direct result of the failure of the government to respond to the epidemic in a timely manner. In his address to the nation on April 14, the Prime Minister remarked that his government took “quick decisions” to contain the disease. This myth has allowed the government to escape accountability for its past failures and emboldened it to charge ahead with problematic policies. An example is the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s reluctance to expand the scope of testing. On April 27, India had tested 486 individuals per million of the population. This is not only more than 50 times lower than the corresponding rate in Italy, it is significantly lower than the rate in Pakistan. Almost a week into the lockdown, on March 30, the ICMR admitted that it was testing at “less than 30%” of its capacity. This raises serious questions about whether ICMR’s strict testing guidelines are partly motivated by the desire to keep the number of reported infections low and disingenuously suggest that the epidemic is in control. Studies suggest that more than 80% of those infected by COVID-19 are asymptomatic or only mildly symptomatic. Since such individuals can nevertheless infect others, they must be included in the ambit of testing. Otherwise, they could form the base for a rapid spread of the epidemic.  The role of the people The government must not only collect more data, it must share and analyse this data openly so that people can verify the rationale behind its administrative decisions. Instead, the government has started peddling numbers that make no sense. Just before extending the lockdown, the government claimed that India would have had 8 lakh cases by 15 April without the lockdown. But independent analysts believe that the lockdown’s role in reducing the number of cases in India has been of a smaller magnitude. In his address, the Prime Minister stated that “several countries” which were “at par with India” a few weeks earlier had gone on to develop “25-30 times” more cases. But the data fail to reveal the existence of any such country. The U.S. and Spain, which have the world’s highest number of infections had, respectively, 53 and 15 times as many cases as India on the day of the address. But these countries have always been ahead of India on the epidemic’s curve. By March 14, they had reported 27 and 63 times more cases, respectively, than India. A crisis provides the state with a ready justification to shun both accountability and transparency. However, while this might be expedient for those in power, it does not lead to an effective public health strategy. The virus is immune to political spin and data-suppression. This is why the role of the Indian people is crucial, and it goes well beyond lighting candles. We can best contribute in the country’s battle against the epidemic by keeping ourselves informed, holding the government to account, and constantly pushing it to adopt policies that are scientific, transparent and people-oriented.  Suvrat Raju is a physicist with the International Centre for Theoretical Sciences, Bengaluru. Views expressed are personal
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Hostage to obscurantism||In the month of Ramadan, Muslims renew their faith by fasting, participating in family and community dinners, and congregational prayers. This Ramadan is unique, however, because of COVID-19, which in most Muslim-majority countries as well as in India has led to the shutting down of mosques and banning of congregational prayers. The holiest sites of Islam in Mecca and Medina have been subject to lockdowns as well. Most Muslims have adjusted to the new reality justifying it with reference to the Prophetic tradition that human life is more important than the performance of religious rituals. Defying orders The most visible exception to this rule is Pakistan where reactionary mullahs have defied government orders and insisted on performing congregational prayers even against the powerful military’s preferences. Imran Khan’s government has buckled under this obscurantist pressure and allowed congregational prayers to continue. It has attached certain social distancing provisions that are unenforceable in the Pakistani milieu. This is a signal that the most obscurantist elements in Pakistan are now capable of calling the shots even in defiance of the country’s powerful military brass as well as putting at risk thousands of lives because of lack of physical distancing. These elements, including some religious parties and jihadist organisations, have been gaining ground politically over the years. It is commonly assumed that their political clout has amplified since General Zia-ul-Haq’s programme of Islamising the country and Pakistan’s participation in the Afghan “jihad” in the 1980s that, it is argued, changed the political culture of the country. While there is a good deal of substance to this argument it ignores the basic fact that while the movement for Pakistan’s creation was led by a largely secular elite it was undertaken in the name of religion, and Islam was touted as the raison d’etre for its establishment. Mohammad Ali Jinnah, who was from a peripheral Shia community, became the Qaid-e-Azam of the predominantly Sunni Pakistan movement. He and his lieutenants viewed Islam in instrumental terms. To them it was the most effective tool to mobilise Muslim masses to aggrandise power while leaving Muslims in the minority provinces, who they considered dispensable, far more vulnerable than they would have been in undivided India. All they were interested in was creating a Muslim-majority state over which they could rule since they could not compete with the Indian National Congress for influence and power in a united India after the British withdrawal. A slippery slope Pakistan’s founders were not interested in creating an Islamic theocracy. However, less than two years after Pakistan’s independence religious leaders pressured Prime Minister Liaquat Ali Khan to include in the Objectives Resolution (which later became the Preamble to Pakistan’s first Constitution) that sovereignty belongs to Allah who had delegated his authority to the state of Pakistan. This was the first step on the slippery slope towards making Pakistan an ideological Islamic state. It is clear from hindsight that despite a few bumps on the way there was a linear development from the Objectives Resolution to Zia’s Islamisation and the entrenchment of the most reactionary and jihadist elements, the latter encouraged by the military for its own ends, in Pakistan’s body politic. The message that India should imbibe from the Pakistani experience is that once religion is employed, even for instrumental purposes, as the principal component of a nation’s identity, it is inevitable that the most bigoted religious elements will end up defining the dominant ideology of the nation’s polity. The experience of Israel teaches the same lesson. Established by a secular elite that used religio-ethnic identity for instrumental purposes, it has ended up empowering Jewish fundamentalists who now hold the political balance.  Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Casting out stigma||The appalling images of a person flinging water bottles and biscuit packets towards people at a quarantine facility in Agra, Uttar Pradesh that emerged on Sunday show the many things wrong in India’s fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Those who were supposed to be kept in isolation were seen squashing against the iron grill, desperate to fetch the food and water on the other side. The district administration has since claimed that the issue has been resolved, but not before officials betrayed their insouciance. The hapless, fenced off people were even blamed for getting restless after their food was delayed by several hours. Infected people and health workers taking care of them are facing dehumanising treatment from the rest of the society and they are often housed in a revolting environment in many places. U.P. has been particularly slow in devising a sensitive and efficient strategy. Of the 75 districts in the State, 53 have fewer than 100 isolation beds; 31 have active cases. In terms of ICU beds and ventilator availability, U.P. is among the worst States. Agra had 372 cases, and 10 deaths by Sunday evening. Meanwhile, the State bought faulty personal protective equipment that would have aggravated the risks for health workers. It is an irony that the Centre asked other States to follow the Agra model in the pandemic fight. Truth be told, U.P.’s debility is not recent or unique. The densely populated heartland of India has a history of bad governance. The shared character of weak State capacity across Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and U.P. has been left unattended by successive governments. The only reasonable goal of the prolonged lockdown could have been buying time for shoring up the limited resources, which is a function of the political leadership. The data presented by the Cabinet Secretary last week reveal a very dismal level of preparedness by U.P., Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, while Rajasthan has managed things better by creating temporary facilities and ramping up existing ones. Most States are, however, treating the lockdown as the solution to the pandemic. The Centre needs to demonstrate leadership in ensuring that States scale up their capacities and communicate this to the public. It needs to particularly reassure health-care professionals that everything possible is being done to protect them. There needs to be a campaign led by the Prime Minister to erase the stigma against patients, and to mitigate the fear of the pandemic itself. The difference between caution and paranoia needs to be emphasised. In India’s particular social context, the notion of social distancing has only added to the disease stigma. The Prime Minister has called for social solidarity in the face of the pandemic more than once last week, and that message needs to spread.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual, yet open||Amidst the national lockdown, the Supreme Court and several other courts have been holding virtual proceedings. A question of concern to the Bar is whether virtual courts have become the “new normal” and whether it means a move away from the idea of open courts towards technology-based administration of justice without the physical presence of lawyers and litigants. Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde emphasises that virtual courts are open courts too; and that one cannot describe them as closed or in camera proceedings. The correct way of framing the difference, he says, is to call them virtual courts as distinct from “courts in congregation”. A three-judge Bench headed by the CJI, in an order earlier this month, laid down broad norms for courts using video-conferencing and ratified the validity of virtual judicial proceedings. Two aspects are not in dispute: the vital necessity to keep the courts open even during a national lockdown so that access to justice is not denied to anyone; and second, the need to maintain physical distancing. The Supreme Court Bar Association has written to the CJI and other judges that open court hearings should be restored at the earliest, subject of course to the lockdown ending. Citing earlier judgments on the importance of open court hearings, the SCBA has requested that the use of video conferencing should be limited to the duration of the current crisis, and not become the “new normal” or go on to replace open court hearings. The SCBA also has a specific request: that proceedings held virtually may also be streamed live so that access is not limited to the lawyers concerned, but is also available to the litigants and the public. The court administration should readily agree to this. Advocates appearing in a particular case are now barred from sharing the passwords given to them to join the proceedings through video conference. While it is theoretically possible for the parties to join their lawyers during the hearing, in practice they may be unable to travel to their offices. Media access is also limited. These issues can be resolved through live-streaming. And in the longer term, it should become the general practice. As the use of technology is stepped up, courts should consider other steps that will speed up the judicial process and reduce courtroom crowding. In the lower courts, evidence could be recorded, with the consent of parties, by virtual means. In the higher courts, a system based on advance submission of written briefs and allocation of time slots for oral arguments can be put in place. It may even lead to more concise judgments. Despite the possibility of technical and connectivity issues affecting the process, one must recognise that virtual hearings are no different from open court conversations, provided access is not limited. The opportunity now to improve the judicial process must be utilised well.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Veterinary Dispensary Inside Temple||Shops inside temples are a common feature, but a veterinary dispensary functions inside the Angala Amman Temple in Belur, Salem district. There is a blue board of the Animal Husbandry Department on the temple tower stating that the Belur veterinary dispensary is functioning within the temple. When your correspondent approached the temple gate, he was greeted with the bleatings of four famished goats. Enquiries reveal that the veterinary dispensary was located in the temple a couple of years ago since no suitable site was available nearby and a nominal rent is being paid by the department to the temple authorities. People belonging to all religious faiths are permitted to visit the dispensary inside the temple for treating their ailing cattle
28 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Brokers seek action against Templeton||Stock brokers want the government and the capital markets regulator to take strict action against Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund, including appointing a high-powered committee to take over the management of the fund house while examining investment decisions taken by the house. The Association of National Exchanges Members of India (ANMI), an umbrella body representing about 900 brokers, has again written to the Ministry of Finance and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) seeking urgent action to safeguard further erosion of investor wealth while enabling a plan for investors to get their money in a time-bound manner. While highlighting the fact that a significant portion of the investments in the six schemes that Franklin Templeton MF decided to wind up were in securities that were rated ‘A’ or lower, the broker body has said that questionable investment decisions forced the fund house to stop redemptions. “Based on portfolio details published by FTMF of the six funds... it appears that the profile of some of the companies FTMF chose to invest in and the terms of those investments are questionable. When market slowdown gripped the economy, there was a substantial price erosion in low-rated papers in the debt market where FTMF had invested heavily, forcing them to stop the redemption,” stated the ANMI letter. It further stated that as much as 64.73% of the total assets under management (AUM) of Franklin India Low Duration Fund was in securities rated A or lower. In Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, such securities accounted for nearly 59% of total assets. As per the broker body, Franklin Templeton MF invested in long-duration securities even though SEBI norms clearly state that ultra short duration funds can have bonds with a tenure between three months and six months. “It is surprising that the top management and trustees of FTMF have remained mute spectators to such blatant violation of SEBI Regulations... These long-dated securities with substantial investment in low-rated paper is the real cause of illiquidity that had caused closure of six funds of FTMF,” stated the letter. Meanwhile, in yet another instance of a credit fund taking a hit due to an illiquid debt market, the net asset value of BOI AXA Credit Risk Fund took a 50% hit after marking down seven securities in its portfolio.
28 April 2020||Mumbai,||IndusInd Bank profit drops||Indusind Bank reported a net profit of Rs. 301.84 crore for the quarter ended March 31 as compared to Rs. 360.1 crore reported a year earlier. The profit declined as provisions increased from Rs. 1,561 crore to Rs. 2,440 crore. The rise in provisions is due to a sharp increase in gross non-performing assets from Rs. 3,947 crore to Rs. 5,147 crore for the reporting period. Gross NPAs were at 2.45% of gross advances, compared with 2.1% a year earlier. The bank as also made a floating provision of Rs. 260 crore as a buffer to protect against future losses arising out of the nationwide lockdown that has adversely impacted business activities. “The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact the bank’s operations and financial results depends on future developments, which are highly uncertain,” the lender said. The provision coverage ratio rose to 63.34%, higher than 52.53% as of December 31, 2019 and 43.04% as of March 31, 2019. In the post-earnings media interaction, the bank’s newly appointed MD & CEO Sumant Kathpalia said the bank had projected different scenarios as to how the economic lockdown would be lifted. Mr. Kathpalia also said that March collections were over 95% from retail portfolios despite moratorium offered. The bank reported a net interest income of Rs. 3,231.19 crore for the quarter, up 44.74% year-on-year while the net interest margin for Q4 FY 2019-20 improved to 4.25% from 4.15% during Q3 FY2019-20 and 3.59% during Q4 FY 2018-19.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,||B2B firm Udaan fires more than 3,500 contract workers||Udaan, a business-to-business start-up reportedly laid off over 3,500 of its contract workers across the country in the last three days, beginning April 23. About 600 people have been laid off in Bengaluru alone, while more than 1,000 contract staff of the e-com firm lost their jobs in several small cities as well. A copy of the termination letter, shared with The Hindu by a contract employee who was laid off, read: “Due to some unavoidable business challenges we are closing the contract with Udaan and therefore, today, April 24th will be your last working day. You will receive a month’s salary as compensation.” “My official email account was terminated around midnight on April 23, without any prior notice. Next day by 11 a.m., I received the termination letter from my employer, Avsar Consultancy [a third-party company that worked with Udaan],” said Nagraj Gowda (name changed), who worked as a seller dispute executive, at Udaan. Strongly condemning the layoffs, the Karnataka State IT/ITeS Employees Union (KITU) said, “We call Udaan’s action illegal and totally inhumane. The company has clearly violated the labour norms as they executed employment terminations of thousands of contract workers across the country, including over 600 people in Bengaluru, without any prior notice.” The Labour Ministry had issued an advisory on March 20 asking all employers not to terminate workers, casual or contractual, during the lockdown. Sources said the pandemic had significantly affected Udaan’s revenue from items such as electronics and apparel, although its business includes essentials such as fresh food and pharma. It had raised $585 million last year for expansion.  Udaan’s action is illegal and totally inhumane. The company has clearly violated labour normsKarnataka State IT/ITeS Employees Union
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Allow liquor sale outside containment zones’||Liquor and beer makers in the country have reached out to State governments to allow alcohol sales outside containment zones, with strict social distancing guidelines, while pitching for online sales and home delivery. “The alcoholic beverage industry contributes over Rs. 2 lakh crore in taxes, sustains the livelihood of 40 lakh farmers, and employs 20 lakh people. A prolonged shutdown of industry is forcing lakhs of farmers and workers into joblessness and poverty,” Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) said in its letter to Chief Ministers of all States, barring those under prohibition. Separately, the All India Brewers Association (AIBA) has also written to CMs of 13 States, including Maharashtra, Goa, Kerala, Karnataka, West Bengal, Punjab, Haryana and New Delhi, with similar requests. AIBA noted that State governments generate more than Rs. 36,000 crore of tax revenue per year from beer alone, in the form of excise duties and VAT. “The stringent lockdown measures have brought our business to a complete standstill. Especially during the peak summer of March to June, wherein almost 40% of the year’s sales and revenues are generated. Similarly, the States too stand to lose a substantial part of the annual tax revenue,” it said. “It is requested to allow alcoholic beverages to be sold through e-commerce and allow for home delivery of beer, through existing retailers with accredited delivery staff. This also will lead to reduced crowding at shops and ensure that beer sales and excise revenue is not impacted adversely by closure of certain outlets,” AIBA said, adding that beer manufacturing plants also be allowed to restart operations, along with opening of ancillary sectors.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Retailers gear up for the ‘new normal’||While masks and sanitisers are expected to become a way of life due to COVID-19, these might not be enough for the retail sector to instil confidence in shoppers. With shoppers expected to avoid physical shops, retailers are looking at newer ways such as appointment-based entries to shops, contact-less shopping, and online to offline commerce, to push sales. “The overall architecture of retail will change with social distancing as a key component. Customers will be reluctant to go to places where there isn’t enough social distancing or the hygiene standards are not perceivably available,” Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO, Retailers Association of India, told The Hindu . The industry expects to lose at least 40% of business this year, and about 20-25% are staring at the possibility of shutting shop. Pointing out that retailers will need to utilise all available channels possible, Mr. Rajagopalan said this was also the best time to innovate. For example, he said, most malls are gearing up to use technology to issue some sort of tokens to designate time for shopping. Sumit Sehgal, CMO, Sheela Foam Ltd., which makes Sleepwell Mattress, said there would certainly be less consumers in the market and they would definitely move online, making it important for brands to step up their e-commerce strategy. “But since offline retail is still 95% of the market, one cannot ignore that. I think in the short term, one will be very cautious as to how they expand.... we have to see how brands use the omni-channel approach to get the best of both online and offline worlds.” Pushpa Bector, executive director, DLF Shopping Malls said many micro- and macro-consumer trends would also change once the lockdown is lifted. “Retailers will need to be agile and provide a safer in-store environment to facilitate social distancing and last-mile practices that can offer non-touch based self-checkout system in a post-pandemic scenario. Contact less shopping and contact less serving experiences will be the new normal,” Ms. Bector said. Honda Cars India on Monday launched its ‘Honda from Home’ online booking platform. Similarly, Mercedes-Benz India has also launched an online platform for buying new cars. Tanvi Malik, co-founder, FabAlley & Indya, echoed similar views. “Online shopping will definitely be the new normal in the short-to-medium term, making it imperative to have up to date webshops and look at making them more intuitive by incorporating AI-based recommendations and browsing experience.”
28 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Cost of doing business to see significant rise||As COVID-19 takes its toll on the economy and on human lives, the cost of doing business is set to go up as companies gear up to adhere to new safety and hygiene standards in their daily operations despite likely scaled down business activity and lower earnings. “The [change in] cost of doing business will vary from sector to sector. In the case of verticals like salons, where human touch is high, the cost would go up by 30-40%. If a person who gives a haircut or a facial has to wear a new PPE for every new customer, it is about a Rs. 500-Rs. 600 extra per customer,” said B.S. Nagesh, chairman, Retailers Association of India and founder TRRAIN. He said for larger retail stores, the cost escalation would be anywhere between 10-50%. Efficacy to decline “If one comes to a 1,000 sq. ft store and if only four people are allowed, then the efficacy of the store would come down by 50%. In that case, the cost will go up by 10-15 % easily. But overall the impact would be 30-35% in the first year,” he said. For large manufacturers and hotels and restaurants the cost escalation will be in double digits, as companies will be forced to operate at sub-optimal levels due to lack of demand and fewer employees. “There will be impact in terms of cost because manufacturing facilities will run at lower capacity due to intermittent runs,” said Sanjiv Puri, chairman & managing director, ITC Ltd. The company’s hotels business is set to undergo changes in service delivery in confirmity with the new normal. Contact-less service “In the hotels business, customers have a lot of concern around safety. We have to think about how to redesign our services and deliver non-contact service, how to maintain social distance norms and how to create many more avenues for check-ins etc,” he said. Airlines and airport operators will also have to bear extra costs to take on board fewer passengers, possibly well below existing capacities as well as breakeven levels and deploy more manpower to enforce safety and hygiene norms.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Amazon, Railways boost partnership for supplies||Amazon India on Monday announced that it had strengthened its partnership with the Indian Railways to transport consignments via rail route across the country. The company is leveraging the ‘COVID-19 Parcel Special Trains’ introduced by the Indian Railways to ramp up operations to 55 lanes during the lockdown period. Enhanced network Indian Railways, with the support of the Railway Board and the zones across Western, Central, Northern, Eastern, South Central, Southern, South Eastern, North East Frontier, North Western and South Western, have created a proactive solution to provide support for transportation during the lockdown. This enhanced network will enable sellers to ship their products and keep businesses running, thereby, allowing people to access essential products. “In these unprecedented times, we understand the importance of ensuring that critical supplies reach our customers across the country. With the support of COVID-19 Parcel Special trains introduced by the Railways, we are confident that we can further fulfil customer orders with enhanced speed and capacity,”  said Abhinav Singh, director, Amazon Transportation Services, Amazon India. “We will continue to build on this partnership to help the industry service customers during this critical period.”  said sources at the Indian Railways.
28 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Ex-U.S. employees file case against Wipro||Five former employees of Wipro have slapped a class-action suit against the IT services major, accusing it of practising ‘discriminatory employment practices’. According to reports, the suit was filed in March in the district court of New Jersey. The ex-employees have sought “injunctive, declaratory, equitable, and monetary relief for Wipro’s systematic pattern and practice of discriminatory employment practices based upon individuals’ race and national origin”. A spokesperson said: “Wipro does not comment on pending litigation.” The filing said the five ex-employees — Gregory MacLean, Rick Valles, Ardeshir Pezeshki, James Gibbs, and Ronald Hemenway — have alleged ‘discrimination’ against non-south Asian and non-Indian origin staff. Four of the litigants are of American origin, while one is of Iranian origin. “Wipro operates under a general policy of discrimination in favor of South Asians and against individuals who are not South Asian and not Indian. This general policy of discrimination manifests itself in the same... fashion with respect to Wipro’s hiring, staffing, promotion and termination decisions.”
28 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Sensex gains on RBI liquidity boost for MFs||Indian equities traded strong on Monday as investor sentiment received a boost with the Reserve Bank of India announcing a Rs. 50,000 crore special liquidity facility for mutual funds facing liquidity pressures. An overall strong trend in global markets also acted as a catalyst. The 30-share Sensex gained 415.86 points or 1.33% to close at 31,743.08. Earlier in the day, it gained over 770 points to touch an intraday high of 32,103.70. Gains in the benchmark were led by financial sector stocks such as Indusind Bank, Axis Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Finance. The broader Nifty rose 1.4% to 9,282.30. Last week, Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund decided to wind up six debt schemes amid liquidity issues. In the markets, more than 1,300 stocks gained while 1,090 declined. Global stocks too surged on Monday after the Bank of Japan announced more stimulus measures to help counter effects of the pandemic. The benchmarks of Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, Indonesia, Taiwan and China all gained ground on Monday.
28 April 2020||MUMBAI,||SEBI halves broker turnover fee||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has halved the broker turnover fee and the filing fee for draft documents. “In its continuing efforts to help market participants to tide over challenges due to COVID-19, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has decided to reduce broker turnover fees and filing fees on offer documents for public issue, rights issue and buyback of shares,” SEBI said in a statement. “The broker turnover fee will be reduced to 50% of the existing fee structure for the period June 2020 to March 2021... Filing fees on offer documents... will be reduced to 50% of the existing fee structure. This will be effective for documents filed from June 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020,” it added. Meanwhile, the new margin framework for derivatives segment, that were announced in February and were scheduled to be introduced from May 1, have been postponed until June 1.
28 April 2020||Chennai,||Sundaram Finance cuts deposit rates||Sundaram Finance Ltd. (SFL) has revised interest rates on deposits with effect from May 1. The interest rates on fresh deposits, or renewals, stand revised to 6.75% from 7% per annum for 12 and 18 months, and to 7% from 7.25% for 24 and 36 months. The interest rate for senior citizens has been revised to 7% (7.50%) per annum for 12 and 18 months and to 7.25% (7.75%) per annum for 24 and 36 months. With renewals above 80% consistently, the company’s deposit base has crossed Rs. 3,650 crore, SFL said in a statement.
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Tougher for the physically challenged’||Manasi Joshi was crowned para-badminton World champion hours before P.V. Sindhu scaled the summit in women’s singles at the 2019 World Championships in Basel. After that remarkable high, life hasn’t changed much for Manasi. She feels that the physically challenged continue to be treated in an indifferent manner and are suffering the most during this lockdown. Online course “It is exactly for this reason that I took up an online course on ‘Disability Awareness and Support’ from the University of Pittsburgh. “I chose it as it would enlighten me on the rights of the disabled,” says the 30-year-old. Manasi, at home in Ahmedabad now, said: “We seem to have so many privileges and rights, it is important to be aware of what we actually have in the rule book. I have also re-read the Government of India’s Rights of People with Disabilities Act, 2016, to know my rights and communicate about it effectively. “I want to be more of an activist in the future in order to see the disabled get a better deal,” she said. “I have been through my own lockdown, in 2011, because of the accident,” said Manasi, who was on her way to work in Mumbai when the incident happened. In the accident, her left leg was crushed and arms broken, and she also suffered multiple injuries. “Right now, I am working out, attending online classes, sharing my story on various platforms by going live on Instagram or Facebook, cooking, cleaning, or playing games with my family members. I am spending time in a much better way now. Start all over again “The biggest challenge will be to prepare for sports once the lockdown is lifted. “We were scheduled to compete in the qualifying cycle in Spain before the COVID-19 crisis hit the world. “We have to start all over again for the Tokyo Paralympics next year,” said Manasi. To emphasise that the physically challenged were being treated differently compared to the able-bodied sportspersons, Manasi revealed that except for the prize money given by the Government of India for becoming a World champion, she hadn’t received anything else worth mentioning.
28 April 2020||TIRUCHI,||Praveen sets sights on the big one||“Fortunate”. This was the spontaneous response of triple-jumper Praveen Chithravel, a bronze-medallist at the 2018 Youth Olympics, who has been with the Inspire Institute of Sport (IIS), Vijayanagara, Karnataka, for over a year now. A native of Chettichatram in Tiruvarur district, Praveen said he feels quite at home at IIS during the COVID-19 lockdown. “I feel very safe here and I’m able to stay focused on my goals,” he said, adding: “I was preparing for the World Athletics U20 Championships and was certain about winning a medal. “But the championships slated for July got postponed due to the pandemic. I have taken it in my stride.” All the same, the postponement of Olympics has now given Praveen crucial time to accelerate his preparedness and qualify for the mega event. “I have set my sight on winning a medal in the 2024 Olympics. Right now, my entire focus is on making the best use of the time to qualify for the Olympics next year.” Gaining confidence The 18-year-old who trains under Frenchman Antony Yaich, head coach, track and field, IIS, said: “After joining IIS, I have gained a lot of confidence and it has bolstered my performance. “Additionally, I have improved fluency in English and also understand Hindi well. Besides, I am picking up French from my coach alongside familiarising him with a few words in Tamil.” Assistant coach Bala Chaitanya and physiotherapist Mohammed Akbar Ali, both from Tamil Nadu, have been a great source of motivation and support for Praveen. “I keep getting calls at least four times a day from home since the start of the lockdown. My first coach Indira Suresh also calls me daily. Their affection has steeled my resolve to achieve results.” Praveen does intend to go home after normalcy returns. “Yes, definitely. It has been quite a while. I am eager to meet family members and friends,” he said.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Yuki is not done yet, his peak yet to come: Koon||Coach Stephen Koon, who has worked with Yuki Bhambri for some years now, is confident that the former junior World No. 1, who rose to a career-best 83 on the ATP Tour, will return to the circuit after the lockdown. “Yuki is not done yet. His peak is yet to come,” said Koon. In an online chat, Thailand-based Koon felt that Yuki was aiming to break into the top-50 two years ago when he qualified and made the second and third rounds of the big events in Miami and Indian Wells. “He would have made it, but got injured in Surbiton. He played Queen’s on one leg. At Wimbledon, despite the injury, he managed to take a set off Thomas Fabbiano,” recalled Koon. Yuki played the U.S. Open and the Antwerp event in 2018 before a knee injury kept him away from the courts. “Yuki knows how to win. His ball control and the way he takes the ball early are special. He didn’t get the right physios and doctors to fix things. When tennis resumes after the pandemic, Yuki will be ready,” said Koon. The coach spoke of how hard Yuki worked to make an impact on the professional Tour, despite loads of natural talent. “Yuki was a super talent at 16. He won the Orange Bowl and the Australian Open juniors. Then he was winning men’s Futures singles titles. It took him the next 10 years or so to establish himself. It is so difficult,” said Koon. Joining his coach on the chat, the 27-year-old Yuki said that he was finally putting the wall at home to good use — to play tennis. “There is a difference between playing with nothing to lose and when there is something to lose,” said Koon, stressing the importance of playing on the junior circuit. Yuki said that it “motivates you” to play the Grand Slams as a junior and share the locker room with the stars of the game.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Solid foundation the key to Nirupama’s success||A pioneer often has a path of thorns to negotiate. The trail they blaze makes it easier for those that follow. In a two-hour online chat with tennis coach M. Balachandran, Nirupama Sanjeev recalled the solid foundation that her late father K.S. Vaidyanathan laid for her tennis career that saw her rise to World No. 134 in 1997. She counts beating Mirjana Lucic, who later rose to No. 20, and winning the 1998 Asian Games mixed doubles bronze with Mahesh Bhupathi among her notable achievements. Trying to bring up her daughter Sahana on the principles instilled in her by her cricketer father, Nirupama said: “I was clear in my mind that Sahana has to play one sport. Every day 4 to 6 p.m. is playing time. Here in the US, there are so many options — football, golf, gymnastics. She picked tennis. I was relieved as I could spend time with her on court. The next two years will give us an idea.” With husband Sanjeev Balakrishnan also hailing from a naturally gifted athletic family — his brother Rajeev was one of India’s best sprinters and competed in the 4x100m relay at the Sydney Olympics — Nirupama was clear about providing the fundamentals for her daughter, apart from the sporting genes. “My dad always told me, love the sport. Take pleasure in the small things. During rough times, if you don’t love the sport, you can’t sustain for long,” she said. Impressed by Ramanathan Krishnan, who made the Wimbledon semifinals twice, Nirupama’s father made sure that she and her brother Ganesh had a court to play whenever required, at one club or another.  “My father’s philosophy was drills, rallies, and matches. Very systematic. If you kept at it, how can you not get better,” she said. Suggesting that success had to be earned slowly, Nirupama felt early success for a young player may not be good. “Too good, too early, I am more worried. This road is not easy. Youngsters better lose and learn. I hated losing, but I had to deal with it and come up with solutions, to be better. My dad taught me to never give up,” she said.
28 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Online blitz tournament to raise funds for CMDRF||Chess Kerala is organising ‘Checkmate Covid-19’, an international online blitz tournament, on May 2 to raise funds for the Kerala Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). There is no entry fee, but a participant has to contribute a minimum of Rs. 250. “Grandmasters and International Masters are exempted from any fees to participate. Anyone with a passing interest in the game can take part in the event,” said Chess Kerala president N.R. Anilkumar. “Vishwanathan Anand has released a video inviting the chess community to take part in the Checkmate Covid-19 and Judit Polgar has shared the same in her Instagram account. We are expecting a good response,” he said. “The Kerala Government is at the forefront in the fight against COVID-19 and Chess Kerala is helping this endeavour in our small way. “We haven’t kept any target but hope to raise a substantial amount from this tournament,” Anilkumar added.  The tournament carries a total prize money of Rs. 52,000 with the winner taking home Rs. 12,000. Prizes will be given to the top 20 finishers. The top three women competitors and the top three finishers in the under-12 and under-18 categories would be given Rs. 500 each. The three best players from Kerala will also get Rs. 500 each. The tournament, sponsored by Chess Houseboat Kerala, will be played as a 10-round Swiss event on the Playchess server with a time control of three minutes per player per game.
28 April 2020||LAUSANNE,||FIFA proposes five substitutions||FIFA wants to let football teams use five substitutes to cope with expected schedule congestion caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The game’s governing body says the temporary plan could help prevent more injuries due to potential player overload as competitions catch up with a backlog. The proposal gives competition organisers the option of letting teams use five substitutes in 90 minutes and a sixth in knockout games that go to extra time. Teams would still be limited to three stoppages of play to make the changes. The proposal, which could be used by all competitions finishing this year and the next and all national team games through 2021, must be formally approved by rule-making panel IFAB.
28 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Equipment choices make a difference: Harmeet Desai||Reigning Commonwealth table tennis champion Harmeet Desai said the general perception that equipment plays a minor role in a paddler’s career is wrong. Speaking to Sports Authority of India coaches on Monday via video-conference, the World No. 72 cited the transformation of Sweden’s Mattias Falck, who profited from a change of rubber, to buttress his point. “Mattias’ backhand was strong but his forehand topspin wasn’t,” said Harmeet. “Under the coach’s instructions, he used short pimples on his forehand and there was no looking back. He won silver in the World Championships last year.” Customised approach Harmeet, the current National champion, also highlighted the need for coaches to tailor their approach to a player’s requirements. “Soumyajit Ghosh and I were training under [coach and former European singles champion] Peter Karlsson. We were both different personalities. While I was self-driven but used to burn myself out during practice, Ghosh thrived when the coach was in his corner and backing him. So Peter advised me to take it a bit easy to be fresh for tournaments.” The 26-year-old, who won the ITTF Challenge Indonesia Open in 2019, then spoke about the importance of having a weapon and formulating plans to hide and manage weaknesses. “For example, [World No. 2] Xu Xin has a weakness on his backhand side and everyone knows it. But at the same time, it is impossible to catch him there because of the way he strategises and covers his backhand side.” Recalling a story about the Chinese system’s methods of simulating match situations during practice, Harmeet described how Ma Lin was instructed by coach Liu Guoliang to play Zhang Jian with a 2-0 handicap ahead of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. China had failed to win the men’s singles gold at Athens 2004. Harmeet said Guoliang, in a bid to provoke Lin, had stipulated that he stood to lose 10,000 yuan if he was defeated. Lin went on to win the practice match and gold in Beijing.
28 April 2020||Melbourne,||CA’s financial crisis complicated: Speed||Former ICC chief executive Malcolm Speed feels Cricket Australia’s financial matters are quite complicated and current CEO Kevin Roberts has failed to offer a certain degree of clarity required in these troubled times. Under financial stress, CA has already put 80 % of its staff on 20 % salary till end of June, while a handful of others, including the executives, remained on 80 % pay. The decision saved AUD 3 million, which was slammed by critics due to the fact that CA had some AUD 90 million in reserves at the end of March (2020), including AUD 36 million in stock investments. Speed, also a former CA top boss, pointed out how CA had invested AUD 22 million in 2012, which increased to around AUD 45 million earlier this year before slipping to AUD 36 million due to the coronavirus shock. “I think that’s been messy,” Speed told SEN Radio. “I saw an article saying cricket has lost millions of dollars on the stock market. Well, before it lost millions on the stock market it made millions of dollars on the stock market and its lost part of its profits, but it hasn’t lost anything yet because it hasn’t sold. That was an issue.”
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||No logic, says Holding on legalising ball-tampering||Michael Holding feels legalising ball tampering in the post COVID-19 world is a bit “self contradictory” while Proteas great Allan Donald is completely on the opposite end of the spectrum on a subject that has divided opinions. Speaking to ESPNCricinfo, Holding said, “Before they got to that point they said if they restart cricket it has to be played in a bio-secure environment.  “Now, if you are saying everyone is in the bio-secure environment, you are staying in the same hotel, you are not moving for the length of time you are playing the matches, if that is the case why are you worried about someone’s saliva? “That person according to what you are doing should be free of Covid-19. If the ICC thinks that the two-week period to prove that you are free of Covid-19 is not foolproof, then that means you are putting everyone in that environment in jeopardy? “It’s either safe or it’s not. No guessing, please,” one of the most respected voices in world cricket said. Pakistan legend Waqar Younis made it clear that use of saliva is a must and can’t be done away with when competitive cricket resumes. “As a fast bowler, I reject this because this (using saliva and sweat) is a natural process. A ball exchanges hands all day, you run in, huffing and puffing, you sweat and using saliva is natural rather than on intent. It’s a habit and you just can’t control this aspect,” Waqar said. Donald, however, is open to the idea. “I absolutely agree with legalising ball-tampering. I said so in an article sometime in the 2000s. It happens anyway, we see guys throwing the ball on the ground and umpires say to throw it up and it’s pretty obvious what they are doing. It could work if it is well-monitored.”
28 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Aravindh wins title||GM Aravindh Chithambaram won the Play2Help online chess tournament, organised by international V. Raghav Srivathsav of Hyderabad on chess.com, on Sunday night. The event is being held online on Sundays to raise money for PM-CARES Fund. Ch. Sahajasri was named ‘best woman player’. It is informed that the players interested to take part in the event the next five Sundays may visit play2help64.blogspot.com or call 8187093036 for more details.   Final placings: Main category: 1. Aravindh Chithambaram, 2. R.R. Laxman, 3. Diptayan Ghosh, 4. Anwesh Upadhayay, 5. M.G. Gahan.   Best players: Women: Ch. Sahajasri.   U-15: Boys: M.Shreeshwan. Girls: Vyshnavi.   ELO 2000 category: Aditya .
28 April 2020||BENGALURU,||Online chess to raise funds||The Karnataka Youth Empowerment and Sports Department (Government of Karnataka) will host an online chess tournament to raise funds for COVID-19 relief. The tournament will be conducted in association with United Karnataka Chess Association and gaming platform Mobile Premier League (MPL). The tournament will be held on May 2 and 3 on the MPL app, and the proceeds will be donated to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Entries, with a fee Rs. 50, are open to all players in India. The total prize money on offer is Rs. 10 lakh. Registrations can be done on the MPL app.
28 April 2020||Paris,||F1 start likely in July||Formula One boss Chase Carey on Monday targeted the coronavirus-hit season eventually starting in Austria on July 3-5 weekend after the French Grand Prix was cancelled and fans barred from the British race at Silverstone. The French Grand Prix, scheduled for June 28, was the 10th race of the season to be scrapped or postponed. “We're targeting a start to racing in Europe through July, August and beginning of September, with the first race taking place in Austria on 3-5 July weekend,” Carey said in a statement.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Giri pulls off a fine win over Carlsen||A struggling Anish Giri (in pic) punished in-form Magnus Carlsen for an uncharacteristic blunder and went on to win 2.5-1.5 for his first victory in the $250,000 Magnus Carlsen Invitational online chess tournament on Sunday.  The results (fifth round): Anish Giri (Ned) bt Magnus Carlsen (Nor) 2.5-1.5; Alireza Firouzja (FIDE) bt Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra) 2.5-1.5.
28 April 2020||LONDON,||London, April 27, 2020 (AFP) -||R. Ashwin will not play for Yorkshire this season after the English county announced on Monday it was cancelling the overseas player contracts for the 2020 campaign by mutual consent following the coronavirus outbreak. Ashwin and South Africa slow left-armer Keshav Maharaj were meant to share duties in the First-Class County Championship.AFP
28 April 2020||Kolkata,||Perth, the lone perk for a stranded Chennai resident||It was in early February that Chennai-resident Viswanathan Raghu, 64, reached Sydney on an extended visit to Australia. He tried getting back to India on March 13, as soon as the Centre issued a circular that incoming flights were going to be barred from midnight GMT that day, but narrowly missed the cut-off time. Today, neither Australia wants visitors like him to hang around nor has India opened its doors, as a result of which he was forced to travel to the U.S., where he feels he has higher chances of contracting the novel coronavirus.  “I had uneventful flights from Sydney to San Francisco and then to New Jersey [where his son lives]. But the biggest surprise was that I was never screened or questioned before takeoff at Sydney or after arrival at San Francisco and also at Newark. I picked up my bags and came home,” Mr. Raghu told The Hindu soon after he reached the U.S. on Monday. Mr. Raghu, who graduated from the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) in Kolkata, moved to the U.S. back in 1981 and became an American citizen, but at the age of 60 returned to India to again make Chennai his home. Inveterate traveller An inveterate traveller, he went to Australia in early February to catch up with friends and family members spread out there, and he had barely returned to Sydney after a brief visit to Perth — where a niece and a former ISI classmate live — before news came that India was barring incoming flights from March 12. Mr. Raghu said: “You should read the Government of India circular of March 12. According to it, the cut-off time was 12:00 GMT at port of departure on March 13. But people at the airline interpreted it as arrival by 12:00 GMT. So I missed the arrival cut-off by three hours. They didn’t allow me to board. “The friend I was staying with in Sydney had scheduled to renovate the house after my departure. Out of desperation, I called my niece in Perth who was herself a paying guest. Staying with my ISI friend was also not an option because he had his daughter and son-in-law as visitors. “Finally, she requested her host to let me stay with them and I quickly bought a ticket to Perth. I got a seat on Virgin Australia and there were rumours they will file for bankruptcy leaving me with a worthless ticket. Fortunately, my flight took off and very soon thereafter Virgin stopped all flights. Fitness freak “But because I missed the flight to India, I was able to enjoy Perth. I am a fitness freak and just cannot be locked up for too long. “With no end in sight for India letting me in, I had to find some activity to keep my sanity and health going. Luckily, Perth had its lovely bicycle trails everywhere, including by the side of highways. So, I took a spot decision to invest in a used bicycle. “Initially, I found it hard to be on the bike for even an hour, but soon my leg muscles got used to it and within two weeks I was able to comfortably do three hours every day. The weather became cooler and on weekends, I did even up to four hours with my young niece. I fell in love with Perth. “But when India extended the lockdown and denied entry to even stranded Indian citizens, I became desperate and contacted both the Indian and U.S. consulates, asking them to request the Australian government to extend my stay beyond the 90-day limit. Both of them sent me stock responses via email. “The message from Australia to all visitors was clear: Go back. “The only flight to the U.S. was from Sydney and so my challenge was to find a ticket that took me via Sydney. “Though Australia is also under lockdown, each state was operating one flight a day for essential travel and I guess I fell under that category.”  Luckily, Perth had its lovely bicycle trails everywhere including by the side of highways
28 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Forest Dept. utilises funds for food distribution in Rajasthan district||In a first, the Forest Department in Rajasthan’s Banswara district has utilised the funds available under the joint forest management’s entry point activities (EPA) for distributing free dry ration kits to over 2,000 poor and needy families living in 74 villages around remote forest areas during the COVID-19 lockdown. The tribal-dominated Banswara district, situated at the trijunction of Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, has a rich forest cover and abundant natural resources. Participation of locals The EPA, which mainly envisages creation of the community assets, has ensured participation of local communities in the forestry programmes and generated faith among them for the Forest Department. The concept has been institutionalised in forest management after the formation of the Forest Development Agencies. The Forest Department has taken up sanitation, drinking water supply and construction of hand pumps and toilets in the villages as part of the EPA initiatives for motivating the tribal population in the district to join the efforts for sustainable development of forest resources. Lending a helping hand to the tribal villagers who were finding it difficult to survive during the lockdown, the Forest Department had decided to utilise the EPA funds to provide ration kits to them, Banswara Deputy Conservator of Forests Sugna Ram Jat told The Hindu on Monday. The initiative has generated an immense goodwill for forest officials in the remote areas. Mr. Jat said the beneficiaries included widows and differently abled persons residing near forests as well as the landless labourers who had returned to the villages from the towns in Gujarat and Maharashtra where they migrate every year in search of work. “Having returned home after the lockdown was enforced, they had nothing to eat,” he said. The Forest Department has distributed 2,147 ration kits to the villagers, who were also members of the forest protection and management committees.
28 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha-based numismatist to sell collection for COVID-19 fund||Moved by the great human tragedy unfolding in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, Debiprasad Mangaraj, a leading Indian numismatist, announced his plan to sell 2 lakh antique coins, including some priceless centuries-old currencies. Proceeds from the proposed auction will go to the PM-CARES Fund and the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. “I have a treasure of 8 lakh distinctive pieces of coins from different eras. Two lakh additional coins are also with me. Numismatists from within and outside India have tried to persuade me to sell some of them, but I had never agreed to it before,” said Mr. Mangaraj (28), who began collecting at the age of five. He began collecting when his grandfather, Dharanidhar Mangaraj, gave him 15 priceless East India Company coins. Over the years, he visited a number of States to expand his collection. The young Mr. Mangaraj had finalised the land on which he intended to set up a coin museum in Bhubaneswar. An engineering graduate and entrepreneur, Mr. Mangaraj is also helping his sister produce a film on coins. He said he possesses rare copper, silver, gold and other metal coins, some used in transactions by the East India Company, the others in circulation during the Maurya, Kushan and Mughal empires. The oldest coin in his collection dates back to 2,300 years. “I have collected punch-marked coins that were in use between the sixth and second century BCE. A special feature of the auction is a coin circulated by German dictator Adolf Hitler,” said Mr. Mangaraj. He claimed that a U.S.-based collector had once offered Rs. 1.3 crore for an East India Company coin, and the collection, built over purchases, exchange and donations, could be worth several crores of rupees. “The pandemic, which has caused unimaginable human tragedy, unnerved me. I realised that this was the time to contribute to society with my wealth, although the thought of parting with my coins makes me sad,” said Mr. Mangaraj.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 00:00 IST,||War against ignorance||The Vedas and the Upanishads have been in existence from time immemorial and the dharma taught in them is also eternal and known as Sanatana Dharma. But in the course of time, there arose the palpable danger of the Astika dharma or Vaidika dharma getting submerged in the theories of the nastikas who did not believe in the Vedas. In a discourse, Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal drew attention to the significant role of Adi Sankara through whose multi pronged effort the inherent value of Vaidika dharma was established for the benefit of posterity. The acharya has reiterated that every human being should be aware that he is an heir to this good fortune of abiding by this dharma. One should not miss this opportunity to strive for salvation owing to ignorance of this truth. There is nothing more harmful than spiritual ignorance or Avidya. It is more wily and deceitful than the killer virus for it is capable of enveloping even the effulgent Brahma Swaroopa from people’s vision. It can keep people in the dark about not only Brahman but also about the true purpose of one’s existence. It leads to attachment to worldly attractions and is the cause of sin, suffering and confusion. Adi Sankara has dedicated his entire life to eradicate this virus of ignorance. He has enabled people to understand the glory of the Supreme Brahman that the Vedas and the Upanishads extol. To attain Him is the ultimate goal and end of human existence and this is attainable through upasana, or meditation on the ultimate Reality. The paths available are karma, jnana and bhakti and though they appear varied, there is unity of purpose in them. One becomes eligible to attain salvation by learning to tread these in accordance to the sastras until the truth is revealed as a direct experience.
28 April 2020||April 28 2020 07:17 IST,||Sudoku - April 28, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi riots: Jamia alumni chief arrested||Delhi Police Special Cell has arrested Jamia Millia Islamia Alumni Association president Shafi-Ur-Rehman under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to provoke communal riots in north-east Delhi, said a police officer on Monday. Mr. Rehman was produced in a city court which remanded him in police custody for 10 days for further interrogation in connection with the case, added the officer. A senior police officer said that Mr. Rehman was called in for questioning, and after initial interrogation he was arrested for his alleged involvement in the riots that broke out early this year. “During questioning, Mr. Rehman was countered with evidence. We have WhatsApp chats and other technical evidence that prove that he incited the mob during the riots,” said the officer. Mr. Rehman’s name had cropped up during investigation and questioning of Jamia Millia Islamia students Safoora Zargar and Meeran Haider. Apart from the Crime Branch, the Delhi Police Special Cell as well as the local police is investigating the conspiracy behind the riots. The Crime Branch is investigating heinous cases such as murder and assault. The local police is investigating rioting cases. So far, 10 people have been arrested by the Special Cell for alleged involvement in the communal riots. Besides Ms. Zargar and Mr. Haider, suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain has also been booked under the stringent UAPA for alleged involvement in the riots. The arrests have sparked a political uproar with Amroha MP Kunwar Danish Ali tweeting: “Arresting Shifaur Rehman, n others who r on d forefront of protests against CAA n NRC is an attempt to punish Jamiates who showed d way by leading a peaceful movement. In Parliament, I had warned d country that UAPA will target innocents. #stopTargetingJMI [sic].”
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||Jamia student in quarantine at Tihar gets 10 mins. with lawyer||Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) scholar Safoora Zargar, imprisoned under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act at Tihar jail — where she has reportedly been placed in quarantine — was granted permission to speak to her lawyer for 10 minutes before applying for certain concessions before jail authorities by a court here on Monday. Ms. Zargar (27), who is 14-weeks pregnant, was arrested and sent to judicial custody on April 10 on the basis of an FIR which accused her of participating in anti-CAA and NRC protests at the Jaffrabad metro station, prior to riots breaking out in the area. She was an active member of the Jamia Coordination Committee, a group of students and alumni of the JMI who had been engaged in carrying out protests outside the university. At her bail hearing on April 13, the investigating officer opposed the bail on the grounds of “suspicion of involvement of the accused in anti-national activities”. Bail was, however, granted on the grounds of her pregnancy, other medical conditions, and the fact that the High Court had directed authorities to decongest jails on account of COVID-19 outbreak. But as the bail hearing was under way, Ms. Zargar was remanded under another FIR, which slapped her with the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, a source close to her said. She along with others have been accused of rioting, conspiracy, sedition and other charges. At a second bail hearing on April 18, her lawyers argued that she was being falsely implicated in the case, with her name not even featuring in the FIR. ‘Superficial reply’ Having reportedly filed a “cryptic and superficial” reply on the role of Ms. Zargar in the case, the court told the investigating officer to file a detailed reply on April 20. On the next date, her lawyers argued that she was initially arrested on bailable offences and later more serious offences were added by the Special Cell, the order denying bail reads. “The allegations are baseless and material collected by the investigative officer do not link her to the commission of alleged offences,” the lawyers had argued. The court denied bail noting the nature and gravity of the offences in addition to another serious allegation raised in the previous FIR. Presently at Tihar jail, Ms. Zargar had not been allowed to contact her family on account of curbs due to COVID-19. When briefly contacted by her lawyer on April 25, she said that no maternity exam had been done and she was facing issues with her nutrition. On Monday, an application requesting she be allowed to talk to her husband twice a week, be provided certain nutritional requirements, hygienic condition were directed to be placed before jail authorities. An application to have Ms. Zargar examined at AIIMS or Safdarjung Hospital was dismissed stating that it was unclear as to why the medical practitioner at the jail could not examine her. The court also noted that while earlier it had been alleged that Ms. Zargar had been placed in solitary confinement, her lawyer submitted that she had been quarantined due to COVID-19 restrictions. The court gave the lawyer 10 minutes with Ms. Zargar to prepare arguments, before placing her application before the jail authorities.
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||Families worried as riot-related arrests could lead to contracting COVID-19||Many families in riot-hit areas of north-east Delhi fear that those arrested by the police during the nation-wide lockdown could contract COVID-19 while in jail. “The lockdown is not for the police. It is for us. Who knows one of them has the virus. If we tell them this, they warn us not to teach them the law,” said Farhan, a software engineer living in Chand Bagh. He had not seen his brother since the police took him for questioning on March 31. Mr. Farhan said his brother is a mechanical engineering student and was taking coaching classes in Mukherjee Nagar for government services. “The police took my brother without any notice. Later, we came to know that he was arrested as he was featured in a video,” said Mr. Farhan, adding that the irony is that the video is from outside our house and was taken on March 23 when there was no violence. After the arrest, he was sent to Mandoli Jail. Due to the lockdown, we have no way of knowing how he is, said Mr. Farhan. Similar story In adjoining Bhajanpura, 21-year-old Mehnaz had a similar story to tell. “They [police] took him on the pretext of asking some questions and we have not seen him since then,” said Mehnaz. When the police visited the residence, her brother, who is working as a welder, had gone out to buy medicines. “He has seizures,” said Mehnaz. “The next day (on April 11), my brother went to the police station around 11 a.m. When he did not return till 7 p.m., we went to the station and were told that my brother will not be released as he was spotted on the riots video,” she said. Mehnaz said she is worried about the well-being of her brother inside jail, more so in view of the ongoing pandemic, as he had received bullet wound on his back during the riots and has other medical conditions too. Asif, a resident of Chaman Park, said he has not been able to meet his son who was arrested in connection with the riots in early March due to the lockdown. He added that others too from his locality are being arrested during the lockdown period. “Most of us don’t know what is happening,” he lamented. ‘Abrogation of rights’ Lawyers providing legal assistance to the riot-hit worry that investigations are on without giving due regard to the health, safety and fundamental rights of the persons concerned. They said the ongoing police actions pose a significant risk to the health of the affected individuals, their families and the public at large in light of the pandemic. “There has been a complete abrogation of the fundamental rights of the persons concerned as they are unable to avail of the rights that accrue at the stage of summoning, detention, arrest and remand due to the shutdown of courts and unavailability of lawyers,” they said. Advocates Seema Misra, Sowjhanya Shankaran, Maneka Khanna and Nitika Khaitan had made a representation before a State-level High Powered Committee (HPC), formed pursuant to the Supreme Court direction to decongest prisons due to the COVID-19 outbreak. In their letter, they highlighted that during the lockdown, investigating agencies have summoned several persons to appear at police stations. “We are aware of at least five such cases from localities in north-east Delhi,” the advocates said. They said many of these summonses note that failure to comply with it would render the person liable for criminal action. However, as per the March 24 lockdown order, ordinary residents and citizens are permitted to step out only for essential supplies such as groceries and medicines, the lawyers argued. “In trying to comply with such summons, its recipients render themselves liable to penal action for violating lockdown orders, and in failing to comply with the summons, they may be liable for penal action,” the lawyers said. They also said that people have been directed to appear at Crime Branch or Special Cell police stations that are at a considerable distance from their homes, making it extremely difficult for them. In many cases, the police are detaining people from their homes and neighbourhoods without any notice or information on the grounds of detention and without informing their family members , they alleged. “Moreover, there has been a troubling pattern of the police picking up family members of the person they seek to arrest as proxies and detaining them for hours on end to threaten and coerce such families to produce the person they seek to arrest,” the lawyer said. They also brought up the issue of police not providing a copy of the FIR. The HPC on April 18 declined to act on the letter saying, “the members of the committee are of the considered opinion that the submissions advanced in the representation and prayers made therein, are beyond the scope and purview of this committee”. Advocate Khaitan said a similar letter highlighting the above issues has been sent to the High Court for its consideration and the response is awaited.
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||DDA to launch e-auction for vacant plots on May 11||The Delhi Development Authority will launch an e-auction scheme for vacant residential, industrial, institutional and commercial plots, among others, said officials, adding that the registrations will begin on May 11. Under the current scheme, 104 residential plots, 49 institutional plots, 51 industrial plots and 58 commercial plots will be put on offer, they said. Additionally, 45 plots under the Expandable Housing Scheme and nine group housing plots will also be on offer apart from nine plots to set up kiosks and 16 for mobile towers. The officials said interested stakeholders can register for the e-auction till June 12. “Bidding for residential and institutional plots will take place on June 15, that of industrial and commercial plots on June 16, for mobile towers and kiosks on June 17 and the rest on June 18,” said a senior official.
28 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Extend date for submitting applications: JNUSU to V-C||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) has written to the Vice-Chancellor of the university, M. Jagadesh Kumar, requesting him to extend the last date for submitting applications for the JNU Entrance Examination (JNUEE) 2020-21. It also asked him to issue a notification to postpone the examination. The last date for submitting applications is April 31 for the examination, which scheduled in mid-May. The JNUSU said due to the restriction of movement during the lockdown, many applicants are finding it difficult to apply. “Many aspirants do not have Internet access. Since the offline mode is no longer in prevalence, this creates additional difficulties,” the union said.
28 April 2020||New Delhi,||Response of police sought on Shahrukh’s plea||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought response of the police on a plea by Shahrukh Pathan, who allegedly pointed a gun at a head constable during the riots in north-east Delhi, seeking bail on the ground that jails are overcrowded raising the risk of him getting infected with COVID-19. The plea said due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it is not safe to remain in jail as it is not possible to maintain social distancing due to overcrowding and sought that he be released on bail. The accused said he has been languishing in jail for over a month now. The 23-year-old accused was nabbed on March 3 from Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli. The police registered a case against him under relevant sections of the IPC and the Arms Act.
