28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.S. to support India’s defence of territory||The United States will support India to defend its territorial sovereignty and liberty, U.S. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo said on Tuesday. Addressing the media at the end of the third India-U.S. ‘2+2’ dialogue in New Delhi, Mr. Pompeo also said that the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is “no friend to democracy”. The observations about the threats to Indian sovereignty came as New Delhi announced the signing of the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement on geospatial cooperation (BECA) with the U.S. “The United States will stand with the people of India as they face threats to their sovereignty and their liberty,” Mr. Pompeo said, hinting at the ongoing tensions in eastern Ladakh, where Indian and Chinese forces are in a stand-off since May. Mr. Pompeo also referred to the greater threats posed by China in the Asia-Pacific region and the COVID-19 pandemic. “Our leaders and our citizens see with increasing clarity that the CCP is no friend to democracy, the rule of law, transparency, nor to freedom of navigation, the foundation of a free and open and prosperous Indo-Pacific. I am glad to say that the U.S. and India are taking steps to strengthen cooperation against all manner of threats and not just those posed by the Chinese Communist Party,” Mr. Pompeo said at the Hyderabad House here. In his opening remarks, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh laid out the challenges before India. Speaking in Hindi, Mr. Singh said, “We are meeting today at an extraordinary time. This pandemic is something that we have never experienced in our lifetime ... our partnership is becoming stronger because of the challenges that we are facing at present.” The Minister’s comments were taken forward by Mr. Pompeo, promising American support. U.S. Secretary of Defence Mark Esper said, “BECA will enable greater sharing of geospatial information between our armed forces.” Apart from BECA, India and the U.S. also sealed an MoU on Technical Cooperation in Earth Observations and Earth Sciences, and an agreement to extend duration of the MoU regarding the Global Center for Nuclear Energy Partnership. The two sides also signed an agreement on electronic exchange of customs data and a letter of intent regarding cooperation in traditional Indian medicines. A Joint Statement issued following the conclusion of the visit of the American dignitaries highlighted shared Indo-U.S. goals in the Asia-Pacific region and “emphasised that the Code of Conduct in the South China sea should not prejudice the legitimate rights and interests of any nation in accordance with international law”. The two sides also decided to expand joint capacity building activities with partner countries in the Indo-Pacific region. Mr. Pompeo also referred to the loss of lives of Indian soldiers in the clash with the Chinese PLA troops in June and said India and the U.S. are committed to upholding common values against threats.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Now, outsiders can buy land in J&K||People, including investors, outside Jammu and Kashmir can now purchase land in the Union Territory as the Centre on Tuesday notified new land laws for the region, ending the exclusive rights enjoyed by the local population over land under the now-diluted Article 370. Under the new J&K Development Act, the Centre has omitted the term “permanent resident of the State”, paving the way for investors outside J&K to invest in the Union Territory. The Centre had been arguing that Article 370 hampered development as investors were unable to purchase land prior to August 5, 2019. It is likely to notify separate laws for Ladakh soon. “We want that like other parts of India, industries should be set up in J&K. My government is committed to peace, progress and prosperity,” J&K Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha said. The Act enables transfer of land “in favour of a person or an institution for the purpose of promotion of healthcare or senior secondary or higher or specialised education in J&K”. According to amendments made to the Jammu & Kashmir Land Revenue Act, Samvat, 1996”, only agriculturists of J&K can purchase agricultural land. “No sale, gift, exchange, or mortgage of the land shall be valid in favour of a person who is not an agriculturist,” it reads. “No land used for agriculture purposes shall be used for any non-agricultural purposes except with the permission of the district collector.”
28 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||All set for polling in Karnataka West Graduates Constituency today||A total of 582 personnel have been deployed for poll duty and an additional 81 personnel have been kept as reserve in the four districts where polling will take place in the elections to Karnataka West Graduates Constituency of the Legislative Council on Wednesday. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Tuesday, Regional Commissioner and Returning Officer Amlan Aditya Biswas said that the polling personnel and presiding officers had already reached the 146 polling stations spread over the districts of Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag and Uttara Kannada. And, polling would take place between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. Mr. Biswas said that there were a total of 74,268 voters in the constituency and 249 help desks had been set up for their assistance in these four districts. “In the four districts, 41 sector officers, 73 route officers, 42 sector health regulators, four nodal health officers, 71 videographers, 75 personnel for webcasting, 156 Group D employees, 80 Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and 220 junior woman health assistants have been deployed for the smooth conduct of the election,” he said. This apart, to ensure free and fair elections, a total of 756 police officials and personnel had been deployed in the four districts and they had been provided the requisite transport facilities, he said. Violations Mr. Biswas said that so far five cases of poll code violations — two in Dharwad district and three in Haveri district — had been registered. In all, 39 voters from Dharwad district would be exercising their franchise from their polling stations where they were deputed for duty through postal ballot and one voter from Gadag district would exercise franchise through postal ballot. The Returning Officer said that orders prohibiting various activities, including functioning of photo copy shops, scanning centres and book stalls in the vicinity of the polling stations, had already been issued. Prohibitory orders had also been issued to prevent congregation of people, processions and meetings. Weekly bazaars and village fairs had been banned or postponed and sale of liquor had also been prohibited, he said. COVID-19 Mr. Biswas said that all necessary steps had been taken to ensure strict adherence to COVID-19 guidelines and the polling personnel had been sensitised to them. The last one hour of polling would be reserved for suspected and confirmed patients of COVID-19. Isolation rooms had been set up in each one of the polling stations and they would be utilised, if found necessary, he said. Mandatory Wearing face masks and maintaining physical distancing were mandatory for all voters. Voters should also cooperate with the polling staff to ensure adherence to COVID-19 guidelines, he said. SMS sent Assistant Returning Officer Nitesh K. Patil said that SMS containing information regarding polling stations and the route map link had been sent to 58,000 voters. Hubballi-Dharwad Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant and others were present.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19: Panel to chalk out modalities of vaccination||The Karnataka government will within a week form a committee to look into the modalities of distribution of COVID-19 vaccine, said Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. The State could have access to the vaccine early in 2021, he said. He was speaking at a press conference after a meeting with the officials of AstraZeneca, one of the firms involved in research and trial of COVID-19 vaccine. The Minister said that the company in collaboration with Serum Institute Pune has been conducting vaccine trials in the country and also conducting trials in collaboration with Oxford University. When asked if the vaccine would be provided to people in the State free of cost, Dr. Sudhakar said that no decision has been made in this regard. “The vaccine is still in the trial stage. Once it is out, our State government would take a decision,” he said. Earlier, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan had announced free vaccination for all. Dr. Sudhakar also said that a technical committee will be formed in collaboration with the Union Health Ministry and the distribution of vaccine will be discussed in the committee. He said that frontline health workers, senior citizens, persons with comorbidities, pregnant and lactating mothers will be vaccinated in the first phase. He said that although the trials were on and those who were administered the vaccine were found to have neutralising antibodies, they had evidence only for 56 days. The Minister also said that AstraZeneca was producing the vaccine on no-profit-no-loss basis. He said that the State government was also in touch with Bharat Biotech International Ltd., which is conducting trials for Covaxin. Although the number of COVID-19 cases had declined in the State over the last 10 days, there was no clarity on COVID-19 manifestations in winter, he said.
28 October 2020||MYSURU,||Tourism, hospitality sector continues to bleed||The tourism and hospitality sector in Mysuru continues to bleed and register low growth, and the stakeholders are pessimistic of a turnaround despite the unlocking and the dawn of the festival season. The sector is yet to recoup from the lockdown imposed due to the pandemic and the tourist footfall was also insignificant during the just-concluded Dasara which is a fulcrum to promote tourism during normal times. The famed Jamboo Savari was confined to the palace premises and only around 300 people were allowed, and even the people of Mysuru were not present thanks to the imperatives of ensuring social distancing to fight COVID-19. Narayana Gowda of the Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association said the bookings did not exceed 25% at any point of time during Dasara as against cent per cent occupancy during the pre-pandemic years. There are nearly 8,000 rooms catering to various category of tourists of which only 25% were booked while many hotels have even stopped accepting bookings as they intend to sell the property. “Though a section of the media was projecting a huge turnout especially during nights, they were locals out to view the city illumination and did not make any impact on the tourism sector,” said Mr. Gowda. Meanwhile, the number of visitors to the Mysuru palace which has a ticketed entry, remains low. In all, 1,920 people – mainly locals – visited the palace on October 25 while 1,360 tickets were sold the previous day. The highest daily turnout in October so far was on October 2 when the palace attracted 3,258 people. This is against the normal footfall in excess of 15,000 that used to be registered during the same period in the past years. The Mysuru zoo used to be open the visitors even on Tuesdays – which otherwise is closed – during the peak holiday season commencing from October. This was to ensure that the visiting tourists did not return disappointed. But not so this year and the authorities closed the zoo for Tuesdays in view of the poor footfalls. Mysuru palace normally receives around 3.5 million tourists every year but not so this year. The palace was closed during lockdown and it received 1250 tourists in June and 725 tourists in July and 10539 in August. There was a slight surge in September when 30,425 people visited the palace. However, it is not enough to neutralize the setback afflicting the tourism sector which generates nearly 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh jobs in Mysuru alone.
28 October 2020||Kochi,||No relief for Ministers in Assembly ruckus case||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday declined to stay the summons issued by the Thiruvananthapuram Chief Judicial Magistrate Court directing Ministers E.P Jayarajan and K.T. Jaleel to appear before it on October 28 in a criminal case registered in connection with the ruckus that took place in the Assembly in March 2015. When a petition challenging the magistrate court order dismissing the plea of the prosecution to withdraw the case registered against the Ministers and other CPI(M) leaders came up before the court, government counsel sought to stay the summons issued to the Ministers to present themselves before the court on October 28. CPI(M) leaders V. Sivankutty, K. Kunjahammed, C.K. Sadasivan, and K. Ajith had appeared before the trial court earlier and taken bail in the case. The case The Assembly witnessed unprecedented scenes on March 13, 2015 as the then Opposition Left Democratic Front members tried to prevent the then Finance Minister K.M. Mani, who was facing charges in a bar bribery case, from presenting the State Budget. Following the bedlam, a case was registered during the tenure of the United Democratic Front government charging the six Opposition LDF MLAs with offences under the Prevention of Destruction of Public Property Act and Indian Penal Code Sections 447 (criminal trespass) and 427 (mischief causing damage). The case was based on a complaint filed by the Assembly Secretary. The State government pointed out in its petition that the magistrate had overlooked the legal principle that it was the right of the legislators to be the ‘sole judge of the lawfulness of its own proceedings’ and that the court could not go into the lawfulness of the proceedings of the legislature. The Speaker was invested with the power to control and regulate the course of debate and maintain order in the House. Therefore, the initiation of investigation without the sanction of the Speaker into a matter that was part of the legislature was illegal. The magistrate had erred in assuming that the Assembly Secretary would not have preferred a complaint without the sanction of the Speaker.
28 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Woman shot dead by stalker outside college||A 20-year-old woman was shot dead outside her college by a stalker and his accomplice after a failed abduction bid in Faridabad on Monday. Both the accused have been arrested. Nikita, a B.Com final-year student, had gone to her college in Ballabgarh in the afternoon for an examination when the two men accosted her. Closed-circuit television footage of the incident showed one of the accused, whose face was covered, trying to push Nikita inside a white car even as she offered stiff resistance. A woman passer-by also tried to intervene in the matter, but the man shot Nikita point-blank with a countrymade pistol and drove away with his friend in the car. The incident took place on the road outside the college. Nikita was rushed to a private hospital and died during treatment. She was a resident of Sanjay Colony in Sector 23, Faridabad. Her brother Naveen, in the FIR, identified one of the assailants as Tausheef. He said the accused had been harassing his sister for long and bore a grudge against her. Tausheef, a resident of Gurugram’s Sohna, was arrested late on Monday night after a five-hour-long operation across three districts, including Faridabad and Palwal. His accomplice Rehan, a resident of Nuh, was arrested on Tuesday. Both the arrests were made from Nuh. Faridabad Police Commissioner O. P. Singh said a case was registered against Tausheef in 2018 for kidnapping Nikita, but her family later gave an affidavit to withdraw it. He said the murder case has been transferred to the Crime Branch and a Special Investigation Team constituted to conduct a thorough investigation. Nikita’s family staged a protest on Tuesday, demanding justice for their daughter.
28 October 2020||Mangaluru,||Bajpe-Surathkal highway in poor condition||The 13-km stretch of State Highway 101 (Kabaka-Surathkal) between Bajpe and Surathkal is in a pathetic condition with the road losing the bitumen cover at many places. Hundreds of vehicles, including service buses, run on this stretch connecting the two emerging suburbs of Mangaluru every day. Vehicular movement is particularly heavy on the road as it connects two major entities — Mangalore Special Economic Zone (MSEZ) and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL). It is also a short-cut for those visiting the international airport at Bajpe from Surathkal and beyond, till Udupi. Even Google Maps knows the precarious condition of the stretch and estimates travel time to be around 30 minutes for the 13-km distance by motorcycle, said Roshan Sequeira, a regular commuter. It takes at least 40 minutes to cover the stretch, he added. Mahesh Shetty, another commuter, said that while the road is in a good condition for about 2 km from Bajpe, it is deteriorated, just after the descent starts from the Bajpe Hindu Crematorium. There is no end to the woes of road users from that point onwards with completely worn out stretches near the Kalavaru Cross, Katipalla, in front of MSEZ, MRPL’s E gate and further ahead, he rued. Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty said that while the stretch within the Bajpe Gram Panchayat limits falls under the Moodbidri Assembly constituency, the further portions, including that of Mangaluru City Corporation limits, fall under his constituency. A portion of the road in Kandavara, Mooduperara, etc., is completely worn out, he said. A senior engineer with the Public Works Department said that MSEZ and MRPL had proposed to provide alternative land to the department to lay a new road circumventing the two entities. At present, SH 101 passes through these two and they had decided to get land for the new road through the acquisition process. However, the department did not hear further in the matter, the engineer said and added that the PWD would restore the battered stretches.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Gambling raid leads policemen to colleagues||When the Puttenahalli police were conducting a raid on a hotel after being informed about gambling, little did they know that they would be arresting some of their own. A birthday party involving nine men at a hotel in J.P. Nagar recently had surprise visitors when the Puttenahalli police, who raided the room based on a tip-off, caught them gambling, along with Rs. 54,540 in cash. It was only later that they discovered that of the nine arrested, seven were their own colleagues, working in different police stations across the city. The incident has been taken up seriously by the higher-ups in the police force. Inspector R.S. Choudhari, who carried out the raid, reported the matter to Harish Pande, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South), who directed him to register an FIR against the accused, charging them under various sections of the Karnataka Police Act. Inquiries revealed that the accused policemen were attending the birthday party of one of their friends. On Tuesday, they decided to get together at a hotel in J.P. Nagar after duty and started gambling after the usual cutting of cake. However, the jurisdictional police got a tip-off that a group of people had taken up a room in the hotel for gambling. Taking serious note of the issue, Mr. Pande has initiated an inquiry into the matter, based on which disciplinary action will be taken. “This incident amounts to indiscipline and dereliction of duty,” a senior police officer probing the incident said.
28 October 2020||Mumbai,||HC quashes notifications on rates for non-COVID-19 patients||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court recently quashed two notifications  issued by the Maharashtra government to private hospitals and healthcare providers, and nursing homes on regulating rates for non-COVID-19 patients. A Division Bench of Justices R.K. Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala was hearing a plea filed by the Hospitals Association, Nagpur, and Dr. Pradeep Arora, challenging the State notifications dated April 30 and May 21 which fixed a maximum chargeable rate for COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients. The notifications said, “The hospitals and healthcare providers in the State shall not charge more than the rates prescribed in annexure A read with annexure B as per the location and bed strength. The rates prescribed in annexure A shall be applicable for non-COVID-19 patients. The rates in annexure C shall apply to COVID-19 patients or suspected positive patients referred by the competent authorities against regulated beds.” The petitioners argued that there was no provision that empowered the State government to regulate the rates recoverable by the private hospitals for providing medical services to non-COVID-19 patients. The notifications in question were, therefore, beyond the competence of the State, they said. The petitioners also contended that Parliament had enacted the Medical Council of India Act and the State legislature had enacted the Maharashtra Essential Service Maintenance (Amendment) Act, 2011, as also the Maharashtra Nursing Homes Registration Act. “All these enactments are in force, exhausting the power of Parliament as well as the State legislature to enact laws on the subjects concerned. The field is already occupied and, therefore, the State has no competence to issue the notifications in question concerning any of the items covered by the subjects,” they said. The Bench said, “In our view, public health and sanitation; hospitals and dispensaries in the State List are neither an entry to regulate or control, the charges, fees or rates, nor it can be read to include the power to prescribe or regulate the charges, fees or rates. We, therefore, hold that the State legislature is not competent either to frame any law in that respect or to issue any notification regulating the rates chargeable by the private hospitals for non-COVID-19 patients.” The court said, “The said notifications are an encroachment upon the fundamental rights of the petitioners under Article 19(1)(g) (to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business) of the Indian Constitution.”
28 October 2020||Madurai,||‘Sattankulam police tortured duo knowing it will result in death’||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), in its chargesheet against the nine policemen accused in the Sattankulam custodial death case, said trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks were subjected to brutal torture by the policemen, knowing well that it was sufficient to cause their death. The expert opinion received from the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), New Delhi, established that bleeding injuries were caused to the duo on the premises of the Sattankulam police station. The DNA profile generated from the exhibits lifted from the walls of the station were found to be consistent with the DNA profile generated from the blood-stained clothes of the deceased. All the material exhibits seized by the Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate during the judicial inquiry and the exhibits obtained during the investigation were sent to the CFSL. The exhibits included blood stains collected from the walls, lock-up, toilet, the room of the Station House Officer and other areas of the police station. The services of a multi-disciplinary team of CFSL experts were requisitioned for inspection/reconstruction of the scene of crime. The team from New Delhi inspected the scene of crime at Sattankulam and materials were collected. The report of the team was awaited, and it would be produced before the court when received, the CBI said. Further, the CBI said there were inconsistencies in different reports/documents relating to the initial medical reports of the two deceased at the Government Hospital at Sattankulam. The reports, including inquest and post-mortem reports, have been referred to a multi-institutional medical board of forensic medicine experts, and their report was awaited. The investigation revealed that in pursuance of a criminal conspiracy hatched by the accused policemen, Jayaraj was picked up from his shop on June 19 at 7:30 p.m. and lodged at the police station. On information, Benicks rushed to the station to enquire about the arrest of his father. He objected to his father being beaten up. Following an altercation, the two were wrongfully confined at the police station and beaten up in order to teach them a lesson on how to behave with the police. The torture continued for several hours throughout the night, the CBI said. The team from New Delhi inspected the scene of crime at Sattankulam and materials were collected. The report of the team was awaited, and it would be produced before the court when received, the CBI said. Further, the CBI said there were inconsistencies in different reports/documents relating to the initial medical examination reports of the two deceased at the Government Hospital at Sattankulam. The reports, including inquest and post-mortem reports, have been referred to a multi-institutional medical board of forensic medicine experts, and their report was awaited. The investigation revealed that in pursuance of a criminal conspiracy hatched by the accused policemen, Jayaraj was picked up from his shop near the Kamaraj statue on June 19 at 7:30 p.m. and lodged at the police station. On information, Benicks rushed to the station to enquire about the arrest of his father. He objected to his father being beaten up. Following an altercation, the two were wrongfully confined at the police station and beaten up in order to teach them a lesson on how to behave with the police. The torture continued for several hours throughout the night, the CBI said. Jayaraj and Benicks, with only their vests on, were made to bow down on a wooden table and subjected to a severe beating with batons. The police caught their hands so that they could not defend themselves. Jayaraj told the police about his blood pressure and diabetic condition, but they did not pay heed to his pleas, the CBI said. The two were made to clean the blood that had oozed from their wounds and pooled on the floor with their own vest. The next morning the sweeper of the police station was made to clean the blood on the floor so as to destroy the evidence. A false case was registered against the two by the policemen, the CBI said. During the investigation it was revealed that the traders had not violated the COVID-19 lockdown rules, the CBI said. A ‘fit for remand’ certificate was obtained despite severe injuries. The blood-stained clothes were dumped in the dustbin of the Sattankulam government hospital. The father and the son were limping and unable to sit properly when they were produced before the Medical Officer. They were subsequently produced before the Sattankulam Judicial Magistrate for remand. It was at the Kovilpatti Sub-Jail that the two developed health complications and succumbed to injuries at the Kovilpatti government hospital. The CBI has filed the charge sheet against the then inspector S. Sridhar, sub-inspectors P. Raghu Ganesh and K. Balakrishnan, head constables S. Murugan and A. Saamidurai and constables M. Muthuraj, S. Chelladurai, X. Thomas Francis and S. Veilumuthu. Special sub-inspector Pauldurai, an accused, died of COVID-19. The charges have been made under Section 120 B (party to a criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), read with Sections 302 (murder), 342 (wrongful confinement), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 182 (false information), 193 (false evidence), 211 (false charge of offence), 218 (public servant framing incorrect record) and 34 (common intention). The accused are in judicial custody and lodged in the Madurai Central Prison.
28 October 2020||GUNTUR,||Rythu Bharosa aid credited to farmers’ accounts||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that over 50 lakh farmers stand to gain as Rs. 6,797 crore is being credited directly to the accounts of farmers in the second round of this year under the YSR Rythu Bharosa-PM Kisan scheme. The Chief Minister was speaking after pressing a button to credit Rs. 1,115 crore to the accounts of farmers, at his camp office on Tuesday. “The State government has already credited Rs. 3,713 crore (Rs. 7,500 for each farmer) under the scheme in May as the first instalment this year. Now, we are paying Rs. 4,000 for each farmer in the second round. A sum of Rs. 2,000 will be given before January as the third instalment. I am proud to extend an aid of Rs. 13,500 crore to farmers every year. This will benefit 80% of farmers possessing land below 1.25 acres,” said the Chief Minister. The scheme was being implemented irrespective of caste, creed or party affiliation, he added. The Chief Minister said the State government would be depositing Rs. 135.73 crore in the accounts of 1.66 lakh farmers who have been affected by recent floods. “This is for the first time that compensation is being paid in the same year of floods. The previous government used to take one year for payment of compensation,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. Rythu Bharosa Kendras Further, the State government established as many as 10,641 Rythu Bharosa Kendras to provide quality seeds and fertilisers to farmers and started providing paddy harvesting machines to farmers. Borewells have been dug up and motors installed free of cost to provide quality and uninterrupted power to farmers for nine hours a day. The State government also paid Rs. 8,655 crore as arrears that were due from the previous government and provided Rs. 384 crore as seed subsidy, said the Chief Minister. Minister for Agriculture K. Kannababu, Home Minister M. Sucharita, Minister for BC Welfare Ch. Venugopala Krishna and others were present.
28 October 2020||MUMBAI,||10th accused arrested in TRP scam||The Mumbai Police have arrested a 10th person, a resident of Thane, for his alleged involvement in the Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation scam. “During investigation, he confessed that he has been accepting money from at least two news channels [Republic and News Nation] and used to pay to certain households through his associates. Two of such associates have earlier been arrested in this regard,” the Detection Crime Branch of the Mumbai Police said in a statement. In a new twist to the saga, the police said a money trail of transactions between a Hansa Group company and ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd, which is the company operating Republic TV channels, was revealed.
28 October 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra adds 5,363 fresh cases, 115 fatalities||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 count on Tuesday increased to 16,54,028 with 5,363 new cases being reported, a State health official said. The State also recorded 115 deaths during the day, taking the fatality toll to 43,463, he said. A total of 7,836 patients were discharged after treatment, pushing the tally of recovered people to 14,78,496. With this, the number of active patients in the State stands at 1,31,544. Mumbai city reported 801 new cases, which pushed its overall case count to 2,52,886, while its death toll rose to 10,165 of which 23 were reported on Tuesday. The State has so far conducted 87,00,033 tests. The Mumbai division, which consists of Mumbai city and satellite towns, reported 1,727 new cases, raising the total tally to 5,74,576. A total of 17,796 people have died so far in the region, the official said. The number of cases in Pune division stood at 4,20,597 and deaths at 9,445, the official said. Nashik division’s cumulative case tally stood at 2,21,457 and death toll at 4,193. Kolhapur division has reported 1,07,998 cases and 3,621 deaths till now, while Aurangabad division’s case tally is 61,789 and death count 1,547.
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State gears up to tackle post-COVID syndrome||The Health Department is in the process of drawing up a protocol for following up an ever increasing pool – which has already crossed three lakh now – of persons who have recovered from COVID-19 but who might be experiencing “long COVID” or the post-COVID syndrome, which could in some cases be life-threatening or just debilitating. “It is a long road to recovery after COVID-19 and even those who had asymptomatic or mild disease could be experiencing a range of multisystemic manifestations such as chronic fatigue, sleep disorders, short-term memory loss or brain fog. We have been following up a cohort of some 400 health-care workers who had contracted the infection. Our estimation is that while about 10% of the patients experience “long COVID”, which lasts typically for about three weeks, about 2% will go on to experience chronic post-COVID syndrome lasting over three months,” R. Aravind, Head of Infectious Diseases, Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, says. However, screening and management of the unmanageable number of recovered patients is posing a major challenge for the Health Department . It is exploring all possibilities from telemedicine to self-monitoring and reporting, so that the focus remains on picking up those patients who might experience life-threatening or chronic post-COVID syndrome. “Most of the extra-pulmonary complications of COVID manifest after day 10, when the patient would have been discharged. Clinicians should ensure that a patient has been clinically stable for the past two days and not just antigen negative when he is discharged,’’ Dr. Aravind says. The priority of post-COVID clinics should be in the early identification of patients who experience palpitation or dyspnoea, and getting them into pulmonary rehabilitation, with anti-fibrotic drugs if needed. “The last thing we want is for those with mild post-COVID issues to crowd at these clinics, which could then turn out to be another hub of virus transmission,” a senior health official says. Algorithmic approach The Health Department is drawing up an algorithmic approach to manage these issues in primary care clinics, from where patients can be screened and referred to specialists. “All patients at the time of discharge itself should be educated about post-COVID syndrome and taught self-monitoring and report back to doctors. They should be trained in breathing exercise to increase the efficiency of respiratory muscles which have been weakened by COVID-19,” Dr. Aravind says.
28 October 2020||GUNTUR,||YSRCP to skip SEC meet on local body polls||YSR Congress Party MLA and official spokesperson Ambati Rambabu has said the party has decided not to attend the meeting of political parties called by State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar on local body polls as it suspected that the SEC might have “ulterior motives”. In a letter, Mr. Rambabu said the SEC should have waited for the Supreme Court judgment and added that the apex court had stated that the SEC should consider the views expressed by the State government before going ahead with the poll process. He wondered why the SEC was going ahead with the process without consulting either the Chief Secretary or the Medical and Health Secretary on whether it was possible to conduct local body elections. This shows that the SEC has a different agenda and hence the party decided to keep off the meeting, he said. He said that the SEC move to hold one-on-one discussions with parties without holding discussions with the State government or the Chief Secretary on the feasibility of holding the polls, was part of a ploy by Mr. Ramesh Kumar and N. Chandrababu Naidu. Mr. Rambabu claimed the motive of calling parties that do not command any vote base in the State to the meeting would soon be exposed. He questioned why the SEC postponed the polls when there were less than three COVID-19 cases in the State but was ready to hold the polls when the State was registering 3,000 cases a day. Mr. Rambabu exuded confidence that the YSRCP would win all the seats in the elections.
28 October 2020||GUNTUR,||Lamborghini to set up shop in State||Leading sports vehicle brand Lamborghini has set out plans to set up an electric vehicle manufacturing unit in the State, most likely at Krishnapatnam SEZ in Nellore. Pune-based Kinetic Green has submitted proposals to set up a premium brand electric vehicle manufacturing unit in the State for use in golf and other sports. These developments come in the backdrop of an aggressive push for non renewable energy driven vehicles by the government of Andhra Pradesh. Minister for Industries, IT and Skill Development Mekapati Gowtham Reddy said the huge projects with an outlay of Rs. 1,750 crore , include setting up of an electric vehicle manufacturing unit, battery charging stations, charging swapping and R&D units. Sulajja Firodia Motwani, Founder, CEO, Kinetic Green Energy and Power Solutions Limited, has written a letter to Mr. Reddy. Kinetic has submitted proposals to thegovernment to set up a unit on an area of about 50 acres in the port-based SEZ area. Nellore, Chittoor and Visakhapatnam districts are in the race. The unit will be set up to export Lamborghini vehicles as well as vehicles under the Kinetic Green brand name in addition to local requirements. The company has proposed to pay 1% royalty on commercial use of technology developed in R&D set up in the State. Lamborghini has entered into an agreement with Kinetic Green in 2018 to manufacture and sell branded electric vehicles in the country, said the Minister.
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||Reopening guidelines to stay till Nov. 30||The Union Home Ministry on Tuesday said the “guidelines for reopening” issued last month, permitting cinemas, entertainment parks and swimming pools for sportspersons to open, will continue till November 30 in areas outside containment zones. The guidelines issued on September 30 were to be in force till October 31. The lockdown restrictions shall continue in the containment zones during the period, the Ministry’s order said. The guidelines also stated that international travel, except those permitted by the Centre, would remain shut.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Hot potato||
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Early morning culmination||
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Hot potato||
28 October 2020||Mumbai,||Athawale, Tatkare test positive||Union Minister of State for Social Justice Ramdas Athawale and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Lok Sabha MP from Raigad, Sunil Tatkare, on Tuesday said that they had tested positive for COVID-19. Both the leaders said that they were in good health and would soon be available in public life after a brief period of rest. On Monday, Maharahstra Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar tested positive for the virus. He said that he was getting admitted to Breach Candy hospital in south Mumbai.
28 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Woman dies in accident||A 32-year-old woman died while her husband was seriously injured after the motorcycle the two were riding was hit by a container lorry at the junction of NH 66 and Ullal Main Road in Thokkottu on Tuesday. The police gave the name of the deceased as Priya Fernandes and the injured as Rayan Fernandes (35). The police said that the couple were returning to their house in Ullal Mastikatta. The two came from the service road and were taking a turn towards the main road when they were hit by the lorry. Priya Fernandes died on the spot, the police said. Rayan Fernandes was taken to a private hospital.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Early morning culmination||
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Demand and supply||
28 October 2020||PATNA,||Polling for 71 seats in Bihar||Polling will take place on Wednesday for the first phase of the Bihar election for 71 seats across 16 districts, including Maoists-affected areas such as Jamui, Aurangabad and Rohtas.
28 October 2020||PATNA,||Polling for 71 seats in Bihar today||Polling will take place on Wednesday for the first phase of the Bihar election for 71 seats across 16 districts, including some Maoists-affected areas such as Jamui, Aurangabad and Rohtas. The ruling JD(U) has fielded candidates on 41 seats, while alliance partner BJP is present in 29. The Opposition RJD is contesting 42 seats and its ally Congress from 21 seats. The fate of over half-a-dozen Ministers of Nitish Kumar’s Cabinet and former Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi of Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular), who is contesting from Imamganj, will be decided on Wednesday. At stake are also the fortunes of expelled veteran BJP leaders, who are contesting on LJP tickets.
28 October 2020||Mumbai,||Dismiss plea by Sushant’s sisters to quash FIR, Rhea urges HC||Actor Rhea Chakraborty on Tuesday urged the Bombay High Court to dismiss a plea filed by sisters of the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput seeking to quash the FIR registered by her on abetting Sushant’s death. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik was hearing a plea filed by Meetu and Priyanka Singh seeking to quash the FIR filed on September 7 by the Bandra police. Ms. Chakraborty, in her reply filed through advocate Satish Maneshinde, said, “As per the prescription dated June 8, Dr. Tarun Kumar prescribed Nexito 5 mg, Librium 5 mg and Lonazep MD 0.5 mg to Sushant for anxiety. It is pertinent to note that Librium is Chlordiazepoxide which appears at item no.36 in the list of psychotropic substances under the NDPS Act, while Nexito and Lonazep MD both contain Clonazepam which appears in the list of psychotropic substances under the NDPS Act. Sushant died merely five days after he obtained the said prescription wherein he was unlawfully prescribed psychotropic substances at the behest of sister [Priyanka] and Dr. Kumar.”
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘GDP growth will be negative or near zero’||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said there were visible signs of revival in the economy, but the GDP growth may be in the negative zone or near zero in the current fiscal. She said the economy saw a contraction in the April-June quarter, but demand has picked up in the festival season. Speaking at the India Energy Forum of CERAWeek, she said infrastructure, fintech and all employment-generating and asset-creating industries would be priority sectors for the government. The Indian economy had contracted by 23.9% in the April-June quarter, hit by the COVID-19 crisis.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Take measures during winter’||Although the number of COVID-19 cases has declined in the State over the past 10 days, there is no clarity on COVID-19 manifestations in the winter, warned Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. “We want people to take all precautionary measures in November, December, and January,” he said.
28 October 2020||PATNA,||Polling for 71 seats in Bihar today||Polling will take place on Wednesday for the first phase of the Bihar election for 71 seats across 16 districts, including Maoists-affected areas such as Jamui, Aurangabad and Rohtas.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers plan nationwide road blockade on Nov. 5||Over 500 farmers’ groups plan to block roads across the country on November 5, as part of an all-India “chakka jam”, the next step in their protest against the three controversial farm reform laws passed by Parliament last month. The groups are also planning a march to Delhi on November 26 and 27, if their demands to repeal the laws are not accepted.
28 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||Fire breaks out in Sherewad industry||Raw material reportedly worth lakhs of rupees were gutted in a phenyl and broomsticks manufacturing industry at Sherewad near Hubballi on Monday night. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and H.N. Nandakumar, brother of the former Union Minister late Ananthkumar, have a partnership in Vibhav Industries where the fire broke out. On being alerted, the Hubballi Rural Police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel immediately rushed to the spot and extinguished the fire, sources said.
28 October 2020||BELAGAVI,||Funds sought for transport corpns.||KSRTC and three other State-run transport undertakings have sought around Rs. 3,000 crore financial support from the State government to help them tide over the losses suffered due to the extended lockdown. Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi has asked the State government to absorb the cost of issuing bus passes to students.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital’s air quality still in ‘very poor’ category||The air quality in the Capital improved slightly on Tuesday with a 24-hour average AQI of 312 but remained in the “very poor” category. The AQI on Monday was 353, and 349, 345 and 366 on the previous three days. The forecast according to SAFAR shows the “very poor” air quality is likely to persist till October 30.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi witnesses highest single-day spike in cases||The national capital recorded its highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases with 4,853 people testing positive in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. A total of 57,210 tests were conduc-ted with a positivity rate of 8.48%. The bulletin said 44 deaths were reported while 2,722 patients had recovered in the past 24 hours.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Some MSMEs in State show signs of recovery||The auto ancillary and supply chain industries in Karnataka have started showing signs of recovery with the sales numbers of passenger cars, commercial vehicles, two wheelers and bicycles picking up in the last two months.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19: Test numbers drop over two days||For the second consecutive day, the number of COVID-19 tests conducted in the State declined. On Monday (reflected in Tuesday’s health bulletin), 66,701 tests were conducted in the State, and 3,691 new cases were reported. On Sunday, the total tests stood at 65,862.
28 October 2020||Mysuru,||Inauguration of safari zone put on hold||The Forest Department has put on hold the inauguration of a tourism zone with facilities for safari, which was slated in the Nugu Wildlife Sanctuary for Friday. Nugu Wildlife Sanctuary is part of the notified buffer zone of Bandipur Tiger Reserve since 2010 and an eco-sensitive zone since 2012.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Kushboo arrested on way to Chidambaram||BJP leader Kushboo and her supporters were arrested by the police on Tuesday while she was going to Chidam- baram to lead a protest against VCK leader Thol. Thirumavalavan for his recent remarks on women. She was released in the evening.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,||2,522 new COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu||Another 2,522 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, pushing the overall tally to 7,14,235. In the past 24 hours, 69,344 persons were tested in the State. Chennai’s daily case count dipped to 695. Coimbatore recorded 209 fresh cases, Salem 146 cases and Chengalpattu 144.
28 October 2020||MADURAI,||Dull Deepavali for Madurai weavers||Deepavali is usually peak season for handloom weavers as more people go shopping for saris during this period. However, the festival season this year has been disappointing for the handloom weavers of Madurai district, mainly because of COVID-19.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pollution, winter pose a threat: Centre||Asserting that there is clear indication that pollution is a major contributor to COVID-19 mortality, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Tuesday that children who were earlier thought to be better protected against the virus were now showing some evidence of being spreaders or even super-spreaders. “This has been seen in Mizoram, where the number of active COVID cases is small. Children (under 17) form only a very small portion (8%) of the total active cases across India,” ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava said at a Health Ministry press meeting on Tuesday. Speaking about Kawasaki disease occurring alongside COVID-19, he said it was an auto-immune disease that affected children less than five years of age. “It is less common in India. I don’t think we have had any experience of Kawasaki with COVID-19 in India so far. That’s a very rare condition,’’ he said. Stating that there should be no hurry to declare ourselves COVID-19 free, the Health Ministry said the idea was to tackle the virus in a slow, steady manner. “What is a matter of concern now is the fact that States like Kerala, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi are not showing an improvement to the level we were expecting. 58% of new deaths are reported in five States and Union Territories [Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka] in the last 24 hours,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Union Health Ministry. Calling COVID-19 a “mischievous virus” which is “still threatening an overwhelming [part of the] population”, NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul said, “Though India’s numbers are improving, we are still vulnerable. We are seeing a second wave in several regions and the U.S. is seeing its third peak.” “Winters could be playing a role as is the fact that we may be becoming lax about the prevention measures. Slowing down containment strategy is also playing an important role [in the pandemic],” he said. “The fact that even countries of much greater economic capability, per capita income and good health systems can succumb to a huge second peak is a lesson for all of us,” Dr. Paul added. Speaking about the COVID-19 trends in India, Mr. Bhushan said that the number of new confirmed COVID-19 cases in India in the last 24 hours has fallen below 36,500 (36,470) for the first time in three months. The new cases were 34,884 on July 18, 2020.  Sustained dip “With a high number of COVID patients recovering every day, and the sustained fall in the mortality rate, India’s steady trend of registering dipping active cases continues. The active cases have declined to 6.25 lakh, and the total positive cases of the country are 6,25,857 and now comprise 7.88% of the total cases,” he added. The Ministry said that 35% of the total active cases in the country on Tuesday are being reported from only 18 districts. “The slide in active cases is supplemented by an exponential rise in the recoveries. The total recovered cases have crossed 72 lakh (72,01,070). The national recovery rate has further grown to 90.62%,” said Mr. Bhushan. He added that 78% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 States/UTs, with Maharashtra leading with more than 9,000 single day recoveries. Additionally, 76% of the new confirmed cases are from 10 States and UTs. India’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) stands at 1.5%.
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala govt. fixes base price for 16 agricultural produce||The government expects to produce an additional one lakh tonnes of vegetables and tubers alike in a year, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Tuesday. A project would be prepared to ensure the best market for the produce. Mr. Vijayan was speaking after announcing the base price for 16 agricultural items, including vegetables, fruits, and tubers, in what the government termed a first-of-its-kind initiative in the country, here. The scheme, designed to protect farmers from adverse price fluctuations, would come into effect from November 1. Mr. Vijayan said the base price would provide relief and support to both traditional farmers and those newly farming the land. While farmers around the country were discontent and had taken up protests, the Kerala government supported them and rolled out several initiatives aimed at development of agriculture in the past four-and-a-half years. The base price was one such measure. Sixteen agricultural produce would be covered in the first phase. Crops such as tapioca, ‘nendran’ plantain, pineapple, bitter gourd, cucumber, snake gourd, tomato, cabbage, and beans that were produced in the State had been included in the base price, which would be 20% above the production cost of the vegetable. If the market price dipped below the base price of a vegetable, the produce would be procured at the base price and the money transferred to farmers’ accounts. The produce would be graded on quality, and the base price fixed on that basis. There was also a provision to revise the base price regularly, the Chief Minister said. Local self-government institutions would have an important role to play in the scheme as they would coordinate the procurement and distribution of vegetables, he said. The scheme would benefit a farmer with cultivation on a maximum of 15 acres in a season. They would have to register on the Agriculture Department’s registration portal after insuring the crop to get the benefit of the base price. The registration would begin on November 1. Initially though, the registration would not be mandatory for farmers intending the procurement to happen through primary agricultural credit cooperative societies. The procured produce would be sold through the department’s markets or the societies’ marketing network. Any excess produce would be converted into value-added products. The scheme also envisaged setting up of supply chain process such as cold-storage facilities and refrigerated vehicles.
28 October 2020||Patna,||First phase of Bihar polls today||Voting in the first phase of the Bihar Assembly elections for 71 seats across 16 districts will be held on Wednesday. It will be a close contest between the BJP-led NDA and the RJD-led mahagathbandan (grand alliance) despite issues of corruption at lower levels of bureaucracy and prohibition plaguing the incumbent government. The Opposition, led by Tejashwi Yadav, seems to be getting an “advantage by default” and narrowing the gap. Bihar is the first State going to the polls amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The Election Commission has issued several guidelines for the voters and those engaged in conducting the polls. Numbers game In the first phase, the RJD is contesting in 42 constituencies and its alliance partner, the Congress, in 21 seats. From the ruling NDA, the JD(U)’s candidates are in the fray in 41 seats and the BJP’s in 29. The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) is contesting 41 seats. It is not a part of the NDA as it has fielded candidates in 143 seats, mainly to contest against JD(U) nominees. Altogether, 1,066 candidates are in the fray in the first phase, of whom 114 are women. The electoral fate of over half a dozen Ministers such as Krishnandan Verma, Jai Kumar Singh, Santosh Kumar Nirala, Vijay Kumar Sinha, Prem Kumar, Shailesh Kumar, Brij Kishore Bind and Ram Narayan Mandal, will be decided in the first phase in districts such as the Maoist-affected Gaya, Rohtas and Aurangabad. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several top BJP leaders have addressed a number of public meetings, while Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had addressed two in Nawada and Bhagalpur. For the ‘mahagathbandan’, Mr. Yadav is the main campaign star in whose public meetings a large number of young people have turned out. “Seemingly, he [Tejashwi Yadav] is getting an advantage by default due to likely support of anti-Nitish Kumar votes. He is attracting huge gatherings at his public meetings, mostly the negative votes,” said political analyst Ajay Kumar.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||No clarity yet on whether vaccine will be free for all||There is no clarity on whether a COVID-19 vaccine, whenever it is ready, will be free of cost for everyone in India and it being so would depend on the outcome of clinical trials under way to test the vaccine, said the head of the committee overseeing vaccine development and planning its distribution. “We will have more clarity in the weeks ahead when trial data from the ongoing trials (phase 3) of the Serum Institute of India (which is testing the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine) is available. The success of it and the other candidates will determine the availability and the dosage required and then we can discuss financing. The next three weeks will yield clarity on this,” said V.K. Paul of the NITI Aayog, who heads the Centre’s expert committee on vaccines. He was speaking on the sidelines of a press briefing on Tuesday. At the briefing, in response to a question from The Hindu , Dr. Paul said that “for the foreseeable future”, it looked like “resources wouldn’t be a problem” in making vaccines available free. “Consultations are on; we are drawing up blueprints in trying to work this out. We have requested States to keep the national interest in mind in questions of vaccine prioritisation and availability,” he said. Though the government provides several vaccines free to children and pregnant women under its National Immunisation Programme, the sheer scale of the pandemic and complex international financial agreements undergirding vaccine development and deployment, mean that there is uncertainty on the actual costs to the Centre. The Gavi Covax Advance Market Commitment Scheme, involving nearly 180 countries, is a mechanism to ensure that a vaccine, whenever ready, is equitably available globally. The scheme requires $2 billion to be able to ready 2 billion doses by 2021 and so far, commitments by countries total nearly $1 billion to ensure access to high-risk vulnerable groups. India’s financial commitment to this scheme is as yet unclear. Government officials have previously indicated that while the vaccine would be free for the poor, it could also retail at as much as Rs. 120-140. A person involved in screening potential vaccines for the Department of Biotechnology, said on condition of anonymity that there were tremendous costs involved in actually administering a vaccine. “The cost of administering a vaccine could be as much as the vaccine itself. This is a viral vaccine and culturing them is harder and costlier than bacterial vaccines. Also this has to be injected 30 days apart, which is much more expensive than say, the oral polio vaccine. There is a significant cost and somebody has to pay,” the scientist said.
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||Reopening guidelines to be in force till Nov. 30||The Home Ministry on Tuesday said the “guidelines for reopening” post-lockdown issued last month, permitting cinemas, entertainment parks and swimming pools for sportspersons to open, would continue to be applicable till November 30 in areas outside the containment zones. The guidelines issued on September 30 were to be in force till October 31. The lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in the containment zones during the period, the Ministry’s order said. Appropriate behaviour The Ministry said it had advised the Chief Secretaries of the States and the administrators of Union Territories that they “should endeavour to promote COVID-19-appropriate behaviour extensively at the grassroots level and take measures to enforce the wearing of masks, hand hygiene and social distancing”. The guidelines said that international travel, except those permitted by the Centre, would remain shut while the State governments were given the flexibility to decide on reopening of schools and coaching institutions in a graded manner. The activities permitted in areas outside the containment zones were — cinemas, theatres and multiplexes with up to 50% of their seating capacity, Business to Business (B2B) exhibitions, swimming pools used for training of sportspersons, entertainment parks and similar places. The Ministry said that where schools were conducting online classes, and some students preferred to attend online classes rather than physically attend school, they may be permitted to do so. Students may attend schools and institutions only with the written consent of parents. Attendance must not be enforced, and must depend entirely on parental consent, it said. The Department of Higher Education under the Ministry of Education may take a decision on the timing of the opening of colleges and higher education institutions, in consultation with the Ministry. The Ministry reiterated that the States would not impose any local lockdown outside the containment zones without consulting the Centre. There would be no restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||HC to monitor CBI’s Hathras probe||The Supreme Court on Tuesday left it to the Allahabad High Court to monitor the CBI investigation into the alleged gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman by four upper-caste accused persons in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh. A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, in a 16-page verdict, concluded that there was no need to divest the Lucknow Bench of the High Court of the case and directly monitor the case. Without expressing an opinion on the facts of the case and the allegations made, the court left it open for the High Court to consider the CBI probe and grievances about the “illegal cremation”. The CBI has to report to the High Court about its progress. The court said the High Court had taken suo motu cognisance of the case and passed a detailed order on October 1. “The High Court has adequately delved into the aspects relating to the case to secure fair investigation and has also secured the presence of the father, mother, brother and sister-in-law of the victim and appropriate orders are being passed, including securing reports from various quarters. In that circumstance, we do not find it necessary to divest the High Court of the proceedings and take upon this court to monitor the proceedings/investigation,” the judgment said. The court, moreover, said since the incident occurred within the jurisdiction of the High Court, it would be “appropriate” for the High Court to monitor the probe “in the manner in which it would desire”. The court said there was no need to transfer the trial to Delhi for the time being as the CBI had taken over the investigation and there was “no room for apprehensions at this stage”. The central agency took over the probe on October 11. ‘Open for consideration’ The Bench said it would be appropriate if the probe was completed first. However, it kept the question of transfer of trial open for consideration, if required, in the future. The court gave liberty to the petitioners to approach the High Court with their respective pleas regarding the manner in which she lost her life and how she was cremated in the middle of the night. The court said it felt that adequate security for the victim’s family and witnesses have been provided by the State police. The Bench, however, to address the “normal perception and pessimism which cannot be said as being without justification”, ordered security arrangements to be transferred to the Central Reserve Police Force, which has to swing into action within a week. It directed the State Chief Secretary to forthwith communicate the order to a competent CRPF officer.  The High Court has adequately delved into the aspects relating to the case to secure fair investigation... appropriate orders are being passed, including securing reports from various quarters Three-judge SC Bench
28 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Elephant skeleton, Chinese pots found at temple cellar||A recent attempt to restore the Thiruvayamkudy Mahadeva temple, near Kaduthuruthy, Kottayam, appears to have brought to light an interesting facet of history associated with the centuries-old structure. The temple authorities have unearthed several objects, including the skeleton of an elephant, its chain and other wooden articles from a basement in the temple complex here. The articles were found hidden underneath the vegetative growth inside the cellar, which is about 5-ft deep from the ground and can hold only one person at a time. Several wooden articles, Chinese pots of different sizes and lamps made of bell metal too have been recovered from the vault. A team of forest officials visited the location and commenced efforts to conduct radiocarbon dating of the animal’s remnants. As part of subjecting the bone samples to carbon-dating, a team from the College of Veterinary Science and Animal Sciences, Mannuthy, Thrissur, will soon inspect the skeleton parts. G. Prasad, Assistant Conservator of Forests, said the recovered materials included jaw bones, knee bones and a few other bones of the elephant. “Preliminary reports suggested that these belonged to a makhna elephant that lived nearly two centuries ago,” the officer said. According to him, the temple authorities may now seek permission from the Chief Wildlife Warden to keep these wildlife articles in their possession after making an inventory declaration under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Meanwhile, the temple trust commenced efforts to open a museum in association with the Department of Archaeology to showcase the articles. “The elders have passed on information about a mozha (Makhna) elephant that died here over a century ago. It is believed to have been cremated in a property just outside the temple complex and some of its bones and chain might have made their way into the vault,” said Vasudevan Namboothiri, president of the Thiruvayamkudy temple trust. Long history The history of the temple could be traced back to 1,000 years. “The recovery of elephant bones is indeed a unique incident to have reported from any of the temples. It highlights the need to preserve this heritage temple complex, a one of its kind in the entire region,” observed Pallikonam Rajeev, who has carried out extensive research on the history of the temple.
28 October 2020||Purnia/Katihar/Araria,||Jungle raj, babu raj and now what, ask voters||A common refrain in the northern belt of Bihar is the lack of vikalp , or option — the voter is looking for a change but does not know where to go. People say “jungle raj” has been replaced by “ babu raj” (bureaucrats’ rule), and muscle power by money power. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and BJP leaders talk about development. But voters say this development comes at a cost. Umesh Mandal, a daily wager in the Rupauli constituency of Purnia district, sums up, “The criminals are no longer on the road, they are now sitting in block offices. The government says why do roadside dacoity; let’s do it sitting inside the block offices.” Corruption is a common theme in this election. “If you want a house under the Indira Awas Yojana, then you have to pay Rs. 30,000 in bribes. For toilets, under the Swachch Bharat Mission, you have to shell out Rs. 2,000,” says Kedarnath Mahant, who is from the Tanti community, an extremely backward caste. People point out how roads last only a season, prohibition remains on paper, about vapour street lamps that were promised but not delivered, about schools that have buildings but no teachers, about graduates who are lazing around the village without jobs. The list is long and urgent. “If there were factories here, why would anyone go to Punjab,” says Ravikant Thakur, who belongs to the Nai community. But ask them about RJD’s chief minister contender Tejashwi Yadav’s poll promise of 10 lakh jobs, Mr. Thakur observes that he can’t be their choice. “We want Modi, so we have to vote for Nitish.” Subash Shah, who runs a small roadside stall about 30 km from Purnia town, points at the road ahead with its top layer missing with just stones and gravel. “We will have to vote for Modi, if we vote for Lalu, then the hurricane lamp will be doused,” he says. Miles away at the Banmakhi constituency, Vijay Kumar, who belongs to the Mallah community, says he is voting for Mr. Modi and not for Mr. Nitish Kumar. “We don’t want Nitish as our Chief Minister,” he says.
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||The end of an era of social justice politics in Bihar||This year’s Assembly election in Bihar is the first in three decades in which Lalu Prasad (72) is not the central character — he is in jail and ill. Ramvilas Paswan died in the middle of the election, at 74. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar (69) is fighting hard to slow down this terminal political decline. This is his last battle, win or lose. The three, all products of the Jayaprakash Narayan movement in the 1970s, pursued various versions of social justice politics. Bihar has significantly shaped the course of India in the past 30 years, in the cross-currents of forces unleashed by “Mandal, mandir and market”. 2020 marks the end of that era in the State; what new beginning this end portends is not entirely clear. The era in question began on October 23, 1990, when Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader L.K. Advani’s Ram Rath Yatra was stopped in Samastipur by Mr. Prasad, who was then the Chief Minister. The arrest of Mr. Advani brought to the forefront the conflict between the goals of social justice and Hindutva, until then concealed by the shared anti-Congressism of their proponents. Social justice politicians experimented with various coalitions at the Centre. Beyond opportunism, these divergent routes also signified different approaches to social justice. Mr. Prasad never allied with the BJP and remained the most consistent, steadfast critic of Hindutva. He built a social coalition of Other Backward Classes (OBC), Dalits and Muslims that survived for 15 years, until 2005. He combined wit, empathy and an uncompromising opposition to communalism. He spoke about religious harmony, U.S. foreign policy and India’s nuclear policy in a manner that made them all legible to the rural voters. He critiqued the developmentalism of state and market, from the subaltern perspective with regard to equity and representation. Political violence, crime and corruption on his watch shrunk his legitimacy and he ended up in jail, convicted on corruption charges. His social coalition crumbled as Dalits and the Extremely Backward Caste (EBC) groups rebelled against the Yadav pre-eminence in it. Paswan pursued a narrow strand of social justice politics, with no ideological exploration or grassroots mobilisation. He fashioned himself as a Dalit leader, but keeping himself in power became the sole marker of Dalit empowerment for him. His politics spoofed social justice and secularism. Mandal and market Mr. Kumar broke with Mr. Yadav in 1994, and rose as an alternative to his model of social justice. He pitched himself as the Mandalite for the market era. Bihar’s engagement with the market did not come through rising investments or urbanisation, but through the export of workers to urban centres in the west and south. A marginal increase in disposable incomes, rising media consumption, and a new religiosity characterised Bihar’s highly mobile youth, opening the space for a new model of politics. The EBCs and Mahadalits, who were left out of the politics of Mr. Prasad and Paswan, found new hope in Mr. Kumar, who specifically addressed their concerns regarding representation in jobs and politics. He also spoke the language of market-friendly developmentalism. In alliance with the BJP that brought the upper caste votes, Mr. Kumar toppled the Yadav model in 2005. His ties with the BJP remained unsure all the time. In 2015, he joined hands with Mr. Prasad to win his third term, and returned to the BJP’s embrace in 2017 — tamed and humbled. Mr. Kumar’s claims of governance and social justice now sounds far-fetched in the aftermath of the pandemic. At least 23 lakh migrant workers returned to the State during lockdown, many walking thousands of kilometres. Unemployment has become the most resonating topic in Bihar. His hope of re-election is that his critics may not resent him enough to vote for his key opponent. Mr. Prasad fades into history as a figure who fought hard on questions of secularism and social justice, inadequate as he surely has been. His son Tejashwi Yadav is trying to restore the social coalition that he had built and lost — a tough, lonely test for the 30-year-old. His father’s legacy is more of a burden, and is not mentioned in the campaign. Paswan’s son, Chirgan Paswan, 37, is advancing apolitical politics to new heights. The BJP has its own version of social justice — accommodation of lower caste aspiration within its fold, and antagonism toward Muslims. Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi, a contemporary of the social justice trio, is a backward face of Hindutva. The BJP will hold its place and grow, but there is an evolving emptiness in the rest of the field in Bihar politics. Social justice politics as we knew it comes to an end with this election. It is an yearning that has lost its language. What will be its new language and who will speak it are open questions.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dynastic corruption can weaken country, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said dynastic corruption, which had become a part of political culture in several States over the past few decades, had emerged as a major challenge and could enfeeble the country. Inaugurating the three-day National Conference on Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, organised by the Central Bureau of Investigation, Mr. Modi said ineffective action against one generation of offenders emboldened the next generation to indulge more in corrupt practices. The Prime Minister said laxity in even one case contributed to creating a conducive atmosphere for more corruption in the future. Owing to ineffective action, corruption would become business as usual for a large section of society and the media, and such a situation was a big stumbling block in the country's development. Stating that fighting corruption was a collective responsibility of all the enforcement agencies, Mr. Modi said economic offences, drug trafficking networks, money laundering, terrorism and terror funding were often found to be interlinked. Holistic approach Therefore, there was need for systematic checks, effective audit, capacity building and training for a holistic approach. There should be a synergy and cooperative spirit among the agencies, he said. Mr. Modi said under the NDA rule since 2014, several reforms had been carried out in all the sectors with the goal of making the country self-reliant. To ensure development, it was vital to ensure a transparent, responsible and accountable system of governance.
28 October 2020||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya staring at economic blockade||After Nagaland and Mizoram, Meghalaya is staring at an economic blockade from organisations in Assam. While conflicts of different kinds made truckers keep off the roads to Nagaland and Mizoram, the latest cause of friction is Meghalaya’s alleged obsession with COVID-19 restrictions that have denied entry to traders from Assam. At least 40 organisations, including the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU), All Rabha Students’ Union and All Bodo Students’ Union, have threatened to block all points of entry to western Meghalaya’s Garo Hills from October 29 if the Meghalaya government “does not get over its pandemic obsession”. These organisations questioned the logic behind the Meghalaya government’s decision to ban entry of Assam traders when people from Meghalaya have been trading in border areas of Assam. “When the Ministry of Home Affairs has asked the States not to impose restrictions on trading and movement of people, there cannot be any logic behind the Meghalaya government’s decision to keep our people out,” a local AASU leader said. Leaders of some of these organisations met the authorities of western Assam’s Goalpara district for resolving the issue. “I had a meeting with my counterpart of North Garo Hills district (in Meghalaya, adjoining Goalpara). I have also written to the Meghalaya government and all the Garo Hills district heads. They are in discussion for possible relaxations,” said Varnali Deka, Goalapara’s Deputy Commissioner. Officials in Meghalaya said a “mutually beneficial” decision would be taken soon. Parts of Nagaland had suffered a temporary blockade when five truckers’ unions imposed an “indefinite economic blockade” on September 29. The blockade was to protest the killing of an Assam-based trucker in Nagaland’s Dimapur on September 22. Truckers in Assam had also stopped plying to Mizoram following an inter-State boundary dispute that led to violence. The blockade was lifted on October 22.
28 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Training of officials on Dharani portal held||With the stage set for the official launch of Dharani, the land record information management system, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has instructed the officials of the Revenue Department to extend hassle free registration and mutation services to the citizens. The staff and officials should live up to the expectations for the successful implementation of Dharani portal by providing services in simple, transparent and speedy manner. The Chief Secretary attended a training programme conducted for officials of Revenue and Registration departments on Tuesday ahead of the launch of the portal by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on October 29. The Chief Secretary said that under the Dharani Portal, registration and mutation would be completed with immediate effect and the portal was set to become a trendsetter in the country. Mr. Somesh Kumar, who made a power point presentation on the highlights of Dharani, explained to the officials about slot booking, citizen open portal, successor modules and partition modules. The roles and responsibilities of tahsildars and data entry operators was also explained in detail. He said that the role of the Revenue department would increase manifold as they would henceforth function as joint sub-registrars. The Revenue department employees should work as a team and bring a good name to the government. The government was committed to resolve issues pertaining to the Revenue department and it was decided to set up a State-level control room to address the technical issues. Similarly, district-level technical support teams would be constituted to resolve issues arising at that level, he said instructing the officials concerned to put in place necessary infrastructure at all the offices.  The role of the Revenue department would increase manifold as they will, henceforth, function as joint sub-registrars. Somesh Kumar, Chief Secretary, Telangana
28 October 2020||Kochi,||Actor rape case: prosecution to move HC||The prosecution in the female actor rape case will move the Kerala High Court this weekend seeking a change of court, as it apprehends that justice may be denied to the victim if the trial is continued in the present court. The prosecution may highlight what it terms as the hostile atmosphere in the trial court, the alleged procedural violations in the case, and the reported inappropriate conduct of the presiding officer of the court. It may also list out the reported instance of bias on the part of the presiding officer against the prosecution. There have also been instances of violation of natural justice, according to sources. The case is being tried at the Additional Special Sessions Court (SPE/CBI-3), Ernakulam, for nearly three years. The trial in the abduction and rape case is being held in camera and only the lawyers concerned, the investigation officer, and minimum number of court staff are permitted inside the court hall during the trial. Some of the reported comments and remarks of the judicial officer against the prosecution in the court and discussing the contents of an anonymous letter may also figure in the petition. There were also reported conversations in the court on the possible outcome of the trial, which, according to the prosecution, marred the hope of a fair trial. The reported off-the-cuff remarks of the presiding officer in open court may also be brought to the notice of the higher judiciary, the sources indicated. Legal sources indicated that the directives of the Supreme Court and the High Court were strictly followed in the case. Only those conversations permitted in the legal process took place in the court room, they said. As the rift widened, A. Sureshan, the prosecutor in the case, sought time in the trial court for moving the Kerala High Court nearly 10 days ago. After waiting for eight days for filing the petition, the trial court rejected the plea and ordered resumption of trial on November 3.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea for urgent SC hearing in electoral bonds case||An application has been filed in the Supreme Court for an urgent hearing of a pending petition against the electoral bonds scheme, especially on account of the opening of the sale window for electoral bonds right before the Bihar Assembly elections. The Association for Democratic Reforms, represented by advocates Prashant Bhushan and Neha Rathi, said, “Right before the Bihar legislative assembly elections, the State Bank of India, in the XIV Phase of sale, has been authorised to issue and encash electoral bonds through its 29 authorised branches w.e.f. October 19 to October 28.” The application, filed on Monday, pointed out that the government notification of 2018 on electoral bonds scheme stipulated that their sale should happen in the months of January, April, July and October annually. However, the sale window was not opened in April and July, but has been done so in October, right before the Bihar polls, it contended. The application said it has been nine months since the last hearing in the case. The petitioner had twice urged the court to stay the implementation of the scheme. In the last hearing in January, a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde had not found it necessary to stay the scheme. Advocates Bhushan and Shadan Farasat had fervently argued that the scheme was a means to funnel benami funds to fuel political parties.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers plan national road blockade on Nov. 5||Over 500 farmers groups plan to block roads across the country on November 5, as part of an all-India chakka jam, the next step in their protests against the three controversial farm laws passed by Parliament last month. The groups, which include several major federations such as the Bharatiya Kisan Union and the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, are also planning a march to the national capital on November 26 and 27, if their demands to repeal the laws were not accepted. They are also opposing the Electricity Bill 2020, which could affect the power subsidy given to farmers. Some leaders estimated that more than 40,000 farmers from Punjab alone could take part in the protest. The farmers groups also slammed the Centre’s ban on the movement of goods trains to Punjab, terming it ‘blackmail’ of the people. The Railway Ministry had refused to run goods trains unless the State ensured that the tracks were completely cleared of protesting farmers who are still preventing some trains from running. “We have mostly ended our rail roko five days ago itself on October 22. There are still some protesters near Amritsar, blocking passenger trains and trains running to some private power plants,” said Darshan Pal, president of the Krantikari Kisan Union, which is one of the leaders of the protests. After a meeting at Gurudwara Rakabganj in the Capital on Tuesday, it was decided that the November protests would be coordinated under the leadership of a committee including AIKSCC convener V.M. Singh, BKU-Ekta president Balbir Singh Rajewal, BKU’s Haryana chief Gurnam Singh, former Maharashtra MP and Swabhimani Paksha head Raju Shetti and Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Warangal 9-murder case verdict today||A local court in Warangal will pronounce on Wednesday the judgment in the sensational case of nine murders committed by a single person five months ago in Gorrekunta village of Geesukonda mandal here. Despite the constraints due to COVID-19, the investigators and the prosecutors got the trial completed in less than five weeks in the First Additional District and Sessions Judge court of Warangal. Final arguments by public prosecutor Mokila Satyanarayana Goud and defence counsel T. Sridhar were completed on October 22. The PP sought capital punishment to the accused Sanjay Kumar Yadav citing it as the rarest of the rare case. The nine victims, all migrants, were Maqsood Alam, 50, his wife Nisha Alam, 45, their sons Shabaz Alam, 21, Sohail Alam, 20, daughter Bushra Alam, 22, Bushra’s three-year-old son, Sriram, 35, Shyam, 40 and Shakeel, 40. Twenty-four-year-old Sanjay of Bihar came to Warangal six years ago for livelihood. He used to work in a gunny bag making unit where Maqsood worked and lived with his family. Sanjay developed relationship with a woman Rafika of West Bengal, also a migrant worker, living close-by. She was a relative of Maqsood’s wife. Rafika used to live with her three children separately. Police stated that Sanjay promised to marry Rafika but eventually cast an eye on her teenaged daughter. Suspecting that he had sexually assaulted her daughter, the woman questioned him. To get rid of her, Sanjay led her to believe that they had to meet his elders in Bengal. Along with Rafika, he boarded a train in March third week. On reaching Tadepallygudem, he administered sleeping pills to her. When she fell unconscious, he threw her from running train and returned to Warangal. Maqsood’s wife grew suspicious of Sanjay’s contradictory replies after asking him about Rafika. She threatened to approach police if he failed to reveal facts. Worried of consequences, he decided to eliminate Maqsood’s family. He mixed sleeping pills in the food prepared for the birthday party of one of Maqsood’s children. Shyam, Sriram and Shakeel, who lived in the same compound, also had food and fell unconscious along with Maqsood and his family members. Sanjay allegedly dumped the nine unconscious people in an abandoned well nearby. “We are confident of securing stringent punishment to the accused,” said Mamnoor ACP Shyam Sunder who investigated the case.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Police release video clips on money seizure||Siddipet police released video clips of seizing Rs. 18.67 lakh money from the house of Surabhi Anjan Rao, relative of BJP’s Dubbaka by-election candidate Raghunandan Rao, tearing into BJP’s allegation that police planted money to implicate the candidate in false case. The video footage in which Anjan Rao’s wife was seen admitting to police that money belonged to the family and the panchanama report signed by Rao left BJP leaders embarrassed. Even as the video footage left BJP leaders defenceless, the police arrested five of their activists, including a woman, who were accused of snatching away part of the money they had seized from Anjan Rao’s house. An amount of Rs. 27,500 out of the Rs. 12,80 lakh snatched away allegedly by BJP workers was recovered from three of the arrested accused, Ragula Vineeth, 23, A. Suresh, 28, and G. Sudha Reddy. Along with them, G. Amarender Reddy and R. Vamshi, were presented before a magistrate who remanded them in judicial custody. Siddipet Police Commissioner Joel Davis told The Hindu over phone on Tuesday that police parties accompanied local Mandal Revenue Officer (executive magistrate) in searching Anjan Rao’s house in Siddipet town. Searches led to seizure of Rs. 18.67 lakh which could not be accounted for by Mr. Rao. “He said one Jitender Rao sent the money which was to be distributed in small amounts. He even signed panchanama report. The money was meant for usage in the election” the Commissioner said. When the police personnel and the MRO were about to step out of the house, a group of BJP activists surrounded them. The BJP workers overpowered the police party and snatched away part of the seized money. Observing that snatching away money seized by police was a ‘serious offence’, he said two separate criminal cases were registered. A case of undue influence and bribery was registered over seizure of money. Another case was related to snatching away money. Efforts were on to identity other persons involved in snatching money from police. Referring to allegations that police ‘assaulted BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay’, the Commissioner maintained that Mr. Sanjay was stopped at Siddipet outskirts on Monday night. “Close to 50 workers accompanied him. Before he came there, I requested him not to come to Siddipet since law and order issues might arise,” Mr. Davis said. The MP was stopped and escorted back to Karimnagar town, he said refuting the charge that the BJP president was manhandled or assaulted.
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||As testing dips, Kerala sees decline in daily tally||With lower testing on Monday, a public holiday, Kerala’s COVID-19 cases on Tuesday again remained lower than in the recent past. The State reported 5,457 cases on Tuesday from 46,193 samples. The test positivity rate was down to 11.8% on Monday from the 12-14 % range. The authorities added 20 deaths to the toll. Thrissur reported six deaths, Ernakulam four, Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam three each, while Idukki, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kasaragod reported one case each. Thrissur district reported 730 cases, Ernakulam 716, Malappuram 706, Alapuzha 647, Kozhikode 597, Thiruvananthapuram 413, Kottayam 395, Palakkad 337, Kollam 329, Kannur 258, Pathanamthitta 112, Wayanad 103, Kasaragod 65 and Idukki 49 cases. The active case pool in Thiruvananthapuram grew smaller, from over 12,000 cases to 8,587. Ernakulam and Malappuram had maximum active cases. Andhra Pradesh reported 2,901 new cases and 19 fresh deaths on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 6,625 while the death rate remained 0.82%. Kurnool, Vizianagaram and Nellore together had only 1,126 active cases as of Tuesday while other districts had not less than 1,000 active cases. The daily test positivity rate was 3.88% from 74,757 samples tested, and the overall positivity rate of 76.96 lakh tests was 10.55%. The tests per million ratio was 1.44 lakh. The district-wise new cases and deaths were as follows: West Godavari (555 and 1), East Godavari (464 and 2), Krishna (411 and 3), Guntur (385 and 1), Chittoor (272 and 3), Prakasam (153 and 2), Anantapur (153 and 1), Kadapa (127 and 4), Visakhapatnam (106 and 1), Nellore (76 and 0), Srikakulam (73 and 0), Vizianagaram (71 and 0) and Kurnool (55 and 1). Karnataka’s tests declined for the second consecutive day. On Monday, 66,701 tests were conducted leading to detection of 3,691 new cases on Tuesday. On Sunday, tests stood at 65,862, in contrast to the one lakh in previous days. Of the 3,691 fresh cases, 1,874 were reported in Bengaluru Urban. However, the positivity rate for the day remained at 5.53 %. Dr C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer, labs and testing, Covid-19 task force, said that the number of tests may have declined due to the holiday and the festive season. He argued that the positivity rate was still around 5%. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, 44 deaths were reported. Another 2,522 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, pushing the tally to 7,14,235. In the last 24 hours, 69,344 persons were tested in the State. Of the new cases, Chennai’s daily count dipped further to 695, while Coimbatore recorded 209 cases. While 146 persons tested positive in Salem, there were 144 new cases in Chengalpattu. Tiruvallur reported 115 cases, while Tiruppur and Kancheepuram had 99 and 98 cases respectively. Among the other districts, five reported less than 10 cases each; the least being two cases in Dindigul. Another 27 persons died — 11 in private and 16 in government hospitals — pushing the toll to 10,983.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||India designates 18 persons based in Pak. as terrorists||The Union Home Ministry on Tuesday designated 18 more individuals, all based in Pakistan, as “terrorists” under the amended anti-terror law that was passed by Parliament last year. The list includes seven Indians who are now in Pakistan. The Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), 1967, as amended in August last year empowers the Ministry to designate individuals as terrorists. Earlier, 13 individuals were designated as terrorists. Those designated as terrorists include Hizb-ul-Mujahideen commander Syed Salahudeen, founders of Indian Mujahideen Riyaz and Iqbal Bhatkal and gangster Dawood Ibrahim’s close aide Chota Shakeel. The Ministry said the Bhatkal brothers were involved in various terrorist acts in India, including the blasts at German Bakery in Pune (2010); Chinnaswami Stadium, Bangalore (2010); Jama Masjid (2010); Sheetlaghat (2010), Mumbai (2011) and serial blasts at Jaipur (2008), Delhi (2008), Ahmedabad and Surat (2008). Shakeel, a Pakistan-based associate of Dawood Ibrahim, “looks after all criminal and underworld operations of D-Company, finances D-Company operatives of India and was involved in the smuggling of firearms to Gujarat in 1993,” the Ministry stated.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Deluge leaves behind a trail of infections||A total of 14,621 people in and around flooded localities of Hyderabad have been detected with fever. The cases were detected at outreach health camps organised by the Health department from October 15 to 26 after heavy rains flooded several parts of the State capital, especially Old City. Sewage water with silt inundated streets and gushed into homes too, forcing people to wade through the muck to reach safer places. 3,113 people with rashes Medical staff posted at the health camps also found that 3,113 people developed rashes while 39,109 had common cold. There were 1,62,405 miscellaneous cases. Each health camp had a doctor, two staff nurses and a supporting staff. People from 2,843 vulnerable localities were covered. Hyderabad’s District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) J. Venkati said house-to-house surveys were also carried out by Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) and Auxiliary Nursing Midwives (ANM) in which the affected people were asked about the source of water and food they were consuming. Contaminated water often leads to typhoid, jaundice, diarrhoea, and other infections. On a case to case basis, ASHA and ANMs, passed information to departments concerned in case clean water was needed at a particular home. “They also enquired if anyone has diabetes, hypertension, or other diseases. We supplied medicines to those in need,” Dr Venkati said. Patients with life-threatening diseases such as cancer or those in need of dialysis were shifted to government hospitals. While tests to detect coronavirus were conducted at the relief camps, response to it dropped as people went back home or found accommodation elsewhere.
28 October 2020||KOCHI,||Court remands Hameed in NIA custody||Rabins Hameed, the 10th accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, was remanded in National Investigation Agency custody for seven days by the Special Judge of the NIA Court, Ernakulam, on Tuesday. The accused, who was arrested on Monday, was produced before the court on Tuesday evening. Mr. Hameed had, according to the remand report of the agency, conspired and sourced gold in large quantities from abroad on multiple occasions. He had played a pivotal role in the purchase of gold, its concealment and despatch via the diplomatic channel. Investigation revealed that the accused could have used the proceeds of the smuggling for funding unlawful activities, the agency submitted. The accused had smuggled gold through baggage addressed to the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram with the intention of threatening the economic security of the country. The UAE police had arrested him in July 2020 and he was in a UAE jail till October 25, the agency submitted. The NIA submitted that the role of the accused in the smuggling and his involvement and connections with the other accused in the case had to be investigated. The electronic gadgets collected from his possession would have to be send for obtaining its mirror images, the NIA submitted.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. to support India’s defence of territory||A joint statement issued following the conclusion of the visit of the American dignitaries highlighted shared Indo-U.S. goals in the Asia-Pacific region and “emphasised that the Code of Conduct in the South China sea should not prejudice the legitimate rights and interests of any nation in accordance with international law”. The two sides also decided to expand joint capacity building activities with partner countries in the Indo-Pacific region. Mr. Pompeo also referred to the loss of lives of Indian soldiers in the clash with Chinese troops in June and said India and the U.S. are committed to upholding common values against threats. “Today morning we have been to the National War Memorial to pay homage to the brave men and women of the Indian armed forces who have sacrificed for the world’s largest democracy, including 20 that were killed by the PLA forces in Galwan valley in June,” Mr. Pompeo said. Chinese rejection Responding to the comments of the U.S. Secretary of State, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin termed them “groundless”. “These are groundless accusations which reflect he is clinging to Cold War mentality and ideological biases. We urge him to abandon the Cold War and zero sum game mentality, stop sowing discord between China and regional countries as well as undermining regional peace and stability,” Mr. Wang said. Explaining the ‘2+2’ dialogue, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said the discussions had a political military content. “Our national security convergences have obviously grown in a more multipolar world. We meet today to not only advance our own interests but to ensure that our bilateral cooperation makes a positive contribution in the world arena,” he said. Role of India Speaking about the conclusion of BECA ahead of the U.S. presidential election, a highly placed government source said the presence of the U.S. Secretaries of State and Defence in India despite the election season in the U.S. was a sign of the importance that the U.S. attaches to India. “It is a demonstration to the world at large,” said the official about the discussions between the two sides. Apart from the Indo-Pacific region, the two sides also discussed the status of Afghanistan and supported an Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace process. BECA enables exchange of geospatial data and information between the two countries and will improve the accuracy of India’s missiles in future during precision strikes. It will help share geospatial maps and charts between the U.S. and India, which may have been acquired from multiple sources like satellites, UAVs, reconnaissance aircraft, aerostats, among others, said Captain (IN) Vikram Mahajan (Retd.), director, Aerospace and Defence at U.S.-India Strategic Partnership Forum. “Data shared from BECA will help in identifying, updating and tracking of various types of target and their position, both on land and sea,” he told The Hindu . Terming the signing of BECA a “significant achievement,” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said the U.S. accepted an Indian request for “cooperation in the advanced field of maritime domain awareness”. As part of measures to enhance military to military cooperation, Mr. Singh said now Liaison Officers at each other’s establishments could be leveraged to enhance “information sharing architecture” while in the joint statement both sides “reiterated their intent to assign additional Liaison Officers”.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Now, outsiders can buy land in J&K||Under a new provision, an Army officer not below the rank of Corps Commander can declare an area as “Strategic Area” within a local area, only for direct operational and training requirements of the armed forces. The introduction of the UT of J&K Reorganisation (Adaptation of Central Laws) Third Order, 2020, by the Ministry of Home Affairs has resulted in the repeal of at least 11 land laws in vogue in J&K earlier, including the J&K Big Landed Estates Abolition Act that had resulted in the famous ‘land to tiller’ rights. Move opposed The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of various political parties in Jammu and Kashmir, including the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), condemned the amendments. “We strongly condemn the repealing of the J&K land laws and stripping permanent residents of exclusive right to acquire and hold immovable property. It is grossly unconstitutional. The Alliance has vowed to fight the anti-Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh measure on all fronts,” PAGD spokesman Sajad Lone said. Mr. Lone, also the chairman of the Peoples Conference, said these measures were clearly “designed as an attempt to pre-empt the outcome of the challenge before the Supreme Court”. NC vice-president Omar Abdullah said, “The amendments have put J&K up for sale. With these new laws in place, tokenism of the domicile certificate has been done away with, as purchasing non-agricultural land has been made easier. These new laws are unacceptable to people of J&K.” PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said, “Yet another step that’s part of nefarious designs to disempower and disenfranchise people of J&K. From the unconstitutional scrapping of Article 370 to facilitating loot of our natural resources and finally putting land in J&K up for sale. Such brazen measures reinforce the need of people of all three provinces of J&K to fight unitedly.” NC general secretary Ali Muhmmad Sagar said, “We will fight against this deceitful move.” ‘Daylight robbery’ CPI(M) leader M.Y. Tarigami said it was a design to disempower the people of J&K further and put their land on sale for corporations. “It is a daylight robbery of land in the name of integration, development and security,” he added. Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari said he would take up his reservations before the top leadership in the country. “ Any laws, which do not safeguard the interests and rights of people of J&K would be unacceptable to our party,” he said. According to a spokesman of the Congress, the laws go contrary to the repeated assurances by the BJP. “It’s another betrayal by the BJP of the people of J&K, as time and again they were assured that their right to land and jobs shall be protected at all costs.”
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM lauds beneficiaries of scheme for street vendors||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday interacted via video-conferencing with street vendors from Uttar Pradesh who had availed of loans under the PM Street Vendors Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) and said most of the beneficiaries were repaying their loans on time. The scheme, which provides vendors collateral-free working capital loans of Rs. 10,000, was announced on June 1 as a part of the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat package in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and economic crisis. So far, 24.76 lakh applications have been received, of which 12.37 lakh have been sanctioned and over 5 lakh loans have been disbursed, according to the PM SVANidhi portal. While addressing the street vendors, Mr. Modi said Uttar Pradesh accounted for 6.5 lakh applications and 4.25 lakh approved loans. He said those who played politics in the name of the poor had given the impression that the poor would not repay loans. But, he added, the poor had presented an example of their honesty by repaying their PM SVANidhi loans. Earlier, Mr. Modi interacted with vendors from Agra, Varanasi and Lucknow and asked them about their experiences with the lockdown and the scheme. Preeti Devi, a fruit seller from Agra, said she used to sell vegetables prior to the lockdown. “During the lockdown, we felt like we were drowning,” she said, adding that with the PM SVANidhi loan she was able to restart her work and set up a fruit cart. Ms Preeti said she had repaid the first instalment.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC asks govt. to bring home Indians in Kuwait||The Supreme Court on Tuesday urged the government to “find some solution” to bring home Indians, mostly blue-collar workers from Tamil Nadu, stranded in Kuwait during the pandemic. “You have to do something... You have to find some solution”, Justice M.R. Shah, a member of the three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, told Additional Solicitor General K.M. Nataraj, representing the Centre. The Centre said it was making every attempt to bring them home and the “availability of flights is no more a reason for being stranded in Kuwait”. Flights scheduled Referring to a short affidavit filed in court, Mr. Nataraj said the government was “fully sensitive to the difficulties faced by the Indian citizens”. He said 83 flights of Air India, Air India Express and IndiGo have already been scheduled to fly from Kuwait to various destinations in India. The government affidavit said that 559 flights had operated from Kuwait to India as of October 1. Out of 1.33 lakh Indians registered with the embassy for travel to India from Kuwait, the repatriation of 87,022 had been facilitated. Foreign airlines have also been pitching in with flights to India. The Vande Bharat Mission was on its seventh phase of operations in October. Mr. Nataraj hinted that there were some “diplomatic issues” to be considered. Senior advocate S. Nagamuthu, for Velinadu Vazh Tamilar Nala Sangham, said nearly 33,000 Indians were in dire straits in Kuwait. Every day was a trial for them.
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CPI(M), govt. neck-deep in criminality: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Tuesday said the CPI(M) and the Pinarayi Vijayan government were up to their necks in a morass of criminal activities. The felonies ranged from nepotism, abetment to gold smuggling, corruption and foreign currency racketeering. They amounted to high crimes and treason, Mr. Chennithala said. Quoting court filings of various Central law enforcement agencies probing the UAE gold smuggling case, Mr. Chennithala said Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran had frequented the diplomatic mission here to land his son a prime job in Dubai. There was no public interest in Mr. Surendran’s interactions with UAE officials, he alleged.  Mr. Vijayan could no longer feign ignorance and remain in office. Propriety demanded that he step down, Mr. Chennithala said.
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||SC order strengthens hope for justice for victim: Cong.||The Congress on Tuesday welcomed the Supreme Court decision to ask the Allahabad High Court to monitor the probe in the Hathras murder and alleged gang rape case. Taking to Twitter, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the in-charge for Uttar Pradesh, said the victim’s family had wanted court monitoring from day one, and the top court’s order had strengthened hopes for justice. She also slammed the U.P. government for the “atrocious” treatment of the victim’s family.
28 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||Prominent leaders join SP||A former Union Minister, a former Bahujan Samaj Party MP, and the brother of a Minister in the current BJP government in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday became the latest additions to the Samajwadi Party. Saleem Shervani, former five-time MP from Budaun who also served as a Union minister during 1996-1998, joined the SP in the presence of the party president Akhilesh Yadav. Former BSP MP from Akbarpur Tribhuvan Dutt; Indrapal Singh Pal, brother of BJP Minister Ajit Singh Pal; and Chaudhary Naseem Begum, wife of BSP MLA from Hapur Aslam Chaudhary, also joined the SP. Former MLA from Hardoi’s Shahbad seat Asif Khan Babbu, Maharahganj Zilla Panchayat chairperson Prabhu Dayal Chauhan, and retired PCS officer B.K. Saini also joined the SP.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||BJP continues protest in Telangana||The BJP protest against the police actions in bundling out the party president, Bandi Sanjay Kumar, from outskirts of Siddipet and raids on party leaders houses as a prelude to the Dubbak byelection reverberated for the second day on Tuesday. While Mr. Sanjay Kumar, also Karimnagar MP, broke his self-imposed protest fast on the request of leaders like Jithender Reddy, Vivek and others once his sugar levels dropped late in the night, at Karimnagar, the police kept leaders across the State under a tight leash preventing them from coming out to take out any protests. City president and MLC N. Ramchander Rao was put under house arrest, Nizamabad MP D. Aravind was not allowed to come out of his home and another leader G. Manohar Reddy was confined to the Saifabad police station Senior leaders like national BC morcha president K. Laxman, former MP Vivek Venkataswamy, D.K. Aruna, Babu Mohan, P. Sudhakar Reddy and others strongly criticised the police action against the party leaders. It only reflected the Government’s fear of losing the byelection, they observed. Vice-president N.V.S.S. Prabhakar demanded the Election Commission take cognisance of the happenings at Siddipet and immediately take steps to ensure finance minister T. Harish Rao is kept out of the area to allow free and fair poll. The top police officials of Siddipet should be transferred out. Siddipet district collector Venkatrami Reddy has already been shifted following charges of “misuse” of official machinery by the BJP and the Congress Party and Mancherial collector Bharati Hollekeri has been posted in his place. Chief spokesperson Krishnasagaar Rao has denounced the “highhanded behaviour” of police in arresting Mr. Sanjay Kumar. “If the police had any grounds for his arrest, they could have very well done it without having to use brute force”, he said. Mr. Rao questioned if the police were acting independently or with the permission of the election commission. The level playing field is missing in the current campaign and hence, the EC should look into the matter, he added.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC extends deadline for Tejpal’s trial||The Supreme Court on Tuesday extended the time for completing a sexual harassment trial against Tarun Tejpal, founder of Tehelka magazine, in Goa till March 31 next year. The earlier deadline was December 31, 2020. The State of Goa had sought an extension. “An application has been filed for extension of time for completion of the trial. The time to complete the trial is extended till March 31, 2021”, the Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan ordered.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ankhi Das resigns from Facebook||Facebook’s India policy head Ankhi Das, who was at the centre of the controversy over the social media network’s alleged bias in favour of the Modi-led government and violation of its own hate speech policy in India, has quit. In a statement, Ajit Mohan, vice-president and managing director, Facebook India, said, “Ankhi has decided to step down from her role in Facebook to pursue her interest in public service.” “Ankhi was one of our earliest employees in India and played an instrumental role in the growth of the company and its services over the last nine years. She has been a part of my leadership team over the last two years, a role in which she has made enormous contributions. We are grateful for her service and wish her the very best for the future,” he added.
28 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Woman shot dead by stalker outside college||A 20-year-old woman was shot dead outside her college by a stalker and his accomplice after a failed abduction bid in Faridabad on Monday. The accused, Taufeek, was arrested by the police in Nuh after a five-hour operation across three districts. Nikita, a B.Com final-year student, had gone to her college in Ballabgarh for an examination when the incident took place. Her brother, Naveen, in the FIR, said Taufeeq and his friend tried to abduct her from outside the college at gunpoint but shot her when she offered resistance. The two then drove away in a white sedan. He said that Taufeeq had been stalking his sister for long. The victim died during treatment at the hospital.
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||EC sends M.P. Minister Imarti Devi notice||The Election Commission on Tuesday sent a notice to BJP candidate and Madhya Pradesh Minister Imarti Devi over remarks about a rival that were allegedly in violation of the Model Code of Conduct and the advisory against any speech or actions against the dignity of women.
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||BJP ‘proud’ of free vaccine promise for Bihar||The BJP was “proud” of having brought healthcare front and centre of its manifesto by promising free COVID-19 vaccine in Bihar once approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), Union Law Minister and Lok Sabha member from Patna Sahib Ravi Shankar Prasad said. He said the BJP prioritised healthcare while some parties were looking at reviewing prohibition.
28 October 2020||Lucknow,||Yogi issues warning against cow slaughter at bypoll rally in Unnao||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath at an election rally in Unnao on Tuesday said those involved in cow slaughter would be dealt with sternly within the boundaries of the law. The Allahabad High Court recently said that the anti-cow slaughter law was being misused against innocent persons in the State.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown brings spotlight back on bicycles||The COVID-19 pandemic has made many pick up cycling to boost their fitness level and some have even started cycling to work. However, many cyclists complain of lack of safety and stress the need to have adequate infrastructure to encourage cycling. The Greater Chennai Corporation has set up bicycle lanes of 17 km on two stretches in the city. However, these lanes are mostly occupied by cars and other vehicles, forcing the cyclists to fight for space on the main road. “I used to cycle from Royapuram to my office on Anna Salai till September. However, after traffic increased, I stopped. Drivers of big vehicles do not respect cyclists and since there is no dedicated lane on main roads, it feels risky,” said S.K. Prabhu, who now commutes by a motor vehicle to work. The fear lingering in the minds of cyclists like him are not unfounded as 45 cyclists were killed and 143 were injured in the city in road accidents in 2019. However, despite the risks, many people continue to cycle. Divagaran T., founding member of the We Are Chennai Cycling Group (WCCG), said that cycling increased during lockdown as public transport was not available and people wanted to become fitter. “Post lockdown traffic is coming back to normal. There should be a dedicated lane, so that more people take to cycling. The police should ensure that other vehicles do not use this and cyclists should use it effectively. Cities like Bengaluru have made a lot of arrangements, including setting up pop-up lanes on arterial roads,” he said. The WCCG and Felix John, who has been chosen “bicycle mayor” of Chennai, has written to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami several times requesting him to demarcate neighbourhood shopping streets as walking/cycling tracks, create temporary pop-up lanes using cones and expand the city’s bicycle-sharing system with regular sanitising strategies. “Congestion, over-speeding vehicles and lack of illumination on roads pose dangers for cyclists in the city. After lockdown was lifted, the danger has become more as many are driving their cars and bike in a rash manner as they are taking out the vehicle after a long time,” said Mr. John, who was made the bicycle mayor of Chennai by BYCS Amsterdam, a social enterprise, to promote cycling in Chennai. “However, more and more people are taking to cycling despite all these problems,” he added. T. Radhakrishnan, who runs Cyclogen, a bicycle shop, said the sale of performance bikes increased in the city after lockdown. “Now many policemen and fire service personnel are purchasing bikes as they have started cycling for fitness. Though the demand has increased, now the supply is affected. The waiting period for even small parts runs to months,” he said. Safety for women While many women say that cycling gives them a sense of freedom, they complain of being targeted for harassment by men while riding. “My friend from Purasawalkam was harassed while she was riding,” said Aparna Shankar, an engineer, who cycles to work daily. N. Kannan, Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic), said that the traffic police would try using pop up lanes during the early morning hours for those who cycle as a form of exercise. “If there is demand, then we will introduce the system during other hours too. The problem is if we dedicate a lane, it should be utilised or it will be like eating into the space for other vehicles,” he said. Mr. Kannan said the department valued non-polluting commuters. “Sadly, pedestrians and cyclists are the common victims of road accidents. Now, as part of the road adoption project, we are removing encroachments from pavements so that pedestrians can use it. We will make roads safe for cyclists and have informed my men to ensure that cyclists do not face any problems on the road,” he added.  We will make roads safe for cyclists and I have informed my men to ensure that cyclists do not face any problems on the road N. Kannan  Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic)
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rainwater harvesting plan for Kovalam basin||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), through the Integrated Stormwater Drain (ISWD) project of the Kovalam Basin, plans to prevent flooding and save rainwater which would go waste into the sea. In a press meeting organised at the Ripon Building on Tuesday, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said as per a study done by the civic body for executing the ISWD project in the Kovalam Basin (divided into three packages of M1, M2 and M3), more than 86% portion of the M3 package located on the East Coast Road (ECR) side are occupied by concrete buildings and vacant lands. Areas such as Kottivakkam, Palavakkam, Neelankarai, Injambakkam, Sholinganallur, Kanathur and Uthandi have seen rapid housing development. He said: “Of the total rainwater harvesting capacity calculated in the M3 package in the areas being 1,137 hectares, it has been found out that houses and plots occupy 980 hectares. Although these localities are located in sandy terrain, in the December 2015 floods several localities suffered severe flooding.” The flooding in 2015 showed that more than 60% of the rainwater of 470 million litres flowed into the sea with only 305 million litres percolating into the ground, out of total 775 million litres of rainwater realised. However, the M3 package of the Kovalam basin would be using German technology of installing eco blocks and percolation pits for harvesting rainwater by which more than 325 million litres of rainwater would be harvested. The Kovalam basin ISWD project involving 360 km is proposed to be executed at a cost of Rs. 1,243.15 crore. While the M1 and M2 packages would see ISWD being constructed in Perungudi, Pallikaranai, Injambakkam, and Madipakkam, under the M3 package ISWD would be built for 52 km at a cost of Rs. 270 crore. The civic body would very soon appoint a project management consultant for monitoring and executing the work.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5 cross-breed dogs, trained in Chennai, to join RPF in Kashmir||As part of their training, five dogs — Bullet, Blackie, Jackie, Oscar and Jennie — at the Railway Protection Force (RPF) kennel in Perambur, climb up and down a vertical ladder covered with fencing wire. What is peculiar about them is that they are a cross-breed between the Kashmiri Bakharwal and the Dutch Shepherd, both known for their fearlessness, intelligence and guarding instincts. They will soon join the RPF in Kashmir on a trial basis. “They will be used for several tasks — maintaining alert, assault and barrack guarding,” said S. Louis Amuthan, Deputy Chief Security Commissioner of the RPF, who brought the Bakharwal mother of these dogs, from Kashmir. Local breeds He said Arunkumar, Director General of RPF, and IG Veerandrakumar were keen on inducting local breeds into the RPF. While many pure-bred native Indian dogs have already joined the Army and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Mr. Amuthan decided to experiment with the Bakharwal dogs as he had an opportunity to watch the breed in close quarters during his tenure in Kashmir. “Bakharwal dogs are kept by the Bakharwal nomadic tribes of Kashmir and they are a very independent and fearless breed. The tribe does not part with dogs but I was able to get one from an employee of the RPF,” said Mr. Amuthan. Brought up purely on vegetarian food, the Shepherd dogs have low breeding capacity. They can easily scale a wall and they were used as frontline dogs by the British during the War of Independence in 1857. “Their population, however, is on the decline. Many of them were killed by Kashmiri militants as they proved a nuisance to their secret activities in the Valley. Once they sense an outsider, they will bark continuously and in the process alert everyone,” said Mr. Amuthan. Mr. Amuthan decided to mate the female dog with a Dutch Shepherd, and she gave birth to nine puppies in February 2020. Five of them are now being trained at Perambur. “We found that the puppies have inherited trainable qualities. We are waiting for the dog handlers from Kashmir. Soon, they will join the RPF in Kashmir on a trial basis,” he said. Unlike their mother, the five dogs are given non-vegetarian food.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2,522 more test positive in Tamil Nadu||Another 2,522 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, pushing the overall tally to 7,14,235. In the last 24 hours, 69,344 persons were tested in the State. Chennai’s daily case count dipped further to 695, while Coimbatore recorded 209 cases. While 146 persons tested positive in Salem, there were 144 fresh cases in Chengalpattu. Tiruvallur reported 115 cases, while Tiruppur and Kancheepuram had 99 and 98 cases respectively. Among the other districts, five reported less than 10 cases each; the least being two cases in Dindigul. As many as 4,029 persons were discharged from hospitals across the State. With this, 6,75,518 persons have been discharged so far, and 27,734 persons are undergoing treatment. As many as 27 persons died — 11 at private hospitals and 16 at government hospitals — pushing the toll to 10,983. Seven of them died in Chennai, five in Tiruppur and three in Salem. All 27 persons had co-morbidities. The youngest was a 23-year-old woman from Coimbatore. She had posterior fossa arteriovenous malformation and renal failure and was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on October 15. She died on October 25 due to bilateral bronchopneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, renal failure and posterior fossa arteriovenous malformation. Two persons in their 30s also died. One of them, a 36-year-old man from Tiruppur with diabetes, was admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on October 8. His swab returned positive on October 9. He died on October 25 due to bilateral bronchopneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Authorities of Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital said no COVID-19 patient died at the hospital during the 24-hour period starting 8 a.m. on October 26. A total of 96,60,430 samples have been tested so far. A private laboratory — Molecular Virology Lab, Indira Medical College and Hospitals, Tiruvallur — was approved for testing. There are 201 testing facilities in T.N.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Now, VCK hits back, announces protest against Central govt., BJP||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Tuesday announced that that his party will launch protests against the Central government and the State BJP from October 28 onwards. The party will also seek the withdrawal of the case registered against Mr. Thirumavalavan for his remarks on women, based on his interpretation of the Manusmriti . In a statement, he said that the party would stage protests on October 28, urging the Centre to implement 50% reservation for OBCs in the All India Quota medical seats this year. The party would also stage protests against the State unit of the BJP “for spreading lies against the VCK” on October 31. The party would also distribute pamphlets explaining the basic tenets of the Manusmriti , the Hindu religious text, in villages from November 3 to November 5. Reservation “The Centre implemented 10% reservation for the ‘economically weaker sections’ among the open competition category in just nine days. But why has it taken six years to implement reservation for OBCs in medical courses despite it being guaranteed in the Indian Constitution?” he asked. The Centre did not even intend to implement the 27% reservation for OBCs, he added. Mr. Thirumavalavan accused the BJP and various Hindu groups of “spreading lies” about him to destabilise the DMK alliance, of which the VCK is a part of. “The BJP and Sangh Parivar groups are trying to systematically work to gain a political foothold in Tamil Nadu. As a part of this effort, they have taken a 40-second edited video clip from my speech in an online event organised by the European Union Periyar Ambedkar Comrades Federation and are spreading lies against me. More than just attack me personally, they want to smear and create a crisis in the DMK alliance,” he said. “They want to weaken the alliance by removing the VCK from the alliance,” he added. He urged his cadres not to react to provocations by the BJP and said that they would expose themselves in front of the people with their own words.  Why has it taken six years to implement reservation for OBCs in medical courses despite it being guaranteed in the Constitution?
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to preserve heritage buildings, says city police chief||Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Tuesday said efforts were on to preserve old heritage buildings of the police in the city. Mr. Aggarawal was inaugurating a renovated building, which was built 118 years ago in Chintadripet. The palatial office was built on the premises of Chintadripet Police Station in 1902 and was inaugurated by J.P. Oxweld Rooth Jones, then Commissioner of Police, Madras. This historical building had been in use for 118 years. Two units of the city police, which were functioning here, have been given alternative places and the building was renovated as per the orders of the Commissioner of Police. The renovated buildings were allotted to Deputy Commissioner of Triplicane. Additional Commissioner of Police (South) R. Dhinakaran, Joint Commissioner of Police A.G. Babu, Deputy Commissioner of Police G. Dharamarajan and other officers were present.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Damaged check dam across Cooum set to be reconstructed||The Korattur check dam, with a regulator structure in Tiruvallur district across the unpolluted stretch of the Cooum, that was damaged during the 2015 floods, is set to be reconstructed. Built in 1879, one of the oldest storage structures in Jamin Korattur is vital in regulating excess flood water to the Chembarambakkam lake which is a drinking water source to the city. The Water Resources Department (WRD) is set to float bids for the Rs. 32.45-crore project shortly and begin work in two months. Officials said a 50-metre portion of the checkdam was washed away in floods when the river carried 30,000 cusecs of water then. Another 50 to 60 metres of the structure was damaged during the floods. At present, a temporary embankment has been created in the river near Tiruninravur to divert surplus water to Chembarambakkam lake. Several problems, including funding, had delayed the project. The reconstructed structure would be 2.5-metre tall across the 140-metre-wide river. Moreover, the river banks would be strengthened and flood prevention walls built. This would prevent inundation of the neighbouring villages, including Puduchatiram. Minor repair would be taken up in head sluice that is used to divert water from the river to Chembarambakkam through the 7-km-long new Bangaru channel. This is the fourth storage structure in the 72-km-long Cooum river. Besides augmenting drinking water supply to Chennai, the structure that can store up to 10 million cubic feet of water would serve as a groundwater recharge source to surrounding seven or eight villages such as Gudapakkam and Tiruninravur, said an official. “We expect the watertable to rise by 15 feet once the structure is built. Residents are demanding another storage structure in Sorancheri, 4.5 km downstream of the check dam, in Jamin Korattur,” the official added.
28 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Kushboo, BJP cadre arrested, released later||Actor-politician Kushboo and her supporters were arrested by the police on Tuesday morning while she was proceeding towards Chidambaram to lead a protest against Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader and Lok Sabha MP Thol. Thirumavalavan for his remarks on women recently. She was released later in the evening. On East Coast Road near Muttukadu, she was stopped by Chengalpattu district SP D. Kannan and other police personnel at 8 a.m. She was taken into preventive custody along with a few other party workers. They were held at a resort on the road between Kelambakkam and Thaiyur. Ms. Kushboo continued a dharna in the resort demanding the arrest of Mr. Thirumavalavan. A statement made by Mr. Thirumavalavan during a webinar in September became controversial last week, after a video clipping went viral. He claimed that Manusmriti must be banned as it treated women badly, and, he added, that according to Manu dharma, ‘all women were prostitutes’. Permission denied The BJP had planned to stage a protest against Mr. Thirumavalavan in his constituency Chidambaram on Tuesday, and at other places across the State.  All those including Ms. Kushboo were released in the evening. Later talking to reporters, Ms. Kushboo said: “This book was written 3,700 years ago. Prime Minister Narendra Modi clearly said democracy prevails in the country as enshrined in the Constitution of India which was drafted by Dr. Ambedkar. Why are you (Mr. Thirumavalvan) quoting two lines from a book which was written several years ago? What are you going to achieve and prove from this?.” Protests of BJP cadres and counter-protests by VCK were reported from other parts of the State. On Tuesday evening, actors Gautami and Gayathri Raguram led a protest near Chennai district Collectorate and also blocked the traffic on Rajaji Salai. Detention condemned Meanwhile, BJP State president L. Murugan condemned the police for detaining its functionaries. Without naming Mr. Thirumavalavan, Mr. Murugan told reporters in Madurai that his party had planned a State-wide protest against those who defamed women. But the police stopped the BJP leaders and detained them. However, the same police had given permission for VCK to conduct demonstration in Chennai and allowed DMK president M.K. Stalin to protest near Raj Bhavan, he charged.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former HC Judge booked by Chennai police||Former High Court Judge C.S. Karnan has been booked by the cyber crime wing of the Central Crime Branch(CCB) for releasing and circulating a video where he threatens to sexually assault the wives of thirteen former and present Supreme Court judges and a retired woman judge of the apex court. A senior police officer confirmed that he was booked under three sections of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Information Technology Act and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act. This case was registered based on a complaint given by S. Devika, a practising advocate in the Madras High Court. The complaint alleged that a couple of videos of Mr. Karnan’s statement were uploaded on social media platforms, and it sought to book a case against him. The complainant also sought a block and remove order on the videos. Recently, lawyers from the Bar of Madras High Court wrote to the Chief Justice of India seeking intervention to prevent and stop circulation of a video that featured retired High Court Judge, Mr. Karnan. According to them, the video was offensive to women and the judiciary.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Assembly Secretary moves High Court to vacate stay||Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Secretary K. Srinivasan has moved the Madras High Court to vacate the stay imposed on September 24 on breach of privilege proceedings initiated against DMK president M.K. Stalin and 17 MLAs for displaying gutkha sachets in the House on July 19, 2017. The vacate stay applications are expected to be listed before Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana on Wednesday. They have been filed before the single judge in accordance with liberty granted to the Assembly Secretary as well as the Committee of Privileges by Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on October 13. In an affidavit filed in support of the applications to vacate the stay, Mr. Srinivasan pointed out that Speaker P. Dhanapal had, suo motu , referred the issue of display of gutkha sachets in the Assembly to the Committee of Privileges. Accordingly, show cause notices were issued to them on August 28, 2017. The MLAs moved individual writ petitions before the High Court immediately thereafter and obtained interim orders against the proceedings. After a gap of three years, their writ petitions were taken up for final hearing by the first Division Bench led by the Chief Justice in August this year and the judgement was delivered soon thereafter.  Foundational error The Bench, on August 25, held that the show cause notices suffered from a foundational error of assuming that the MLAs’ conduct of displaying gutkha sachets in the Assembly was prohibited under the law. It was pointed out that only manufacture, sale and transportation of gutkha had been banned in the State and the MLAs had attempted to prove that the ban was not being implemented effectively. The Division Bench, however, left it open to the Privileges Committee to take a re-look into the issue and decide whether any breach of the privileges of the House had been committed otherwise by the MLAs. Subsequently, the Committee deliberated on the matter and issued fresh show cause notices to the MLAs on September 7. The new notices accused the MLAs of not only displaying gutkha sachets without prior permission of the Speaker but also of having caused disturbance to the Assembly proceedings and setting a bad precedent. Mr. Stalin and other MLAs of his party challenged the new show cause notices too and obtained an order of interim stay from Justice Sathyanarayana on September 24. When the stay order was taken on appeal by the Assembly Secretary and the Privileges Committee, the Bench led by the Chief Justice refused to suspend the operation of the single judge’s order. It, nevertheless, granted liberty to the appellants to move a vacate stay application before the single judge and hence the present plea.  Speaker P. Dhanapal had, suo   motu , referred the issue of display of gutkha sachets in the Assembly to the Committee of Privileges
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic fines to be deducted from FASTag accounts||Camera footage is likely to be used to identify motorists who violate traffic rules by automating the system of fine collection in the city. Officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation are planning to automate traffic fine collection using FASTag and the system of cameras fitted across the city by the Corporation and the police. For instance, a motorist who parks a vehicle in a no-parking zone will be identified by the camera and the fine amount deducted from the FASTag account. Similarly, in the case of traffic violations at signals, the fine amount would be deducted from the account of the owner of the vehicle. “At least 90% of the vehicles have FASTag in Chennai. The system will deduct the fine amount from the account of violators once the cameras capture violations on road,” said an official. The Corporation has installed 500 cameras at important junctions of 471 bus route roads. More cameras will be installed along the roads. The police and other line agencies had installed cameras using funding under smart cities mission. Meanwhile, work on recruiting parking attendants has started to strengthen parking management in the city. “COVID-19 has led to reduced collection of parking charges in areas such as T. Nagar and Anna Nagar. We have started recruiting parking attendants to improve services. The parking attendants will carry a hand-held machine to collect charges and regulate parking of vehicles,” said an official. After relaxation of restrictions during the COVID-19 pandemic, the civic officials planned to strengthen parking management system to prevent unauthorised parking along roads. The Corporation has planned to create 12,000 parking slots and the system would be expanded to more areas shortly. Similar to parking violations, the Corporation has also started using analytics for regulating waste management. It has installed cameras at 50 locations to identify overflowing bins. “We receive two to three alerts every day about overflowing bins. The system facilitates clearance of bins at frequent intervals. More cameras will be fitted to monitor garbage clearance issues,” said an official.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||World Bank likely to fund a slew of civic projects in city||The World Bank is expected to fund a number of civic projects, including hospitals under the Chennai City Partnership after March 2021. At a meeting with World Bank officials on Tuesday, Greater Chennai Corporation officials explained the proposals pertaining to public health, solid waste management and road infrastructure. “We need better hospital infrastructure post COVID-19. World Bank is expected to fund hospital infrastructure development by the Corporation. World Bank has focused on indicators that point to aspects such as human resources for better delivery of public health services,” said an official. The Corporation has sought Rs. 2,400 crore for development of mega street infrastructure in various parts of the city. The World Bank is unlikely to fund the entire project of mega streets covering 116 km. But the first phase of the project is expected at six locations. The officials are likely to fund projects that aim to decongest the city, recognising that reducing vehicle movement was the key to urban mobility. The Corporation officials said their focus would be on public transport-driven mobility supported by safe, comfortable, and connected networks of walking and cycling infrastructure. Civic officials at a series of meetings with the World Bank have accepted that old school solutions such as flyovers, wider roads, and elevated expressways would make matters worse by attracting more traffic, increasing pollution, and reducing resilience to face future pandemics. “A final decision is likely to be made by the State government regarding World Bank-funded projects in two weeks,” said a senior civic official.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Alagiri urges govt. to stop Periyar statue desecration incidents||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri condemned the act of miscreants desecrating the statue of Periyar by daubing it with saffron colour at Reddiarchatram in Dindigul district. In a statement, he pointed out that such incidents were happening frequently. The police had so far not taken action against those involved in desecrating a statue in Tiruchy last month. “Those involved in such incidents should be booked under Goondas Act,” Mr. Alagiri urged. He also said that it was the duty of the government to stop such incidents from happening and warned that the AIADMK government would be blamed for committing the biggest crime against Periyar. Cowardly act Meanwhile, PMK founder Dr. S. Ramadoss condemned the incident and termed it a ‘cowardly act’. Dr. Ramadoss wrote on social media that the perpetrators of such acts prove time and again that they are cowards. “Thanthai Periyar’s ideology should be opposed ideologically. Those who are not brave enough to do it are indulging in such barbaric acts. The dangerous germs behind these acts should be identified and punished,” he said. He recalled that another Periyar statue in Inampuliyur in Tiruchi district was desecrated on the same day last year. “The connection between the two incidents should be investigated. Those involved in these two incidents should be arrested under the National Security Act,” he said.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘CM should apologise for custodial deaths’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday asked whether Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami would apologise to the people of Tamil Nadu for “having suppressed the murders of trader Jayaraj and his son, J. Benicks, in the Sathankulam police station and denigrating the Police Department” in his attempt to safeguard a few corrupt uniformed personnel. Recalling the chargesheet of the CBI that said that Jeyaraj and his son, Benicks, died of police torture inside the station, Mr. Stalin said the Chief Minister first claimed that they died after having breathing troubles. Later, he sought to cover up the incident through a statement from Law Minister C.V. Shanmugam, he added. “Since the DMK did not have faith in the Chief Minister, it demanded a CBI inquiry. The reputation of the police has hit rock-bottom under the corrupt government of Mr. Palaniswami,” he said. Another case Mr. Stalin alleged that in another case, Dr. Sivaramaperumal, the DMK’s medical wing deputy organiser in Kanniyakumari district, died by suicide after the local DSP used filthy language in front of his wife during an inquiry. “The action of a few police officers has earned a bad name for the entire Police Department,” he said.  The reputation of the police has hit rock-bottom
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Octogenarian undergoes implant surgery 10 days after heart attack||An 87-year-old woman was recently operated upon for a fall at home, unusually, just as she was recovering from a heart attack. Kamalabai, a resident of Thoraipakkam, was recovering from acute myocardial infarction for which she was treated at a private hospital earlier. Soon after she returned home, she had a fall, which broke her femur. Her family sought treatment at a private hospital at Nanganallur. “The patient was recovering from myocardial infarction. Usually we don’t do surgery for at least three weeks after an attack of myocardial infarction. But in her case, as she had sustained a major fracture she had severe pain, which could lead to another attack. We decided to operate to relieve her of her pain and avoid further complications,” said V. Sivakumar, orthopaedic surgeon, Sivam Hospital. The hypertensive octogenarian is also obese, the doctor said. Her heart was functioning at 30% of its capacity. But postponing the surgery would cause further complications, he said. The patient was given epidural anaesthesia and an implant was provided surgically. She is undergoing physiotherapy at the hospital. Post-surgery, her ejection fraction had improved to 40% as the woman was able to move. She now walks with a walker. “The unique factor is that the patient had not recovered from myocardial infarction. Only 10 days prior to the fracture she had suffered a heart attack. Because of this, her heart ejection fraction is low. Without aggravating her heart condition, proximal femoral nailing was done under epidural anaesthesia [which is safer for the heart condition], instead of the general anaesthesia,” Dr. Sivakumar said.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Safety remains a concern||More than 83% of women and 77% of men in Chennai fear to cycle on the roads due to speeding vehicles — this was the outcome from India Cycles4Change challenge jointly organised by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Smart Cities Mission, and Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) As part of the India Cycles4Change Challenge, 50 cities rolled out a survey to understand the perception of citizens towards cycling. Over 57,000 responses were collected to understand the barriers faced while cycling, the purpose of the cycling trip, the frequency of cycling, and an opinion on safe cycling infrastructure. “In Chennai, we spoke to 2,000 people. Of these 98% said that they would cycle if there is necessary infrastructure to make cycling safe and convenient. Many felt that they found traffic intersections and one-ways as danger prone areas. They had a fear of being hit by speeding vehicles,” said Ashwathy Dilip, senior programme manager, ITDP. She said apart from this, a Cycle Handle Bar survey was conducted and senior officials from Greater Chennai Corporation rode bicycles to understand the challenges faced by cyclists in the city. Over 100 cyclists, including GCC Officials, rode for 7 km. “We want to make cycling a habit in Chennai. We got an insight of what problems cyclists face on a daily basis. This will help us in framing policies and quick innovative solutions,” said Meghanath Reddy, Deputy Commissioner, Works, Greater Chennai Corporation. He said that Chennai was the first city to adopt the non-motorised transport policy. “Cycle lanes will be a component of the Mega Street Project,” Mr. Reddy added.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diversions near CMBT||The city traffic police have announced traffic diversions in view of the construction of a bridge on 100 Feet Road near the Chennai Mofussil Bus Terminus (CMBT), Koyambedu. The right turn at Nesapakam Junction for vehicles coming from Thirumangalam towards the CMBT and the Koyambedu market is temporarily closed. Light vehicles will take a U-turn at a distance of 200 metres opposite Adyar Ananda Bhavan Hotel. Heavy vehicles will take a U-turn about 500 metres away from the exit gate of MTC bus stand.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seeman calls for celebration on Nov. 1||Naam Tamilar Katchi chief co-ordinator Seeman on Tuesday urged his party cadres to celebrate recognition of Tamil Nadu and other linguistic States in the Indian Union on November 1. In a statement, Mr. Seeman said the day should be celebrated by hoisting the flag of ‘Tamil Nadu’ and by distributing sweets. “Let’s pledge to reclaim our rights and safeguard existing rights on this day,” Mr. Seeman said.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MMC PG student found dead in hotel||A 24-year-old post graduate student of the Madras Medical College was found dead in his room in a hotel in T. Nagar where he was under quarantine after COVID-19 duty. The name of the victim was given as Lokesh Kumar, 24, a native of Mettur in Salem district. He was assigned COVID-19 duty at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). After completing COVID-19 duty, he was under quarantine in the hotel from October 24. He did not come out from his room nor respond to calls from his relatives. At 11 p.m. on Monday, the hotel staff opened his room using a spare key and found him dead. The police suspect that he could have consumed poison and the reason for his decision was not known. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha's suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway to push towards digitisation||The Southern Railway, having turned digital through e-office platforms in all six divisions to do away with manual files and improve the efficiency of officials during the COVID-19 pandemic, is giving a big push for the adoption of the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) system. The Southern Railway, during the Vigilance Awareness Week, plans to adopt Government e-Marketplace, an e-procurement system, and the Indian Railway-Work Contract Management System (IR-WCMS), to bring in more transparency and reduce human intervention. John Thomas, General Manager, Southern Railway, after taking an integrity pledge during a Vigilance Awareness Week programme organised on Tuesday, emphasised the significance of using e-office systems in accessing files and documents during the pandemic. He also highlighted the need to use the GeM e-procurement system and the IR-WCMS to ensure transparency in functioning. Bhaskar Ramamurthi, Director, IIT Madras, and the chief guest of the event, participated through videoconference. He advocated the need for foolproof technological solutions in the smooth functioning of an organisation. He also released a Vigilance Bulletin, 2020, on the occasion. The theme for the year is ‘Vigilant India, Prosperous India’.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Quota Bill: DMK MPs write to Amit Shah||DMK MPs on Tuesday sought a direction from Union Home Minister Amit Shah to Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit to grant assent without delay to the Bill providing 7.5% reservation for the NEET-qualified government school students in the undergraduate medical courses. In separate letters to Mr. Shah, the MPs pointed out that the Governor had been holding the Bill which was passed in the Tamil Nadu Assembly 43 days ago. “The DMK has been demanding the scrapping of NEET, which acts as a hindrance to the rural and urban poor students to pursue medical studies and to realise their dream of becoming future doctors,” the MPs said. They said party president M.K. Stalin had already written a letter to the Governor, urging him to give assent to the Bill immediately so that the government school students could avail themselves of the benefit of reservation in this academic year itself. “But, surprisingly the Governor had replied that he would need another 3 to 4 weeks to decide on the Bill – after holding back this very important Bill for about 40 days,” they pointed out. The MPs said that since the counselling dates for medical admission (by Medical Counselling Committee) had been announced any further delay in giving consent to the Bill would be detrimental to the future of government school students.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||17-year-old electrocuted while charging mobile phone||A 17-year-old boy was electrocuted when he tried to remove the phone charger from a junction box in Kodungaiyur on Monday. The name of the victim was given as S. Sanjay, 17, of Perambalur district. After shifting to the city a month ago, he was temporarily working at a juice shop in Moolakadai. He was staying with a few others in a room in Moolakadai where the electrocution occurred. The police said the charger of his mobile phone was connected to a damaged junction box on the floor. When he pulled the charger, the junction box came along and he came in contact with the box. He suffered an electric shock and collapsed.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors stress need for timely treatment of stroke||Ahead of World Stroke Day to be observed on October 29, senior neurologists have called for low-cost rehabilitation efforts. A person who suffers a stroke must be able to access a stroke centre for treatment. Strokes could lead to the death of neurons in the brain, resulting in paralysis. However, if treatment is provided as quickly as possible, the patient can be rehabilitated, doctors say. Senior neurophysicians from across the country participated in a discussion on stroke on Tuesday. There are less than 100 stroke centres in the country and even these centres have a physiotherapist and a speech therapist, whereas one in four persons could experience stroke in their lifetime, the experts said. With most hospitals designated for COVID-19 treatment, such a health emergency as stroke should not be neglected, they said. A patient who has suffered stroke can be rehabilitated if he is immediately brought to a stroke centre. However, in India, people often go to traditional medical practitioners, causing a delay in treatment. Compliance with medication and appropriate treatment and advice could help patients recover, doctors say. Jeyaraj Pandian, head, Department of Neurology, Christian Medical College, Ludhiana; senior neurologist S. Kumaravelu; P.N. Sylaja, Department of Neurology, Comprehensive Stroke Care Programme, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology; Vikram Huded, Head of Neurology, NH Institute of Neurosciences, Bengaluru; and Nirmal Surya, founder trustee and chairman, Epilepsy Foundation India, participated in the event.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Results of supplementary board exams to be out today||The results of the supplementary board examinations conducted by the Directorate of Government Examinations for classes 10 and 12 in September will be released on October 28. Candidates can log on to www.dge.tn.gov.in and download their statement of marks on October 28. For candidates who took the class 10 exams, the results can be accessed from 11 a.m. onwards and for candidates who took the class 12 exams, the results will be available from 2 p.m. onwards. Candidates who took the class 11 supplementary exams can access their statement of marks on October 29 from 11 a.m. onwards on the same website. Candidates who want to apply for copies of their answer scripts, or want to submit their marks for retotalling, have been asked to contact the Chief Educational Officers in their districts on November 3 and 4.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State BJP chief calls on Prince of Arcot||Tamil Nadu State BJP president L. Murugan called on the Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, at his ancestral home Amir Mahal, on Monday and sought his good wishes. According to a statement, the Nawab urged Mr. Murugan to include the minority communities along with the majority community in the progress and development of the nation.
28 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Extend timings of shops for festive season’||Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu has requested relaxations in lockdown regulation for the benefit of traders ahead of the festive season. The government must extend timings of shops selling textiles, crackers and sweets till midnight to prevent crowding. The government must announce reopening dates of semi-wholesalers and retails shops in Koyambedu, said A.M. Vikramaraja, traders’ body president said.
28 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs seek direct interest subvention benefit||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) should allow Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) to claim 2 % interest subvention directly for loans availed between February 2, 2018 and March 31, 2020 from banks, said the Coimbatore Compressor Industries’ Association. In a memoradum to the RBI, the Association president M. Raveendran said the Central Government announced the scheme for MSMEs two years ago and the RBI issued a circular last February outlining guidelines to the banks for the scheme. Recently, the RBI issued another circular saying that co-operative banks will also implement the scheme and said the validity of the scheme has been extended till March 31 next year. In a reply to the Association, the Small Industries Development Bank of India said that Rs. 825 crore was disbursed so far under the scheme in the country. But, no MSME entrepreneur in Coimbatore has benefited, claimed Mr. Raveendran. “It is the duty of the bankers concerned to claim the 2 % interest amount through SIDBI and disburse it to the eligible MSMEs,” he said. Bankers here should take steps to pass on the benefits of the schemes to the MSMEs. Mr. Raveendran urged the RBI to clarify whether the scheme would be implemented by all scheduled commercial banks and eligible MSMEs till the end of March next year, to look at disbursing the benefits directly to the MSMEs, and also clarify on fresh loans. Bankers said that interest subvention was eligible only for fresh loans obtained after November 2. The overdraft facility was subjected to renewal by the banker every year. “We request the RBI to consider the overdraft loan as a fresh loan and extend interest subvention from the renewal date,” he added.
28 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK has evidence against Velumani, says Udhayanidhi||The DMK has evidence to prove the corruption charges against Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani, party youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin said here on Tuesday. Leading his party’s demonstration over the arrest of DMK cadres for tearing up posters the allegedly denigrated DMK president M.K. Stalin, Mr. Udhayandhi condemned Mr. Velumani, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and the Coimbatore city police for the action taken against his party cadres. He alleged corruption in many projects undertaken by Coimbatore Corporation such as the Smart Cities Mission, and in entering into a contract with Suez India for water supply. On the posters that were torn, Mr. Udhayanidhi warned that the DMK workers too will stick such posters against the AIADMK. The demonstration by his party was held despite resistance from the police as the cadres “do not fear arrest,” he said. Reservation “Tamil Nadu has been letting go of its rights one after the other,” Mr. Udhayanidhi alleged, highlighting issues such as the delay in the implementation of the 7.5% horizontal reservation for students from government schools in the undergraduate medical admissions and Anna University seeking Institute of Eminence status from the Centre. Singanallur MLA and Coimbatore urban east unit in-charge N. Karthik and other DMK functionaries from Coimbatore district were with Mr. Udhayanidhi during the demonstration. Norm flouted During the demonstration, the party cadres flouted the physical distancing norm that is stressed to prevent the spread of COVID-19. According to police sources, nearly 1,500 cadres, including 200 women, participated in the demonstration. Coimbatore city police deployed nearly 200 personnel to monitor the situation during the demonstration on Huzur Road. Booked for violation Race Course Police registered a case against Mr. Udhayanidhi, Mr. Karthik, Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram and six other party functionaries on charges of staging a demonstration in violation of prohibitory orders. The others who were booked were party urban west unit in-charge R. Krishnan alias Paiya Gounder, district east unit in-charge S. Senathipathi, district north unit in-charge C.R. Ramachandran, district south unit in-charge ‘Thendral’ Selvaraj, youth wing deputy secretary Kottai Abbas and district youth wing leader Pynthamil Pari. They were booked under Sections 143 (Punishment for unlawful assembly), 341 (Punishment for wrongful restraint), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505(1)(b) (Statements conducing public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the sources said. Separate case against seven leaders The police also registered a separate case against seven leaders (excluding Mr. Udhayanidhi and Mr.Pari) under IPC sections 143, 341, 269 and 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty) along with the Section 4 (Penalty for disfigurement by objectionable advertisements) of the Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act.
28 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK has graft evidence against Velumani’||The DMK has evidence to prove the corruption charges against Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani, claimed the party’s youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin in Coimbatore on Tuesday. He led a demonstration near the South Taluk office on Huzur Road condemning the arrest of DMK youth wing workers on Sunday who tore posters that allegedly denigrated DMK president M.K. Stalin. Mr. Udhayanidhi warned that the DMK workers will also stick such posters against the AIADMK. The demonstration was held despite resistance from the police as the cadres “do not fear arrest”, he said In his speech, he attacked Mr. Velumani, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and the Coimbatore city police. He alleged corruption in multiple projects undertaken by Coimbatore Corporation and referred to the Smart Cities Project and the project pertaining to water distribution for which a contract with Suez India was signed.  “Tamil Nadu has been letting go of its rights one after the other,” Mr. Udhayanidhi alleged, highlighting issues such as the delay in implementing the 7.5% horizontal reservation for NEET-qualified students from government schools and Anna University seeking Institute of Eminence status from the Central government. Singanallur MLA and Coimbatore urban east unit in-charge N. Karthik, along with other DMK leaders from Coimbatore district, were present with Mr. Udhayanidhi during the demonstration.   Norms flouted The DMK cadres allegedly flouted the physical distancing norms during the demonstration. According to police sources, nearly 1,500 cadres including 200 women, participated in the demonstration. Coimbatore city police deployed nearly 200 personnel to monitor the situation at Huzur Road on Tuesday.
28 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek transparency in pricing at uzhavar sandhai||Farmers’ Association has appealed to the uzhavar sandhai authorities to have more transparency in the price list announced for agricultural produce that are sold at the markets. State secretary of the Association P. Kandasamy said in a press release that the uzhavar sandhais were started to help the farmers and the consumers and guidelines were issued on how prices should be fixed. It is usually 20 % more than the wholesale price and 20 % less than then retail price prevailing in a day in a city. The price list should be for top quality. But, over the years, traders also started selling at the sandhais, he said. Mr. Kandasamy alleged that not many farmers sell directly now at the uzhavar sandhais. Quality is not given a priority now and there are several irregularities in how the prices are fixed, he claimed. For instance, the price list issued recently at the RS Puram Uzhavar Sandhai said the price of a kg of coconut was Rs. 42. But, the rate board displayed the rate as Rs. 45. Consumers do not get the produce at the right price and some retail traders are buying at lower prices, thus affecting the farmers. “We have appealed to the district administration and officials concerned to look into how the price is fixed for the produce sold at the uzhavar sandhais and bring about transparency in the system,” he said.
28 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NEET: marginal improvement among govt. school students||Fifty-five students who studied in government and aided schools in Coimbatore district have cleared the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) this year, according to officials from the Department of School Education. The 55 students comprised 19 from government schools and 36 from government-aided schools in the district. This was marginally higher than last year’s performance, as only 15 government and 34 aided school students had cleared NEET in 2019. While the top score among government-aided schools this year was 580, it was 361 in government schools in Coimbatore district.  Residential coaching Officials felt that the State government’s residential coaching for NEET could have boosted the district’s performance, which was not held this year due to the COVID-19 lockdown. In Tiruppur, 40 students from the government and aided schools cleared NEET 2020. The highest score among aided schools was 320 and government schools scored 311, officials said.
28 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BJP stages demonstration against Thirumavalavan||Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staged a demonstration here on Tuesday to condemn Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader and Chidambaram MP Thol. Thirumavalavan for his recent remarks on Manusmriti and women. BJP State vice-president K. Annamalai, State treasurer S.R. Sekhar, and district president R. Nandakumar were among the party leaders who participated in the demonstration near the Indian Red Cross Society building. BJP sources said that the members of the Women’s Wing attempted to burn Mr. Thirumavalavan in effigy, but were prevented by the police. Mr. Thirumavalavan recently called for a ban on the religious text Manusmriti alleging that it denigrated women. Controversy erupted after a speech of his went viral on social media where he alleged that women were “prostitutes” according to the “Manu Dharma.” In his address, Mr. Annamalai condemned the arrest of actor-turned-politician Khushboo on Tuesday morning and claimed that the Manusmriti does not denigrate women, sources said.
28 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||No takers for Egypt onions||There are no takers for the imported onions that are arriving at the wholesale vegetable markets here. According to M. Rajendran, president of Thyagi Kumaran Market Vegetable Traders’ Association, even at Rs. 40 a kg (wholesale price) no one buys the Egypt onions. The markets here received imported onions for nearly a week now and stocks are also arriving from Pune and Madhya Pradesh. Price of small onion fell to Rs. 80 a kg in the wholesale market and that of big onions to about Rs. 65 a kg. The arrivals have gone up and there is no shortage in availability now, though there is high volume of damage, he said. Last year, when imported onions came to the market, there were no supplies from the domestic markets. This year, however, there are supplies so far from different onion markets in the country.
28 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for burglary||The Singanallur police, on Tuesday, arrested a man on charges of stealing gold jewellery weighing 16 sovereigns from a house at A.K.G. Nagar here. Muthukrishnan (31) from Thoothukudi district broke into the house on October 18. After absconding for nearly 10 days, he was arrested on Tuesday. The accused was a taxi driver and had already been involved in three other cases in Coimbatore city police limits, according to police. The police recovered the jewellery from the accused.
28 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Fire breaks out in scrap workshop||A fire broke out in a scrap workshop on Sirumugai Road in Mettupalayam in the early hours of Tuesday. Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) personnel from four fire stations -- Mettupalayam, Periyanaickenpalayam, Annur and Coimbatore South-- rushed to the spot at 3.45 a.m. to douse the fire. The fire was brought under control by 8 a.m., according to the officials.
28 October 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore crosses 23,000 cases||Cuddalore district crossed 23,000 COVID-19 cases with 45 persons testing positive on Tuesday. The total number of cases in the district touched 23,041. Of this, 22,065 have recovered while 639 are active cases. One death The district reported one more death, taking the official toll to 268. Villupuram reported 39 fresh cases, taking the total to 13,587. A total of 22 persons tested positive in Kallakurichi district, taking the tally to 10,193.
28 October 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Farmers and villagers stage road roko||Demanding release of water for irrigation and drinking purpose, thousands of farmers and villagers including women and children resorted to road roko along the Dindigul-Batlagundu road here on Tuesday. A large posse of police personnel led by DIG of Police (Dindigul Range) M S Muthusami and Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya chased away agitators and arrested 286 people. The protesters raised slogans and refused to give way for motorists. Because, a large number of habitations including Mallayapuram, Veerakal, Anumantharayan Kottai, Paarati, Ponmaanthurai did not get water from the river for almost eight years. Water from the Kamarajar dam had been flowing into the Kudaganaru from time immemorial. The water used to flow into the Cauvery near Karur district after flowing for about 110 km covering several habitations on the way. But the flow of water into the Kudaganaru stopped eight years ago when a check dam was constructed at Raja Vaaikaal. ‘We used to get water for at least six months in a year,’ Karuppiah, a farmer from Ponmanthurai, told reporters and added that a series of agitations over the last three years including non-participation in the local body polls did not fetch any result. When the villagers resorted to agitations last month continuously, officials released water in the Kudaganaru for about 10 days but suddenly suspended it without any reason, another farmer, Vincent Arockiam, said. So, they decided to resort to wait-in protest until officials conceded their demand. The police, who were taken aback after seeing a large turnout, ensured that more personnel were deployed. When the agitators were told that the revenue and PWD officials would hold a joint meeting with all representatives, they refused to agree to the initiative. So, the police decided to arrest the villagers. As many of them dispersed, they arrested 286 people and released them later in the evening. The police said that they would register cases against the villagers for violating the Disaster Management Act, among others. Meanwhile, the villagers accused the officials of misleading them and threatened to boycott the ensuing Assembly polls if water was not released in Kudaganaru soon.
28 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||A teacher’s passion for raising a green cover||In an effort to raise a green cover in and around Punjai Puliyampatti in Sathyamangalam Taluk, a government school teacher and his students have dispersed 25,000 seed balls in hill areas and along water bodies, and is in the process of preparing another 75,000 over the next six months. P. Vadivelan of M. Coundampalayam, a teacher at the Neelipalayam Panchayat Union Elementary School at Punjai Puliyampatti, encourages students to plant trees and maintain them. Along with his students, he had planted 500 saplings on the school premises and at Neelipalayam and Coundampalayam during weekends. While the school remains closed due to the COVID-19 lockdown, he prepared 25,000 seed balls with the help of the students and dispersed most of these at Devagiri Hills, Oodimalai and along water bodies. Some of the seed balls were given to people at weddings, to raise trees. Mr. Vadivelan said that since childhood, he was keen on improving the greenery in the drought-prone Punjai Puliyampatti and surrounding areas. “I am from an agricultural family. I started making seed balls and have been dispersing these for many years”, he said. Clay soil, cow dung, used tea and coffee powder and vegetables are wrapped with a seed inside and dried for two or three days. Later, the seed ball is thrown near hills, lakes, ponds and other water bodies in the area, he said. Most of them sprout and become trees over the years, even without maintenance, he said. “These trees not only give shade, but fruits also”, he said, adding that the seeds were that of native species in the State.
28 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Boy addicted to video game found dead||A 14-year-old boy, who was reportedly addicted to an online video game, ended his life at Punjai Puliampatti here on Monday evening even after efforts were taken to cure him of the addiction. The victim, K. Arun of Sulur in Coimbatore district, was studying Class 9 in a private school at Vandalur in Chennai. His father, Kandavel, is a manager at a private company at Vandalur. The police said that the boy was addicted to playing PUBG, and had developed stress and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Coimbatore. They were staying at a farm house at Kallipalayam at Punjai Puliyampatti, and the parents tried to wean their son from addiction to the game and de-stress him. When the family members returned to the farm house in the evening, they found him hanging from the ceiling. Punjai Puliyampatti police were informed and they sent the body to the Government Hospital at Sathyamangalam. The body was handed over to the parents after post-mortem. Helpline Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
28 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Increase in procurement price of cabbage brings cheer to farmers||The increase in procurement price of cabbage to Rs. 26 a kg has brought cheer among farmers in Talavadi hills, who have stepped up cultivation in the hope of more profit in the coming months. Farming is the major activity in the hilly area, which is located along the border with Karnataka and 120 km from Erode. Cabbage is cultivated in most of the villages in Talavadi. It takes about two to three months to produce mature heads after which the crop is harvested. “Since favourable climate prevails here and the crop has relatively short growing season, it is preferred by most of the farmers”, said S. Manickam, a farmer. He said that usually, traders bought cabbage at Rs. 2 to Rs. 4 a kg. Even when there was demand, they bought it from the farmers at not more than Rs. 10 or Rs. 12 a kg. “But now, farmers had sold it at Rs. 26 a kg”, he added. Since farmers were not getting the right price for cabbage, many had moved to alternative crops leading to sharp decline in production that led to increase in price. Many farmers said that from March to July, when the COVID-19 lockdown was in force, most of the cabbage could not be marketed and were left to rot on the fields. “After seeing good prices for cabbage in September, many farmers cultivated it, which will be harvested in November”, said M. Channanjamurthy of Gumatapuram. “The procurement price of over Rs. 25 a kg [for the produce in stock] is historic”, he said. The price would drop only after harvesting begins next month, he said. It takes 90 days for crop to be fit for harvest, and is grown widely on half-acre to one-acre fields by each farmer. Traders fix prices and take it from the field. “We can earn additional Rs. 5 to Rs. 7 a kg if we sell cabbage directly at wholesale markets. But arranging labour and transportation is difficult”, said a farmer.
28 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers want steps to enhance turmeric exports||As the drop in turmeric price is affecting farmers, the State government should take steps to enhance turmeric exports and improve their livelihood, said farmers during the grievances redress meeting held through video conferencing here on Tuesday. Due to COVID-19, the monthly meetings held at the Collectorate were cancelled from March to September and the district administration announced conduct of meeting through video conferencing for October. Collector C. Kathiravan chaired the meeting from the Collectorate and arrangements were made in the offices of Revenue Division, Tahsildar and agriculture offices enabling farmers’ participation. Issues related to Kudimaramathu scheme works, renovating water canals, problems faced at the paddy direct procurement centres among others were raised by the farmers. Many farmers said that turmeric was the main crop raised in the district and drop in prices led to farmers stocking it for months. They said that due to huge demand for turmeric in Sri Lanka, the produce was smuggled regularly to the island nation and sold in black markets. Hence, steps should be taken to export turmeric to nations where there was good demand. Mr. Kathiravan said steps would be taken to explore more export opportunities for turmeric.
28 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||BJP demands arrest of Thirumavalavan||Demanding the arrest of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan for his interpretation of how Manusmriti viewed women, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) cadre staged a demonstration at Veerappanchatiram here on Tuesday. Led by Erode South District BJP district president S.A. Sivasubramaniam, the protesters said the VCK leader had insulted the women in the State and wanted him to seek unconditional apology. They staged a road roko for a few minutes and raised slogans against Mr. Thirumavalavan. BJP women cadre also organised a demonstration, demanding his arrest. In Salem, the cadre staged a protest in front of the Collectorate. Members of BJP Women’s wing led the protests here and demanded that Mr. Thirumavalavan must apologise for his comments. They urged the State government to arrest the VCK leader. The protesters staged a road roko and the Salem City Police removed them. Similar protest was held on Park Road in Namakkal.
28 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Inquiry against IDPL project postponed||An inquiry that was scheduled to be conducted at the Modakurichi Tahsildar Office on objection petitions over the Irugur (Coimbatore) – Devangonthi (Karnataka) Petroleum and Petroleum Product Pipeline (IDPL) project on Tuesday was postponed. Farmers in the district were opposing the pipeline project that was proposed to pass through the farm lands and had organised various protests and formed “Federation of Farmers Affected by the IDPL Project”. They opposed the survey works during COVID-19 and announced indefinite protest from September 15. Erode Revenue Divisional Officer Saibudeen held talks with the farmers and assured them that no works would be taken up on the farm lands until a decision was taken. The Special Officer and the Sub-Collector for the project had earlier asked farmers to submit petitions if they opposed the project. The officer had announced that an inquiry on the petitions would be held on October 27 and asked the farmers to appear at the office. But, the farmers said the conduct of inquiry was a violation of the agreement reached on September 15 and hence wanted the inquiry to be postponed. On Tuesday, the officer announced that based on the request from Erode MP and various farmers associations, the inquiry was postponed and the date of conduct of inquiry would be announced later.
28 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Ensure minimum wages for workers: AITUC||Members of Erode District Medical Department Workers Association, affiliated to AITUC, has urged the State government to provide minimum wages to the contract workers at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai and also refund the illegal deductions made by the contractor from the workers’ wages. In a letter to the Principal Secretary of the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Secretariat, Chennai, association president S. Chinnasamy said over 200 workers were appointed on contract basis from April 17 to May 3 and they continued to work in the hospital. The district administration had fixed the minimum wage at Rs. 490 for the workers. “But the contractor had fixed the wage at Rs. 423.45 a day for housekeepers and Rs. 448.10 a day for security men,” the letter said. The letter also said that 29% of the wage was deducted towards Provident Fund (24% deduction) while ESI (4%) and Insurance (1%) were deducted from the worker’s wages which was against the law. He said the contractor was paying wage of less than Rs. 300 a day to the workers and wages were also not paid regularly. After protests, Collector C. Kathiravan held a meeting on July 9 in which he asked the contractor to deduct 12% towards PF and 0.75% towards ESI from the wages. The letter urged the government to provide minimum wages and also refund the illegal deductions made so far.
28 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Female elephant found dead||A 25-year-old female elephant was found dead at Kadambur Forest Range in Sathyamangalam Division here on Tuesday. During patrol, forest personnel found the carcass at Ponaikadu in Anaikarai beat and alerted senior officials. A team led by K. Ashokan, wildlife veterinarian of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve, carried out a post-mortem that revealed that the elephant died due to ulceration. Samples of vital organs were lifted and sent to laboratory analysis. After autopsy, the carcass was left to nature.
28 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two held with counterfeit currencies||Two persons, who circulated counterfeit currencies in Anthiyur areas, were arrested by the police. G. Prabhu (34) of Thanthai Periyar Street in Athani and his brother G. Babu (32) were running a mutton stall in the area. Selvaraj, a goat trader, of Vellithiruppur borrowed Rs. 10,000 as loan from the duo and received 20 currencies in the denomination of Rs. 500. Selvaraj suspected the currencies to be fake and handed them over to the police who identified them as counterfeit currencies. Based on a complaint, the Vellithiruppur arrested the two. Inquiries revealed that they had obtained the currencies from a cattle trader in Kerala and were circulating them in Anthiyur areas. The police seized the currencies. Both were produced in the court and lodged in prison. An inquiry is on to nab the trader in Kerala.
28 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||No power supply||As high tension electric lines are to be removed, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on October 29 in the following areas:  Ashokapuram line: Mettur Road, Edayankattu Valasu, Municipal Colony, Chinnamuthu Street, Sakthi Road, 16 Road, A.B.T. Road, Veerabhadra Street and Cauvery Road (Kottai).  Edayankattu Valasu line: Edayankattu Valasu, Chinnamuthu Street and Andavar Street.
28 October 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Police identify blindspots, propose road safety measures in Kallakurichi||The Kallakurichi district police have started the process of analysing the details of road accidents reported from black-spots across the district to take targeted measures in terms of enforcement and improve road safety. The police have identified 10 black-spots across the district and have proposed road engineering and corrective measures on the stretches. The collected data will be used for strengthening road safety measures. According to statistics available with the Kallakurichi police, the number of fatalities in 2020 till October was 126, as against 153 in 2019. Similarly, the number of non-fatal accidents was 447, as against 700 in 2019. “Over 60% of the fatal accidents were reported on three stretches — Kallakurichi to Chinna Salem, Ulundurpet to Chinna Salem and Edaikkal to Tiruchi. These stretches have been marked as accident prone zones and recommended for corrective measures. The measures involved short, mid and long-term steps, comprising fixing of barricades, speed breakers, automated signals, installation of high mast lights, solar blinkers and caution boards,” Superintendent of Police Ziaul Haque told The Hindu . Since Kallakurichi is a new district, the Police Department has proposed safety measures to the tune of Rs. 1 crore under the Road Safety Fund. The proposal has been sent to the District Collector to be forwarded to the Transport Commissioner, Mr. Haque added. An analysis of the accident spots revealed that the four-lane narrowed down to two-lane on five stretches, which the road users fail to notice while driving at high speed. “We have now placed barricades on these five stretches to slow down vehicles. The barricades would ensure that vehicles never crossed the stretch at high speed. The Department has also written to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for installation of high-mast lamps to ensure visibility at night,” he said. The District police have also chalked-out an action plan to reduce road accidents and to ensure compliance of rules. More than 50 police personnel have been pressed into service to conduct mass vehicle check daily within the jurisdictional limits of the three police sub-divisions in the district on a rotational basis. A zero-tolerance policy is being followed against traffic violations, including those driving without helmets, drunk driving and triple riding. Cases are booked against violators. Motorists found violating the rules are also asked to read awareness messages on banners put up at the locations where vehicle checks are being conducted. While imposition of fine is not the primary objective, the motorists are involved in the awareness campaign in the hope that it would convince them of their mistakes.
28 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Flood alert remains as inflow at KRP dam increases||The inflow at KRP reservoir was 1,126 cusecs on Tuesday ensuring the flood alert issued by the district administration along the banks of Thenpennai river remained for the second week as rain continued in the district. As of Tuesday, water level in the dam stood at 49.20 ft against the total capacity of 52 ft. The discharge was also kept at 1,126 cusecs, the same level as inflow to maintain safety protocol. Last week, the district administration issued a warning to the low lying areas along Thenpennai river as the discharge from KRP dam would increase once the water level crossed 49 ft. The inflow to the dam rose steadily over the weekend, after a brief fall on Saturday when the reservoir received 961 cusecs and the discharge was 844 cusecs. On Sunday, the dam received 1,099 cusecs and the discharge was 1,099 cusecs. On Monday, the inflow and the discharge was 1,358 cusecs. The water level in Kelavarapalli dam was 39.69 ft against the full reservoir level of 44.28 ft. The dam has been receiving copious inflow, causing a higher discharge into KRP dam that Kelavarapalli dam feeds. The inflow and the discharge at Kelavarapalli dam was 1,040 cusecs on Saturday, 1,440 cusecs on Sunday, and 1,230 cusecs on Monday.
28 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Dull Deepavali for Madurai weavers||Deepavali is usually peak season for handloom weavers as more people go shopping for saris during this period. However, the festival season this year has been disappointing for the handloom weavers of Madurai district, mainly because of COVID-19. The weavers say they have received very few ‘paavu’ (warps) to weave saris and have suffered a wage cut as sales have not picked up. K.R. Kishore Babu, manager, Dhakshinamoorthy Weavers Cooperative Society, says many families of weavers are residing at Nilaiyur, Sakkimangalam, Thirunagar, Vandiyur, Krishnapuram Colony and Thiruvalluvar Colony. They receive orders from private agents and Co-optex for saris that are sold across the country. K.M. Umadevi, a weaver from Nilaiyur, says the weavers used to receive four warps during Deepavali. “However, this year the private agents have given the weavers only one warp to weave saris.” Mr. Babu says Co-optex has reduced the number of cotton saris procured from weavers. “Due to the financial distress caused by the pandemic, sari sales have been very poor and stocks have been piling up,” he adds. Citing the poor sari sales, the private agents have reduced the wages for weaving a warp by 10%-15%, says N.T. Mani Baba, a weaver from Nilaiyur. “Usually, many members of a family work together, weaving a sari. With the wages cut, it has become extremely difficult to run our families,” he says. J.D. Banumathi, a weaver from Vandiyur, says the wages are paid in instalments. “The private agents have not assured us of festival bonus this year. This will worsen our financial crisis as we earned a pittance during the lockdown period,” she says. “As we earn less, it is becoming difficult to pay the house rent and meet family expenses.” This crisis will force many weavers to shift to other jobs, says A.S. Jayaprakash, a weaver from Vandiyur. He urges the government to fix minimum wages for weavers to avoid exploitation.  Due to the financial distress caused by the pandemic, sari sales have been very poor and stocks have been piling up
28 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Crimes against women have risen under BJP govt.’||Crimes against women, especially Dalit women, had risen under the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government, said All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Sanjay Dutt here on Tuesday. He was addressing the mediapersons on the sidelines of the preparatory meeting with AICC cadre for the 2021 Assembly elections. Mr. Dutt said that the downtrodden and the women were the worst-affected under the BJP government. The enactment of farm Acts was against the interests of the farmers. “Although the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister identifies himself as a farmer, he failed to raise objections to the the Bills that were against the interests of the farmers,” he added. The Union government did not understand the intensity of the COVID-19 pandemic and failed to take measures to contain its spread, said Mr. Dutt.  Pandemic handling “Although former Congress president Rahul Gandhi suggested some steps that the government must take to contain the pandemic to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Union government failed to act upon them,” he said. The BJP government was against the interests of the people of Tamil Nadu, he added. Earlier, Mr. Dutt started a signature campaign in Madurai against the passage of the farm Acts. Party’s Madurai district president V. Karthikeyan also participated.
28 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Court seeks state’s response on facilities in tribal schools||Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State government to file a response in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to provide adequate infrastructure for government tribal residential schools in Tamil Nadu. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the State to file the response in the public interest litigation petition filed by G. Pandiyan of Tirunelveli district in 2019 and adjourned the hearing to November 30. The petitioner said the Centre and the State had implemented the welfare programme for the benefit of children belonging to tribal communities. The residential schools provided primary and secondary education to students living in remote areas. As part of the welfare programme, these children should be provided three meals a day, hostel facility, access to clean drinking water and basic toilet facility. However, the basic infrastructure required was not made available in some of the schools, he complained. The petitioner said he visited some of these schools in the southern districts and found that the infrastructure was inadequate. Therefore, the State should take steps to ensure the required infrastructure is provided for the benefit of the children, Mr. Pandiyan added.
28 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Name Madurai railway station after N.M.R. Subbaraman’||Members of Gandhi Memorial Museum, Madurai, have appealed to the Railway Minister to consider naming Madurai railway station as ‘Madurai Gandhi NMR Subbaraman Railway Station.’ In a letter addressed to the Minister, Museum president T.R. Dinakaran said it would be apt to name the station after Subbaraman as it would be a fitting tribute for his yeomen services to the city, especially to Dalits. From his student days, Subbaraman had always believed in Swadeshi movement and was a close follower of Mahatma Gandhi. Though born in an affluent family, Subbaraman gave everything to the needy people and during the visits of Gandhi and Vinoba Bhave here, his family gave many valuables, including land, to the landless through Vinoba Bhave’s movement. Museum secretary K.M. Natarajan said Subbaraman, who was an MP and chairman of Madurai Municipality, had established a number of institutions for girls’ education and health care of women from weaker sections. Subbaraman had formed a trust in memory of his wife in 1978 to provide higher education to poor girl children. The sprawling house in which he lived was given on a monthly rent of Rs. 1 to Madurai Kamaraj University for 25 years.
28 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP condemns police for detaining its leaders||Bharatiya Janata Party State president L. Murugan condemned Tamil Nadu police for detaining party functionaries, who wanted to protest against those who made “derogatory” comments against women, and allowing opposition parties to stage protests. Without naming Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader Thol. Thirumavalavan, Mr. Murugan told reporters here on Tuesday that his party had planned a State-wide protest against those who defamed women and the parties that supported them. But the police stopped the BJP leaders and functionaries and detained them. However, the same police had given permission for the VCK to conduct protest demonstration in Chennai and allowed Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin to protest near Raj Bhavan, he charged. Alleging that the BJP cadre were attacked and the women party members were detained in Madurai, he said that this made the party suspicious of the intentions of the Tamil Nadu police. “Some people are hatching conspiracy to incite communal clashes in the State to further their political interests,” Mr. Murugan claimed. Asked why the BJP was using the images of MGR on its promotional video, Mr. Murugan said that it was only to reflect that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was following in the footsteps of MGR in helping women.
28 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea against EMIS disposed of||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has disposed of a public interest litigation petition that had sought a direction to the State to remove the condition to fill the caste, religion and Aadhaar columns from the Educational Management Information System online registration after it was submitted that the disclosure in these columns was not mandatory. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy disposed of the PIL petition filed by V. Janaki in 2019 taking cognisance of the submission by the School Education Department that said the disclosure in these columns were not mandatory. Special Government Pleader S. Srimathy submitted that such columns were meant to be filled as an exercise of option in the event of any concession to be claimed, on the strength of such disclosure, either at the time of admission or in the future. Otherwise, the disclosure was not mandatory, she submitted. Disposing of the petition, the judges observed that by the submissions it appeared reasonable that in the event of any concession sought to be claimed on the basis of the disclosure in these columns, the person may have to necessarily part with the relevant information as that would form the foundation for seeking any such concession.
28 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Leaders pay homage to Maruthu brothers||Leaders from various political parties and the public paid homage to the statues of Maruthu Pandiyar brothers at Teppakulam here on Tuesday, marking the 219th death anniversary of the freedom fighters. Madurai Central MLA P.T.R.P. Thiagarajan, DMK district secretary (urban) G. Thalapthi and other party leaders paid their respects. All India Congress Committee secretary Sanjay Dutt also paid his respect to the statues of the Maruthu Pandiyar brothers at the venue.
28 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Bail to accused in honour killing case denied||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court refused to grant bail to Alagar, accused of killing his daughter and son-in-law in Thoothukudi district in 2019 in a case of honour killing. The couple belonged to different groups of the Scheduled Caste. Dismissing the bail petition, Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan observed that it was a case of honour killing. The petitioner, with an intention to kill both his daughter and son-in-law, attacked them with a billhook in the wee hours when they were asleep. They succumbed to the injuries. The case of the prosecution was that Alagar’s daughter A. Petchiammal fell in love with T. Solairaja and they got married in April last year against the wish of the woman’s family. Irked by this, Alagar killed the couple, it was submitted. After their marriage, Solairaja and Petchiammal, both salt pan workers, moved to a small single-room house in Thanthai Periyar Nagar near Kulathur in Thoothukudi district. The man’s mother was staying in a relative’s house situated close by. At the time of her death, Petchiammal was two months’ pregnant. Solairaja’s mother found the couple in a pool of blood with multiple cut injuries the following morning. Hearing the screams of the woman, the neighbours alerted the police.
28 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea on EMIS disposed of||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has disposed of a public interest litigation petition that had sought a direction to the State to remove the condition to fill the caste, religion and Aadhaar columns from the Educational Management Information System (EMIS) online registration, after it was submitted that disclosure in these columns was not mandatory. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy disposed of the PIL petition filed by V. Janaki in 2019, taking cognisance of the submission by the School Education Department that said the disclosure in these columns was only optional. Special Government Pleader S. Srimathy submitted that such columns were meant to be filled as an exercise of option in the event of any concession to be claimed, on the strength of such disclosure, either at the time of admission or in the future. Otherwise, the disclosure was not mandatory, she submitted.  For concession Disposing of the petition, the judges observed that by the submissions it appeared reasonable that in the event of any concession sought to be claimed on the basis of the disclosure in these columns, then the person might have to necessarily part with the relevant information as it would form the foundation for seeking any such concession.
28 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two BJP cadre assaulted by VCK men||Two BJP cadre were reportedly assaulted by Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi members near Madurai Collectorate on Tuesday. The police said that VCK functionaries, led by Pandiammal, gathered near the old Ramanathapuram Collectorate building to stage a protest. At that time, two BJP cadre, Ananda Vijayan and Thangam, who had come to the Collectorate, were beaten up by the VCK members. The police detained the VCK members. Tallakulam police are investigating.
28 October 2020||MADURAI/RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Madurai district witnesses drop in fresh cases||Madurai recorded 57 new COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday, marking a total case count of 18,564. On Monday, the district had added 68 fresh cases. A total of 58 persons were discharged from hospitals in the district on Tuesday, leaving 597 active cases. The day also saw two fatalities, which took the district’s death toll to 417. Kanniyakumari added 48 fresh cases to have an overall tally of 14,772. After 54 people were discharged from hospitals, the district has 566 active cases. In Thoothukudi, 39 people tested positive for the viral infection and the district consequently has 493 active cases and a total case count of 14,856. Forty-six people were discharged from hospitals in the district. The overall tally of Tirunelveli district rose to 14,134 on Tuesday after 28 people tested positive. Even as 290 patients are undergoing treatment, 47 people were discharged from hospitals. The total number of positive cases in Virudhunagar rose to 15,371 after 27 fresh cases were reported. After 27 people were discharged from hospitals, the district has 194 active cases. The death toll of the district remains at 220. Theni reported 21 new cases, with which its tally went up to 16,164. There were 42 discharges registered in the district. Sivaganga district reported 19 fresh COVID-19 cases to have a total case count of 5,833. There were 22 discharges from hospitals in the district. Tenkasi, having just 103 active cases, reported five new patients to have an overall tally of 7,798. Twenty-nine people were discharged from hospitals. Four cases were recorded in Dindigul district, which has now marked a total case count of 9,741. Hospitals in the district discharged 30 people after recovery. Ramanathapuram registered only two fresh cases on Tuesday, with which its tally moved up to 5,967. There were 23 discharges marked in the district.
28 October 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Doctor ends life, blames DSP in suicide note||Accusing a Deputy Superintendent of Police of harassing and threatening him, a doctor from Parakkai, who was running a clinic here, committed suicide by consuming poison on Monday night. In a suicide note purportedly left behind by him, the doctor, Sivarama Perumal (45), accused Kanniyakumari DSP Bhaskaran of harassing and threatening him for a while. The relatives of the deceased said Sivarama Perumal was returning home in his car with his wife Seetha (40), also a doctor working at Agastheeswaram Primary Health Centre, and two children around 8.30 p.m. on July 12. As they reached Mela Krishnanpudhur, their car was stopped by a police team, led by the DSP. “When Sivarama Perumal tried to tell the police officer who they were in English, the DSP verbally abused him for speaking in English. The DSP also verbally abused Dr. Seetha in the presence of their children when she intervened,” a relative said. The doctor’s suicide note also recalls this unpleasant incident, in which he had accused Bhaskaran of having used unparliamentary words against him and his wife.  Relative’s complaint Though Sivarama Perumal was a qualified physician and had a clinic at Parakkai, he did not practise medicine while his wife continued the practice. However, one of the deceased doctor’s relatives, S. Vijay Anand of Elanthaivilai, allegedly informed government officials that Sivarama Perumal was not qualified for practising medicine. “Following this, the torture by the DSP increased so much that it has driven Sivarama Perumal to take the extreme step,” the relative added. However, none could explain the reasons for the repeated torture or threats as claimed by the doctor in his suicide note. After Sivarama Perumal consumed poison, he was rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam here on Monday night. However, the doctors declared him “brought dead”. Agitated over this, his relatives refused to sign the documents relating to post-mortem and accept the body on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police V. Badri Narayanan deputed Colachel ASP Vishwesh B. Shastri and Nagercoil DSP R. Venugopal to conduct inquiries and check the veracity of the allegations being levelled against Bhaskaran. “If the allegations are found to be true, appropriate action will be taken,” Mr. Badri Narayanan said. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
28 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||MBBS: 10% quota for govt. school students||The Puducherry Cabinet has recommended implementation of 10% reservation for government school students in medical admissions. Addressing a press conference here, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said the Cabinet met on Monday night and decided to provide quota to government school students as their representation in medical colleges was very less. As many as 48,269 students are pursuing Class 6-12 at government schools. While the number of students in the same classes at private schools is 88,000. During the 2018-19 academic year, 94 students who passed out of government schools cleared NEET. The number of private school students who cleared the test was 1,346. But only 16 government school students could get admission in medical colleges as against 243 private school students, the Chief Minister said. Of the 16 students, 11 were from Mahe, 3 from Karaikal and 2 from Puducherry, he said. The number revealed that only very few government school students got admission to medical colleges. Hence the Cabinet decided to set aside 10% of the seats that medical colleges surrendered under the government quota for government school students. A detailed guideline would be issued shortly, he said. When it was pointed out that a similar decision by the Tamil Nadu government was awaiting assent from the Governor, Mr. Narayanasamy said he was hopeful of getting the sanction of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi. “If not, we will launch an agitation,” he said.
28 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Jipmer announces norms for OPD consultation||The outpatient services at the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer), Puducherry, that had been suspended due to COVID-19 pandemic, will restart in a calibrated manner from Wednesday. A press note from the institution said that patients who wished to seek consultation from specialists should call specific numbers as provided on the website (www.jipmeredu.in) to book an appointment for teleconsultation. During teleconsultation, the doctor would give decide on in-person examination and give appointments to patients who need such consultation. This was being done to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the hospital OPDs. Patients can seek appointments through “Hello Jipmer” mobile app. All patients and their escorts must compulsorily wear masks when inside the premises. Only those with an appointment SMS in registered mobile phones will be permitted. Only one escort would be permitted with each patient, JIPMER said.  Doctors will decide whether a patient needs in-person consultation and give appointment accordingly
28 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||For second consecutive day, Puducherry records no deaths||For the second consecutive day, no COVID-19 deaths were reported in the Union Territory while 147 new cases took the overall tally to 34,482 cases. The new cases were detected from testing 3,570 samples in the last 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 4.11%, case fatality rate 1.71% and recovery rate stood at 87.45%. Puducherry accounted for 72 of the new cases, followed by Mahe (35), Yanam (30) and Karaikal (10). Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao cautioned that though the active cases showed a declining trend, the public should not get the wrong idea that the coronavirus threat had disappeared. The active cases which had been in the 4,000 to 5,000 range at the beginning of the month were now in the 3,000-4,000 range. The Minister urged the public to continue to adhere to wearing masks, distancing and sanitising guidelines. The overall tally in the Union Territory stood at 588 deaths, 3,741 active cases, a cumulative total of 34,482 cases and 30,153 recovered patients. The Health Department has till date tested 2,93,626 samples of which 2,56,349 returned negative. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi has called for increasing testing among vulnerable groups, such as those on old age pension. Chairing a review with health officials, Ms. Bedi said surprise tests at random timings/post sunset would be made to cover sections of society who might not have been tested so far. Notification of hot spots/caution zones are to be shared by COVID War Room on a day-to-day basis to enable the Director General of Police to deploy and brief his officers appropriately. Pursuant to receipt of reports from the field about laxity in following COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, such as social distancing or improper wearing of masks, there is a necessity to ramp up IEC activities while simultaneously, enforcing regulation, the Lt. Governor said. She suggested that tag lines of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour be made part of official letter heads and in all official correspondence and e-mails. To strengthen IEC campaigns, jingles relayed by All India Radio need to be translated to vernacular languages and played through cable networks and the LED on Promenade Beach. Live performances by school students/other artists adhering to COVID-19 etiquette is also proposed. Mobile teams have been directed to record COVID-19 violations in shops and markets and display it on the LED screens on the beach for people to see themselves for compliance.
28 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. gets modern fire tenders||The Union Territory on Tuesday received four modern fire tenders and rescue vehicles for use in Puducherry and Karaikal regions. The fire tenders, each costing around Rs. 50 lakh, were inducted into the Fire Services Department with Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy flagging off the vehicles at a function held near the Legislative Assembly. The fire tenders could use both water and foam to extinguish any major fire outbreak, including those in industrial estates. The quick response vehicle with its compact design and lightweight structure would help in speedy rescue operations, an officer said. The vehicles could also be used for safe rescue of people from accident spots. The vehicles would be positioned at Gorimedu, Lawspet, Sederapet and Karaikal fire stations, the officer said.
28 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP wants early local body elections||The BJP has demanded the early conduct of local body elections in the Union Territory. In a statement, nominated legislator and BJP local unit president V. Saminathan, on Tuesday, said the elected government was deliberately trying to delay local body elections due to fear of defeat. If the elections were held now, the people’s anger against the government would become apparent. The BJP had decided to field more women candidates in the local body polls, he said. The party would launch an intensive agitation against the government if they further delayed the election process, the statement added.
28 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Leaders join teachers’ protest in Puducherry||Several political leaders cutting across party lines have come out in support of the agitation by government-aided school teachers demanding release of pay arrears of over 10 months. Over 200 teachers stayed put at the police community hall in Gorimedu on Tuesday. The teachers had been brought here on Monday after being arrested by the police while taking out a march to the Raj Nivas under the banner of the Puducherry Government Aided School Teachers and Employees Federation. Meanwhile, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi has scheduled a meeting with the Director and the Secretary of School Education to resolve the issue. Among those who addressed the protesters were Deputy Speaker M.N.R. Balan, K. Lakshminarayanan, Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister, and A. John Kumar, MLA of the Congress, A. Anbalagan (AIADMK) and N.S.J. Jayabal (AINRC). T.R. Seshaachalam, general secretary of the Puducherry Government Aided School Teachers and Employees Federation, said the blocking of the pay was owing to a misunderstanding among authorities. The fee fixation committee headed by a former Judge of the Madras High Court in 2017, while stipulating a cap on tuition fees after accounting all running cost expenses, had specifically stated that this did not include salaries or pensions of aided teachers. Besides, since 2013, the salaries and pension of aided teachers was being released directly to the beneficiaries as government grants and was not in any manner channelled through the managements, he pointed out. “Somehow, authorities got the wrong impression by linking tuition fees and teachers’ pay,” Mr. Seshaachalam added.
28 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘PM should intervene over OBC quota’||Makkal Munnetra Congress leader and former MP P. Kannan on Tuesday sought the intervention of the Union government in implementing 50% reservation for NEET-UG students belonging to OBC community in medical and dental seats. The Supreme Court decision not to provide interim relief in implementing the reservation policy would affect around 10,000 students belonging to the OBC community this academic year. The Prime Minister should immediately intervene to ensure social justice prevailed in the country. The MMC would launch an agitation in the Union Territory if the policy was not implemented, Mr. Kannan said in a release. The reservation was a constitutional right of socially marginalised sections in the country, he added.
28 October 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Explosion damages houses, triggers tension||An explosion at Keezhanilaikottai village in Tirumayam taluk in Pudukottai district on Monday night damaged a few houses and triggered tension among residents. The explosion occurred around 9.45 p.m. at a spot near a godown that was once used for stocking country crackers. Police sources said an explosion at the godown killed four persons in 2017. The licence of the godown was subsequently cancelled. After the blast, the remaining stock was buried at a distance. The latest explosion took place at the spot where the substances were buried. Damage caused to a few houses in the impact triggered tension and anxiety among villagers. A section of them went to the house of godown owner Vignesh, 28, and allegedly damaged his car parked at the entrance. K. Pudhupatti Police arrested Vignesh and his brother Vijaykumar, 30. Further investigation was on.
28 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister to visit Pasumpon on Friday||Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is expected to pay tributes at the memorial of Muthuramalinga Thevar marking the 113th Thevar Jayanthi and 58th guru puja on October 30, said Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao here on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters, he said that the district administration and the police department had made elaborate arrangements. Every year, the State government celebrates the Thevar Jayanthi on Oct 30. Apart from Thevar outfits from across the State, many leaders from major parties used to visit the memorial and offer tributes. Prior to the government function, yaga sala puja was performed at the Pasumpon on Tuesday, officials added. With COVID-19 pandemic around, numerous restrictions have been imposed. People from other districts have been barred from visiting the memorial this year. Similarly, those intending to visit have to apply for permission from the Collector. Pass would be issued strictly. Along with the CM, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, ministers, MPs and MLAs were expected to participate in the event. The Superintendent of Police E Karthik said that security at the memorial had been intensified and the district was under tight security. Vehicles from other districts with passes alone would be permitted and they should strictly adhere to rules. Any violation would be viewed seriously and cases would be booked under the Disaster Management Act, among others, the police official warned.
28 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Medical college work progressing in full swing||Civil works were progressing very well and there was every possibility that the work would be completed as per the schedule despite the lockdown due to the pandemic, said team members who inspected the ongoing work at the Rs. 325 crore government medical college hospital here on Tuesday. The three-member team including Dr. T Sabeetha from the Directorate of Medical Education, Radhakrishnan, nodal officer from National Medical Council of India visited the new buildings under construction. The Dean Alli accompanied them. In a brief chat with reporters, Dr Sabeetha said that despite the pandemic, the work was progressing at a fast pace. ‘I am hopeful that the building would come up as we have nine more months as per the schedule,’ she said. The State government obtained permission to start 11 new medical colleges across different districts in Tamil Nadu a few months ago. The Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had laid the foundation stone for the building here along with Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan. Even as the building work commenced, the pandemic halted the pace as restrictions were imposed. However, after a gap of nearly 120 days, the works have resumed and going on in full-swing, the team members said. The government would soon apply for NOC and once the buildings were completed, a high-level team would inspect the buildings and accord approval for admission. The Health Minister Vijaya Baskar recently told reporters at Ramanathapuram that the government would take all steps to admit students in all the 11 medical colleges from the next academic year onwards.
28 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of onions begins through co-op. outlets in Salem||The distribution of onions through co-operative outlets began here on Tuesday. The onions are sold for the State government suggested price of Rs. 45 per kg. Following a steep hike in onion prices, the State government intervened to make available onion at lower prices through co-operative outlets. Onion prices went up to Rs. 90 recently. On Tuesday, the prices at farmers’ market was Rs. 80 for big onions and Rs. 86 for shallots. According to authorities here, currently Salem received two tonnes of onions through Tamil Nadu Cooperative Marketing Federation that was procured from National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Limited. The onions are sold to the public through the self-service centre of Ponni wholesale store near old bus stand and Farm Fresh outlet at Palapatti. Officials said a customer would be sold only one kg at Rs. 45 and it was sold only to the public. They said they were expecting more loads in the coming days. In Namakkal, the authorities had placed orders for 20 tonnes of onions and they were expecting delivery in two days. It would be sold through co-operative outlets and Amma mini marts.
28 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||MP writes to Home Minister for assent on quota Bill||Member of Parliament from Salem S.R. Parthibhan has written to Union Home Minister requesting him to direct the Governor of Tamil Nadu to give his assent to the Bill providing 7.5% reservation for government school students. In his letter, Mr. Parthibhan highlighted that the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam had been opposing the conduct of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test examinations and said that it was a hindrance for urban and rural poor students to pursue medical studies. Mr. Parthibhan said in the letter that the Tamil Nadu admission to undergraduate courses in medicine, dentistry, Indian medicine and homeopathy on preferential basis to the students of Government Schools Bill, 2020 was passed unanimously in the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly. He added that any further delay in assenting the Bill would be detrimental to the future of government school students who aspired to pursue medical education and said in the letter that objects of the Bill would be rendered infructuous as far as this academic year was concerned. Mr. Parthibhan requested the Home Minister to direct the Governor to provide assent to the Bill and help fulfil the dreams of government school students to pursue medical education.
28 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DRM assumes office||A.G. Srinivas assumed office as the new Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) of Salem Railway Division on Tuesday. He succeeds U. Subba Rao, who has been posted to South Central Railway. Mr. Srinivas is the 7th DRM of Salem. He joined the service in 1993 as Assistant Divisional Engineer, Ongole, South Central Railway, and he belongs to 1989 batch of Indian Railways Service of Engineers, according to a release.
28 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Vigilance awareness week observed||Vigilance awareness week was observed at the Collectorate here on Tuesday. According to a release, the vigilance awareness week is observed between October 27 and November 2. Collector S.A. Raman administered the vigilance week pledge to the Collectorate staff. District Revenue Officer R. Divakar and other senior officials took part. At the observance at Salem Steel Plant, Sanjeev Taneja, Executive Director of the Plant, administered integrity pledge to the staff. Online quiz, slogan and essay competitions and various programmes had been planned, a release said.
28 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||ASI restriction on public access to thandava madi questioned||The Archaeological Survey of India’s restriction on public access to thandava madi (upper deck) of the Big Temple in Thanjavur under the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act has annoyed social activists and the general public. The thandava madi is a small pathway located above the sanctum sanctorum of the temple, which has double walls — inner and outer — capped by a single summit. Murals adorn the inner side of the outer wall. The inner wall too sports some murals and an array of stone sculptures in bharatanatyam postures. There are openings at the centre of all four inner walls through which one can enter the cement flooring, presumably put up by ASI above the giant granite idol of Brahadeeswarar in the sanctum sanctorum, to have a glimpse of the corbelling technique adopted in the construction of the 60-foot tower. Though devotees and the general public have been allowed to visit the temple as far as the sanctum sanctorum, access to thandava madi , which has mural paintings of the Chola and Nayak periods, has been denied. Further, access to a similar cirumambulatory pathway around the sanctum sanctorum has also been denied. When social activist and advocate V. Jeevakumar sent a written petition to ASI seeking access to thandava madi recently, the Department turned down his request stating that his plea could not be considered as per the provisions of the AMASR Act and Rules and as per the policy of the department keeping in view the safety of the paintings. It further advised the petitioner to visit the replica of the paintings displayed at the interpretation centre located on the southern side of the temple. In the present technological era, restriction on public access to art works depicting the skills of the forefathers of the land is unacceptable, he says. “One wonders if the ASI, which claims credit for maintaining monuments by adopting the latest techniques, cannot think of making arrangements at thandava madi to safeguard the murals and sculptures from desecration by devotees and visitors by erecting fiber glass enclosures along the circumambulatory path,” he adds.
28 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Tributes paid to Bhagavatha Mela Sampradhaya artiste||Floral tributes were paid to S. Natarajan of Melattur, a torch bearer of the Bhagavatha Mela Sampradhaya, a ritualistic theatre form of art at a virtual event organised by Marabu Foundation, Thillaisthanam near Thiruvaiyaru, on Tuesday. A Sangeet Natak Akademi awardee, Natarajan who learnt the art from his father, Swaminatha Iyer, provided refreshing touches to Bhagavatha Mela events by staging 10 of Melattur Venkatarama Sastry’s ‘Natakams’. An anjali booklet was released by Marabu Foundation managing trustee Rama Kausalya on the occasion and was received by Kalaimamani S. Kumar of Melattur, according to a Foundation press release.
28 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Revoke transfer of revenue inspectors’||The revenue department officials, after marking their attendance in their offices, struck work on Tuesday and staged demonstration against the district administration for not revoking the transfer of a few revenue inspectors. Over 60 Revenue Inspectors of the district were transferred on September 26 last and a few women Revenue Inspectors subsequently appealed to Additional Collector (Revenue) Vishnu Chandran to reconsider their transfers, citing their “personal problems” as the reason. However, the appeals were not considered. Condemning it, revenue officials attached to the District Collector’s Office, Offices of Revenue Divisional Officers and the taluk offices struck work after marking their attendance. After organising a meeting at the Collectorate, they also organised demonstration.
28 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BJP women’s wing protests VCK leader’s remarks||The BJP women’s wing on Tuesday staged demonstrations in Tiruchi and Pudukottai assailing VCK leader Thirumavalavan for his alleged remarks against Hindu religion and Hindu women. The party’s male functionaries participated in the two protests. The demonstration that was held for an hour near Old Collectorate in Tiruchi was led by party women’s wing president Bhuvaneswari. The demonstrators raised slogans against the VCK leader and demanded his arrest. The demonstration in Pudukottai Town was organised in front of the Collectorate and was led by BJP women’s wing district president R. Sumathi.
28 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mumbai couple’s 1,400-km odyssey on two-wheeler||The long distance from Mumbai to Pudukottai hardly mattered to this couple during the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown, determined that they were to be with their two minor children after a gap of seven months and to take part in the birthday celebration of their six-year-old son. R. Selvam, 41, and S. Sangeetha, 35, covered nearly 1,400 km on a two-wheeler from Mumbai to remote Pillakurichi village in Karambakudi taluk where the children stayed in their grandmother's house. Upon accomplishment of their mission a few days ago, the joy of the couple knew no bounds. They were elated to meet their 13-year-old daughter Veni and six-year-old son Yogeshwar and to celebrate the boy's birthday on October 28. A native of Pudukottai district, Selvam says he settled down nearly 40-years ago in Mumbai where he runs a petty shop at Sion. His wife Sangeetha hails from Pillakurichi village. A couple of days before the lockdown was clamped on March 22, Selvam brought his children to his mother-in-law's house at Pillakurichi as the school they were studying in Mumbai was closed. “We took the children to Pillakurichi so that they could learn about the culture and rural life in Pudukottai district unaware of the commencement of the lockdown in only a matter of days from then,” says Mr. Selvam. After leaving behind his two children, Selvam immediately returned to Mumbai after which the lockdown was clamped with complete suspension of train and flight services. For the past seven months, the children have been staying with their grandmother. “We began to miss our children and decided to take part in the birthday celebration of Yogeswar as we never missed him on his birthday all these years,” said Mr. Selvam. With no train service to Tamil Nadu from Mumbai and flight charges being costly, the couple decided to leave for Pudukottai district from Mumbai on their two-wheeler. Selvam and his wife left Sion on October 20 evening and made night halts in lodges at Kolhapur in Maharashtra and at Neelamangalam in Karnataka during their journey covering 1,400 km. “We stayed put in lodges during the two night halts and filled fuel at the petrol stations situated along Maharastra - Bengaluru highway.” Mr. Selvam says he and his wife subjected themselves to health check prior to embarking on their long journey. The police at the check posts in Karnataka asked them about their trip and let them go on knowing they were on their way to meet their children after a long gap. The couple finally reached Pillakurichi on the night of October 23. “It is God's grace and gift that we are now in PiIllakurichi village having covered the entire journey without encountering any problems en route,” said a joyous Selvam.
28 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Flyover: civic body issues NOC for land exchange||Tiruchi Corporation has issued no-objection certificate (NOC) for transfer of a piece of land owned by Tamil Nadu Special Police (TSP) Battalion at Mannarpuram to the Defence Ministry in exchange of land of equal value owned by the Ministry at the location for completion of flyover near Tiruchi railway junction. A resolution was passed at a special meeting chaired by Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian recently. Although the civic body has no ownership right on the TSP battalion grounds, it is said that the civic body has had to issue a certificate so as to declare that it has no plan for any scheme on any government-controlled land if it is required to be transferred to other departments. To meet the requirement, the corporation has issued the certificate. It stated that the Corporation has no pending proposal for using the TSP battalion grounds for any civic infrastructure project. Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu that he had received the resolution and it had been forwarded to the State Highways Department for offering land of equal value from the adjacent Tamil Nadu Special Police battalion grounds to the Defence Ministry for completing the road overbridge. “The proposal is on the right track. We have expedited our efforts to get about 65 cents of land to resume construction of an incomplete portion of the road over bridge project,” he said. The move was yet another attempt to get a piece of land sought by the State Highways Department from the Defence Ministry for construction of the road overbridge near Tiruchi junction. Construction of the overbridge was suspended for nearly three years now. Though 90% of the project has been completed, the State Highways Department can proceed further only after getting a piece of defence land. Many attempts to get the land in the past went in vain.
28 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||360-metre ghat road to Viralimalai temple to be ready by March||Construction of a ghat road to Subramanya Swami Temple situated atop a hillock at Viralimalai in Pudukottai district is in full swing. The State Highways Department (Construction and Maintenance) of Pudukottai division is executing the project at a cost of Rs. 3.8 crore with funds provided by the Tourism, Culture and Religious Endowments Department. According to a senior official of the Highways Department, construction of a concrete retaining wall to a length of 360 metres from the base to the top is nearing completion. Simultaneously, earth work for laying the road is underway. The two-lane ghat road will be laid to a length of 360 metres with paved shoulder to a width of one metre on either side. The project envisages creation of a parking lot atop the hillock. Construction of a retaining wall surrounding the parking lot is also underway. The parking area measuring a little over 300 sq m is coming up near Idumbar temple. Street lights will be installed along the ghat road. Also, there will be concrete drains on the hill side to prevent stagnation of water, the official said. The highlight of the project is provision of lift facility from the parking lot to the shrine. The lift is being provided especially for the benefit of elders and physically challenged devotees visiting the temple situated along Tiruchi-Madurai National Highway. The entire project is expected to be completed before March ahead of Thai Poosam , Vaikasi Visakam , Arunagirinathaar Thiruvizha , Panguni Uthiram , Kanda Sashti and Thirukarthigai festivals.
28 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Downloads from CeRA by ADAC & RI maximal for two consecutive years||Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute (ADAC & RI) had the maximum number of downloads in accessing CeRA(Consortium of e-Resources in Agriculture) for two consecutive years: 2016-17 and 2017-18. It was a matter of pride for the institution, its Dean Masilamani said. Last week, the institution had organized a one-day national webinar on Agricultural Knowledge Management in Digital Environment to sensitise agricultural knowledge management and optimum exploitation of e-resources. In his special address, Kalyanasundaram, Dean (Agri.), Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, pointed out that dependence on online courses and resources had become inevitable during COVID 19 situation. Need for transformation Libraries need to undergo transformation, providing learning support to the students during the pandemic period, K.S. Subramanian, Director of Research, TNAU, emphasised, in his key note address. Presiding over, T. Raguchander, Dean, Centre for Students Welfare, TNAU, elaborated on the open sources content pertaining to agriculture that were available online. In his talk, Paramaguru, Dean, Horticulture College and Research Institute stresed on life-long learning. During the technical sessions, Veeranjaneyulu, Librarian and Head, National Institute of Technology, Warangal, spoke on the initiatives of Indian Council of Agricultural Research) on agriculture knowlege management, and Rathinasabapathy, Librarian, Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences, dwelt on emerging research metrics for national and global ranking of institutions SShalini Lihitkarm, Associate Professor, RTM Nagpur University, Nagpur, focussed on reference management tools, ways to avoid plagiarism, and the need to provide bibliographical references.
28 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Prime accused in Tiruchi jewellery heist case dies in Bengaluru hospital||N. Murugan, prime accused in the Lalithaa Jewellery heist in Tiruchi and in the Punjab National Bank’s Bikshandarkoil branch burglary at Kollidam, died in a Bengaluru hospital on Monday. Police sources in Tiruchi said Murugan, 45, had been lodged in the Bengaluru jail in connection with a case filed against him there. Murugan was undergoing treatment for various ailments at the Bowring and Lady Curzon hospital, where he died, the sources said. A native of Tiruvarur district, Murugan was the alleged mastermind behind the Lalithaa Jewellery heist case reported in October last year. He, along with his close relative, Suresh, and a few others, looted jewellery weighing over 20 kg from the jewellery outlet in Tiruchi. Murugan’s involvement came to light after the police apprehended Manikandan, who was named as an accused subsequently, in Tiruvarur district while conducting vehicle checks. Subsequently, Murugan, Suresh, the latter’s mother, Kanakavalli, and another accused, Ganesan, were arrested, leading to the recovery of over 20 kg in stolen jewellery. The Fort Crime police, which registered a burglary case, had filed a chargesheet in the heist case in July. During interrogation, Murugan also revealed his involvement in the burglary of 470 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs. 19 lakh in cash from the Punjab National Bank’s Bikshandarkoil branch in January 2019. The modus operandi adopted by the gang, allegedly led by Murugan, in both burglaries was to drill a hole in the wall to gain entry and loot the valuables.
28 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||248 patients test positive in central districts||A total of 248 patients tested positive for COVID-19 in the central districts on Tuesday. Fresh cases continued to be on the decline in all eight districts of the region in the last two weeks. Ariyalur and Perambalur recorded less than 10 cases and Karur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai registered less than 30 cases. Thanjavur recorded the maximum number of cases, with 61 patients testing positive for the virus in the district. Tiruvarur district followed with 52. The daily count was 42 in Tiruvarur, 25 in Pudukottai and 35 in Nagapattinam. Three cases were recorded in Perambalur and five in Ariyalur. No casualty was reported in any of the central districts, according to the medical bulletin issued by the State Health Department on Tuesday. Meanwhile, 362 patients, who received treatment at various hospitals in the region, were discharged on Tuesday. Thanjavur district topped the list with 101 patients discharged on a single day.
28 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Exhibition to close on Oct. 31||A philatelic exhibition held by India Post at Tiruchi Head Office depicting the hard work and relentless dedication of staff during the pandemic draws to a close on October 31. The exhibition, open for the public from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., was initiated as part of National Post Week activities that began with celebration of World Post Day on October 9 and Mails Day on October 15. The services of four employees who died during the course of the lockdown were hailed by Post Master General of Central Region - Tamil Nadu A. Govindarajan while inaugurating the philatelic exhibition. Despite hardship, the employees, as servants of Essential Services sector, delivered medicines, medical equipment and test samples even at odd hours and offered doorstep bank services to the public. During the inaugural, Mr. Govindarajan released a Meghdoot Postcard with COVID-19 theme. Assistant Commissioner (Revenue) of Tiruchi Corporation received the first copy. A booklet on the services offered by India Post was also released.
28 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||BJP demands arrest of Thirumavalavan||Accusing the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi president Thol. Thirumavalavan of having passed derogatory remarks against Hindu women and demanding his arrest, the BJP cadre staged demonstration in front of the Collectorate here on Tuesday. They said Mr. Thirumavalavan, in an online seminar held recently, had made derogatory remarks against the Hindu women while quoting ‘manusmriti’. So, the Tamil Nadu Government should arrest him immediately, they said. Even as the BJP’s demonstration was going on, the VCK cadre staged a road roko near Anna Statue in Tirunelveli Junction condemning the derogatory remarks against Mr. Thirumavalavan by the functionaries of the BJP and the Hindu outfits and demanded their arrest. The police arrested 12 VCK cadre for staging the road roko. In Tenkasi, district’s BJP women’s wing president Mahalakshmi presided over the agitation. As the police had not given permission for the demonstration, the police arrested 160 protesters, who were taken to a marriage hall. When they were released in the evening, the protesters refused to leave the marriage hall, saying that the police, who had seized their mobile phones and the vehicles even as they were detained, were refusing to return the confiscated communication gadget and the vehicles. However, the issue was sorted out later after the seized articles were returned after duly recording the details. In the demonstration organised in Thoothukudi by BJP’s Thoothukudi district SC / ST wing near VVD Signal, the police arrested 161 protesters including former MP Sasikala Pushpa.  Virudhunahar BJP cadre staged a demonstration here on Tuesday in protest against VCK leader Thol. Thirumavalavan’s remarks. Virudhunagar East district women’s wing vice-president Kaleeswari and west district functionary Santhakumari led the protest, in which agitators sought arrest of Mr. Thirumavalavan for his comments on women. Around 150 of the protesters were arrested and taken to a marriage hall.
28 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Six detained for vandalising cemetery||Six of the eight accused who have been arrested in connection with vandalising 86 tombs in a cemetery under the Sacred Heart Church at Udaiyaarpatti here on October 16, have been detained under the National Security Act (NSA). S. Udaiyaar, 53, Tirunelveli district president of the Hindu Makkal Katchi from Vannarpet here; K. Muruganantham, 48, of Veeravanallur; T. Sankar, 52, of Veeravanallur; R. Sabarirajan, alias, Ayyappan, 50, of Murappanaadu in Thoothukudi district; Senthamarai, 42, of Palayamkottai; and A. Kanthan, 38, of Tirunelveli, have been detained under the Act. The Bishop of Palayamkottai RC Diocese, S. Antonysamy, accompanied by the office-bearers of various political parties, including the ruling AIADMK, had submitted a petition to Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish on October 18, seeking stringent action against the culprits involved in the desecration of the tombs with the objective of triggering clashes between different religious groups. Subsequently, the six persons were detained. The group of men, armed with crowbars, hammers and other weapons, entered the cemetery at Manimurtheeswaram on the night of October 16, and smashed the granite crosses on 86 tombs and crushed the polished granite slabs on the tombs. The matter triggered tension in the Udaiyaarpatti area when it came to light on Sunday morning. Parishioners of the Sacred Heart Church blocked vehicular traffic on the North Bypass Road near the church. Based on a complaint by Joseph Michael Selvaraj, the parish priest of the Church, the Thatchanallur police commenced an investigation. The investigation reportedly revealed that it was the handiwork of Udaiyaar and seven others.
28 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Desecration of cemeteries: 6 detained under NSA||Six of the eight accused who have been arrested in connection with vandalism at 86 cemeteries under the control of Sacred Heart Church at Udaiyarpatti here on October 16 have been detained under the National Security Act. They are S. Udaiyar (53) of Vannarpet, Tirunelveli district president of Hindu Makkal Katchi, K. Muruganantham (48) of Veeravanallur, T. Sankar (52) of Veeravanallur, R. Sabarirajan alias Ayyappan (50) of Murappanadu in Thoothukudi district, A. Sermadurai (43) of Tirunelveli Town, and A. Kanthan (38) of Tirunelveli. A group of men, armed with crowbars, hammers and other weapons trespassed into the cemetery at Manimurtheeswaram on October 16 night and smashed the granite cross on 86 tombs and crushed polished granite slabs on the tombs in the cemetery. As the matter came to light the following morning, it triggered tension in Udaiyaarpatti area and the hostility intensified further when the parishioners of Sacred Heart Church blocked North Bypass Road near the church. Based on the complaint from Rev. Fr. Joseph Michael Selvaraj, parish priest of the church, Thatchanallur police started their investigation that reportedly revealed that it was the handiwork of S. Udaiyar and seven others. Subsequently, the police registered case under Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon), 297 (trespassing on burial places), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 294 B (sings, recites or utters any obscene songs or words in public places), 353 A (assaults or uses criminal force to deter public servant) and 506 (2) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code against Udaiyar, Muruganantham, Sankar, Sabari Rajan alias Ayyappan, Sermadurai, Kandan, Radhakrishnan (58) of Vannarpet, S. Subramani alias Soda Mani (49) of Veeravanallur. Bishop of Palayamkottai RC Diocese Most Rev. S. Antonysamy, accompanied by political party members, including the ruling AIADMK, submitted a petition to Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish on October 18 seeking action.
28 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam Dam on Tuesday stood at 110.70 feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 443.98 cusecs and 804.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar Dam stood at 75.20 feet (permissible level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 82 cusecs and no water was discharged.
28 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Contract conservancy workers seek revised wages, stage protest in Tiruppur||Contract conservancy workers attached to the Tiruppur Corporation staged a demonstration demanding payment of revised daily wages and Deepavali bonus here on Tuesday. The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) organised the demonstration in front of the Tiruppur Corporation headquarters. According to the CITU district secretary K. Rangaraaj, nearly 200 contract workers from all the four Zones participated. The District Administration had revised the daily wages for contract workers in August, according to which the contract conservancy workers must receive Rs. 510 a day. However, the Corporation continues to give the previous wages to the contract workers, Mr. Rangaraaj said. The Corporation must also ensure that the workers received their Deepavali bonus by November 5, he urged. “If the Corporation fails to take any step by November 5, the CITU will conduct large-scale demonstrations,” he said. The protesters also submitted a petition in this regard to the Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar. Deepavali bonus Mr. Sivakumar told The Hindu that he had contacted the private contractor responsible for nearly 750 contract conservancy workers in Tiruppur Corporation regarding these demands. The contract must be renewed to reflect the revision in the daily wages and the contractor has agreed to pay the Deepavali bonus within a few days. “The Corporation will ensure that their demands are met,” Mr. Sivakumar said.
28 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Final draft list of polling stations released||Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan released the final draft list of polling stations for the eight Assembly constituencies in Tiruppur district recently. A total of 2,493 polling stations were announced for Dharapuram (reserved), Kangeyam, Avinashi (reserved), Tiruppur North, Tiruppur South, Palladam, Udumalpet and Madathukulam Assembly constituencies. These include the nine polling stations proposed to be formed by the District Administration as they have over 1,500 voters each, apart from the existing 2,484 polling stations. The list will be submitted for ECI’s approval, according to the release.
28 October 2020||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||100 kg ganja seized, seven arrested in Tiruvannamalai||The Tiruvannamalai police have arrested seven persons, who smuggled 100 kg of ganja from Andhra Pradesh by concealing it in cement sacks on Monday night. The police received information about ganja being smuggled into Tiruvannamalai from Andhra Pradesh. A special team was formed by Superintendent of Police S. Aravind comprising ASP T. Ashok Kumar, inspectors R. Sasi Kumar and D. VInayakamoorthy. During vehicles were checked at Kannamangalam police station limits, the team intercepted a lorry and found 40 bags of ganja, weighing 100 kg, amidst the cement sacks. The police arrested Ulaganathan, Zakir Hussain and Lourde Anthony who were in the lorry and based on their information, raids were conducted in Tiruvannamalai. “The ganja smuggled from Andhra Pradesh is handed over to distributors in Tiruvannamalai and they sell it in smaller quantities to peddlers. Four such distributors were arrested,” said a police officer.
28 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Infantry Day celebrated at Wellington Military Station||Infantry Day was celebrated with a war memorial service at the Wellington Military Station near Coonoor on Tuesday. In a press release, the Madras Regimental Centre said that “Infantry Day is celebrated every year on October 27 to commemorate the landing of the first Infantry Battalion of Indian Army in Srinagar and thereafter, the role of Indian Army’s infantry in preventing the Pakistani raiders from capturing Jammu and Kashmir.” The event was held at the Madras Regiment War Memorial. Lieutenant General YVK Mohan, Commandant of the Defence Services Staff College, Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, Station Commander of the Wellington Military Station and Commandant of the Madras Regimental Centre, and Brigadier Ajit Singh, VSM (retired), senior most infantry veteran in the Nilgiris, paid their respects to the soldiers of the Indian Army “who have made the supreme sacrifice of their lives in service of our Motherland” by placing floral tributes at the War Memorial, the press release said. Speaking to reporters at the event, Lieutenant General YVK Mohan spoke of the challenges faced by the Army in fighting in high altitude areas like Jammu and Kashmir. He said that the soldiers have to be focused both day and night in the snow-clad mountains of Kashmir, where temperatures can drop to 40 degrees below freezing. On the protocols established at the Defence Services Staff College (DSCC) to prevent the spread of COVID-19 among uniformed personnel, the Commandant said that not a single day of training has been compromised, with strict protocols being in place.
28 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Sigur elephant corridor case committee chairman visits the landscape||The chairman of a three-member committee formed by the Supreme Court to look into the objections of the landowners in the Sigur elephant corridor visited parts of the passage on Tuesday. Justice K. Venkatraman, former judge of the Madras High Court, visited parts of the corridor, accompanied by Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya and Mudumalai Tiger Reserve Field Director K.K. Kaushal. The two other members of the committee are Ajay Desai, a consultant for World Wide Fund for Nature-India and member of the technical committee, National Elephant Action Plan, and Praveen Bhargava, Trustee of Wildlife First. Neither of whom were present on Tuesday. The Supreme Court formed the committee after upholding the validity of the Madras High Court’s order declaring the elephant corridor in the Sigur plateau. The committee is to decide on the individual objections of the appellants and any other persons claiming to be aggrieved by the Collector’s actions following the Supreme Court’s order to seal illegal resorts in the area and take down any illegal fencing that hindered the movement of wildlife. The committee is to consider the objections filed before it and grant all parties an opportunity to be heard. The parties have been asked to file documents in support of their contentions.
28 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Non-payment of salaries to conservancy workers leads to irregular waste collection||Irregular waste collection from parts of Udhagamandalam town has led people to dump waste in public spaces. Residents of Fern Hill and Elk Hill alleged that the municipality’s garbage collection vehicles had failed to turn up at their localities for around a week. “As there are no garbage bins within the town either, people have nowhere left to discard their garbage and so throw it on the road,” said a resident of Fern Hill in Udhagamandalam. The problem with waste collection has occurred almost at the same time when temporary municipal staff employed by private contractors to collect garbage staged a protest outside the municipal office a few days ago demanding their salaries. A conservancy worker who spoke to The Hindu said that the staff were yet to receive two months’ salary, and that they had struck work for a few days to put pressure on the municipality to speak to the contractor and get their salaries paid. After talks were held between the conservancy workers and the municipality, a compromise was reached, officials said, with the contractor agreeing to release a third of the salary due to the staff by the end of the week. Official sources said that the problem of non-payment of wages to temporary staff was consistent in all the municipalities in the district. When contacted, R. Saraswati, Udhagamandalam Municipality (UMC) Commissioner, said that it was the duty of the contractors to pay the wages of the staff that they employ. “They had bid for tenders to carry out this work, but are now claiming that they are unable to pay their salaries. However, we have had talks with the contractors, who have agreed to pay a portion of the salaries due to the conservancy workers,” said Ms. Sarawati.
28 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||68 new COVID-19 cases take Vellore district tally to 17,635||The COVID-19 tally in Vellore district reached 17,635 with 68 new cases reported on Tuesday. While 16,894 people have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 438. The district’s death toll stands at 303. In Ranipet district, 20 new cases were reported on Tuesday taking the tally to 14,738 In Tirupathur, the tally touched at 6,526 with 38 new cases on Tuesday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 23 new cases were reported taking the tally to 17,449. Of these, 16,726 patients have been discharged and there are 463 active cases.
28 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Two masked men steal 1 kg silver from showroom||Two men broke into a silver jewellery shop at Sathuvacheru and allegedly fled with 1 kg silver articles on Tuesday. According to the police, the showroom staff left after locking the shop on Monday night. On Tuesday morning, they found the shutter broken and silver articles missing. The CCTV footage showed a masked man and his accomplice breaking into the outlet around 3 a.m. After stealing the silver, they sped on a two-wheeler. As the two were wearing gloves, fingerprints could not be lifted.
28 October 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Police cane VCK workers in Villupuram||The police on Tuesday resorted to mild caning to disperse workers of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), who intercepted two police buses carrying arrested BJP workers near the Collectorate on Tuesday. The district unit of the BJP had called for a protest against VCK leader and Chidambaram Lok Sabha Member of Parliament Thol. Thirumavalavan for his recent remarks against what he claimed Manusmriti said on women. Several BJP activists were taken into preventive custody from Tuesday to prevent them from participating in the protest. The police arrested over 90 BJP workers and shifted them in two buses to a marriage hall in Villupuram. Stones thrown Tensions mounted after a section of workers of the VCK intercepted the buses and raised slogans against the BJP. This led to an altercation between the two groups. As the argument continued, stones were pelted on the police buses, which escalated the situation. The police resorted to mild caning which brought the situation under control.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two deaths, 209 new cases in Coimbatore district||Coimbatore district reported two COVID-19 deaths and 209 cases on Tuesday, taking the district’s overall tally to 42,296 cases. Two patients aged 69 and 23 died, the media bulletin said. Of the 42,296 cases, 38,166 have recovered and 3,590 were active cases. Coimbatore district has reported 540 deaths so far. On Tuesday, 373 patients were discharged from various hospitals. With 99 fresh cases, Tiruppur district saw its daily case count dip below the 100 mark in nearly two months. Five patients aged 74, 51, 36, 70 and 87 died, the bulletin said. The district’s overall tally stood at 12,286 cases, of which 11,123 have recovered and 978 were active cases. As many as 92 patients were discharged from various hospitals.  Tiruppur district has reported 185 deaths so far. Of the 146 new cases reported in Salem on Tuesday, 89 were from Salem Corporation limits. Twenty-eight patients had returned from Dharmapuri, Namakkal, Coimbatore. A 64-year-old man died while under treatment. Namakkal district recorded 68 cases, of which 12 had returned from Karur, Erode, Salem, Tiruchi and one from Andhra Pradesh. R.Varadharajan (77), Chairman of Erumapatti Panchayat Union, Namakkal, died in a private hospital on Tuesday. Erode district reported 76 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 9,880. While 108 persons were discharged, 772 persons were under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 120 in the district. In the Nilgiris, 81 people tested positive on Tuesday. The total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the Nilgiris stood at 6,490. Krishnagiri district recorded 28 cases and Dharmapuri 25.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Police tortured duo knowing it will result in death’||The team from New Delhi inspected the scene of crime at Sattankulam and materials were collected. The report of the team was awaited, and it would be produced before the court when received, the CBI said. The CBI said there were inconsistencies in different reports/documents relating to the initial medical examination reports of the deceased at the government hospital at Sattankulam. The reports, including inquest and post-mortem reports, have been referred to a multi-institutional medical board of forensic medicine experts, and the board’s report was awaited. The investigation revealed that in pursuance of a criminal conspiracy hatched by the accused policemen, Jayaraj was picked up from his shop near the Kamaraj statue on June 19 at 7.30 p.m. and lodged at the police station. On information, Benicks rushed to the station to enquire about the arrest of his father. He objected to his father being beaten up. Following an altercation, the two were wrongfully confined at the police station and beaten up in order to teach them a lesson on how to behave with the police. The torture continued for several hours throughout the night, the CBI said. Jayaraj and Benicks, with only their vests on, were made to bow down on a wooden table and subjected to a severe beating with batons. The police caught their hands so that they could not defend themselves. Jayaraj told the police about his blood pressure and diabetic condition, but they did not pay heed to his pleas, the CBI said. The two were made to clean the blood that had oozed from their wounds and pooled on the floor with their own vest. The next morning the sweeper of the station was made to clean the blood so as to destroy the evidence. A false case was registered against the two, the CBI said. During the investigation it was revealed that the traders had not violated the COVID-19 lockdown rules, the CBI said. The accused are in judicial custody and lodged in the Madurai Central Prison.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Onions sold at fair price||Sale of onion at fair price began at Tiruvarur Consumer Cooperative Wholesale Outlet on Tuesday. A kg of onion sold at Rs. 45. The sale was launched by Asaimani, president, Kumbakonam Central Cooperative Bank. The decision to sell onions at a low price was taken by the government as an intervention to bring down the retail price of onion, which crossed Rs. 100 per kg in the open market in recent days, citing ‘poor’ arrival from other States, according to an official press release.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||The report titled “Mohan Bhagwat in Coimbatore for RSS Kerala unit meet”, in edition dated October 27, inadvertently mentions Chinmaya International Residential School at Karunya Nagar as the venue of the meet, instead of Chinmaya Gardens, the ashram at Karunya Nagar. The error is regretted.
28 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||People in big positions should sacrifice smaller posts: Minister||With the battle for the District Central Cooperative Bank heating up, district in-charge Minister and BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi hinted in Belagavi on Tuesday that his political rival and Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi should drop his plans of contesting for the bank polls. Those in big positions of power should sacrifice the smaller posts and ensure that their followers win elections to local bodies and cooperative institutions, Mr. Jarkiholi said, while referring to the DCC Bank polls scheduled for November 6. But when asked if he was referring to Mr. Savadi, he denied it and said that he was making a general statement. “RSS leaders are guiding us to see that the DCC Bank elections are held in a harmonious manner, without any strife. Senior RSS leader Arvind Rao Deshpande has asked us to see that the elections are conducted peacefully in a cordial manner. However, such advise can be followed properly only when people in big positions of power make sacrifices. They should give up plans for contesting for smaller positions and should nominate their followers instead,” he clarified. “For example, with the clout that I enjoy in Gokak, I can easily make my son a DCC Bank director from Gokak. But I will not do that. I am planning to field one of my party workers and see that he wins,” Mr. Jarkiholi explained. He reiterated that he considered the DCC Bank polls to be non-political and that he had decided to go by the decision of the former Ministers Umesh Katti and Balachandra Jarkiholi in this matter. Mr. Savadi, however, did not react to Mr. Jarkiholi’s statement. He only said that the BJP was set to grow stronger in the State with some Congress MLAs expressing their desire to cross over to the party.
28 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Hukkeri’s statement still drawing reactions||Congress leader Prakash Hukkeri’s statement that he would campaign for the BJP if it were to field a member of the Suresh Angadi family in the Lok Sabha bypoll continued to draw reactions in Belagavi on Tuesday. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working president Satish Jarkiholi asked Mr. Hukkeri to introspect on his stand. “I don’t think it is right for such a senior Congress leader to speak of supporting the BJP,” he added. He is among the senior most Congress leaders in the State and has enjoyed a series of posts from being a member of the zilla panchayat to Parliament. He should reflect on his statements, Mr. Jarkiholi told journalists. He said that it was natural for a political party to witness internal fights. The BJP is not immune to it. “Their internal fights are bigger than ours,” he said. “His statement has come as a surprise. Let us see; nothing is going to change immediately. I have no idea about what our high command plans to do about it,” he said. To a question, he said that he would not raise the issue before the party senior leaders, to ask them either to punish Mr. Hukkeri or to favour him. Meanwhile, Ramesh Jarkiholi, district in-charge Minister and BJP leader, said that he would want to understand why Mr. Hukkeri made such a statement, before he made any comments on it. “However, at a personal level, he is my good friend. I would not want to politicise the issue,” he said. To a question, he said that he would not invite Mr. Hukkeri to the party but would leave such decisions to the party high command. BJP leader and former Minister Umesh Katti said that Mr. Hukkeri should try to build a consensus towards ensuring the election of a BJP candidate from Belagavi, without laying conditions, including a member of the Angadi family getting ticket. Mr. Hukkeri should request the Congress leadership not to contest the Belagavi seat, he said.
28 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Hukkeri’s statement still drawing reactions||Congress leader Prakash Hukkeri’s statement that he would campaign for the BJP if it were to field a member of the Suresh Angadi family in the Lok Sabha bypoll continued to draw reactions in Belagavi on Tuesday. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working president Satish Jarkiholi asked Mr. Hukkeri to introspect on his stand. “I don’t think it is right for such a senior Congress leader to speak of supporting the BJP,” he added. He is among the senior most Congress leaders in the State and has enjoyed a series of posts from being a member of the zilla panchayat to Parliament. He should reflect on his statements, Mr. Jarkiholi told journalists. He said that it was natural for a political party to witness internal fights. The BJP is not immune to it. “Their internal fights are bigger than ours,” he said. “His statement has come as a surprise. Let us see; nothing is going to change immediately. I have no idea about what our high command plans to do about it,” he said. To a question, he said that he would not raise the issue before the party senior leaders, to ask them either to punish Mr. Hukkeri or to favour him. Meanwhile, Ramesh Jarkiholi, district in-charge Minister and BJP leader, said that he would want to understand why Mr. Hukkeri made such a statement, before he made any comments on it. “However, at a personal level, he is my good friend. I would not want to politicise the issue,” he said. To a question, he said that he would not invite Mr. Hukkeri to the party but would leave such decisions to the party high command. BJP leader and former Minister Umesh Katti said that Mr. Hukkeri should try to build a consensus towards ensuring the election of a BJP candidate from Belagavi, without laying conditions, including a member of the Angadi family getting ticket. Mr. Hukkeri should request the Congress leadership not to contest the Belagavi seat, he said.
28 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Savadi seeks funds to help RTCs||The KSRTC and the other three State-run transport undertakings have sought around Rs. 3,000 crore financial support from the State government to help tide over the loss suffered due to the extended lockdown. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Transport Laxman Savadi asked the government to absorb the cost of issuing bus passes to students. Speaking at the foundation stone-laying ceremony for a bus stand at Saundatti in Belagavi district on Tuesday, the Minister said all the corporations were facing losses and that BMTC alone was losing around Rs. 1.17 crore per day. “We have not dismissed any employee and have paid all staff for six months since our operations were shut down in March. However, we are seeking help from the State government to pay salaries for another six months, till our finances improve,” he said. He said the government could also relieve the burden of the corporations by absorbing the social security benefits of providing subsidised bus passes to students. The corporations were facing loss of around Rs. 2,960 crore. We are asking the government to absorb that cost and transfer the money to us so that our loss is reduced, he said. He said the rising cost of diesel and other material was hitting the corporations hard since 2010. He said NWKRTC would provide four old buses remodelled as mobile toilets to the devotees in the Saundatti Yallamma temple. He said four training centres would be set up in Mudhol, Athani, Koppal, and Saundatti to train drivers. The Transport Department would spend Rs. 60 crore on the project. V.S. Patil, NWKRTC chairman, said the number of passengers had fallen by over 70% and the distance covered by buses had dropped by nearly 40%.
28 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Students excel||Students of KLE Society’s Lingaraj Autonomous College have excelled in degree examinations conducted by the college. As much as 97 % of students have cleared the B.Com course, while 96.47 % of BA students have cleared the course. Students Anjum Nadaf, Azraa Sharif and Deepali Ghodageri have topped the BA course, while Nikita Julekar, Chinna Badiger and Samiksha Desai have topped the B.Com course, said a release from principal R.M. Patil.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Some MSMEs in Karnataka show signs of recovery||The auto ancillary and supply chain industries in Karnataka have started showing signs of recovery with the sales numbers of passenger cars, commercial vehicles, two wheelers and bicycles picking up in the last two months. The State has over six lakh medium, small and micro enterprises, and the entire MSME sector has been reeling from the slowdown triggered the pandemic. T.R. Parasuraman, president, BCIC, and president and all-time director of Toyota Industries Engine India, said, “The worst is getting over, especially for the automotive segment. Volumes are picking up and there is demand in local markets, while exports are also slowly happening.” Most automobile firms are back on track and the supply chain also got a boost to a great extent as the demand for parts and spares started coming in. Some companies are working in multiple shifts to deliver their orders, he said. “Pockets of worries and minor aberrations are there, such as the U.S. elections and a second wave of COVID-19 in Europe. However, the overall panic has settled down, and the fear psychosis is over in India,” he said. D.R. Subramanyam, CII Karnataka State Council Member and MD of SLN Technologies, said the military side of defence and aerospace have not been impacted much by COVID-19. However, civil aerospace has been affected badly and it will take two years to recover. “In fact, aircraft manufacturers have cut production by 40% and recovery may happen only by 2024 depending on how many people will resume travel,” he added. Many trade bodies are in the process of studying the impact of the pandemic on their member companies, and no proper quantification has been arrived at yet. “While a definite financial loss figure is difficult to quantify, it can still be safely assumed that the loss in industrial output may run into tens of thousands of crores in the State keeping in mind the MSMEs (manufacturing) account for nearly 10% of GDP,” said K.B. Arasappa, president, Kassia. “Assuming manufacturing SMEs employ about three million workers in Karnataka, a 10% attrition due to COVID-19 means a loss of 3 lakh jobs attributable to the pandemic.” It has been conservatively estimated that only 60-70% of normal production has been restored after six months in the badly affected segments. About 15% industries in the most vulnerable micro enterprises segment may have permanently shut shop unable to recover from the shock. The output loss, year on year, for the period, could be as high as 30% in those badly affected segments of MSMEs, as per data provided by Kassia. M.C. Dinesh, former president, FKCCI, and entrepreneur, said the government has to make all efforts to generate demand in the market. It has to announce infrastructure projects and spend on infrastructure to stimulate the economy. “The government also has to effectively address the needs of the MSMEs and kiranas that are an integral part of daily life,” he added. According to FKCCI president Perikal Sundar, the pandemic has triggered some start-up activities in the State. “Sheep and goat-rearing has increased 25-30% compared to pre-COVID-19 period. Our youth deserve commendation for initiating new start-ups by taking the pandemic as an opportunity. Many youngsters have also started business ventures around farming and agriculture.'' Most trade bodies felt, the first-time MSME borrowers in the state could not benefit from the government’s Rs. 3 lakh crore relief package that came under COVID-19 Emergency COVID Loan, as loans up to Rs. 20 lakh were given only to the existing borrowers and not to new borrowers and because of this, small companies suffered huge working capital shortage. The labour disruption caused by the departure of migrants is yet to normalise even after six months with 15-20% workers either permanently moving out or yet to return, hurting the labour intensive industries like garments the most, said trade bodies.  The worst is getting over, especially for the automotive segment. Volumes are picking up and there is demand in local markets, while exports are also slowly happening.  T.R. Parasuraman president, BCIC   While a definite financial loss figure is difficult to quantify, it can still be safely assumed that the loss in industrial output may run into tens of thousands of crores in the State keeping in mind the MSMEs (manufacturing) account for nearly 10% of GDP. K.B. Arasappa president, Kassia
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘We have come together to work for the BJP’||Munirathna had to win a legal battle waged by a BJP leader, challenging his 2018 election from the Congress on grounds of malpractice, before facing the people of Rajarajeshwarinagar again this time from the BJP. While others who changed loyalties and joined the BJP with him faced the bypolls 10 months ago, he had to wait longer for the legal hurdle to be cleared after he faced disqualification as MLA in July 2019.  The Hindu caught up with him on the campaign trail. Excerpts:  How do you justify your defection to BJP and this bypoll? Congress MLAs got a raw deal from the coalition government. I was nominated as chairman for Karnataka Skill Development Corporation, but was not allowed to take charge. What upset me more was that our development works were held up. Tumakuru Road has a bottleneck at Goraguntepalya, which I sought to get fixed. I ran from pillar to post for a year between the JD(S) and the Congress leadership, but to no avail. Why should we be part of a government where even development work is put on hold? The Congress seemed neither prepared to sit in the Opposition nor was in power. So, as MLAs we had to prepare ourselves for five years of such stalemate or defect to the BJP, bring in a change of regime, which we did. How has shifting to BJP helped development works in R.R. Nagar? Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has sanctioned grants to the tune of Rs. 960 crore for R.R. Nagar constituency alone. This includes several infrastructure works, but mainly the elevated corridor project that passes through the constituency. My dream is to build a Namma Metro line from Mysuru Road to Hebbal via Outer Ring Road. The Chief Minister has shown interest in the proposal. You have had troubled relationships with most of BJP leaders, including Tulasi Muniraju Gowda and former councillors. Will this affect your prospects? A man makes mistakes, sometimes because of wrong advice and sometimes prejudice. But we should forgive and forget. We have now all come together and are working for the BJP, not Munirathna. The BJP is a disciplined party where no man is larger than the party. You are facing a candidate new to politics. Do you think her clean image will affect you? I will not speak against Kusuma as she is a novice in politics and has never contested elections before. I respect her. But, I have a track record of development and work to show, which she doesn’t. Would you demand to be made Minister, if you win this bypoll? What I will say is not important. The CM and party high command will decide.  My dream is to build a Namma Metro line from Mysuru Road to Hebbal via Outer Ring Road.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Testing drops over two days in State||For the second consecutive day, the number of COVID-19 tests conducted in the State declined. On Monday (reflected in Tuesday’s health bulletin), as many as 66,701 tests were conducted in the State. As many as 3,691 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Tuesday. On Sunday, the total tests stood at 65,862. This is in contrast to previous days when the tests crossed the one lakh mark.  Bengaluru Urban Of the 3,691 cases that were reported in the State in Tuesday’s bulletin by the Health and Family Welfare Department, as many as 1,874 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Bengaluru Urban. However, the positivity rate for the day remained at 5.53%. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the State stands at 8.09 lakh. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer, labs and testing, COVID-19 task force, said that the number of tests may have declined due to the holiday and the festive season. He however argued that the positivity rate was still around 5%. “We will ensure that our testing is robust and rigorous in the coming days,” he said. Responding to the decrease in number of cases over the last few days, Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that government was not hiding or providing wrong information regarding the statistics pertaining to COVID 19. He also said that the cases had declined due to the efforts of the corona warriors. The number of cases have decreased and deaths have come down, he added.  44 deaths Meanwhile, the number of deaths reported on Tuesday stood at 44, taking the total number to 10,991. Besides this, as many as 19 patients who tested positive for COVID-19 died to other reasons. The case fatality rate for the day stood at 1.19 %. Tuesday saw as many as 7,740 patients being discharged, taking the total number of discharges to 7.27 lakh. With this, the recovery rate in Karnataka stands at 89.83%. Out of the total 71,330 active cases in the State, 944 patients are admitted in intensive care units across different designated hospitals.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doctors, activists, lawyers petition govt. to provide ration in schools||A group of nutritionists, doctors, activists, lawyers, and citizens have petitioned the State government to provide ration kits to students in government and aided schools. The State government has not provided dry ration kits that includes rice and pulses to students since June. In a statement, they have stated that they are “shocked and concerned” that the government has not been providing the legally mandated midday meal or even dry rations since June to children enrolled in government-run and government-aided schools, which is a gross violation of their right to food and nutrition guaranteed under the National Food Security Act 2013. They have also said that the milk powder under the Ksheera Bhagya programme should also be supplied to the students.  The Hindu last week reported that after schools closed because of COVID-19 in March, midday meals were stopped and the State government had provided ration kits that included rice and toor dal for three months till May. As many as 48 lakh children from classes 1 to 10 in government and aided schools depend on the midday meals. Many parents had also pointed out that as their livelihoods were affected owing to the pandemic, the nutrition levels of the children were also affected. Majority of the children in these schools come from lower socio-economic backgrounds and marginalised communities. Officials of the Department of Public Instruction stated that the dry rations would soon be supplied to the children in government and aided schools as soon as a government order was issued. “We are hoping to provide rations forJune and July as soon as possible. The rations for the subsequent months will also be provided,” the official added.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BDA to cancel allotment of flats if full amount is not paid||The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has decided to cancel the allotment letter of BDA flats of beneficiaries who do not pay the whole amount by December 31 this year. “BDA has built 1,2, and 3 BHK flats in various parts of the city, and has already allotted them to the beneficiaries after receiving the advance amount. However, over a hundred beneficiaries are yet to pay the full amount even after issuing multiple notices. Hence, we have decided to cancel their allotment letters if they do not pay the remaining amount by the end of this year,” a senior BDA official said. The official said the beneficiaries were expected to pay the amount in four instalments. The official added that interest amount was to be paid if the beneficiaries do not pay the whole amount on time. “However, in a meeting held in August this year, it was decided not to impose the interest amount. Hence, only the prescribed final amount is to be paid now,” he said. This comes close on the heels of the BDA increasing the application and registration fees of flat and site purchase, and penalties. However, this decision of the BDA has not gone down well with the public as they argue that such flats were specifically meant to benefit the low and middle income groups, and cancelling the allotment letter amidst the pandemic would be grave injustice. Suryakiran A.S. of Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Layout Open-Forum said that more time should be given as people were under deep financial stress due to the pandemic. “Such flats are generally bought by low income group and middle income group. They will not be able to arrange funds now. With job loss and pay cuts, getting loans is also not an option,” he said. He said that as the RBI and the banks had introduced moratorium on home loans, BDA could provide a moratorium for the payment of fees. B.M. Shivakumar, president, Jayaprakash Narayan Vichara Vedike and an RTI activist, said that the BDA had not given basic facilities, including water, sewage and proper road and transport connection, to various such flats, and even that could be the reason people might not have paid the full amount. “Instead of troubling the common people, the BDA should first provide proper facilities. In many places, the projects are incomplete. Let them finish them first,” he said.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||At workplaces, de-densification hacks take the lead in tackling COVID-19 fears||At the Bengaluru plant of Continental Automotive India, shop-floor workers change into electrostatic discharge (ESD) clothing before commencing work. With a minimum of 500 workers turning up for every shift, ensuring social distancing in the ‘change room’ was going to take some doing. With technology, the challenge was tackled more easily than expected. Developed in-house, a sensor-based monitoring system installed at the entrance of the ‘change room’ now allows only a pre-set number of people. If anyone overstays their welcome, it would squeal. The overstayer is reported via the RFID tag embedded in the ID. The Raspberry Pi based application interfaces with an RFID scanner using MQTT for communication over a wireless LAN network. “Previously, we had more than 50 employees accessing this room at any point in time; it has now been scaled down to 12,” said Phanindra Karody, head of the Bengaluru plant of Continental Automotive India. Space decisions A Colliers’ India survey says most companies are now evaluating lowering workplace density by up to 20%. It also says that until the pandemic subsides, de-densification of workplaces will push companies to scout for more space. A majority of them have adopted cost-effective solutions, such as staggered timings, reduced shifts or alternate duty-rosters. Thirumal Govindraj, managing director, RMZ Corp, said, “From a corporate standpoint, companies have 15-20% of their workforce working remotely. By staggering work timings, de-densification is already being achieved. So companies will wait till the end of the year to take a call on infrastructure requirements.” All the tech parks of RMZ have been upgraded or retrofitted with a whole host of features, including touchless elevators and doors. “Whatever we have implemented is good enough for the next three to four months. Technology is changing and infrastructure is also evolving. So we would wait to bring any more drastic changes,” said Mr. Govindraj.  Demarcated work spaces At the R&D labs of Texas Instruments India, a simple innovation does the trick. Karthik Dhanabal, Global Development Labs - India Leader, Texas Instruments, says that to check the possibility of crowding, its lab has now been divided into four zones, with each supporting a specific function, and access to it by a card. Inside, one-person-only benches and testing spaces ensure social distancing among workers. “Engineers may come into the lab only in case of critical manual testing, measurements or if debugs are required. Such visits are low in frequency and ensure there are only limited employees in the workspace at any point in time. Moreover, we encourage that all debugging and testing process be run over Webex to reduce contact,” says Mr. Dhanabal, adding that employees are invited to offer suggestions on how to make the shop floor safer still.  ‘Shift’ in focus Bengaluru-headquartered Duroflex Mattresses has over 1,200 employees working across its three factories. To prevent crowding on the shop floor, the company has introduced two shifts where there were none earlier. “If there are six machines on a floor, four would run in one shift and the balance two in the other shift. In pre-COVID-19 days, we had 100 % of the workforce coming in at a time and all the machines would be running simultaneously,” said Mohanraj J., president and Business Unit Head, Duroflex.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP chief orders survey of structures used for advertising||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad has issued an order to zonal joint commissioners and zonal engineers to conduct a survey of iron structures that are used for advertisements, including the ones that do not have advertisements on them. The High Court of Karnataka has time and again directed the civic body to remove all such illegal hoardings, flexes and banners. The Commissioner has directed the officials concerned to prepare a list of such commercial hoardings at sub-division and ward levels along with tax and penalties imposed and paid, and FIRs registered, and submit it as soon as possible. Sources in the BBMP said that there were a few cases regarding some commercial hoardings that were in the court. A senior BBMP official said that most of the illegal commercial structures have been removed by the civic body, and it was a “continuous process”. “However, even after removing those huge hoardings and advertisements, iron structures and skeleton structures have remained. Now a survey of such structures will be conducted, identified and action will be taken as per law,” the official said. He added that identifying such structures was a continuous process and it was being done with the assistance of the police. “Section 138 (removal of unauthorised advertisements) of the KMC Act is used for removal of illegal advertisements after issuing show-cause notice to the persons or agencies concerned. Action can also be taken based on the Karnataka Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act, 1981, against illegal advertisements, flexes, banners, hoardings,” the official added. The official said that removal of such large hoardings was also aimed at minimising distractions and to promote traffic safety and prohibit the use of materials harmful to the environment. In November 2019, the Karnataka High Court had directed the State government to issue necessary instructions empowering city corporations to take action against illegal advertisements, flexes, hoardings. It had also directed the government to issue instructions to the police department to register FIRs under relevant sections based on complaints by officers of city corporations and municipalities.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Take money from BJP, but vote for Congress: DKS||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar on Tuesday claimed that BJP leaders distributed Rs. 200 notes to voters of the Sira constituency and asked them to “take money from the BJP but vote for the Congress”. The Congress has fielded former Minister T.B. Jayachandra from Sira for the byelections. Speaking at a village in the constituency, Mr. Shivakumar said: “They [BJP leaders] came today and distributed money. But who worked in the constituency for the last several years? Who built the taluk office, roads, tanks, schools, and hospitals? Mr. Jayachandra spent Rs. 2,500 crore in the constituency during 2013-18,” the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee chief said. He urged the voters to look at who has worked for the constituency. Seeking support Noting the presence of voters from various castes and communities in the constituency, Mr. Shivakumar told the electorate of Valmiki, Golla, Scheduled Castes, and Scheduled Tribes to vote for the party candidate. “We are asking coolie (wages) for the work done by Mr. Jayachandra,” he said.
28 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Council polls: Leave for eligible voters||The State government has instructed the Heads of all government and private establishments in 18 districts, where biennial elections are being held for the Legislative Council on Wednesday, to provide special leave to staff (graduates and teachers) if they are voters so that they can exercise their franchise. A notification on Tuesday said eligible voters (graduates and teachers) should be provided special leave. The polls are being held for four seats in the council from the constituencies of teachers and graduates. The districts going to polls on Wednesday are Chitradurga, Tumakuru, Kolar, Chickballapur, and Davanagere barring Channagiri and Honnali taluks (Karnataka South West Graduates’ Constituency); Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag, and Uttara Kannada (Karnataka West Teachers’ Constituency); Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal, and Ballari (Karnataka North East Teachers’ Constituency); and Bengaluru, Bengaluru Rural, and Ramanagaram (Bengaluru Teachers’ Constituency).
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Habitual offender held for rape attempt||The J.C. Nagar police arrested a 19-year-old habitual offender for allegedly attempting to rape a 45-year-old woman from his neighbourhood when she came out of her house in the early hours of Monday. The complainant alleged that she ventured out of the house to pluck flowers for pooja from a roadside tree. The accused, identified as Taradutta, who stays close by, followed her and accosted her on a deserted bylane when she was returning home. The victim raised an alarm prompting neighbours to rush to her help. Sensing trouble, the accused fled. The complainant was later taken home. After recovering from the shock, she alerted the police. The entire incident was captured on a CCTV camera and the footage went viral on social media. The J.C. Nagar police recovered the footage and tracked down the accused within hours of the incident. The accused is a habitual offender involved in criminal cases, including chain snatching and robberies, the police said. The police handed over the case to neighbouring D.J. Halli as the scene of crime falls in their jurisdiction, a senior police officer said.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Wife of former BBMP councillor found dead||A 35-year-old woman allegedly ended her life over a family feud at her house in Basavanapura in K.R. Puram police station limits on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Vinoda, wife of Jayaprakash, a former BBMP councillor. The couple has a three-year-old child. The police said the incident occurred around 9 a.m. Jayaprakash, who was at home, found her body in the bedroom. Case filed The police shifted the body for postmortem. The police have taken up a case and are investigating all aspects to ascertain the reason behind the victim’s extreme step. ( Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on 104 for help )
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Elderly woman injured in chain-snatching incident||An elderly woman was severely injured when a bike-borne man snatched her gold chain in Kengeri on Sunday evening. The incident was caught on CCTV camera, and efforts are on to nab the accused, the police said. A senior police officer said that the victim, Sarojamma, 69, a resident of Valagerahalli, was returning home after visiting a temple on the occasion of Dasara. The thief came on a bike and pulled her chain. She tried to hold his hand, but lost her balance when the biker sped away. She collapsed on the ground. She had injuries on her knees and hands. Residents who noticed the incident rushed her to a nearby hospital where she is recovering, the police said. “He appears to be a habitual offender,” an officer said.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two fired for issuing false COVID-19 reports||The service of a lab technician and an ASHA worker, who were allegedly involved in issuing false COVID-negative certificate without any verification, have been terminated. Medical Education and Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar said that a police complaint will also be lodged against the lab technician who was working on contract basis. Sources said that it was found that they were allegedly taking a bribe of Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 2,500 to issue false COVID-19 negative tests without conducting any test. Sources also added that it would be investigated if more people were involved in this racket. Both of them were working at the Pobbathi Maternity Hospital in V.V. Puram and a team of officials conducted an inquiry after which their services were terminated.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Naseeruddin Shah to release book on Safdar Hashmi in Kannada||The Kannada edition of Halla Bol by Sudhanva Deshpande on the life of Safdar Hashmi, the late playwright and director best known for his work with street theatre, will be released virtually on October 30 by actor Naseeruddin Shah. Kriya Media and Samudaya Karnataka are jointly organising the launch of the book, which will be titled Halla Bol — Safdar Hashmi Saavu Baduku , translated by M.G. Venkatesh. On the occasion, a webinar has also been arranged, said a release. Mr. Deshpande of Jana Natya Manch, New Delhi, who authored both the English and the Hindi editions, will speak. Mr. Venkatesh will share his experiences. Girija P. Siddi will read excerpts from the book. A documentary on Safdar Janam will also be screened on the occasion. Interested persons can use the following credentials on Zoom: meeting ID: 85893020266 and the password: 964627. The programme will be available live on Facebook and on YouTube, the release stated.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Decentralised committees to enforce rule on masks||With an aim of putting in place more stringent measures to ensure people wear masks covering their mouth and nose, and maintain social distancing in public, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has formed four committees, at the ward, division, zonal levels, and BBMP head office level. Ward-level committees have been set up in all the 198 wards with the assistant engineer, senior health inspector, ward marshal and a police officer in the committee. The committee will go around in the wards and ensure that citizens are following the precautionary measures. The divisional level committee, formed in all the 27 divisions, will comprise the executive engineer, medical health officer and a senior police officer. This committee will review the functioning and effective enforcement by the ward level committee every week. The zonal level committee, formed in all the eight zones, that will consist of joint commissioner, chief engineer, health officer, zonal marshal supervisor and a senior police officer, will review the reports received by the divisional committee. The BBMP head office committee, which has eight senior officials, will monitor enforcement in the entire city. According to an order issued by the BBMP Commissioner: “It is observed that in spite of large IEC activities and appeal to citizens to wear masks and maintain social distancing in all public places, it is found that some citizens are blatantly violating the COVID-19 directives and, accordingly, a penalty of Rs. 250 is being imposed for every such wilful violation.” The BBMP has provided handheld devices to all police stations, 220 marshals, and health inspectors to levy fines. A fine of Rs. 250 is being levied for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing in public places. 1,61,204 violations From June 9 till October 27, the BBMP has recorded 1,61,204 cases of not wearing a mask in public places. A total of Rs. 3,57,79,819 has been collected from mask related violations.
28 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Ministerial expansion after bypolls’||N. Nagaraju (MTB), BJP MLC, on Tuesday said ministerial expansion will be taken up soon after the Assembly bypolls scheduled on November 3. Speaking to reporters during his campaign for the party candidate in Sira Assembly constituency, Mr. Nagaraju expressed confidence that he would be accommodated in the ministry. Mr. Nagaraju, who switched sides from the Congress to the BJP, showered praises on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and described him as a person who keeps his words. Mr. Nagaraju also launched a counter-attack at Congress leader Siddaramaiah and accused him of meting out injustice to him. He claimed that Mr. Siddaramaiah had managed to get support from people like him for the last 25 years. He was able to grow in politics and become the Chief Minister due to the support from Kuruba community, he said. “Now, it is time for people like us to grow,” he said.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two arrested||The Whitefield division police, on Tuesday, arrested two Nigerians for allegedly selling drugs. The police have seized 300 grams of ganja, several grams of MDMA and other substances from them. The accused, Chikwad Vincent and Emeka Chinedu Micheal, were arrested while they were waiting for their customers near Hoodi railway station. Inquiries revealed that Vincent had been arrested by the K.R. Puram police in 2017 in a drug peddling case. He got out on bail and continued to peddle drugs. The police seized four mobile phones from Vincent and found the contact details of his clients . The police suspect Vincent of being part of a bigger drug peddling racket, which the CCB and other agencies are probing. Investigations so far revealed that the accused was operating in the city for the last seven years, and staying illegally without travel documents
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two dismissed for not following COVID-19 norms||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP on Tuesday dismissed Shanthi, an accredited social health activist (ASHA), and Mahalakshmi, a lab technician (NUHM staff), for issuing a negative lab report and not following the COVID 19 guidelines. Besides, they were allgedly charging Rs. 2,500 for the report. A complaint against them was lodged in a police station. This decision was taken after reviewing a report in this regard reported by a news channel. The BBMP, on Tuesday, relieved Shylaja working in a health centre for dereliction of duty, a release stated.
28 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Helpline set up to benefit voters in West Graduates Constituency||A helpline, 1077, has been set up for the benefit of voters of Karnataka West Graduates Constituency. Polling will take place from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Wednesday. Voters can call Ph: 1077 to know details of their polling stations and also to check whether their names have been included in the voter list of the constituency. They can also visit the website of Chief Electoral Officer of Karnataka, ceokarnataka.kar.nic.in, or the official website of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad, dharwad.nic.in, for information on voter list and polling stations, a release said. As per the Election Commission, voters have to produce any one of the nine photo identity documents to exercise their franchise. These documents include Aadhaar, Driving Licence, PAN card, Indian Passport, Photo Identity Cards issued by State or Union governments, Public Sector Undertakings or private companies or industries. Documents other than these notified by the Election Commission can also be used.
28 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Fire breaks out in industry partly owned by Pralhad Joshi||Raw material reportedly worth lakhs of rupees were gutted in a phenyl and broomsticks manufacturing industry at Sherewad near Hubballi on Monday night. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and H.N. Nandakumar, brother of the former Union Minister late Ananthkumar, have a partnership in Vibhav Industries where the fire broke out. On being alerted, the Hubballi Rural Police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel immediately rushed to the spot and extinguished the fire, sources said. On Tuesday, Mr. Pralhad Joshi visited the spot and told presspersons that according to preliminary investigation, a short circuit seemed to be the cause of the fire. Timely intervention had helped in checking further loss and damage, he said and added that he had asked the Fire and Emergency Services officials to investigate the matter and submit a report. The CEO of Vibhav Industries [Mr. Nandakumar] said that as there was more demand post lockdown, they had stored more raw material. As a holiday had been declared on account of festivals, there were no workers in the factory when the fire broke out. Raw material approximately worth Rs. 4.5 crore were gutted, he said. Meanwhile, as smaller fires were being noticed in the pile of raw material used for broomsticks, the Fire and Emergency Services personnel stationed at the site were busy dousing them.
28 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Awareness programme on road safety||The Kalaburagi city traffic police on Tuesday organised a rally to spread awareness on the prevention of accidents and cautioning residents against their callous attitude towards following guidelines issued to curb the spread of COVID-19. The Traffic Police Department participated in the awareness rally holding posters displaying quotes of safety measures and advised wearing of helmets. B. Shantinath, Circle Inspector attached to the Traffic Police Station flagged off the rally from Janata Bazaar and passed through the main streets of the market and concluded at the Humnabad base in city. During the rally, the police officials conveyed the message of obeying traffic rules, wearing helmets to ensure safety measures while driving. Mr. Shantinath also addressed the vehicle owners about the ill-effects of not following traffic rules and regulations. Following traffic rules can help curb road mishaps, he added.
28 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||29,236 voters eligible to exercise franchise in polling today in North East Teachers Constituency||All preparations are ready for the elections to the North East Teachers Constituency of the Legislative Council on Wednesday. MLC Sharanappa Mattur of the Congress, Shashil G. Namoshi of the BJP and Thimmaiah Purle of the Janata Dal(S) are among the prominent contenders. Voting will begin at 8 a.m. It is expected to continue till 5 p.m. Counting of votes would be taken up on November 2. As many as 147 polling centres have been set up across six districts of the Kalyana Karnataka region for polling, of which 41 centres are in Kalaburagi district, followed by 34 in Bidar, 28 in Ballari, 20 in Koppal, 17 in Raichur and seven centres in Yadgir. A total of 588 officials — 147 presiding officers, 147 assistant presiding officers and 294 polling officers — have been deployed. There are 29,236 eligible voters, including 18,949 men and 10,285 women. The following is the number of voters in the six districts: 9,529 in Kalaburagi, 6,753 Ballari, 4,926 Bidar, 3,528 Raichur, 2,539 in Koppal and 1,961 in Yadgir.  Voting will begin at 8 a.m. and it is expected to continue till 5 p.m. Counting of votes will be taken up on November 2.
28 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Action sought against police officer||Condemning Aland Police for not registering a First Information Report following a complaint lodged by a teacher, B.R. Patil, a Congress leader and former MLA, demanded that Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai take action against police personnel responsible for the lapse. Addressing a media conference here on Tuesday, Mr. Patil said that Mahantesh Patil, Police Sub-Inspector attached to Aland Police Station, had initially refused to accept the complaint from Vittal Rao Poddar, a lecturer working at Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia PU College, who had lost Rs. 50,000. “It was only after the intervention of Superintendent of Police Simi Mariam George that the police officer accepted the complaint and registered an FIR,” Mr. Patil said.
28 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MRPL Vigilance Awareness Week begins with integrity pledge||Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) on Tuesday commenced the Vigilance Awareness Week, with the administration of the integrity pledge to employees and others concerned. MRPL has organised various events and competitions for employees and the general public to spread this year’s awareness theme “Vigilant India-Prosperous India”. After the pledge ceremony, Managing Director M. Venkatesh, Directors Pomila Jaspal and Sanjay Verma and Chief Vigilance Officer Rajeev Kushwah inaugurated the programme in the presence of Executive Directors B.H.V. Prasad and M. Elango and others. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Venkatesh said that vigilance and honesty have been part of Indian culture and urged all stakeholders to uphold the spirit of vigilance as it was essential for national prosperity. Mr. Kushwah spoke about the Vigilance Road Map ahead for MRPL. MRPL launched “Procurement Procedure and Guidelines E-book” and an “Online Vendor Bill Tracking system” as initiatives to promote vigilance in the system.
28 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New Divisional Railway Manager takes charge||Palakkad Railway Division under the Southern Railway that has jurisdiction over the railway network in Dakshina Knnada has a new head now. Trilok Kothari, an officer of the Indian Railway Service of Stores took over as DRM of Palakkad Division from Pratap Singh Shami, who has been transferred and posted to the North Central Railway, said a release from Palakkad Division. Prior to this assignment, Mr. Kothari was the Chief Materials Manager, Head Quarters, Diesel Locomotive Works, Varanasi. He had worked as Additional DRM, Nagpur Division, in the Central Railway.  He has also worked in the Railway Board as Director looking after Procurement Policies. Besides these assignments, he has worked in Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, Northern Railway, and North Central Railway in various capacities. Belonging to the 1989 batch of IRSS, Mr. Kothari joined Indian Railways in 1991 after completing B.Tech and M.Tech from IIT Delhi.
28 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Dakshina Kannada administration taken to task by DYFI||The Dakshina Kannada district unit of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) on Tuesday said that the district administration has refused to part with information regarding expenditure incurred by various departments during the COVID-19 lockdown under the Right to Information Act (RTI). In a statement here, district DYFI president Santosh Bajal said that the administration had incurred expenditure from its own funds as well as other sources to provide ration kits, health services, transportation to migrant workers, etc., and there were allegations of corruption. The administration not only did not give information at the first instance but it did not furnish the information sought for also on appeal, Mr. Bajal said.
28 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Special Aadhaar camp||India Post, Mangaluru Head Post Office, Pandeshwar, has organised a special Aadhaar camp on Sunday, specifically to enable people to link, or correct, mobile phone numbers with their Aadhaar. However, those interested in attending the camp have to register beforehand at the Pandeshwar HPO or on 0824-2423053, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., before October 31. Only the first 50 persons will be accommodated. Only mobile phone number-related services will be available during the day, clarified the Senior Superintendent of Posts, Mangaluru. The department would decide about holding similar camps in the coming days depending upon the response for Sunday’s special camp.
28 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Restrictions during Id celebrations||The Dakshina Kannada district administration has banned public celebration of Id Milad festivities scheduled for October 29 in view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate K.V. Rajendra issued orders on this under the Disaster Management Act and Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance on Tuesday. A press release here said that processions and public gatherings in open places were banned during the celebrations. There will be no discourses during the day or night in mohallas, the Deputy Commissioner said. Celebrations inside masjids should be conducted after following COVID-19 guidelines, including using sanitisers and maintaining social distancing. The Deputy Commissioner also said that the use of public address system and digital sound system in public places was banned while everyone should compulsorily wear face covers. Mass prayers or discourses should not be organised in any open place, he added.
28 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Fisheries College proposes an aquarium complex||To showcase the flora and the fauna of the Western Ghats and the aquatic biodiversity, the College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, has proposed setting up a coastal marine museum complex at a suitable place along the 320-km coastline of the State. Modelled on a proposed museum district Panchjanya in New Delhi that showcases the Yamuna, the college has proposed setting up the marine museum complex at an elevated place on the coastline. A part of this complex will extend to the sea and give people a real feel of the aquatic life, said A. Senthil Vel, Dean of the College of Fisheries. “This complex will not only showcase the rich biodiversity and culture of the Western Ghats, but also give a good understanding of the aquatic life,” said Prof. Vel, who, incidentally, was involved in conceptualising the proposed Panchjanya Aquarium Complex. This place should also be connected to different parts of the State and to Goa, he said. Prof. Vel made this proposal during a meeting chaired by Minister for Fisheries, Inland Transport department and Muzrai Kota Srinivas Poojary, at the college here on Tuesday. Prof. Vel said that the complex can be set up in about 10 acres. One among the 25 of the 120 islands along the Karnataka coast, which are 5 metres above sea level, can also be considered for this complex. These 25 islands are ideal for integrated tourism development projects, he added. The construction of the museum complex can be taken up either under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Scheme of the Union government or any other scheme of the State government. Mr. Poojary asked Prof. Vel to sit with officials of the Fisheries Department and select three ideal places in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts for the complex.
28 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sainik School entrance test||The National Testing Agency has invited applications for admission to Classes 6 and 9 in 33 Sainik Schools for the academic year 2021-22. Interested students may apply on https://aissee.nta.nic.in, before November 19. The test would be conducted on January 10, 2021.
28 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Dasara expenditure details will be released by Nov. 1: Minister||The details of the expenditure incurred by the State government on Dasara celebrations will be released by November 1, said S.T. Somashekar, Minister in charge of Mysuru district, on Tuesday Mr. Somashekar, who is also the Minister for Cooperation, told reporters in Mysuru that the State government hadsanctioned Rs. 15 crore for the Dasara celebrations, which included Rs. 5 crore from Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA). But, all the expenses came under the Rs. 10 crore sanctioned by the government, and the MUDA fund was not utilised, he said. “The breakup will be released by November1,” he added. With the government deciding to scale down the celebrations and keep them simple in view of COVID-19, he said the number of elephants participating in the Dasara festivities had been brought down to just five instead of the 12 to 15. Similarly, he said the illumination of roads too was reduced. Instead of about 100 km, only about 50 km of roads in the city were illuminated this year. This year’s Dasara programmes were restricted to Chamundi Hills and Mysuru palace, and the number of people gathering for the events was within the numbers fixed by the technical advisory committee on COVID-19. Though the number of people at the Dasara programme venues atop Chamundi Hills and Mysuru palace was limited this year, Mr. Somashekar claimed lakhs had watched the programmes virtually, through Doordarshan, Facebook, YouTube, private television channels, and social media. A large number of people watched the Jamboo Savari, which had been confined to the palace premises on Monday, on the Facebook page of the Department of Information and Public Relation. The Dasara programmes webcast on the Facebook page alone recorded six lakh views, Mr. Somashekar said. This was in addition to the lakhs of views on the links provided by different media houses, he added. Though the Dasara festivities remained simple, the festival was celebrated in a meaningful manner with cardiologist C.N. Manjunath inaugurating the festivities atop Chamundi Hills, while corona warriors, including a pourakarmika, an ASHA, a police personnel, a health officer, and a social activist, were felicitated.
28 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Inauguration of new safari zone put on hold||The Forest Department has put on hold the inauguration of a tourism zone with facilities for safari, which was slated in the Nugu Wildlife Sanctuary for Friday. Nugu Wildlife Sanctuary is part of notified buffer zone of the Bandipur Tiger Reserve since 2010 and an eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) since 2012. The decision against opening Nugu sanctuary for tourists came within hours after the invitation for the inauguration emerged on social media and elicited criticism. R. Balachandra, director, Bandipur Tiger Reserve, said a proposal for the new safari zone was pending before the government for long and was yet to get clearance. He said they have sought fresh assessment of its feasibility, besides other clarifications, and any decision on the Nugu safari and tourism zone has been put on hold. When asked about the invitation, Mr. Balachandra said it was released without his knowledge and reiterated that there was no opening of a new safari zone at Nugu. Sources said that there should not be another tourism zone in Bandipur which is already saturated. They added that if there is an additional zone, it would result in proliferation of related commercial activities over time which would encourage human intrusion. “There could be additional hotels and resorts, which are prohibited as per an ESZ notification and even the Supreme Court issued directives against it in 2012,” said an activist. The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) also has to approve the proposal before any swathe of forest can be opened up for tourists. Bandipur was the first national park to get ESZ notified and in the consultative meetings, elected representatives and the locals were unanimous against expanding tourism activities in the forests. At present, only ‘Zone A’, around Mangala village, is open to tourism and increasing it will violate ESZ guidelines, said activists. There are also speculations that the department – which has a history of cracking down on illegal homestays since 2012 – could be under pressure from the political lobby. Sources said influential leaders were holding large swathes of land in the region and officials could be under pressure to open up Nugu as it could be commercially beneficial to them. Activists pointed out that Nugu is a vulnerable area as far as human-elephant conflicts are concerned, and that the msot elephant depredation cases are from there and introducing the safari would escalate conflicts.
28 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||A pilot project for better railway communication commissioned||Mysuru Division of South Western Railway (SWR) is implementing a pilot project to enhance the quality of the communication network linking controllers and station masters, paving the way for greater safety. The pilot project is being implemented in three railway divisions across India, and Mysuru is the first off the block to commission it. Based on the progress, the Voice over Internet Protocol-based Train Control Communication System (TCCS) is to be implemented in all railway divisions across the country. The authorities said train traffic control communication between the Divisional Control Office and station masters at the wayside stations is vital for safe and efficient train operations. To strengthen it, the Ministry of Railways decided to commission a VoIP-based TCCS in one controlled section in each of South Western, Central, and North Western railways where the OFC system is available. This scheme is being operationalised over the Mysuru Division of SWR between Birur Junction and Sampige Road and Hassan Junction and Arsikere Junction, covering 18 stations over a distance of 150 km. The rail authorities said the distinct advantages of TCCS include better call quality, less noise, facilitating monitoring up to the endpoint, and adapting future technology upgrades in an existing system at a relatively low cost. Each controller has nearly 30 station masters with whom there is constant communication through conference calls, but the signals tend to be weak or accompanied by noise, which adds to stress. But the new system eliminates the noise to provide for better audio reception. Inauguration The new communication system was inaugurated last week in Mysuru by Ajay Kumar Singh, General Manager, SWR, Hubballi. D. Sreenivasulu, Senior Divisional Signal and Telecommunication Officer, SWR, Mysuru Division, led the technical team in harnessing this state-of-the-art technological tool in communications to pave the way for enhanced safety margins in train operations, said the authorities.
28 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Three rare literary works released in Mysuru||The Oriental Research Institute (ORI) in the city, which is a treasure trove of ancient manuscripts, released three books as part of its efforts to make some of the rare literary works available to the public at low prices. The books were released by G. Hemantha Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, University of Mysore, under which the ORI functions. Of the three, Manushastravivaranam is reckoned to be a translation from one of the earliest manuscripts, which is dated 8th Century CE, according to ORI director S. Shivarajappa. The second work is titled Khadga Shastra and the third is relatively recent and pertains to Mummadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar. The original work is dated 19th century and is titled Srimatkrishnarajagunaloka , said Mr. Shivarajappa.  Khadga Shastra throws light on the arms and weaponry of ancient India, while the work on Wadiyar is a study of the Mysuru ruler and his taste for literature, culture, and art. Prof. Shivarajappa said this is part of the ORI’s ongoing efforts to make available at low cost some rare works to scholars and students of Indian history, culture and arts, apart from members of the public who may have interest in these subjects. The ORI since its inception has published 225 rare works and there are six more ready for release within the next fortnight. All the books were printed by Prasaranga, the publications division of the university.
28 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rahul Agarwal is new DRM of Mysuru Division||Rahul Agarwal took charge as Divisional Railway Manager of Mysuru Division of South Western Railway (SWR) on Tuesday. According to a railway release, he is a 1992-batch Indian Railway Traffic Service officer and holds a Bachelor’s degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee. He obtained his second Masters in Thermal Engineering, also from IIT, Roorkee. Mr. Agarwal has a wide range of experience in all sectors of railway operations and management, having worked as Executive Director, Traffic Transportation (Steel) Railway Board, New Delhi, and as Chief Passenger Traffic Manager andChief Commercial Manager, Freight Marketing, North Central Railway, the release stated. He has attended training courses in Singapore and Malaysia, besides having participated in the Advanced Management Programme at the National Academy of Indian Railways, Vadodara. He was a recipient of the Railway Minister’s award in 2013 for outstanding service. The outgoing DRM, Aparna Garg, who demitted office, will assume charge as Principal Financial Advisor at Rail Wheel Factory, Yelahanka, Bengaluru,the release said.
28 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru to stay partially illuminated till November 1||Though the scaled-down Dasara celebrations concluded on Monday, with the Vijayadashami procession restricted to the Mysuru palace premises, the main thoroughfares of the city will remain illuminated till November 1. A senior official of Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation told The Hindu that the illumination of Raja Marg (or the royal path) — starting from Mysuru palace and passing through K.R. Circle and Sayyaji Rao Road — will be continued till November 1. Illumination of the remaining parts of the city will be discontinued. Scaled down The dazzling lights adorning the streets of Mysuru is one of the major attractions during Dasara. However, the government had scaled down the illumination from 100 km of roads last year to just 50 km this year in view of the decision to keep the celebrations simple during times of COVID-19. With most of the Dasara programmes cancelled, the illumination of the roads in Mysuru’s core heritage zone around the palace was among the only attractions this year.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tension in Rajarajeshwarinagar during Congress’ roadshow||Tension prevailed for some time in Rajarajeshwarinagar when members of the BJP Yuva Morcha shouted party slogans during the roadshow of the rival Congress for the upcoming byelections, near J.P. park on Tuesday. Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, along with Congress candidate H. Kusuma, were addressing the roadshow highlighting the failure of the Narendra Modi-led Central government when a group of BJP Yuva Morcha members started shouting the slogans. The police dispersed the group. Late on Tuesday, Yeshwantpur police registered an FIR against BJP workers who allegedly assaulted Congress workers twice during Mr. Siddaramaiah’s rally. This was the second such incident where rival party members clashed. Earlier, the Congress leaders had filed a complaint of assault and criminal intimidation against the BJP workers in Nandini Layout, based on which the police filed an FIR against six BJP members, including a former BBMP councillor, for allegedly assaulting two Congress workers during campaigning.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Video of women voters being wooed in Sira stirs hornets’ nest||A day after a video clip surfaced, purportedly showing the BJP workers offering money to women voters in Sira for arishina-kumkuma to entice them, the Congress has complained to the Election Commission on malpractices, while the JD(S) has approached the Deputy Commissioner and the police. In the video, a man is seen telling a group of women that they have been ignored in elections always and they need to change the trend in this polls. He goes on to say that women will be paid Rs. 200 for arishina-kumkuma immediately, which will be followed by another Rs. 200 and money on election day. The Congress on Tuesday petitioned the Election Commission over use of money in the elections by the BJP candidate and sought his disqualification. In a complaint to the EC through the CEO of Karnataka, KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed among others said distribution of money, liquor and other gifts by the BJP was in violation of the provisions under the election code and Indian Penal Code. The BJP leaders have indulged in corrupt electoral malpractices by distributing money to more than one lakh voters, particularly women, they said. Money amounting to Rs. 2 crore had been distributed, they said. The agents of the BJP candidate have been giving money to voters at the behest of Pritham Gowda, Hassan city MLA. Tumakuru BJP president Suresh Gowda too has been luring voters through valuable gifts and influencing the results, the Congress alleged. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, referring to the video clip, drew attention to the fact that some women in the group had shouted that they would vote for the JD(S). He accused the BJP of distributing money using “outsiders”. The JD(S) social media in charge also tweeted asking what the Election Commission was doing about the video. These developments are also being read as an indicator of the election mood, where women are being seen as holding the key. “Though women come in large numbers to vote, it is men who are mostly approached during canvassing. This time, the JD(S) has fielded a woman, the wife of the late legislator B. Sathyanarayana, and women could have sympathy towards her,” said a leader involved in campaigning in Sira. In the times of COVID-19 pandemic, women are also reluctant to step out for canvassing, the source said, adding that their turnout for voting remains crucial. According to Mr. Kumaraswamy, women are being approached by people from outside the district, and women members of SHGs are being targeted. In several instances, women who have been approached for money, have chased away such persons from villages, and there have been instances of skirmishes, he alleged. ‘Desperate attempt’ However, the BJP has distanced itself from the video clip. “It’s a desperate attempt by the Congress and the JD(S) to find a reason. We have been preparing ourselves in the constituency for nearly two months now. The two parties have raised the money issue to find a reason for their defeat,” said N. Ravikumar, BJP spokesperson.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Committees to enforce rule on masks||The divisional-level committee, formed in all 27 divisions, will comprise the executive engineer, medical health officer and a senior police officer. This committee will review the functioning and effective enforcement by the ward level committee every week. The zonal-level committee, formed in all the eight zones, that will consist of joint commissioner, chief engineer, health officer, zonal marshal supervisor and a senior police officer, will review the reports received by the divisional committee. The BBMP head office committee, which has eight senior officials, will monitor enforcement in the entire city. According to an order issued by the BBMP Commissioner, “It is observed that in spite of large IEC activities and appeal to citizens to wear masks and maintain social distancing in all public places, it is found that some citizens are blatantly violating the COVID-19 directives and, accordingly, a penalty of Rs. 250 is being imposed for every such wilful violation.” The BBMP has provided hand-held devices to all police stations, 220 marshals, and health inspectors to levy fines. A fine of Rs. 250 is being levied for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing in public places. 1,61,204 violations From June 9 till October 27, the BBMP has recorded 1,61,204 cases of not wearing a mask in public places. A total of Rs. 3,57,79,819 has been collected from mask related violations.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Sadananda Gowda’s statement on labour leader draws flak||Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda drew flak for his statement blaming the Congress for the death of senior Left leader Maruti Manpade, who passed away of COVID-19 recently. Mr. Gowda had said at a bypoll-related event in the city on Monday: “When the entire country was indoors taking precautions to stem the spread of COVID-19, D.K. Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah forcibly brought farmers and others to Bengaluru in the name of protests against farm Bills. Senior leader Maruti Manpade had also participated in this protest, contracted COVID-19, and unfortunately, died.” Aikya Horata, a coalition of farmers, Dalits and labourers, that led the agitation against the farm Bills, on Tuesday came down heavily on Mr. Gowda. “It is the BJP governments at the Centre and the State that are responsible for the death of Maruti Manpade. It is they who misused a public health crisis and brought in sweeping changes through ordinances undemocratically, forcing people to take to the streets,” the samiti said in a release. ‘Shameless accusation’ Karnataka Pranta Raita Sangha (KPRS), of which Manpade was a senior leader, also criticised the Minister for what they called “shameless accusation”. In a release, KPRS said: “The Minister also said the protesting farmers were ‘purchased’, which only shows the fear within the BJP at the popular protests against their Bills both in State and Centre,” the statement said.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ties with Munirathna restricted to films: Nikhil||Youth Janata Dal (Secular) leader and actor Nikhil K. on Tuesday said his relationship with BJP candidate in Rajarajeshwarinagar Munirathna was “purely professional and confined to the film industry”. “Mr. Munirathna is a film producer and I am an actor. He had offered me a role in Kurukshetra . Our relationship is restricted to films. He is not my godfather,” Mr. Nikhil, son of former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, said during his campaign rally in R.R. Nagar on Tuesday. He was campaigning for JD(S) candidate V. Krishnamurthy, who is facing BJP candidate Mr. Munirathna and Congress candidate H. Kusuma. Stating that he was a loyal worker of the JD(S), he urged party workers not to heed to rumours over his bonhomie with Mr. Munirathna. Mr. Nikhil lost his debut polls from Mandya Lok Sabha constituency during the 2019 general elections.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ready||
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Complete white-topping work soon’||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Administrator Gaurav Gupta on Tuesday instructed the officials concerned to complete white-topping work as soon as possible while ensuring minimum inconvenience is caused to the public. He directed the officials to begin asphalting flyovers on Outer Ring Road (ORR) between Hebbal and K.R. Puram soon. Magadi Road Mr. Gupta said that they had got permission to asphalt Magadi Road instead of white-topping, as it was an arterial road, and he asked officials to begin the work soon.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State of bliss||
28 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||647 more cases in Alappuzha||In a major spike in COVID-19 cases, 647 people tested positive for the disease in the district on Tuesday. While 594 patients contracted the virus through local contact, the source of infection of 19 persons remains unknown. Thirteen persons who came from abroad and 21 from other States were also diagnosed with the disease. Of the fresh cases, 121 were reported from Punnapra North grama panchayat and 118 from Alappuzha municipality. Chengannur (24), Kadakkarappally (23), Pattanakkad (20), Venmony (19), Thuravoor (17), Haripad (16), Palamel (15), Cherthala (14), Mararikulam North (12), Kayamkulam (12), Arattuppuzha (12), Thanneermukkom (11), Aroor (10), Cherthala South (10) and Kandalloor (10) also recorded a high number of cases. Meanwhile, 532 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 7,840. The police have registered 45 cases and arrested 32 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 295 people for not wearing face masks and 1,127 for not maintaining physical distance. Another four cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under section 144 of the Cr.PC. Action was taken against 73 people in connection with the four cases. Containment zones Ward 6 and 12 in Thakazhi, ward 5 in Ezhupunna and parts of ward 13 in Chunakara, ward 16, 22 and 23 in Thanneermukkom, ward 10 in Cherthala South and ward 2 in Vayalar grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
28 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Deliberate bid to oust govt.: Pinarayi||Deliberate attempts are being made to oust the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in the State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was addressing the valedictory function of the week-long observance of the 74th anniversary of the Punnapra-Vayalar uprising on Tuesday. “Attempts are being made to finish off the LDF government and weaken the Left-secular front. The United Democratic Front (UDF) is engaged in anti-LDF activities. The Sangh Parivar and the Congress have joined hands to destroy the left front. The UDF, in a bid to strengthen its base, is bringing communal forces to its fold. It is joining forces with Islamic terrorism. The UDF has lost its credibility,” Mr. Vijayan said. The Chief Minister said the BJP-led Union government was engaged in erasing a part of the history of the country's independence struggle. Referring to the move to drop the Communist martyrs of the Punnapra-Vayalar, Karivelloor and Kavumbayi agitations from the list of martyrs, Mr. Vijayan said it was an attempt to remove agitations led by communists and people belonging to minority communities from the pages of history. “Those trying to erase the history are not part of Independence struggle. They want to prevent the public from knowing who all took part in the freedom struggle,” he said. Mr. Vijayan said the Constitution and parliamentary system were under attack. “The Centre is intruding into States’ jurisdiction. The latest example is the agriculture sector reform laws. The Congress party has failed to bring Opposition parties together in the fight against the BJP government. Many of their leaders are deserting the party and joining the BJP,” the Chief Minister said.
28 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Lesser known destinations gain currency in Idukki||A change in trend is noticeable in the tourism sector with lesser known destinations gaining popularity in the post-lockdown period, District Tourism Promotion Council secretary in-charge Gireesh P.S. has said. He said more people were selecting rural destinations now. There was an increased flow of tourists to Wagamon, Ramakkalmedu, Panchalimedu, Sreenarayanapuram waterfalls, and other rural destinations. Sought-after A DTPC official at Wagamon said more people were visiting the destination after the place was reopened for tourists last week. He said tourists had come to Wagamon even when the destination remained closed. The reason was the wide landscape of grass hills there. He said it was the most sought-after place in the district after Munnar and Thekkady. Ramakkalmedu was also on the radar of domestic tourists. Staff at a tourism agency at Munnar said Munnar and Thekkady had reached a saturation point and it was natural that tourists preferred alternative places. Most of the tourists coming to rural areas had visited the main destinations once or twice and they preferred new places with less crowd. A DTPC official at Ramakkalmedu said tourists used to come even during the lockdown period. There was an increased flow of visitors on weekends. Domestic tourists preferred lesser known tourist spots nearby as they could come in the morning and return by evening. More tourists were expected once the containment zone tag was lifted for many places. However, tourism is yet to pick up in Munnar and Thekkady. By November end, it is hoped that these destinations will also become lively, according to tourism stakeholders.
28 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Radhika does a star turn for Wayanad||Seventeen-year-old K.K. Radhika from Wayanad is in the limelight for cracking the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT), said to be the first among a particularly vulnerable tribal group (PVTG) in the country. Radhika, elder daughter of Kariyan and Bindu of the Kallur Kunnu Kattunayakka tribal settlement at Valluvady, near Sulthan Bathery, is the only student who cracked the test among the PVTG group in the district this year. Braving odds Her father is a daily-wage worker and her mother is a worker under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. “My teacher A.Vineetha, who is my mentor, informed me the result on Tuesday noon,” Radhika told The Hindu.  “I would do my best for the betterment of the marginalised sections of society, including my community, after the completion of my course,” she said. Training programme The District Legal Services Authority and the Integrated Tribal Development Project (ITDP) provided three-month training for nine PVTG students, including six girls, to appear for the test. The ITDP would bear all expenses for her higher studies and the programme would continue in the coming years too to bring the marginalised sections to the mainstream, K.C. Cheriyan, ITDP Officer, Wayanad, said.
28 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||‘Govt. keen on NAAC accreditation for colleges’||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the government aims at obtaining high NAAC accreditation for government and aided colleges and the higher education department was implementing the necessary measures in the State in this regard. Mr. Vijayan was speaking after inaugurating the academic block of Krishna Menon Government Women's College, Kannur, through video conferencing. He inaugurated 47 projects in 42 institutions of higher learning built at a cost of Rs. 112 crore on the day. The State Level Quality Assurance Cell was set up under Rashtriya Uchcathar Shiksha Abhiyan under the Department of Higher Education to ensure high quality education and a better environment in colleges. Elucidating various development works carried out by the LDF government, Mr. Vijayan said the aim of education was to make a student a better human being. The new academic block at Krishna Menon Women’s College was constructed at a cost of Rs. 2.5 crore using Russian funds and plan funds. The new block will house a conference hall, extension hall, classroom, computer lab, language lab and the Krishna Menon History Museum. K.K. Ragesh, MP; District Panchayat President K.V. Sumesh; Kannur Corporation Mayor C. Zeenat’ ward councillor C.K. Vinod; Principal-in-charge E.V. Fathima; Vice Principal K.Shahul Hameed; IQAC coordinator Girish Vishnu Namboothiri; RUSA coordinator K. Shyamnath; and Staff Club president O.S. Francis were present on the occasion.
28 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Theatre complex to come up at Payyanur in 6 months: Balan||Culture Minister A.K. Balan has said that the government intends to set up 100 modern cinema screens at select locations in the State with the aim of bringing films of aesthetic value to people. He was inaugurating the construction of Kerala State Film Development Corporation’s rural theatre complex at Payyanur in the district on Tuesday. The Minister said the theatre complex, which would change the face of Payyanur city, would be completed in six months. The theatre complex will be built on 70 cents of land leased by the Payyannur municipality. It will be constructed under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) at an estimated cost of Rs. 13.14 crore. It will have two screens and 309 seats, 4K 3D digital projection, and advanced Dolby Atmos sound system. C. Krishnan, MLA, who presided over the function, laid the foundation stone for the building at the Payyanur new bus stand area.
28 October 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Central varsity suspends lab assistant||The Central University of Kerala has decided to suspend a lab assistant who was reportedly given the job bypassing the reservation quota. The decision to suspend lab assistant K.V. Sudha was taken in the executive council meeting held recently. Ms. Sudha has been working in the university for the past seven years and her appointment was made to a post reserved for Other Backward Classes. Following complaints raised against the appointment by Janardhanan Nair, the executive council of the Central University had referred the matter to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). CBI report The CBI had recommended the dismissal of the lab assistant to the university. Based on the CBI report, the executive council has decided to suspend Ms. Sudha and proceed with departmental action to terminate her service. The university has also decided to issue a notice seeking her reply with regard to the decision. The executive council also decided to take disciplinary action in consultation with the Central Vigilance Commission against Central Vigilance Officer M.C. John, who failed to report to the university about the CBI report that was sent in January. The council found that Mr. John had made a grave mistake by keeping the university in the dark about the report.
28 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Flow of ganja to district rising steadily||After a brief lull following the lockdown in the last week of March, the flow of ganja to the district seems to be steadily on the rise over the past couple of months. In the past eight-month period since the clamping and the lifting of the lockdown, September has accounted for the most number of cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at 33 and seizure of the maximum volume of ganja of 37.56 kg during a single month in the Ernakulam excise division. Notwithstanding the restrictions on arrests, 46 persons were detained during the month. So far this month, 8.73 kg of ganja has been seized and 14 persons have been arrested under 28 NDPS cases. The arrest of a teenager with 2.25 kg of ganja from Thripunithura on Monday was the latest seizure. In March, 3.77 kg of ganja was seized, which dropped to 0.26 kg in April at the height of the lockdown. It surged to 21.39 kg May before dropping to 2.15 kg in June, 0.15 kg in July and 0.53 kg in August. In total, 74.56 kg of ganja was seized and 57 ganja plants were uprooted during the March-October period. “Due to the severe restrictions of COVID-19 protocol, enforcement is now mostly restricted to specific tip-offs, leaving traffickers with a congenial atmosphere for smuggling in ganja. For every seizure we make, many more consignments may be entering the district undetected,” said T.A. Ashok Kumar, Deputy Excise Commissioner, Ernakulam. Hiding the contraband in cargo vehicles from neighbouring States, mainly from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, remains one of common modus operandi now to smuggle in ganja in the knowledge that not all vehicles would be checked in the prevailing situation. “It is common for youngsters from here to go to Cumbum or Theni in Tamil Nadu or Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh to take delivery of ganja. There is a significant drop in the prices of ganja in those States considering that supply exceeds demand and that smuggling to faraway places like Mumbai is not possible now,” said Mr. Kumar. “This means that the carriers who manage to get the consignment into the district undetected can make a huge profit,” said Mr. Kumar. The excise department had recently formed a six-member special squad led by an excise inspector to stem the influx of ganja into the district.
28 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||MG varsity nod for innovative courses||Mahatma Gandhi University has recommended nearly 120 innovative undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in 62 of its affiliated colleges for the academic year 2020-21. Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas has approved the launch of the new courses and has placed the recommendation before the government for final approval. As per the Higher Education Department’s plan, the proposed innovative and inter-disciplinary programmes were to commence from November 1 onwards. The varsity had constituted a committee comprising members of the Syndicate and subject experts to assess infrastructure and academic facilities available on the campuses to launch the programmes. The final approval of the government was sought based on the report submitted by the committee. The new programmes were proposed by government and aided colleges under the varsity. Courses Among the government colleges accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council, Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam has received the nod to start five-year integrated MA in Social Sciences — Archaeology and Material Cultural Studies, and M.Sc. in Geology while Government Arts College, Thripunitura, got the permission to offer integrated M.Sc. in Basic Sciences — Statistics, and M.A. in Economics. Government College, Kattappana, has received the permission to start M.Sc. Statistics and five-year integrated M.A. in Languages — English while Government College, Nattakom’s proposal to start M.Sc. Industrial Chemistry and five-year integrated MA in English received the green signal from the varsity. Postgraduate programmes in Economics and Econometrics had many takers among affiliated colleges. Nearly 16 courses together in Economics and Econometrics will be launched in the new academic year. The expert committee led by Prof. Thomas, which proposed the introduction of the courses, had received feedback from teachers and researchers that the courses in Economics with Econometrics and other social science components would help prepare the aspirants for a different career path including research. M.Sc. programmes in Data Analytics and Data Science were also in demand among affiliated colleges. Nearly 12 such courses proposed by the colleges have received the go ahead from the varsity. Other popular courses include M.Sc. in Statistics and M.Sc. in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning.
28 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||716 more test positive||Of the 716 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday, 521 contracted the infection through local contact. Ten health workers were among the infected and the source of infection of 173 patients could not be traced. Twelve people who arrived from outside the State were also tested positive. Kalamassery, Thrikkakara, Fort Kochi, Mattancherry and Thripunithura recorded more than 20 new cases of the infection on Tuesday. As many as 914 people tested negative and 29,905 people remain in quarantine. New admissions at FLTCs and hospitals on the day stood at 106, while 150 people were discharged. Active cases A total of 11,575 patients are being treated for the disease in the district. While 208 patients are admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital, 45 patients are at PVS Hospital, 649 are at private hospitals, and 8,769 people are recovering at home. A few patients are also being treated at the Muvattupuzha General Hospital, the District Hospital at Aluva and the taluk hospital at Paravur. For testing, 5,550 samples were collected on Tuesday.
28 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Governor, CM greet M.K. Sanoo||People from various walks of life greeted literary critic M.K. Sanoo on his 94th birthday on Tuesday. The pandemic forced many to extend their wishes through the digital mode. Some of the prominent persons who wished him included Governors Arif Mohammed Khan, P. S. Sreedharan Pillai; Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan; Opposition Leader Ramesh Chennithala; V. Muraleedharan, Union Minister of State for External Affairs; actors Mohanlal, and Suresh Gopi. Sanoo Master, as he is affectionately called by his students, friends and well-wishers, expressed the hope that he was able to contribute towards society in various ways. “It was my teaching career that remains one of the most memorable phases of my life,” he was quoted as saying in a release. Mr. Sanoo said that he was affected by the pandemic situation. But it changed after he finished writing the biography of Kesari Balakrishna Pillai during this period, it said. M. Thomas Mathew, critic and writer, received the M. K. Sanoo Award for his overall contribution to the field of literature at a function held here on Tuesday.
28 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. opposes Kamaruddin’s petition||The State government on Tuesday informed the Kerala High Court that a prima facie case had been made out for going ahead with the investigation in the cases registered against Manjeswaram MLA and Indian Union Muslim League leader M.C. Kamaruddin for allegedly embezzling those who invested in a group of companies run by him. In a statement, the government pointed out that 73 cases had been registered in Kasaragod district and 13 cases in Kannur district in this regard. A sum of Rs. 13.3 crore had been lost by the investors. The case The people who invested in the company were not issued any share certificate. Knowing that the company was making losses, it still entered into an agreement for Rs. 13 crore with the customers and crafted the terms and conditions to deceive the investors. The promise of returning the invested amount was false as the company had no capital asset at all. There was, therefore, a mala fide intention on the part of the company, its directors and all persons involved to deceive the investors. No hindrance The investigation had continued without any hindrances as there were many aspects to be examined thoroughly, the government said. It was noted that about Rs. 8 crore was invested by the company’s top brass, including Mr. Kamarudeen, Pookoya Thangal and one Sianudeen in a property in Bengaluru to make quick personal gains. The investigation officer needed more time to collect evidences to prove misappropriation of amounts in this regard, the statement added. The statement was filed in response to a petition filed by the MLA seeking to quash the cases registered against him.
28 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||CSL signs pact with Italian firm||Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) and M/s. Fincantieri of Italy, one of the world’s largest shipbuilding groups, have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for cooperation in the areas of design, shipbuilding, ship repair, and marine equipment manufacturing, besides training and skill development. The agreement sets the ground for a strategic partnership aimed at business development for mutual benefit as well as potential indignation in the identified areas of cooperation in line with the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ and ‘Make in India’ vision of the Indian government, according to a release by CSL. Cutting-edge solutions The agreement would kick-start the development of cutting-edge solutions in strategic advanced sectors in India and offer latest technology products both for Indian and global markets, the release added. The agreement was signed by Bejoy Bhasker, Director (Technical) of Cochin Shipyard, and Achille Fulfaro, Senior Vice President (Sales) of M/s. Fincantieri, Naval Vessel Business Unit, through a videoconference on Tuesday.
28 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||SmartCity Kochi refutes allegation on termination of tenancy||SmartCity Kochi has shot down allegation that it has terminated 12 companies operating out of it as baseless and attributed it to an alleged misinformation campaign by a couple of its tenants. In a release issued here, SmartCity Kochi said that it had not initiated any eviction process but had only issued demand notices to six of its tenants for pending dues. Lease termination notices had been served to three tenants for continued breach of agreements, it said. The clarification was issued in the wake of a news channel report in which the chief executive of a company alleged that his company was terminated by SmartCity Kochi. “We refute such false information and confirm that the company so represented on the television news has not been served any demand/termination notice since it is no more a defaulting tenant. The reasons for an unconnected person from a tenant organisation to represent as a ‘terminated tenant’ in the media is only to tarnish the image of SmartCity Kochi before the general public for reasons best known to him,” stated SmartCity Kochi. It further stated that one of the tenants even resorted to verbal and written abuse demeaning the officers of SmartCity Kochi, which were on record and the matter was currently before the law enforcement authorities. The tenants needed to honour the tenancy agreements and law, it said. The company further reiterated that it being not a Government IT Park, the government’s order dated April 27 granting rent waiver and payment deferment to IT/ ITeS companies operating out of such parks was not applicable to it. Out of the 37 current tenants, 28 had chosen to honour the tenancy agreement with a few accepting SmartCity Kochi’s offer for deferred payment of rentals, which was offered early in April. The terminated tenants were defaulters and failed to make timely payments of dues in spite of numerous opportunities provided to them. “However, SmartCity Kochi will not forcefully evict them from the premises since it is against SmartCity Kochi’s culture and ethos. If they clear their dues, they will be reinstated as tenants,” the release said. Seven tenants had approached SmartCity Kochi for amicable settlement of unpaid rent, and some of them had even started to settle their dues, in the wake of a High Court direction in this connection, the release said. “The matter is now restricted to only four tenants and they have full clarity on the matter by way of court and government orders and should settle the dues and fulfil their obligations as per the tenancy agreements,” said SmartCity Kochi.
28 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Promoting women entrepreneurs||Registration has gathered momentum for the Women Startup Summit 2020 scheduled for October 31 as a culmination of the ongoing six-day programme being organised by the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) to promote women entrepreneurs. The summit being held as part of the State government’s efforts to support women-led industrial ventures will feature speeches by corporate captains. Registration can be done at https://startupmission.in/w omensummit/ Start-up contest The summit will also feature a start-up competition named ‘She Loves Tech India 2020’ being co-organised by Startup India, TiE Kerala and Indian Women Network of Confederation of Indian Industry. KSUM said that while women’s participation in the Kerala’s start-up ecosystem was below par, it was even worse in the technology sector. The programme began with a hackathon orientation named ‘InnovatHer’ on Monday. This was followed by She Loves Tech India 2020, a pitch workshop for start-ups. The winners of She Loves Tech India 2020, Best Inclusive Incubator, Best Inclusive Startup and Best inclusive IEDC will be announced before the end of the event. It will showcase the National Grand Challenge featuring start-ups with women founders/products positively impacting the lives of women, shortlisted from the She Loves Tech India 2020. A bootcamp for women freelancers followed by a session ‘Valuation For Startups’ by Kapil Bellubi, Deloitte Director (Valuations), was held on Tuesday. An ‘investor cafe’, a pre-registered event for one-to-one meeting between investors and start-ups, will be held on Wednesday. Vivek Singh, Head (IP Filing & Prosecution Practice) of Sagacious IP will conduct a session on ‘Intellectual Property for Women Startups’ on Thursday while Friday will witness a panel discussion on ‘Women & Technology’.
28 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Police out to crack puzzle over ganja hoard||The Kunnathunadu police have launched a probe into the mysterious incident in which 13 kg of ganja was found abandoned within its limits on the intervening night of Sunday. The contraband was recovered in two lots containing 2 kg and 11 kg from two separate locations. The first package along the Pattimattom-Kizhakkamabalam road was found by a youngster who mistook it for a courier packet that had accidentally fallen off a vehicle and brought it to the police. It turned out to be a tightly packed consignment of ganja measuring 2 kg. No sooner was it found than a few more packets containing 11 kg of ganja were recovered from a rubber plantation not far away. A tapping worker had found the suspicious packages when he turned up for work in the morning hours on Monday. He promptly alerted the plantation owner, who in turn, informed the police. On opening it at the station, the police found ganja in five tightly sealed packets covered with brown paper. “All the packages were similarly packed, giving the impression that perhaps they were part of the same consignment,” said V.T. Shajan, Station House Officer, Kunnathunadu. The police have started collecting CCTV footage from the locality for clues. Efforts are on to collect the call data record of mobile phones, which were active in the nearest tower locations during the hours immediately before and after the packages were recovered. Ganja trade has been common in Kunnathunadu limits with a large migrant population, though things were quiet during the lockdown and the months immediately after that. “Our primary hunch is that the carriers might have spotted our night patrolling team engaged in vehicle checking and panicked. So, they probably abandoned it in the hope of recovering it later,” said Mr. Shajan. The police have registered two cases under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act in this connection.
28 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Improve KSRTC restroom: panel||The KSRTC must urgently take steps to improve the condition of the resting room of bus crew in the Ernakulam depot, the State Human Rights Commission has ordered. The rest room must be safe and hospitable, especially in view of the pandemic situation. The KSRTC was unable to set a deadline to begin its long-overdue renovation of depot buildings. The situation was such that the dilapidated rest room was shoddily maintained and got flooded in the rain. Crew members had to sleep on cots raised by using bricks, the commission said. KSRTC sources said that renovating the building was not worth it. Two stationary AC buses, each having berthing capacity for 16 crew members, were getting ready, they said.
28 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CM opens skill park at Kalamassery||A community skill park, opened as part of a government effort to create additional skill acquisition, was inaugurated at the Kinfra Park at Kalamassery on Tuesday by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The government’s Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP) has been trying to train skilled youth from Kerala through practical training in communication, IT, and and other areas to equip the youth further and enhance their employability. The community skill park in Kalamassery will be a place for industrialists and workers to come together in such a way that the employers and employees will meet the skills that are needed to help each other. The State government has planned 17 such skill parks. A total of nine skill parks have so far become operational and others will be launched soon. Artificial intelligence, machine learning, business analytics, data science, cyber security, block chain management, and Internet of Things are some of the courses being opened at the skill park. The additional skill acquisition parks are envisioned as advanced development hubs to meet international standards. Each of the hubs will be linked to technical institutions, other training facilities, and industries concerned.
28 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Decision to allow boats from other States to use harbours welcomed||The decision by the Ernakulam district administration to allow fishing boats from other States to use harbours in the district amid strict curbs has come as a great relief for fishing operators in major harbours like Thoppumpady. The fishing harbour, which has been seriously affected by the ban on operations by other-State fishers, would now be able to operate at full capacity, said M. Majeed of the Fisheries Harbour Coordination Committee on Monday. The decision by the district authorities brings to an end the confusion created by the ban. The ban had prevented long and tuna liners from using the Thoppumpady harbour, the biggest harbour in Kerala, over the past one month. Mr. Majeed said that there were around 650 longliners and gillnet boats that were the mainstay of the harbour. Mr. Majeed said that the government decision to impose a strict watch over the operations was welcome as the fishing industry as a whole wanted to cause no disruption in the COVID-19 containment activities.
28 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Finance fraud cases: govt. denies charges||The State government on Tuesday informed the Kerala High Court that the allegation that no separate FIRs had been registered in connection with the Popular Finance fraud cases was baseless. The government told the court that a total of 1,368 cases had been registered across the State as on October 18. The submission was made by the government when petitions seeking a CBI probe in the cases came up for hearing. State Attorney K.V. Sohan submitted that the Additional Chief Secretary had directed all Collectors to take timely and stringent action against fraudsters and institutions.
28 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Youngster dies in accident||A motorcycle-borne youngster was fatally knocked down by a pickup van at Cusat Junction on Tuesday around 1.30 a.m. The deceased was identified as Muhammed Shibili, 21, of Palakkad. According to the police, he met with the accident while riding in the direction of Ernakulam from Aluva. Though he was rushed to a nearby hospital, he succumbed to his injuries shortly.
28 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Social media producing biases: Romila||Noted historian Romila Thapar has said that historians should be ready to debate and defend their ideas on the basis of reliable evidence. “We should not dismiss a bias but try and understand why there is a bias. Every human being has a bias and its conditioned by the context in which you grow up and think or what you read and these days by the new invention that you call social media, which produces all kinds of biases,” she said at a webinar on ‘Meet the Historian’ organised by the Kerala History Congress on Tuesday. “The main thing then is looking for a range of sources and defending what one picks up and how one interprets its sources does require very wide reading. A historian today has to read books in other disciplines in order to understand what some historians are writing,” she said. Theoretical knowledge On whether her writings were too theoretical, Ms. Thapar responded by referring to it as a comment on the decline of emphasis on intellectual work in what we today call education. “The content of education today does not encourage people to think analytically. I think that is really a big crisis not to people like myself. But for the younger generation that is growing up and seeking education. Education does not mean its only for jobs. It should also make you think. Theoretical knowledge may be a problem for wider public for whom history is a narrative of events,” she said. Continuity and change Ms. Thapar pointed out that historians had to recognise that there was something in the past that continued in a different form into the present. “We as historians have to recognise both the continuity and the change. A historian is like a detective that searches for clues. You are asking a question of what happened and you are searching for clues. We have to understand what happened in the past in order to understand something that is happening in the present,” she said. Rajan Gurukkal, president of Kerala History Congress, said that similar sessions would be held with renowned historians aimed at understanding their methodology and methods of historical research.
28 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Gold worth Rs. 2.40 cr. seized||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on Tuesday seized 4.50 kg of gold valued at Rs. 2.40 crore from five different passengers who arrived at the Cochin international airport. A kg of gold valued at Rs. 53 lakh was seized from a resident of Malappuram who arrived at the airport from Jeddah on an Air Arabia flight. In another incident, gold weighing around 4,300 gm, converted into compound form, was seized from four passengers.
28 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Photojournalist Bhoopathi cremated||The body of former photojournalist P.A. Bhoopathi, who died on Monday, was cremated at his native place at Vazhakulam near Aluva. He was 51. He had worked as a news photographer with Veekshanam and Thatsamayam dailies. The body was kept at the Ernakulam Town Hall in the morning for a few hours before being taken to Vazhakulam.
28 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Conversion of trains causes inconvenience||While rail services have resumed in the Kollam-Sengottai route, the conversion of passenger trains into express trains is causing great inconvenience to commuters from the eastern parts of the district. “The decision to convert the Kollam-Tambaram, Punalur-Guruvayur and Punalur-Madurai services into express trains should be reconsidered. The express trains will not have stoppages at Edamon and Thenmala, making it difficult for passengers,” said N.K. Premachandran, MP. The Punalur-Sengottai section was completed as part of the 325-km Kollam-Sengottai-Tenkasi-Tirunelveli-Thiruchendur gauge conversion project. Train services in this section were stopped for broadening in 2010 and the rail route was commissioned in March 2018. “Operating only express trains on the route will prevent the benefits of the multi-crore gauge conversion from reaching the public. The stoppages at Thenmala and Edamon should be restored,” he said. Special service Railways had suspended all services on Kollam-Sengottai route post lockdown and Egmore Express was the first train to resume operations as a special service on October 26. The Egmore Express, which started off as a tri-weekly service on an experiential basis, was made a daily train from March 2019. The service was started after gauge conversion and in early days it ended at Tambaram. Before the conversion, there was a daily Chennai-Egmore-Kollam train operating on the route which got cancelled when the works for conversion began. It was a long-standing demand of the travellers from Kollam to restore the service. At present, Egmore Express will operate as special train 06101 with two AC three-tier coaches, eight sleeper class coaches and two general second class coaches reaching Kollam from Chennai on 8.45 a.m. Train 06102, in return direction, will leave Kollam at 12 noon and arrive at Egmore at 3.05 a.m. the next day. The train earlier had stoppages at Sengottai, Bhagavathipuram, Aryankavu, Tenmala, Edamon, Punalur, Aavaneeswaram, Kottarakara and Kundara.
28 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Steps to restore Kollam port to its old glory: CM||Port development can enhance trade and industry in southern Kerala and the government has been taking measures to restore the lost importance of the Kollam port, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Commissioning the passenger-cum-cargo terminal and Dhwani tugboat at the Kollam port through videoconferencing on Tuesday, he added that the upgraded facilities would be beneficial to industries related to fisheries sector and the Kollam-Lakshadweep connection. Crew change “The government has been paying special attention to the Kollam port and the multi-purpose terminal can be used for both passenger and cargo ships. The port already has a 178-m wharf and the new 100-m wharf has been built at Rs. 20 crore. Earlier, only Vizhinjam port had the crew change provision, but now the Kollam port can also facilitate that. Kollam-Minicoy tourism route is another possibility,” he said. Dhawani, the Rs. 3.2-crore tugboat constructed under the supervision of the Indian Register of Shipping, has all the modern amenities and equipment. Ports Minister Kadannappally Ramachandran presided. Fisheries and Harbour Engineering Minister J. Mercykutty Amma delivered the keynote address. Emigration clearance At present, the delay in emigration clearance is the major issue in port operations and the government has already initiated the procedures to open a six-counter immigration facility. “While the port can be used to import raw cashew nut, Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd. products and value-added seafood products can be exported from here. By opening a food park we can also provide employment to many,” she said. The port also has huge tourism potential as Kollam is the nearest city to Minicoy Island. If passenger ships can start operations, Kollam is expected to become a destination for education and health tourism. According to officials, passenger service to Minicoy and Lakshadweep from the Kollam port can be operated even without immigration clearance.
28 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam’s caseload up by another 329||The district reported 329 new cases of COVID-19, three deaths, and 534 recoveries on Tuesday. Among the patients are 326 contact cases, one person with no known source and two health workers. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of an 84-year-old Neendakara resident, 75-year-old Punthalathazham resident, and 70-year-old Neendakara resident are due to COVID-19. While Kollam Corporation once again reported the highest number of new patients, Sasthamcotta, Kulathupuzha, Karunagappally and Perinad also have several new contact cases. The patient with no known source of contact is a 36-year-old Kadakkal resident. The health workers who tested positive include a 27-year-old Nendumbana resident and a 41-year-old Adichanallur resident. The district currently has 15,844 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 3,23,501. While 1,577 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 76,260 primary and 7,450 secondary contacts of the positive cases. The number of active cases at present is 6,049.  District also reports three deaths and 534 recoveries.
28 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Webinar held||The Kollam social forestry extension unit and the Zoology department of St. Gregorios College, Kottarakara, have jointly organised a webinar on Birds of Kerala. Social forestry extension assistant forest conservator S. Dinesh inaugurated the webinar and college Principal Suman Alexander presided. P.B. Biju, Rani S. Dharan, M. Satheesh, P.K. Ramesh and P.R. Gopakulmar and students took part.
28 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Sahodaya fete from Nov. 1||Kollam Sahodaya, a confederation of around 50 CBSE schools in Kollam, Thiruvananthapuram and Pathanamthitta districts, will conduct the Kollam Sahodaya Kalotsav from November 1 to 11. N.K. Premachandran, MP, will inaugurate the online Kalotsav at Brook International School, Sasthamcotta, and over 3,000 students will participate in the festival. Fr. Abraham Thalothil, president, Kollam Sahodaya, Balgopal M., general secretary, Fr. Danel Thekkedeth, treasurer, and Abraham Karickam, general convener, will be in charge of conducting various events.
28 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Cashew drink to hit markets today||Cashew apples, a tropical flavour that lost its appeal in Kerala overtime, are set to tickle your taste buds again. As part of its diversification initiative, the Plantation Corporation of Kerala (PCK) is embarking on the commercial production of carbonated drinks from cashew apples. The product, to be branded under the name Oceana, will hit the market on Wednesday. Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunilkumar will launch the product through an online function to be held on the evening. At Mooliyar The soft drink, which has been developed in collaboration with the research wing of Kerala University, will be produced from the PCK’s production unit at Mooliyar in Kasaragod. According to PCK chairman A.K. Chandran, the drink would be produced from apples left over after cashew nut collection. The new drink will be made available in 300 ml packs priced at Rs. 25. Natural “The drink retains all natural properties of cashews without adding any artificial flavour or aroma. The natural contents in cashews such as carbohydrates, protein, Vitamin C and calcium will be in the drink as well,” said B. Pramod, managing director, PCK. To begin with, the Corporation will produce 1,000 litres of the drink per day. Meanwhile, the PCK also looks to procure cashew apples from private plantations at a fair price in case of a rise in demand. The drink will be made available at the corporation’s outlets while plans are afoot to expand its sale through the Milma and Horticorp outlets. Efforts are also on to bring the drink to the market by calling for tenders from wholesale dealers.
28 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||395 cases in Kottayam||As many as 395 tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Tuesday. Changanassery reported 54 cases, followed by Kottayam with 44 cases and Ettumannur with 24 cases. With 254 recoveries, the district has 7,396 active cases.
28 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Work begins on State’s first waste-to-energy plant||Work on the first waste-to-energy plant in the State began at Njeliyanparamba in Kozhikode on Monday with a bhoomi pooja . Mayor Thottathil Raveendran and Kozhikode Corporation’s standing committee chairpersons took part in the event, which marked the first step towards the construction of the plant, expected to begin in January 2021. The waste-to-energy plant is being set up on 12.67 acres of Corporation land by a Bengaluru-based consortium led by Zonta Infratech Private Limited. The Rs. 250-crore project is expected to process around 450 tonnes of solid waste and create 6 MW of electricity per day. The plant will benefit Ramanattukara, Feroke and Koyilandy municipalities, and Olavanna, Kunnamangalam and Kadalundi panchayats besides the Kozhikode Corporation. Special purpose vehicle The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) is the nodal agency for the project and a special purpose vehicle named Malabar Waste Management Private Limited has been formed to carry out the project. The local bodies are expected to pay tipping fees to the company and also take responsibility for waste collection in their jurisdiction. The waste collected will be segregated and taken to the plant by the company from designated collection points. It will be processed using controlled combustion method, by which waste is burned at a very high temperature. The steam thus produced will be used to work the turbines to produce electricity, which will be sold to the Kerala State Electricity Board at rates fixed by the Electricity Regulatory Commission. It may take a few years for work on the plant to be completed. However, the first phase may be completed in a year. At present, the levelling of land was in progress, said Corporation Secretary Binu Francis.
28 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Last rites now a bone of contention||Last rites of COVID-19 victims appear to be snowballing into a fresh row having political overtones after the Indian Union Muslim League recently threw its weight behind religious groups that have sought tweaking of the Health Department directives. Meanwhile, the latest guidelines brought out by the World Health Organization (WHO) say that people who die of COVID-19 can be “buried or cremated” according to “local standards and family preferences”. T. Jayakrishnan, Professor, Department of Community Medicine, Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, points out that it is the duty of the kin to ensure the last rites to the departed. He says, quoting the WHO guidelines, that national and local regulations might determine how the remains should be handled and disposed. Family and friends may view the body after it has been prepared for burials, in accordance with local customs. They, however, “should not touch or kiss the body” and should perform hand hygiene after the viewing. The guidelines of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare are somewhat similar. Religious rituals such as reading from religious scripts, sprinkling holy water, and any other last rites that do not require touching of the body can be allowed, they say. Though the State government recently allowed kin of the deceased to have a final glimpse of their dear ones before cremation or burial, a section of religious bodies have sought permission to clean the bodies as well. A recent meeting of Muslim organisations decided to petition the Chief Minister and the Health Minister to drive home their point. WHO norms The WHO says a body in a body bag or coffin needs to be treated in accordance with local customs and standards. If a body will be buried or cremated without a casket or body bag, surgical or waterproof rubber gloves can be used to place the body in the grave or the funeral pyre. If traditional funeral rituals are required, families and traditional burial attendants can be equipped and instructed in the preparation of bodies for burial or cremation. Although burials or cremations should take place in a timely manner and in accordance with local practices, funeral ceremonies that do not involve the disposal of the body should be postponed, if possible, until the end of the epidemic. If a ceremony is held, the number of participants should be kept to a minimum, says the WHO.
28 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Safety measures stepped up at AR camp||Improved safety arrangements are in place at the Armed Reserve Camp of the Kozhikode Rural police at Keezhariyur where 48 SARS-CoV-2 cases have been confirmed by the Health Department. Though the number of active cases is only five now, many personnel are in room quarantine. The total strength of the camp is 360 apart from the Anti-Naxal Squad members, which prompts the authorities to go for stringent safety measures. Office rooms of senior officials have been rearranged to ensure a safe working environment. A convenient shift arrangement has been introduced to ensure physical distancing. ‘Allegations baseless’ An official from the camp said some of the recent allegations against them that they were not complying with the health protocol were baseless. He pointed out that policemen on duty would not be able to move around wearing personal protective gear like a medical professional considering the very nature of the job. The official claimed that RT-PCR tests had been conducted in the camp following their own demand. “We will be able to ensure our safety only if there are no law-and-order issues. These days, a number of quirky protests are taking place and we have to tackle them as part of our duty,” he said. Officials from the camp also pointed out that there were many police stations in the city and rural areas where a large number of policemen contracted the virus while performing their duty. The Payyoli police station was one of the recent examples, they said. A functionary of the Kerala Police Association said their members were going through a risky situation as the number of positive cases among them was found increasing. “On Friday, eight policemen, including a Circle Inspector and a Sub Inspector, tested positive at Elathur station. They all contracted the virus while performing duty,” he said.
28 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||597 test positive in Kozhikode||As many as 597 people were declared tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Tuesday. According to the District Medical Officer, 581 of them were infected through local contacts. The source of infection of six persons was unknown. The test positivity rate is 9.81%. A total of 947 people were cured of the infection and the number of active cases in the district slipped to 9,563. The Olavanna panchayat is conducting free tests within its limits on October 28 (HiLITE Mall), October 29 (M.S.S. Colony Hall), October 30 (Race Hostel), October 31 (Kodinattumukku School) and November 1 (Sapphire Central School). A 67-year-old man from Thuvvur in Malappuram died at the Government Medical College Hospita on Tuesday. In Malappuram Malappuram district registered 706 new cases on Tuesday, while 993 infected persons recovered from the disease. Officials said 664 of the new cases had contracted the virus through direct local contact. The number of active cases in Malappuram stands at 11,268. In Kannur In Kannur, 258 people tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. As many as 241 tested contracted the disease through contact. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 65 more people tested positive on Tuesday, with 64 of them contracting the disease through local contacts.
28 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Passengers’ forum flays move to raise rail fares||The Malabar Rail Users’ Forum has requested the Central government to refrain from the move to raise the rail tariff in the name of revenue generation. The forum has termed the move unscientific and has suggested several alternatives to improve revenue. In a memorandum to the Railway authorities recently, the secretary of the forum, Manalil Mohanan, said that the move to raise the tariff, especially the minimum charge by three times, will adversely affect not just the passengers but the Railway employees and catering labourers. The conversion of passenger services into express services will result in more expense to the travellers while the number of stops will be cut. MRMU service The forum has suggested that MRMU services be run in the routes where there will no longer be passenger services and also that the stops for long distance trains should not be cut unless MEMU service starts. The forum suggested introduction of facilities to ensure clean food at reasonable rates while putting an end to the pantry cars in trains as non-availability of food is a major problem faced by long distance travellers. Courier service As for revenue generation, the forum has suggested that the Railway get into courier service, cargo transportation in connection with airports and to make ticket checking more effective. It has also suggested the auction of scraps and timber that have been abandoned in Railway station yards for years. The forum suggested regular consultation with users’ forums across the country.
28 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||BJP councillors protest against ‘graft’ in corpn.||BJP councillors of the Kozhikode Corporation began a seven-day satyagraha in protest against the alleged corruption and misgovernance in the civic body in front of the corporation office on Tuesday. Inaugurating the protest, BJP State general secretary M.T. Ramesh accused the ruling CPI(M) of utter failure to undertake development programmes in the city. Corruption had been rampant in all spheres of activity. Crores of rupees were swindled off in the name of various projects, he alleged. Mr. Ramesh said that the activities of the civic body during the past five years should be subjected to auditing. The Vigilance should carry out a probe in all the deals undertaken by the ruling party, he demanded. Incidentally, he also alleged that the Congress party, which was in the opposition, was hand-in-glove with the CPI(M) in all such deals. These parties should clarify whether they gave priority to the welfare of the citizens or the interests of wealthy capitalists, the BJP leader said. BJP councillors Nambadi Narayanan, N. Satheesh Kumar, E. Prasanth Kumar, Navya Haridas, Ponnathu Shyma, and Jisha Gireesh are staging the protest for a week. They said that they would submit a memorandum to the Vigilance to probe the alleged irregularities in the corporation functioning.
28 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Students’ service centre opened at Calicut varsity||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday opened online a digital students’ service centre, titled Suvega, at Calicut University. Vice-Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj laid the foundation stone for the facility. A release said that students can get information related to the university by calling 0494-2660600 between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. The services would be expanded at a later phase, from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. and to a 24-hour service. A total of 30 calls could be attended at a time, the release said.
28 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Focus on Punathil’s works, not life, says Mukundan||Punathil Kunjabdulla was celebrated more for his personality and there was a need for better reading of his works, said writer M. Mukundan here on Tuesday. ReleasingOru Arajakavadiyude Athmabhashanangal(An anarchist’s thoughts from the heart), an anthology of Punathil's conversations with Abdul Hakeem, on the occasion of the third death anniversary of the writer, Mr. Mukundan called for more studies on Punathil's works rather than just personal life. ‘Not indisciplined’ He said that the readers could have been a bit more alert about Punathil and could have redirected him to the right path when he went “astray”. “However, he was not indisciplined in his writing. None of his characters provoke us, but are lovable,” Mr. Mukundan said. ‘Paid a heavy price’ Writer Paul Zakariah, delivering the Punathil commemoration address, said that the late writer had squeezed his writings out from his life, for which he had to pay a heavy price. “Some of his actions were unacceptable even for his closest friends,” Mr. Zakariah said, expressing his displeasure over the way Punathil had lived during his last days. Writer Khadeeja Mumtaz; M. K.. Muneer, MLA, who is also the publisher of the book, took part in the online release and commemoration programme organised by Kozhikode Samskarika Vedi.
28 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. to cancel occupancy certificate of building||The Kozhikode Corporation on Tuesday decided to cancel the occupancy certificate of Century Complex, a shopping centre near the mofussil bus stand. The decision came two days after a merchant had a fatal fall through a hole on the ground floor pathway. A group of officials who visited the building found grave violations in the building plan and many similar holes in different parts of the building. It was on Sunday that a merchant from Tirur in Malappuram district fell through the hole that was created by merchants in the building for ease of moving stock. Inspections found that there were many similar holes in the building, that were unguarded, thus posing danger to people. Earlier, the police had requested the Corporation to cancel the licence of the building as there were chances of similar accidents.
28 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||SYS threatens stir over quota for FCs||The Sunni Yuvajana Sangham (SYS), the youth wing of the Sunni group led by Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliar, has threatened to go on an agitation if the government did not withdraw its move to implement 10 per cent reservation for the economically weak among the forward communities. “Reserving 10 per cent for the economically weak among the forward communities from the whole will deprive the chances of the underprivileged and the marginalised. “The 10 per cent reservation for the forward communities should be from the 50 per cent unreserved seats. That will be logical and scientific,” the SYS has said.
28 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Walayar case: former prosecutor takes on CM||The former public prosecutor who represented the government in the sensational Walayar case involving the death of two minor sisters said here on Tuesday that the case had been too weak for any prosecution to get a conviction for the accused. “The case had only circumstantial evidence, and no scientific evidence. Even if the case is reinvestigated, only the circumstantial evidence can be presented before the court. The police failed miserably in building a strong case by collecting pieces of evidence,” said Jalaja Madhavan, who had been public prosecutor for three months in the Walayar case. Ms. Madhavan lashed out at Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for blaming the prosecution for the acquittal of the accused in the case. The Chief Minister had held the prosecution responsible for the failure of the case. “The police built the case so weakly that no prosecution will be able to bring the culprits to book,” she said. “The Chief Minister should explain how the prosecution failed.” Queries to police Ms. Madhavan said she had pointed out to investigating officer M.J. Sojan (Deputy Superintendent of Police) about the misreckoning of including ‘suicide’ in the first information report (FIR) in spite of having plenty of circumstantial evidence to make it a murder. The postmortem examination report too had mentioned that murder could not be ruled out. “Non-cooperation” “I told DySP Sojan about it, but he never cooperated,” she said. According to her, the former chairman of the Child Welfare Committee too refused to intervene for the victims. She demanded an investigation into their roles. She said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government replaced her with Lata Jayaraj, who had been appointed by the United Democratic Front (UDF) government. “I am a Left sympathiser. Still I don’t know why I was replaced by a UDF nominee. The Home Department should explain the reason for it,” she said.
28 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||337 cases in Palakkad||Palakkad district registered 337 new COVID cases on Tuesday. When 164 of them contracted the disease through local contact, there were 170 cases without source of infection. There were 188 recoveries. The number of active cases currently under treatment stood at 7,665. Apart from them, 153 people from Palakkad were under treatment in other districts across the State.
28 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Webinar to mark Bharati birthday fete||The Tamil Cultural Research Centre (TCRC) here will celebrate the birthday of renowned Tamil poet Subramania Bharati by organising a webinar in December. TCRC director K.A. Rajaram said that Tamil scholars and academics from across the world would take part in the programme.
28 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||112 positive in Pathanamthitta||As many as 112 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 107 contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 27 persons is yet to be identified. At 24, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases while Pallikkal and Adoor reported six cases each. Three deaths Meanwhile, the disease claimed three more lives in the district, taking the total number of deaths due to COVID-19 to 82. The deceased were identified as a 63-year-old Kottangal native, 72-year-old Ezhumattoor native and 68-year-old Nellikkaman native.  These deaths, however, have not yet been included on the State-level estimates. With 265 recoveries during the day, the total recoveries rose to 11,798.
28 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||New lease of life for Pampa ecosystem||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday inaugurated a programme to restore the rich riparian vegetation of the Pampa, which faced severe damage during the 2018 floods. The project, implemented by the Kerala State Biodiversity Board (KSBB), covers the riverbanks across 10 panchayats in three blocks. The primary phase of the project, initiated at Rs. 2 crore under the Rebuild Kerala initiative, envisages restoring 94 riverine species, including threatened ones, along the riverbanks. People’s support Inaugurating the project through videoconferencing, Mr. Vijayan sought the cooperation of people to ensure the sustainability of the programme. He spoke of the plans to impart training to the people residing along the riverbanks through the Kudumbashree for enabling them to earn a living from the wetland ecosystem. “A study conducted by the United Nations in the wake of the 2018 floods highlighted the need to adopt nature restoration and conservation programmes to suit the topography and ecology of the location concerned. The project to restore the vegetation along the Pampa banks takes a cue from this recommendation,” he said. Raju Abraham, MLA, presided. KSBB Chairperson Usha Titus spoke. Representatives of all 10 local bodies which are collaborating with the initiative were present.
28 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Garbage monitoring takes a digital turn||Waste management and monitoring in all local bodies across the State is set to go the digital way with the implementation of the Smart Garbage Monitoring System being developed by Keltron. The system, which will be implemented by the Haritha Keralam Mission through the Local Self-Government (LSG) Department, is aimed at monitoring the entire process of waste management, from door-to-door collection to recycling or processing of the same. The LSG Department last week approved the project, formulated based on existing systems in a handful of local bodies. According to officials of the Haritha Keralam Mission, they had looked at the Smart Trivandrum mobile application being used in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation and similar applications in Taliparamba and Vadakara municipalities to come up with an improved version that covers the entire waste management process. “Now, we have the Haritha Karma Senas that are active in several of the panchayats and municipalities having door-to-door collection of waste. Through the Smart Garbage Monitoring System, residents and officials will have all information regarding waste collection and processing at their fingertips,” says Ajaykumar P., technical officer of the Haritha Keralam Mission’s waste management division. “For instance, Haritha Sena volunteers can identify the houses from which waste has to be collected or the house owners who have to pay the user fee, whereas the residents can know the date of the next collection or raise request for inoculum which is used in kitchen bins,” he says. Complaint resolution From the people’s point of view, one of the important features of the mechanism will be the complaint resolution system, by which a complaint will be forwarded automatically to the higher authority if the responsible official at the local level does not take action on time. They can also identify the nearest material recovery facility and the time of functioning through the application.
28 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||413 of 3,447 tests turn positive||The COVID-19 daily count in the capital district dropped further to 413 cases on Tuesday when 3,447 tests were conducted during the last 24 hours. The number of active cases stood at 8,587 with 654 people recovering from their illness. Those diagnosed with the disease include 288 people who contracted the infection through local transmission and 111 others whose source of infection is yet to be known. Health-care workers Twelve health-care workers have tested positive. Two imported cases have also been reported among the fresh cases. The pandemic claimed three more lives in the district. The deaths that have been attributed to COVID-19 are those of natives of Nettayam, Anad and Neyyattinkara. As many as 2,200 people were placed in quarantine during the day. With this, the number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms has increased to 24,956 in houses and 202 in various institutions. The Nedumangad taluk supply office has been closed for the public for two days after one of the employees there tested positive for COVID-19. Those who have been allotted dates to receive new ration cards during these days will be provided the details of the same through phone calls. New containment zones were declared at Shankaramangalam in Pavoorkkonam, Kadakkavoor grama panchayat; Kannamath colony in Arinelloor, Pulimath grama panchayat; and Kakkamoola in Kalliyoor grama panchayat. Containment zones The district administrations withdrew containment zones in Chulliyoor in Perunkadavila grama panchayat; Kaviyoor in Kanjiramkulam grama panchayat; Puthuveettumele in Vilavookkal grama panchayat; Mailekkal in Nellanad grama panchayat; Madathara in Peringamala grama panchayat; Chayam, Tholicode town and Anapetty in Tholicode grama panchayat; Kottavila, Kidangummal and Uriyacode in Vellanad grama panchayat; Kolichira and Azhoor LPS in Azhoor grama panchayat; Pozhikkara and Pulinthuruthy in Chirayinkeezhu grama panchayat; Bhajanamadam in Kadakkavoor grama panchayat; Pedikulam in Pulimath grama panchayat; and Panayilkadavu, Puthennada, Kayalvaram and Pattikkaavila in Vakkom grama panchayat. Sectoral magistrates took 513 people to task in various parts of the district for violating the prohibitory orders. They included 10 people who violated the COVID-19 protocol. Eighty-three others were slapped fines for other offences. In all, action has been initiated against 12,330 people since the enforcement of the curbs.  513 people taken to task in various parts of the district for violating COVID-19 prohibitory orders
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police social media wing on top||The State government’s e-governance awards for 2018 have been announced. The awards seek to promote new ideas and ventures in the area of e-governance. The best Akshaya centres in the State too were presented with awards. The first prize in the e-citizen service delivery category is shared by the Urban Affairs Directorate and the Mining and Geology Department. Second prize The second prize goes to the State police’s Cyberdome (Technopark). The third prize is shared by the Civil Supplies Department and Scheduled Caste Development Department. In the mobile governance segment, the Soil Survey-Soil Conservation Department wins the first prize and the second position is bagged by Anert (Agency for New and Renewable Energy Research and Technology). The National Health Mission secures the top prize in the e-learning category. The Education Multimedia Research Centre of the University of Calicut wins the second prize. The award for best website has gone to the Kottayam Collectorate. The Kerala Land Use Board and the Excise Department share the second position. The Higher Secondary Department in the Secretariat and the State Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau get the third prize. Six Akshaya centres have also secured the awards. The first prize has gone to Akshaya centres at Korome in Wayanad and Kurissumoodu in Kottayam. The Akshaya centres at Pushpa Junction in Wayanad and Koliyadi in Wayanad get the second prize. The third prize is shared by the centres functioning at Pathanamthitta Central Junction and Ezhamulam. In the social media category, the State police’s social media and e-governance wing got the first prize. The Vimukthi mission secured the second prize.  e-Health category The National Health Mission lands the first prize in the e-health category. A jury headed by former Telecom Secretary Aruna Sundararajan selected the winners.  Six Akshaya centres have also secured the awards
28 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Panel for bridging digital divide||The post-COVID-19 Higher Education Policy document, prepared by the Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC), calls for concrete steps to bridge the digital divide that could potentially hamper online learning and lead large numbers to drop out from the formal education system owing to inadequate Internet connectivity. The policy advisory document, ‘COVID-19 turn in Higher Education’, submitted to the government on Tuesday, advocates an urgent stocktaking of the social and technological preparedness for virtual learning that is likely to remain the new normal in the post-pandemic era. Prepared by a consultative panel chaired by council vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal P.M., the policy document recommends the distribution of laptops, tablets or smart phones to financially disadvantaged students and calls upon institutions to provide free Internet for such sections. Special attention is required to resolve the shortage of infrastructural facilities among institutions in backward areas. Resource-sharing Colleges and universities have been urged to refrain from online teaching and evaluation methods that involve competition and cause disadvantage to poor students. Care must be ensured to address the digital divide that exists among teachers. The report stresses the need to strengthen inter-university resource-sharing networks among universities and colleges. Steps must be adopted to operationalise KALNET, the inter-university library network initiated by the KSHEC. All higher education institutions must be advised to adopt an online-blended teaching and learning mode, while teachers must be encouraged to use online instructional methods such as software-driven course designing and computer-mediated communication. Teachers must be trained in the use of the latest technology to make them professionals in online teaching. The cross-disciplinary literacy of the teaching community must be enhanced. Calling for steps to protect the autonomy of universities that could be impaired in the wake of the introduction of online technology, the policy document recommends modifying university Acts, statutes and Ordinance to equip them to respond to crises in future. The existing examination system that is heavily dependent on descriptive accounts and the students’ ability to remember must also be revamped. A gender audit of text books must also be undertaken.
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||5,457 cases mirror low testing||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph on Tuesday again remained sluggish, reflective of the low testing on Monday, which was a public holiday. The State reported 5,457 cases on Tuesday when 46,193 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, with which the cumulative case burden of the State crossed the four lakh mark, to touch 4,02,674 cases. The State also recorded more recoveries than new cases on the day, discharging 7,015 patients from hospitals. Of the active cases, 817 are critically ill and in ICUs with 200 patients requiring ventilator support. The test positivity rate, which had been hovering in the 12-14 % range, slid to 11.8% on Monday. Of the new cases reported on Monday, 98.3% or 5,369 cases are locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining unknown in 607 cases. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection amongst this is 60. In the districts, Thrissur reported 730 cases, Ernakulam 716, Malappuram 706, Alappuzha 647, Kozhikode 597, Thiruvananthapuram 413, Kottayam 395, Palakkad 337, Kollam 329, Kannur 258, Pathanamthitta 112, Wayanad 103, Kasaragod 65, and Idukki 49 cases. Ernakulam and Malappuram have the highest burden of active cases with 11,571 cases and 11,267 cases respectively.
28 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Patients referred to private hospitals to get food grant||The district administration on Tuesday issued an order making COVID-19 patients who are referred to private hospitals by the government eligible for food equivalent to those admitted in government hospitals at the rate of Rs. 160 per person per day. The order issued by District Collector Navjot Khosa in her capacity as chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) also states that such patients, who have been referred by the government and are unable to meet food expenses in private hospitals, can opt for availing themselves of food for which the cost shall be incurred by the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). The menu for the purpose shall be finalised by the District Medical Officer (DMO) in consultation with the managements of private hospitals. While the government had standardised rates for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals for Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi (KASP) beneficiaries and government-referred non-KASP patients, the food given to patients in private institutions was not covered by the rates fixed by the government. Currently, 497 beds have been earmarked in 11 hospitals for patients referred by the government. The DDMA order also comes amid referred patients claiming difficulties to foot the food expenses that they incur in private hospitals with such issues often paving the way for unruly scenes. Private hospitals have shown reluctance to admit patients under such circumstances. Domiciliary centres The DDMA has decided to introduce Domiciliary COVID Care Centres (DCC) to bolster the containment efforts in the district. Cordova Public School in Ambalathara has been identified the first domiciliary care centre that is aimed at providing isolation for asymptomatic COVID-19 positive patients who do not have adequate isolation facilities at their home. There are currently 23 COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs), seven COVID second-line treatment centres (SLTCs)and one COVID hospital in the district.
28 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM launches new infra schemes||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan called upon universities and government-aided colleges to strive to obtain high gradings by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) that is needed for Central government funding under the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA). Speaking at the launch of new buildings of 42 higher education institutions in the State on Tuesday, Mr. Vijayan said only 29 government colleges were accredited by NAAC in the State, indicating the need for more institutions to go in for grading. The government had been focused on enhancing basic infrastructure to create an environment conducive for learning. Such efforts would also improve the colleges’ prospects in obtaining accreditation, he said. The infrastructure projects that were inaugurated included one each under Cochin University of Science and Technology, Kannur, Mahatama Gandhi and Calicut Universities, nine institutions under Institute of Human Resource Development, three community skill parks under Additional Skill Acquisition Programme, 15 government arts and science colleges, two engineering colleges, three polytechnic colleges, and five technical high schools.
28 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Control price of drugs from foreign firms: KSSP||The 57th annual meet of the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) has urged the Central government to use the compulsory licensing clause in the patent laws to control the price of COVID-19 drugs manufactured by foreign companies. Citing the prices of Remdesivir, manufactured by U.S.-based Gilead, the KSSP says the four Indian companies who have got the licence for the drug are selling it at different prices, ranging from Rs. 30,800 to Rs. 59,000 for a ten-day course. Gilead has an expense of only Rs. 100 to make a 100 millilitre ampoule of Remdesivir. The steep rates in India are due to the high royalties that they have to pay to the U.S. manufacturer. The KSSP’s resolution says the high prices of drugs make it unaffordable to a large section of the people. The Health Departments will also struggle to make available even the cheapest medicines. In this situation, the compulsory licensing clause has to be used to give the rights to produce the drugs to the company quoting the lowest rate. A separate resolution urges the State government to abandon the plan to implement a waste-to-energy plant project. It also urges the government to limit the role of the World Bank in the upcoming waste management project to just the provision of funding. The local bodies which were identified to be part of the World Bank project have already achieved clean status through waste treatment at source. A third resolution urges the State government to strengthen the decentralised governance and people’s plan programme. Office-bearers The annual meeting, held online, elected A.P.Muraleedharan as president of the KSSP and K. Radhan as general secretary.
28 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Probe on into KTU question paper leak||The probe into the question paper leak of an examination conducted by the A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has gathered momentum with the seizure of 28 mobile phones that were allegedly sneaked into examination halls. The phones were confiscated by four of the five colleges that had reported malpractice during the conduct of the third semester BTech supplementary examination on ‘Linear Algebra and Complex Analysis’ on October 23. The mobile phones were apparently used to circulate photos of the question paper on WhatsApp groups that would generate the answers to the questions. Despite a similar modus operandi , authorities were yet to conclude if the malpractice was operated by the same racket. Colleges The incidents were reported from a government-controlled self-financing college, an aided college and three private institutions, where students from other colleges had also appeared for the paper. The exam had been cancelled with a fresh one being scheduled for November 5. As part of enforcing measures to prevent such malpractice, Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree convened a meeting of college Principals and examination superintendents on Tuesday. College officials, who participated in a hearing conducted by the Syndicate examination subcommittee chaired by Pro Vice Chancellor S. Ayoob, said some students kept a mobile phone outside the exam hall while entering with another. WhatsApp groups A preliminary inquiry found that multiple WhatsApp groups were formed for the same subject with some even sharing the answers for 75 marks. Posing technical hurdles to the investigation, many of the seized mobile phones were currently ‘locked’, suggesting that they could have been blocked using duplicate SIM cards. WhatsApp accounts have also been migrated to other mobile phones. Reports The Principals have been tasked with convening disciplinary committee meetings and submitting reports of the action adopted within five days. The university’s examination rules provide for debarring those who enter examination halls with mobile phones for the particular paper for the next three consecutive terms.
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KGMCTA demand||The Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA) has demanded that the government take immediate steps to release the salary arrears of medical college faculty, including allowances, with effect from January 2016. It gas also demanded that the government resolve the anomalies in the current pay revision announced for the faculty.
28 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Electronic tablets for special children||The Society for Polymer Science India (SPSI) has donated electronic tablets to 46 children with special needs to help out with their education. Representatives of the district chapter of SPSI handed over the equipment to the parents of the children at two functions held at Kanjiramkulam and Neyyattinkara on Sunday. SPSI had decided to gift tablets to the children after coming to know about how teachers visited their homes with tablets to assist them in their studies. The young beneficiaries of the programme come under the Block Resources Centre (BRC), Neyyattinkara, SPSI representatives said. M. Vincent, MLA, inaugurated the distribution organised at the Government High School, Kanijiramkulam. Kanjiramkulam panchayat president Sarasi Kuttappan presided. SPSI president Benny K. George was present at the function. K. Ansalan, MLA, inaugurated the function held at the Town Lower Primary School, Neyyattinkara. Neyyattinkara municipality chairperson W. R. Heeba presided.
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Nedumangad has done well, says Minister||The Nedumangad block panchayat has seen unprecedented development in the past five years, Minister for Industries E.P. Jayarajan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating ‘Abhayam’ scheme, ‘Athijeevanam’ training centre, and a function to hand over the profits from the ‘Jaivagramam’ scheme here on Tuesday. The Minister said that Nedumangad had shown that block panchayats could achieve a lot in the three-tier panchayat system. Specific projects Specific projects in the areas of agriculture, education, industries, and waste management had been successfully implemented. People’s interests were kept in mind and they were taken into confidence while implementing the schemes. By putting all announcements into action, the block panchayat had become a model for the State, Mr. Jayarajan said. Schemes The ‘Athijeevanam’ training centre in the block panchayat compound can house 50 people for receiving training and ‘Abhayam’ that facilitates collection of prize money and contributions to provide indent cancer patients a life-long assistance of Rs. 1,000 a month were inaugurated. The Rs. 5-lakh profit from ‘Jaivagramam’ in 2019-20 was handed over to the Nedumangad block panchayat.
28 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vayalar Award presented to Ezhacheri||The 44th Vayalar Ramavarma Memorial Literary Award was presented to noted poet Ezhacheri Ramachandran by Governor Arif Mohammed Khan at a function in Raj Bhavan on Tuesday. The award that comprises a purse of Rs. 1 lakh and a statuette designed by sculptor Kanayi Kunhiraman was given away by the Governor to coincide with the death anniversary of the celebrated poet and lyricist Vayalar Ramavarma. Mr. Ramachandran’s collection of poems Oru Virginian Veyilkaalam bagged the coveted award.
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Renovation work on 3 roads inaugurated||D.K. Murali, MLA, on Monday inaugurated the renovation work of three roads in the Pangode panchayat as part of the Chief Minister’s road renovation project. The Poolode- Ex-servicemen colony road is being renovated at a cost of Rs. 95 lakh, while the Cheruvalam- Parappil road is being renovated at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh and the Thapasagiri- Kallara road at Rs. 30 lakh.
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SAY results today||Results of the Plus Two higher secondary and vocational higher secondary Save-a-Year (SAY)/ improvement examinations for 2020 will be declared at 11.30 a.m. on Wednesday. The results can be accessed on the websitekeralaresults.nic.in
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Solar lanterns ready for distribution||Solar lanterns manufactured by Anert (Agency for New and Renewable Energy Research and Technology) are ready for distribution. A solar kit containing one solar land lantern with mobile phone charging facility and FM radio will cost Rs. 3,490. For details, call 0471 2304137, toll-free number 1800-425-1803 or log on toanert.gov.in
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rooftop solar project||Government institutions in Kerala have been invited to be part of the rooftop solar project to be implemented by Anert. Institutions can register on the Google sheet link forms.gle/pkiQ66mSpF12BiXe9. For details, visit anert.gov.in or dial 0471-2304137 or 1800-425-1803.
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online edition of Meetup Cafe on Oct. 28||The Kerala Startup Mission is organising an online edition of Meetup Café, a platform for start-ups to interact with experts and investors, on October 28. Jayadevan P.K., a start-up expert and specialist in brand-building and start-up connect sectors, will speak on the topic ‘Brand building for start-ups’ at 4 p.m. For registration, visit https://bit.ly/35nC01q .
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Electric wheelchair given away to student||The district panchayat handed over an electric wheelchair for D.S. Shibin, a resident of Vellarada and a vocational higher secondary student at Navajyothi Social School, Amboori, here on Tuesday. District panchayat president V.K. Madhu presented the wheelchair to Shibin’s father Devaneshan as part of Sneha Madhuram, a scheme of the panchayat’s Sneham Medical Palliative Society.
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New college building inaugurated||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated online on Tuesday a new building constructed at College of Engineering, Attingal. The third floor of the administrative block of the college was built at a cost of Rs. 95 lakh as part of step to raise higher education institutions to international standards.
28 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Painting competition results announced||The results of the painting competition organised by the District Information Office for upper primary and high school students via Facebook in connection with Gandhi Jayanti celebrations have been announced. In the upper primary category, Sanjay V.S. of Nirmala Bhavan Higher Secondary School, Kowdiar, bagged the first prize, and Navneet Muralidharan, of Dr G.R. Public School, secured the second prize. In the high school segment, Sanush J. Lal of Government Higher Secondary School, Thonakkal, bagged the top slot. Vaishnavi V.S. of Carmel Girls Higher Secondary School, Vazhuthacaud, won the second prize.
28 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||At 730, Thrissur reports major spike||As many as 730 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Tuesday, while 1,103 people recovered from the disease. There are 9,554 active cases in the district and 90 people from Thrissur are under treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far 35,562 cases have been confirmed in the district and 25,693 people were discharged. Local contact According to the official statistics, 637 people contracted the disease through local contact. As many as 68 inmates of the Central Prison here were tested positive. Of the new patients, 91 people are above the age of 60 and 41 children are below the age of 10. In all 6,434 people are under home observation. As many as 4,813 samples were tested on Tuesday. As the number of patients, whose source of infection is unknown, is increasing at Kodungallur, the authorities have warned stringent action against violation of COVID-19 guidelines. Kodungallur has been declared as a critical containment zone. Restrictions have been made stringent at Kottappuram market. Street vendors will be strictly banned. Strict action will be taken if more than 50 people attend wedding ceremonies and 20 persons for funerals. Business institutions should keep visitors’ diaries and more than five persons should not be allowed at a time. Children below 10 years and elderly people above the age of 60 should not be allowed in shops. Control measures Strict control measures will be taken in business firms in Thrissur Corporation limit too. Workers should wear masks and gloves. Sanitisers should also be used. People coming to the Sakthan and Jaihind markets should be screened with thermal scanners. Antigen tests have been made mandatory for workers once in a week. COVID-19 awareness campaign will be organised at business institutions in the Corporation limit on Wednesday.
28 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||NATAK to intensify agitation||The Network of Artistic Theatre Activists, Kerala (NATAK), which has been agitating for the last 22 days here demanding removal of Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi chairperson KPAC Lalitha and Secretary N. Radhakrishnan Nair, has decided to intensify its agitation. The organisation started agitation in protest against denial of permission for Mohiniyattam dancer RLV Ramakrishnan to perform in an Akademi programme. The Akademi, meant to promote art and culture and to encourage artistes, had been constantly discouraging and ridiculing artists, said NATAK State general secretary J. Shailaja. They sought immediate action against the chairperson and the secretary. Though the Minister for Culture had asked the Cultural Secretary to inquire about the allegations, no report had been submitted so far, the NATAK workers alleged.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sweet benefits of sweet potato||Sweet potato, which helps to address hidden hunger and malnutrition in the developing world, can be integrated into diverse cropping systems and soil conditions, according to Jan Low, the 2016 World Food Prize laureate. Delivering the lead talk at an international webinar on ‘Harnessing the potential of tropical tuber crops under changing climate’ that was organised by the Central Tuber Crops Research Institute here (CTCRI), she said that future breeding programmes for the orange-fleshed sweet potato should make an effort to target specific agro-ecologies and consumer segments. She also stressed the need for researchers to understand water and land use efficiency and the contribution of root system architecture. Participants A.K. Singh, Deputy Director General (DDG), ICAR, inaugurated the webinar. Arthur Villordon, Louisiana State University; Joy Adiele, National Root Crops Research Institute, Nigeria; Imran Malik, Cassava Production Systems Specialist, Lao PDR; Amele Asrat, International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Nigeria; were the speakers. CTCRI scientists C.A. Jayaprakas, M.N. Sheela, and M.L. Jeeva also spoke.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In memory of a writer||
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Early bird||
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pedalling to happiness||
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Going glocal||
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Setting things right||
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In protest mode||
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Breaking the shackles||
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Three districts stare at water crisis||
28 October 2020||AKIVEEDU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh booked on charge of rash, negligent driving||The police registered a case against MLC and Telugu Desam Party national general secretary Nara Lokesh who drove the tractor that met with an accident in the district on Monday. Mr. Lokesh, who toured Krishna and West Godavari districts to inspect the damaged crops, lost control over the vehicle while passing through a water-logged area at Siddapuram village, and the tractor veered off into a roadside canal. Palakol MLA Nimmala Ramanaidu, Undi MLA Mantena Ramaraju and about 20 party activists and farmers, who accompanied Mr. Lokesh, had a miraculous escape. West Godavari Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik said the MLC was booked under Section 279 of the IPC (rash and negligent driving). Narsapuram Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Nageswara Rao said the Akiveedu police booked the case and took up investigation. “The MLC, two MLAs and other party leaders were in the cabin when the accident occurred. Farmers and the TDP activists jumped off the tractor and screamed for help when the vehicle suddenly veered off into the canal,” the DSP said. COVID-19 rule violation Under Section 279 of the IPC, any individual who drives a vehicle in a rash and negligent manner endangering human life or causing injuries to others is liable to be imprisoned up to six months, besides a fine, the police said. Mr. Ramanaidu and Mr. Ramaraju and other activists were booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act for not following COVID-19 rules. The TDP activists have not maintained social distance, overloaded the vehicle and did not wear masks, the Akiveedu police said.
28 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drip irrigation: Anantapur dist. likely to lose its distinction||Anantapur district, which used to be in the forefront in utilising the funds for drip irrigation and covering the large extent of land every year for the past three consecutive years in the country, might lose that distinction as the State government has not yet released funds for the purpose. Even countrywide, Andhra Pradesh (7.17 lakh ha), which currently holds the second position after Karnataka (8.16 lakh ha) in covering largest area under micro irrigation, utilising the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) funds might go further down with Gujarat (7 lakh hectares) following A.P. For the 2020-21 financial year, the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare has provisioned Rs. 400 crore under the scheme for Andhra Pradesh. No decision has been taken yet on the modalities of providing subsidy through the A.P. Micro Irrigation Project (APMIP) to 4,250 farmers, who have registered themselves to avail of the facility in 6,345 hectares. Close to Rs. 140 crore, last year’s due, is yet to be released to 37 companies, who had supplied the material. The APMIP Anantapur on its part has completed the field verification also for 1,345 applicants. While making the tentative allocation under the ‘Per Drop More Crop Component’ of the PMKSY for the year 2020-21 (Rs. 3,645.00 crore for the entire country), Rs. 400 crore has been apportioned for Andhra Pradesh and a decision has been taken to revalidate the unutilised funds of the previous year by providing the utilisation certificates. Area covered under project Andhra Pradesh had taken a loan of Rs. 616.14 crore through the NABARD against expenditure made during 2019-20. The area covered under the projects is 1.021 lakh ha in the State. Anantapur district APMIP covered 35,885 ha in the 2017-18 fiscal benefiting 30,535 farmers; 34,105 ha in 2018-19 (27,576 farmers) and 29,065 ha in 2019-20 (22,697 farmers), Project Director B. Subba Rayudu told The Hindu . Through drip irrigation and sprinklers, currently in Anantapur district, 65,000 hectares of vegetable crops are irrigated followed by 52,000 ha of sweet lime, 28,000 ha of papaya, 22,200 ha of banana, 16,000 ha of melons, and another 16,000 ha of mango.
28 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||U.N. body confers special status on Sathya Sai trust||The United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) conferred ‘Special Consultative Status’ on the Puttaparthi-based Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust (SSSCT). The United Nations body accorded global recognition for the humanitarian work being done by the trust, said a release from the SSSCT. The ECOSOC adopted the recommendation of the committee on the NGOs to grant the status to the trust. It will enable the SSSCT to actively engage with ECOSOC and its subsidiary bodies and participate in their programmes in several ways. The trust can also make representations to the United Nations in the fields where it has contributed over the past many decades. Managing trustee R.J. Rathnakar said the status was of enormous significance for the trust and the Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation as it would give the SSSCT a global stage for promoting and spreading the five human values ‘sathya (truth), dharma (righteousness), shanti (peace), prema (love) and ahimsa (non-violence) advocated by Bhagavan Sri Sathya Sai Baba. “This gives us a great opportunity to expand the service activities of the Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation all over the world and reach the people who are in need so that we can spread the love of Sai Baba,” he added.  This gives us a great opportunity to expand the service activities of the Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation all over the world. R.J. Rathnakar, Managing trustee, SSSCT
28 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police participate in run||Police personnel, along with students, senior citizens, sportspersons, participated in the ‘Run for Unity’ programme organised by the District Police as part of the Police Martyrs’ Week celebrations from the Police Training College on Tuesday. The run was flagged off by ASP (Admin) E. Narendrudu. The personnel promised to work with dedication and fulfil the aspirations of the martyrs.
28 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 electrocuted||A farmer and a tractor driver reportedly died of electrocution in Lal Bahadur Nagar village in the district on Tuesday. While the farmer suffered electric shock while working on his farm, a tractor driver tried to save him and died on the spot.
28 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Awareness week at CUAP||Eradication of corruption is possible only with self-vigilance, said Central University of Andhra Pradesh(CUAP) Dean G. Anjaneyaswamy, while launching the week-long Vigilance Awareness Week-2020 on the university campus here on Tuesday. This awareness week will be observed till October 2 in commemoration of the birth anniversary of Sardhar Vallabhbhai Patel.
28 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ESI hospital: Union Min. urged to clear funding||Lavu Srikrishnadevarayalu, MP of Narasaraopet, on Tuesday urged Union Minister for Labour Santosh Gangwar to clear the construction of ESI Hospital in Chilakaluripet in Guntur district. The MP said that a 100-bed ESI hospital was sanctioned for Guntur district, but the project did not take off because of non-availability of land. ESI beneficiaries and their dependent family members were suffering without adequate healthcare facilities. “This is now going to change as suitable land parcels have been identified in Chilakaluripet for the ESI hospital to come up.” Apprising the Labour Ministry of newly identified land in Thimmapuram and Ganapavaram which was close to NH 5, the MP requested him for fast construction of the hospital. The Labour Minister took note of the land parcels identified and assured his complete support in the speedy construction of the hospital in Chilakaluripet for the benefit of Guntur district. Subsidy for rice exporters Earlier, the MP called on Railway Board Chairman regarding subsidies for rice exporters and sought for smooth transport of rice from interior regions of the State. “Indian rice exporters have worked hard over the years to provide an international market for India's paddy farmers. Our farmers grow quality non-basmati rice which fetches more than Rs. 30,000 crore in exports annually,” said the MP. Putting forward proposals to classify rice meant for exports at par with rice procured by FCI for fast movement and extending station to station facility to rice exporters, the MP said that exports would fetch good revenues for traders.
28 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Village Protection Force’ set up in Guntur||The Guntur Urban Police, in a novel initiative, have roped in local youths to form a Village Protection Force that will assist the police in maintaining law and order in villages. The force comprises able-bodied youths who will voluntarily serve in the villages under the supervision of police officers. They will be trained in manning village borders, gathering information on newcomers and assist the police in traffic duties. “The concept of a Village Protection Force has been initiated as we feel that a lot of issues can be solved amicably. We have selected youngsters after going through their credentials, and the service is purely voluntary. The ITC-ABD has provided T-shirts and caps to the volunteers as part of their CSR activity. Each team consists of 10 members who are trained to perform their duties,” said Superintendent of Police (Guntur Urban) R.N. Ammireddy. The Village Protection Force (VPF) is expected to usher in better law and order in faction-ridden villages like Mutluru in Vatticherukuru mandal, which has witnessed sporadic clashes between the two dominant communities. ‘Purely voluntary’ The concept of a village force itself has been in vogue since the times of the British and an informal system used to be in place to keep a check on criminal tribesmen and anti-social elements, the SP said. In 1983, the village witnessed a series of murders which later escalated into a full-blown factional violence which was exploited by political parties. “We have started this initiative as part of the Police Commemoration Week and we want it to extend to other mandals also. The VPF will be monitored by the local SHOs and the services are purely voluntary,” Mr. Ammireddy said.
28 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC issues notices to TDP, govt. over land allotment||A division bench of the Supreme Court has issued notices to the Andhra Pradesh government, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and the Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Corporation, asking them to furnish a written reply within three weeks about the land allotted for the TDP national office at Atmakuru in Mangalagiri mandal. The bench comprising Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman, Justice Navin Sinha and Justice Krishna Murari was hearing a petition filed by Mangalagiri MLA Alla Ramakrishna Reddy, seeking cancellation of the land allotted for the TDP office. The bench posted the next hearing to November 23. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy had filed a petition earlier, but it was struck off by the High Court. He, in his petition, charged then TDP government of allotting the land in ‘blatant violation’ of environmental norms.
28 October 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Installing smart meters will harm farmers’ interests: Congress||Dubbing the State government ‘anti-farmer’, the Congress Party has likened its move to fix smart meters to agricultural connections to tightening the noose around the farmers’ neck. Kicking off a signature campaign on behalf of the party at the agricultural marketyard here on Tuesday, Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee working president N. Thulasi Reddy said the 16-month-old YSR Congress regime had brought the State to the third position in the country in terms of farmers’ suicides, next only to Maharashtra and Karnataka. “Already the legislations brought by the Central government are set to break farmers’ back, to which the YSRC and TDP had unabashedly extended support. Now this move will certainly wreak havoc on the farming community,” he said. Claiming the Polavaram Project a ‘brain child’ of the Congress party, Mr. Thulasi Reddy wanted Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to demand the Centre to take up its execution as promised in the A.P. Reorganisation Act. “We have to wait and watch if he launches a tirade against the Centre or meekly surrenders or resigns. It is unfortunate if the Chief Minister decides to place his personal cases above State’s interests,” he charged.
28 October 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man found dead in Vontimitta||The body of a man was found hanging near the TTD Kalyana Vedika at Vontimitta in Kadapa district on Tuesday. The man was identified as Sudhakar Reddy (45), a resident of Eguvagadda in Rajampeta mandal in the district. Though police initially assumed it to be a case of suicide, based on a note found in his pocket, the daughter of the deceased reportedly claimed that the handwriting was not that of her father’s. Based on a complaint by his family members, the Vontimitta police registered a case and have begun the investigation.
28 October 2020||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 16.59 crore paid to farmers for crop loss in East Godavari||The State government on Tuesday deposited Rs. 16.59 crore of input subsidy into the accounts of 23,171 farmers, compensating them for the crops damaged due to rains and floods since July in East Godavari district. “Crops in over 11,000 hectares have been damaged due to rains and floods between July and September across the district. As many as 23,171 farmers have been affected due to damage of the crops, for which Rs. 16.59 crore of compensation has been paid on Tuesday,” Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said in a press release. “The timely disbursement of compensation for the crops that were damaged will minimise the impact of the damage during the Rabi season,” Mr. Muralidhar said. The compensation has been fixed based on the input cost spent on the cultivation of the respective agriculture and commercial crops, he said. Rythu Bharosa-PM Kisan In a video conference on the disbursement of the second phase of YSR Rythu Bharosa-PM Kisan aid, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy assured to provide crop harvesters to the farmers through the Rythu Bharosa Kendras in East Godavari district. More than 4.40 lakh farmers have received the Rythu Bharosa-PM Kisan aid to the tune of Rs. 93.30 crore; 13,962 of them are tenant farmers and 5,276 are tribal farmers in the district, the Collector said.  Modernisation of canals  Farmers who attended the online meeting appealed to the Chief Minister to hasten the modernisation of canals under the Yeleru Irrigation System to save the crops from inundation in the Kakinada rural area.
28 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prepare plan for modernisation of libraries, says JC||East Godavari Joint Collector (Development) Ch. Kirthi on Tuesday directed officials to prepare a plan for modernisation of libraries across the district. Speaking at the general body meeting of the Zilla Grandhalaya Samstha (ZGS) here, Ms. Kirthi said the libraries, which have been seeing an increasing number of readers for some time, should be renovated and equipped with new facilities and that advice of readers should be considered for the same. Members of the ZGS on Tuesday accepted the proposal of building a conference hall and renovation of reference section in the District Central Library in Kakinada city. A separate plan was required to utilise the space and infrastructure of the existing buildings of libraries across the district, said Ms. Kirthi, who is also In-Charge Chairperson of the Zilla Grandhalaya Samstha. Zilla Grandhalaya Samstha secretary M. Sekhar Babu, deputy librarian S. Sai Satyanarayana and other officials were present.
28 October 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||40 people injured in Banni festival||More than 40 persons were injured in the frenzy during the Banni festival on the Vijaya Dasami midnight at Devaragattu in Adoni Mandal of Kurnool district, which was organised despite the ban imposed this year owing to the coronavirus pandemic. Seven of the injured are said to have sustained grievous injuries. Thousands of devotees gathered at the Mala Malleshwara Swamy temple to witness the procession of the ceremonial deities past midnight amid the light of torches, and to take part in the age-old ritual of getting hold of the ceremonial deities after a ‘literal fight’ with sticks attached with metal rings. Police bandobust A heavy police bandobust was made at the village, situated along the Karnataka border, to keep the people away from the ‘ritual fight’ in which tens of people get injured every year and some of them die due to excessive bleeding. Even as the ban on the ‘ritual fight’ was publicised in view of the pandemic and CCTV cameras were installed at the venue for the festivities, apart from 15 check-posts that were erected to prevent entry of crowd, the participants did not budge. Things went out of control by the midnight, despite the police personnel deployed in two groups tried their best to get hold of the ceremonial deities. Health officials deployed at the villages treated the injured. Even as the number of people gathering at the temple came down sharply, the ‘ritual fight’ could not be stopped.
28 October 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGCA team to inspect Orvakal airport soon||A team from the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) will visit the Orvakal airport soon and inspect the facility for assessing its readiness to begin commercial operations of flights, Kurnool Collector G. Veerapandian has said. At a review meeting with Orvakal airport Director Kailash Mandal, DRDA Project Director Srinivasulu and other officials here on Tuesday, Mr. Veerapandian said that all works related to the beginning of commercial operations should be completed in the next few days. He wanted the officials to identify all the pending works before October 30 and finish them by engaging additional manpower so that the airport would be ready in all aspects before the visit of the DGCA team. Pilot training centre Meanwhile, the Andhra Pradesh Airports’ Development Corporation Limited (APADCL) has proposed to set up a pilot training centre at the greenfield airport. Orvakal airport is located between Hyderabad (200 km) and Bengaluru (360 km) airports making it ideal for pilots training. The airport is 20 km from the ciry and 350 km from the Vijayawada airport. It has a 2,000-metre-long runaway and four parking bays. “If a training facility gets established, aero-sports activities will also get a boost,” the officials said.
28 October 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB raids Machilipatnam town planning office||The officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Vijayawada unit, conducted raids on the town planning wing of Machilipatnam Municipal Corporation, on Tuesday. They found that records, attendance, personal cash, layout approval, court case, occupancy certificate, encroachment of government land and field inspection registers were allegedly not maintained properly. ACB officials seized Rs. 16,800 cash from the staff. Citizens who visited the town planning section reportedly complained that the staff were not working and responding to the petitions or applications properly. The case is under investigation, the ACB officials said.
28 October 2020||NAGAYALANKA (KRISHNA DIST.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Srungeri Sarada Peetham gets chief astrologer||Sankaramanchi Rama Krishna Sastry has been appointed as the chief astrologer of the Srungeri Sarada Peetham. Jagadguru Shankaracharya Sri Vidhu Shekara Bharati Swamy announced it during the Vijaya Dasami celebrations at the peetam on Monday. A native of Sangameswaram village in Nagayalanka mandal, Mr. Rama Krishna Sastry has done ‘vedic yaju smartham’ at the Bapatla Veda Patasala and MA in Sanakrit, Telugu and astrology from the Pottisreeramily Telugu University. He has also completed Ph.D in Unnatapadivi-Rajayogam from Telugu University in Hyderabad another Ph.D in Ayanamsa submitted to Yoga Samskrutam University in Florida, U.S.A. He has done research in Skandatrayatmaka Jyothisha Shastram at Jyotisha Vishwa Vidyapeeth, Omkareshwar in Madhya Pradesh.
28 October 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress activists take up cudgels for farmers||Activists of the Congress Party staged a demonstration in front of the Indira Bhavan here on Tuesday demanding justice for paddy growers who had been denied a remunerative price for their produce on the pretext of ‘excess moisture’. The activists raised slogans demanding a probe by the vigilance department or CB-CID and action against those responsible for denial of MSP to the farmers. More than 30,000 farmers in the Assembly segments of Sarvepalli, Gudur, Venkatagiri, Sullurpeta, Kovur and Kavali went for cultivation of a new variety of paddy developed by the Rice Research Station here in five lakh acres. At the time of harvest by machines, a total 10 lakh putties was collected and half of it went to the Union government, which fixed the minimum support price for each tonne of paddy at Rs. 15,600. The rest was purchased by brokers close to the influential MLAs, who denied the farmers Rs. 5,000 per each putty, they alleged. Each putty comprises 847 kg of paddy. A thorough inquiry was needed to unearth the injustice to the farmers, they said.
28 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recovery rate rises to 96.63% in south coastal Andhra||The rate of recovery improved further, while the number of new cases declined to a few hundreds in south coastal Andhra pradesh in the last 24 hours. Close to 1,900 patients recovered from the illness in the districts of Prakasam and Nellore during the period, while only 229 persons tested positive. With two deaths in Prakasam district, the toll marginally rose to 1,054 in the region, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Tuesday night. The death rate was 0.79% in Nellore district, which reported nil deaths during the period. But it was a little higher at 0.97% in Prakasam district. The recovery rate was 96.63% as over 1.15 lakh of more than 1.19 lakh patients who got infected have been cured of the disease in the two districts so far. Only 76 persons tested positive for the disease in Nellore district during the period taking the number of cumulative confirmed cases to 60,724. However, the number of active cases dipped to 1,562 as 196 patients were cured of the disease during the period. As many as 1,699 patients won the battle against the disease in Prakasam district during the period, reducing the caseload to just 1,891. Only 153 of the 6,050 persons subjected to testing were found positive for the disease. The number of cases in hospitals came to down from the peak of over 1,500 cases to 530, including 285 patients who were provided with oxygen/ventilator support.
28 October 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trimex company employees urge govt. to revive factory||As many as 550 employees and 2,000 daily wage workers who have lost their livelihood with the closure of Trimex Sands Private Limited have been urging the Union and State governments to take steps for its revival either in private or public sector. The company engaged in exploration of heavy beach sand minerals stopped its operations following the countrywide ban on beach sand mining by private companies clamped in February 2019. The Union government issued orders saying that mining of heavy minerals such as ilmenite, rutile, garnet, monazite and zircon should be done by government agencies only. The government’s order had come as a big jolt for the company, its staff and the 2500 village dwellers and others who depended on the economic activity generated by the company in and around Vatsavalasa village of Gara mandal in the district. Welfare activities As part of its CSR activity, the company reportedly spent nearly Rs. 20 crore for the establishment of an English medium school, a medical centre and water plants. Except the school, the other service activities have been stopped due to lack of funds. “The government has ignored the fate of employees while banning mining by private companies. Either Union or State governments can take up the responsibility to ensure livelihood for the employees and others,” said N. Kumar, an employee of the company. “AP Mineral Development Corporation can be given the responsibility since the Union government had clearly stated that the factories can by operated by government agencies,” said K. Raju, another employee. People of Vatsavalasa, Tulugu, Tonangi, Srikurmam and other villages are eagerly waiting for the revival of the factory. “Trimex Sands Private Limited is a major industry in the Srikakulam constituency. Its closure led to denial of jobs to many youngsters of Gara and Srikakulam mandals. The government should take immediate steps for reopening of the factory,” said T. Apparao, a resident of Vatsavalasa.
28 October 2020||TADEPALLIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New buildings opened on NIT campus in West Godavari||Union Minister of Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and State Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Tuesday virtually inaugurated the new buildings on the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Andhra Pradesh, at Tadepalligudem in West Godavari district. The Ministers, along with Board of Governors (BoG) Chairperson Mridula Ramesh, NIT Director C.S.P. Rao and in-charge Registrar Dinesh P. Sankar Reddy opened the new buildings. Mr. Suresh said that the NIT management has submitted a proposal for construction of other structures, estimated at a cost of Rs. 350 crore in the second phase, and appealed to Mr. Pokhriyal to sanction the amount. The Union Minister said the Government of India has sanctioned Rs. 415 crore in the first phase for NIT AP, and assured to grant budget for taking up construction works under the second phase. Director Prof. Rao said incubation centres and classrooms will come up in the second phase on the campus. The Ministers praised the NIT management for constructing the academic building, hostels, laboratory, guesthouse and other structures and preparing the project report for the next phase of construction.
28 October 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Some arjitha sevas at Tirumala temple to go online||The TTD on Tuesday resolved to go for online conduct of certain arjitha sevas from November with virtual participation of devotees. Arjitha sevas like Brahmotsavams, Dolotsavams and Sahasra Deepalankara seva which are performed during the day time at the Lord Venkateswara temple here will be conducted online on an experimental basis on the request of pilgrim fraternity. The sevas will be telecast live on TTD’s Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC). The list containing the names and ‘Gotrams’ of the participating devotees will be placed at the feet of the Lord during the time of sevas. The participants in the online sevas would not be facilitated with any kind of darshan at Tirumala, the TTD said. Considering the reduction in COVID-19 cases, the management is reportedly exploring the feasibility of conducting Sahasra Deepalankara seva at the mandapam outside the main temple complex and thereafter organise the regular evening procession of the deities around the sacred shrine.
28 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Industrial estates on lines of Sri City planned||Minister for Industries, Commerce and IT Mekapati Goutham Reddy has announced to develop world class industrial estates in different districts on the lines of Sri City in Chittoor district. Participating in the virtual conference organised by Vizag Industrial Scan (VISCAN) on ‘Destination Andhra Pradesh’ here on Tuesday, he dwelt on the benchmark created by Sri City and appreciated its Founder Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy for coming up with such a sustainable model. “AP stands No.1 among fellow Indian states in implementing business reforms action plan (BRAP), which indicates ease-of-doing business, for the third time in a row,” he added. Mr. Reddy hinted at the new industrial policy focusing on providing best-in-class infrastructure, zero-hassle setup, skilled labour and end-to-end hand-holding support to investors and creating an industry-friendly environment at par with international standards. Mr. Sannareddy hailed the State government for embarking on a new journey of sustainable development, with focus on infrastructure-led growth. VISCAN Director Aditya Sabharwal welcomed, while 250 from the industrial spectrum, including JM Baxi group Chairman Krishna B. Kotak, Hindustan Shipyard CMD Hemant Khatri, Managing Directors Yamaguchi Masahiro (Toray Industries) and Hasitha Premaratne (Brandix) participated.
28 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Smart meter issues referred to judicial commission||The Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (APSPDCL) has announced that the issues pertaining to installation of smart meters to agricultural connections under its purview has been referred to the State Judicial Commission. It was proposed to fit the meters at the government’s expenditure under the plan, for which tenders were prepared by the Department of Energy. As part of the norms, the tenders has been referred to the judicial commission, which will study the plan and address the objections, if any, over the process. The details will be available on the website www.judicialpreview.ap.gov.in till Novomber 5, APSPDCL Chairman and Managing Director H. Haranath Rao said on Tuesday. People and the contractors can get their doubts clarified or express their objection over the issue.
28 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Training for staff of village secretariats||The Department of Village and Ward Secretariats will train its staff in digital services to ensure effective service delivery . In a release, Principal Secretary of the Department Ajay Jain said the training is important to ensure grassroots-level digital service delivery to households through the Secretariats. Mr. Ajay Jain said the two-day training classes from November 3 to November 12 will be held in KL University covering all the districts and digital assistants, education and data procession secretaries representing each mandal, municipal corporation or panchayat will take part, besides a team of AP Online from the districts. A total of 800 personnel from 13 districts will take part in the training session on days allotted for their respective districts, Mr. Ajay Jain said
28 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police Commissioner performs ‘Poornahuti’||Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu performed ‘Poornahuti’ as part of the closing of the nine-day Dasara utsavams on Tuesday. Mr. Srinivasulu, along with One Town CI P. Venkateswarlu, performed the ritual at the police station and offered prayers to goddess Kanakadurga. Later, the police conducted ‘Annadanam’ to the devotees on the occasion. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Ch. Lakshmipathi and other officers participated in the ‘Poornahuti’ and ‘Annadanam’ programmes. Earlier, the Police Commissioner complimented the police for peaceful conduct of Dasara utsavams atop Indrakeeladri without any incident. He praised all the officers and police personnel, who participated in the ‘Sarannavarathri utsavams’ bandobust at Kanakadurga temple. Members of the A.P. Police Officers’ Association, Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACPs), Circle Inspectors, Sub-Inspectors and others performed pujas on the occasion.
28 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retaining wall to come up along the Krishna||Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha said that the State government is keen on the construction of a retaining wall along the Krishna to avoid inundation of several areas in Krishnalanka and Ramalingeswara Nagar due to floods. In a review meeting here on Tuesday, Ms. Madhavi Latha said that 8,204 are families residing in low-lying areas of Krishnalanka, Ranigari Thota, Bhupesh Gupta Nagar and Chalasani Nagar and 4,670 families reside close to the river. She said 2,257 houses were affected by the floods and to build a permanent retaining wall, over 2,542 encroachments will have to be removed. She said altogether 2,221 families will be relocated and provided housing through government housing schemes. She asked officials to ensure all families in the structures falling within the retaining wall limit vacate the premises and be given alternative shelters. Vijayawada Sub-Collector H.M. Dhyan Chandra and officials from VMC, revenue and irrigation departments took part in the meeting. The government has already sanctioned the project worth over Rs. 100 crore similar to the one in Ramalingeswara Nagar and Yanamalakuduru.
28 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conclave on tourism sector tomorrow||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao will attended a virtual conclave on ‘Restarting Tourism and Hospitality Sector-Andhra Pradesh as Most Preferred Destination’, to be organised by the Tourism Panel of the Confederation of Indian Industry’s Andhra Pradesh Chapter, on October 29 (Thursday). Special Chief Secretary (Tourism) Rajat Bhargav, Managing Director of Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) and CEO of AP Tourism Authority (APTA) Pravin Kumar, Director (Administration), APTA V. Sambasiva Raju, former Secretary, Ministry of Tourism Vinod Zutshi, founder and CEO of Indian School of Hospitality Dilip Puri, Regional Director of South India Tourism Sanjay Srivastav, Chairman of CII-Andhra Pradesh D. Ramakrishna, Head of the Tourism wing of Tata Trusts Mrudula Tangirala, president of the Adeventure Tour Operators' Association of India Swadesh Kumar, co-convenor of CII Andhra Pradesh Services Panel-Tourism Sector Tarun Kakani and president of the Tours and Travels Association of AP K. Vijay Mohan will speak at the meeting.
28 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police organise ‘Run for Unity’, band show||Police organised a ‘Run for Unity’ and band shows as part of the ongoing Police Commemoration Day programmes on Tuesday. West Godavari district Superintendent of Police (SP) K. Narayan Naik inaugurated the run at Eluru town. Rallies were conducted at Tadepalligudem and other places. ASP, Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs), CIs, SIs and other officers participated. At Machilipatnam, SP M. Ravindranath Babu flagged off the ‘Run for Unity’. Similar programmes were held at Gudivada and other places in the district. In Vijayawada, police organised a band show which impressed the public.
28 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway staff take integrity pledge||Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas participated in the Vigilance Awareness Week and administered pledge to the officers and staff on Tuesday. The staff took the pledge to follow the rule of law, work sincerely and honestly and to act in public interest. The theme of the ‘Vigilance Awareness Week’ this year was ‘Vigilant India – Prosperous India’, the railway officials said. Essay-writing and drawing competitions were conducted online for students on the occasion.
28 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASHA workers decry transfer to village secretariats||The AP Voluntary Health Workers’ (ASHA) Union demanded that the government drop the idea of transferring and attaching ASHA workers to village and ward Secretariats. They staged a protest on Tuesday opposing the government’s decision. They alleged that the workers who had been working in the same areas for 14 years were being transferred to new locations and attached to the secretariats. They also demanded gratuity, pension and other retirement benefits to the workers besides filling up of vacancies. The workers also demanded payment of pending salaries.
28 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Healthcare workers to get COVID vaccine first||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz has called upon healthcare professionals and health workers in the district to enrol their names in the COVID vaccine early access list. In a meeting with officials concerned here on Tuesday, Mr. Imtiaz said the Central government had decided to vaccinate frontline staff in the public and private sector to protect them from COVID infection as soon as a vaccine for COVID was available. He said all the staff of ICDS department, all the personnel from watchman to principal and students at medical and nursing colleges, 110 government hospitals, about 1,000 private hospitals, 58 Ayush hospitals and others had to give their names.
28 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RIMC entrance test: application date extended||The last date for submission of application form for the entrance examination (December 2020) for admission in the Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC), Dehradun, has been extended till November 30. According to a statement released by the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC), the entrance test will now be conducted only on one day, January 9 (Saturday), in Vijayawada. Candidates will write their exam in Mathematics from 9.30 a.m. to 11 a.m., in General Knowledge from 12 noon to 1 p.m. and in English, from 2.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. on January 9. A waiver has been granted to submit the application forms without the education certificate duly signed by the Headmaster/Principal, domicile certificate duly issued by the respective state authorities and signature of Headmaster/Principal on application form. But the above mentioned documents will be needed to be submitted at the time of viva voce.
28 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social distancing norms given the go-by in buses and trains||Social distancing has gone for a toss in several RTC buses and trains as people return to Visakhapatnam after Dasara. Many passengers reveal that their return journey to the city after the festival was a nightmare as passengers have even ignored the mandatory rule of wearing masks. While many bus conductors followed COVID-19 safety protocols by making sure the vehicle is not overcrowded, several inter-district buses plying in Visakhapatnam region were seen jam-packed. There were heated arguments between passengers in a few buses over occupying seats and not wearing masks. “When I boarded the bus at Palasa RTC complex, the conductor made sure that passengers without reservation do not board the bus. However, when the bus crossed Srikakulam, the vehicle was overcrowded and the conductor was helpless. Passengers were moving without masks. When some people made sure that the middle seat is vacant to ensure social distancing, other passengers entered into heated arguments to allow them to sit,” said G. Ramesh Kumar, a resident of Palasa, who boarded a bus from Palasa to Visakhapatnam. Several Pallevelugu and city buses in Visakhapatnam, Anakapalle, Chodavaram, Sabbavaram, Vizianagaram, Simhachalam and a few others totally ignored the safety protocol by allowing a huge number of passengers. “We cannot ask people to just leave when they try to board a bus with children and elderly persons. However we insist them to wear masks for sure. No matter how much you try, buses plying in some routes between Visakhapatnam and Ichchapuram, are always overcrowded, which we cannot avoid,” said a bus conductor from Visakhapatnam. According to a few passengers, unlike last year, passengers with reservations were allowed to board trains as part of COVID-19 safety protocol. This reportedly led to overcrowding in RTC buses. Routes from Visakhapatnam to Srikakulam and East Godavari districts witnessed heavy rush since last week. Meanwhile, some train commuters complained that some people are not wearing masks. There should be inspections and fines must be collected, said P. Sai Shyam. a commuter.
28 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||1.25% of global GDP lost due to graft, says official||The Vigilance Awareness Week, being jointly observed by the Visakhapatnam Port Trust and the Dredging Corporation India Limited, began here on Tuesday. The integrity pledge was administered at administration office building by J. Pradeep Kumar, Chief Vigilance Officer, VPT, in the presence of K. Rama Mohana Rao, Chairman VPT, and Rajesh Tripathi, Managing Director, DCIL. Speaking on the occasion Mr. Pradeep Kumar said that 1.25% of the global GDP was lost due to corruption and it is important that creating a conducive environment with the help of technology was necessary. Mr. Rajesh Tripathi emphasised on efficacy of preventive vigilance as a tool to curb corruption. L.K.V. Ranga Rao, DIG, Visakhapatnam Range, explained the side effects of power and how power could corrupt and how corruption was systematically ingrained in government offices. The event was attended by officials of the DCIL and the VPT. P.K. Rath, CMD, RINL-VSP, read out the Integrity Pledge along with employees of VSP to formally inaugurate the Vigilance Week, in the presence of V.V. Venugopal Rao, Director (Finance), K.C. Das, Director (Personnel), D.K..Mohanty Director (Commercial), A. K. Saxena, Director (Operations), K. Venkata Nagi Reddy, Chief Vigilance officer. The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (E Co R) displayed banners and posters at various railway stations and units and distributed pamphlets to passengers to create awareness on the need to fight corruption. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava said that the motto was to create awareness on vigilance among the rail users, stakeholders and railway employees in the goal towards a ‘Vigilant India- Prosperous India.’ Regional Director of IGNOU Regional Centre G. Dharma Rao called upon the officials and staff to adopt transparency in their day-to-day life.
28 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure dumper bins are cleared, GVMC chief tells sanitary staff||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana instructed the sanitary staff to make sure the dumper bins are cleared in between 9.30 a.m. and 10.30 a.m. She also instructed them to arrange red and blue dump bins in every ward and create awareness over them. Ms. Srijana had organised a coordination meet with the sanitary department staff here on Tuesday. She instructed the GVMC and Sachivalayam staff to conduct raids on shops and impose fines on the shopkeepers if they are found using plastic bags. She also asked the Mechanical Department staff to focus on transporting wastes from the city to the dumping yard. She said that the transportation vehicles must be covered on the top while shifting wastes. She also asked staff to check pig menace at Pendurthy, Gajuwaka and Madhurawada areas. Chief Medical & Officer for Health (C.M.O.H) K.S.L.G. Sastry said that the sanitary secretaries should be on duty from 6 a.m. as per job chart. He also suggested them to maintain a diary to note down the works carried out throughout a day.
28 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ICSI inks MoU with law university||The Institute of Company Secretaries of India has signed a Memorandum of Understanding(MoU) with Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University, Visakhapatnam, under the ICSI Academic Collaborations initiative. A panel discussion was organised on ‘Professional Education in National Policy of Education 2020’ through virtual mode. The objective of the MoU is to bring together the efforts of the two institutes for imparting knowledge and honing the skills of students, academicians and professionals. Nagendra D Rao, vice- president, ICSI, said “This undertaking would not only help in fostering the relationship between the two institutes but would also promote Executive Education Programmes.” S. Surya Prakash, Vice-Chancellor, DSNLU, and C.M. Rao, Registrar, DSNLU, were present.
28 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Man-made reasons behind Hyderabad woes’||The recent heavy rains, triggered by a depression in the Bay of Bengal, and the resultant flash floods in Hyderabad is not an unusual feature. More than being a natural disaster, the trail of destruction left by the flash floods can be attributed more to man-made reasons, says a former IMD official. Hyderabad city is situated on a rough and rocky terrain with ups and downs at some places. The nature of the soil inhibits speedy percolation of rainwater of intense short spells, at many places. Indiscriminate urbanisation is another reason for the severity of floods. The rainwater went as surface run-off and caused flash floods at far off places. The encroachments on drains and choking due to garbage accumulation led to overflowing of drains and water flooded roads and homes at some places, says P.V. Rama Rao, a retired director of IMD, who has analysed the data based on figures provided by the IMD. Flash floods were witnessed in the years 1908, 1954, 2000, 2016 and at some places in Hyderabad in 2017. Encroachments on drains and canals have changed the course of streams, he adds. The deep depression that crossed North Andhra coast, close to Kakinada, on October 13 morning caused widespread rains over coastal A.P. and Telangana between Oct. 12 and 14. Intense spells  Incessant torrential rains along with extremely intense spells of rain occurred in East and West Godavari and Krishna districts in coastal Andhra Pradesh on October 13. In Telangana, Rangareddy, Hyderabad, Yadagiri – Bhuvanagiri, Medchal – Malkajgiri, the southern half of Siddipet and eastern half of Medak districts experienced extremely intense spells of rain, followed by flash floods on October 14. Between 20 and 30 cm of rain occurred in these districts, causing flash floods and inundating low-lying areas and submerging crops. Surface water sources were full and the flood waters caused breaches to bunds of tanks, canals, reservoirs and rivers. Life came to a standstill in Hyderabad for two to three days in 1,500 colonies mainly due to inundation of houses. The old city was practically flooded by the water from River Musi. No damages had occurred due to winds, associated with the system, in both States. Natural disasters do occur due to extreme weather events, high velocity winds and heavy spells of rain followed by flash floods in association with cyclonic disturbance from the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea, he says.
28 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag West MLA inspects flyover works||Visakhapatnam West MLA P.V.G.R. Naidu (Ganababu) inspected the NAD flyover works on Tuesday. Expressing satisfaction at the progress of the works, Mr. Naidu said that half of the work has already been completed and opened for public use. He was optimistic the pending rotary flyover-part would be completed by December-end as it was a pre-fabricated structure. The four-lane rotary underpass work is yet to begin. The underpass work would begin only on completion of the pedestrian pathway on the flyover. The railway Road Over Bridge work on the airport-side of the flyover was yet to begin. Mr. Naidu said that though the work was hampered due to shortage of sand for some months, it was now going on track. Engineers of VMRDA and Vijay Nirman Company (VNC) and Bommidi Ramana, Nammi Srinu, Kamakula Nageswara Rao and Prasad Yalamachili were present.
28 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU: pay wage arrears to sanitation workers||Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) city president R.K.S.V. Kumar has demanded immediate payment of the wage arrears of sanitation workers, involved in the segregation of dry and wet wastes. A protest was staged by the workers, under the auspices of GVMC Contract Workers Union, affiliated to the CITU, opposite the GVMC Zone-II Office at Asilametta on Tuesday. Zonal Commissioner Srinivas, who met the striking workers, told them that he would take the issue to the notice of the GVMC Commissioner and strive for a solution.
28 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 106 new COVID cases, 1 death||The district registered 106 fresh COVID infections in the last 24 hours as on Tuesday evening, taking the tally to 55,827. The death toll also rose to 472 with one more person succumbing to the coronavirus. As many as 179 persons undergoing treatment recovered in the last 24 hours. The active and recovered cases are 2,176 and 53,179 respectively. Out of 316 clusters in the district, nine are very active, 16 active and 296 are dormant. It may be remembered that already 627 clusters were de-notified by the district administration.
28 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beggar ‘murdered’ for not repaying Rs. 3,000 loan||A beggar, aged around 40 years, was allegedly killed by a group of four persons, including a woman, for failing to repay a loan of Rs. 3,000 near RTC Complex on Monday night. The deceased was identified as G. Appalanaidu, a resident of Seethammadhara. According to the police, the victim had reportedly borrowed the money from one Anuradha sometime ago. On Monday night, an argument reportedly took place over the repayment. Anuradha along with Dasu, Apparao alias Abbudu and Venkat Reddy, all beggars from RTC Complex area, have allegedly killed Appalanaidu by smashing his head with a cement brick at an isolated place. By the time, locals spotted and shifted him to a hospital, he was declared brought dead. All the accused have been taken into custody. The body was shifted for post-mortem and a case was registered.
28 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Olympiad exams to be conducted online this year||The Science Olympiad Foundation (SOF), said to be the biggest organiser of Olympiad exams for school students in the world, has announced that the exams will be conducted online, during the current academic year, in view of the pandemic situation. Students can appear for SOF Olympiad exams from their homes.
28 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI demands handing over of housing plots to poor||The CPI has demanded handing over of the lands acquired for housing to the poor under Navaratnalu by the State government at SR Puram and Juttada in the district. A CPI team, lead by CPI City secretary M. Pydiraju, visited the housing layouts for the poor on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Pydiraju demanded allotment of two cents of land in urban areas and three cents in rural areas to the poor by Deepavali.
28 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Utilise welfare scheme, MLA urges Dalits and tribals||Payakaraopeta MLA Golla Babu Rao from the YSR Congress Party urged the Dalits and tribals to utilise ‘Jagananna YSR Badugu Vikasam’ scheme meant to support upcoming entrepreneurs. District Market Committee chairman A. Rajababu and a few others were present.
28 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus takes the sheen off Sirimanotsavam||The Sirimanotsavam of Pyditalli Ammavari temple in Vizianagaram on Tuesday remained a lacklustre affair with a limited attendance of devotees in the wake of pandemic. The festival also brought to the light the feud among the members of the Pusapati royal family, especially that of late Pusapati Ananda Gajapathi Raju, former chairperson of MANSAS Trust and trustee of Pyditalli Ammavari temple. Ananda’s second wife Sudha Gajapathi Raju and daughter Urmila Gajapathi Raju were not allowed to watch the Sirimanotsavam from the balcony of the Vizianagaram fort, allegedly at the instance of Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju, now chairman of MANSAS Trust and daughter of Ananda’s first wife Uma Gajapathi Raju. Ms. Sudha and Ms. Urmila came to the fort balcony, but the MANSAS Trust staff reportedly asked them to leave the premises immediately. As per the tradition, the members of the Pusapati family watch the ceremonial procession and offer prayers from the the fort balcony. The ‘Siri Manu’ moves three times from the temple to the fort during the festival. Mr. Sudha and Ms. Urmila who have been watching the festival from the fort for the last twenty years said they were shocked at ‘the insult’ and left the premises. Ms. Sanchaita controls the affairs of fort, out of which the MANSAS Trust’s office and the educational institutions are being run. ‘We are shocked’ “We are shocked at the treatment meted out to us at the instance of that person (Ms. Sanchaita). We were forced to leave the premises. Is it not our right to attend the festival as the as the members of the Pusapati family? I have been taking part in the festival every year for the last two decades,” said Ms. Urmila. It may be noted that former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, his wife Suneela Gajapathi Raju and daughter Aditi Gajapathi Raju had decided to stay away from the festival. They have been objecting the ‘dominance’ of Ms. Sanchaita while dealing with the affairs of the MANSAS Trust and the fort, claiming that she had no right to do as her mother Uma Gajapathi Raju took divorce from Ananda Gajapathi Raju three decades ago. Meanwhile, the ceremonial procession of the ‘Sri Manu’ was organised between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. The ‘Jalari Radham’ prepared by the local fishermen and ‘Elephants Ambari’ moved along with the ‘Siri Manu’. Temple chief priest Bantupalli Venkata Rao who was tied with the ‘Siri Manu’ blessed the devotees on behalf of Pyditalli Ammavaru. Assembly Speaker Tammineni Sitaram, Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana, his wife Botcha Jhansi, several MLAs were among those who offered prayers from the fort balcony. Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal, Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari and other senior officials monitored the arrangements. The district authorities did not allow the devotees to participate in the procession or watch it from their house terraces this year to check the spread of coronavirus.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports fewer than 3,000 new cases||The State reported 2,901 new COVID-19 cases and 19 new deaths in 24 hours ending Tuesday morning taking the tally to 8,11,825. The death toll increased to 6,625 while the death rate remains at 0.82%. Moreover, 4,352 patients have recovered and the number of the active case further came down to 27,300. Kurnool, Vizianagaram and Nellore together have only 1,126 active cases as of Tuesday while other districts have not less than 1,000 active cases. So far, 7,77,900 patients have recovered and the recovery rate stands at 95.82%. The daily test positivity rate was 3.88% for the 74,757 samples tested in the past day, and the overall positivity rate of 76.96 lakh tests was 10.55%. The tests per million ratio was close to 1.5 lakh as it reached 1.44 lakh. Meanwhile, three districts reported more than 400 new cases, while West Godavari reported the highest. Kadapa reported the highest number of deaths in the past day. The district-wise new cases and deaths are as follows; West Godavari (555 and 1), East Godavari (464 and 2), Krishna (411 and 3), Guntur (385 and 1), Chittoor (272 and 3), Prakasam (153 and 2), Anantapur (153 and 1), Kadapa (127 and 4), Visakhapatnam (106 and 1), Nellore (76 and 0), Srikakulam (73 and 0), Vizianagaram (71 and 0) and Kurnool (55 and 1). The district infection tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,14,137), West Godavari (83,779), Chittoor (77,121), Guntur (65,731), Anantapur (63,872), Kurnool (59,341), Nellore (59,158), Prakasam (58,816), Visakhapatnam (55,315), Kadapa (51,379), Srikakulam (43,624), Vizianagaram (39,024) and Krishna (37,633). Recovery rate Recovery rate in Nellore, Vizianagaram and Kurnool was more than 98% and that in Anantapur was 97%. While others have a recovery rate of more than 93% only Krishna has less 90% and the lowest recovery rate of 89.73%.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Taking no chances||
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call of faith||
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizianagaram chosen best dist. in water management||Vizianagaram has been adjudged the best aspirational district in water management in the country for the year 2019. The Ministry of Water Resources has informed Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal about it. As many as 300 tanks including the Pedda Cheruvu have been revived with the involvement of NGOs. Mr. Jawharlal thanked the entire administration for taking steps collectively for revival of ponds and optimum utilisation of government schemes in providing irrigation facility to all mandals, a press note released here on Tuesday said.
28 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Keeping a hawk’s eye on Shukoorsagar dam embankment||The embankment of Shukoorsagar dam has become a high security no-go zone in the aftermath of flooding in Osman Nagar, Shaheen Nagar, Sufa Colony and other areas. A posse of policemen from Balapur Police Station, mobile surveillance cameras and floodlights have been deployed in the area to restrict access. Only the residents of Venkatapur are being allowed to cross the dam bund to reach their homes. “Hundreds of houses are under water in the other part of the lake. We are guarding this place for the past one week to prevent anyone from trying to release water from the lake,” said a police official. Before the lake got filled up, the embankment and the Katta Maisamma temple had untrammelled access. The fear is not unfounded as the residents whose houses are under water have been demanding release of the water or pumping it out. “A government which can bring down a massive building like the secretariat can easily pump out water from this lake,” said Muhammad Ahmed of Sufa Colony who is now staying at a relative’s house in Yakutpura. “They should drain the water. How long can we live on charity of others,” asked his wife as they waited to collect relief material being distributed in the area. According to residents of the area, the water level is still rising due to seepage and release of drain water from other areas into the lake. Below the dam is the village of Venkatapur and further downstream are Babanagar and many other areas which have already borne the brunt of flash floods. “Water from that dam has never overflowed. The farmers here use it for irrigation by pumping it,” said Satish who lives in the Venkatapur village where the paddy fields are making way for apartments. One of the unfinished apartments has ankle-deep water while the surrounding areas have knee-high water. Mass Foundation, an NGO working in the area, has applied to the Commissioner of Jalpally to allow usage of pumps to drain the water from the lake. “The main problem of the people here is that they have lost everything. But if the water is drained, at least they will have a roof over their heads,” said Mazher Ahmed of the NGO. “We have failed at the policy level to bring relief to the people there by not draining the water. Irrigation experts can easily come up with a solution that is pragmatic and would not cause harm to the surrounding areas. We require governmental intervention to solve this problem rather an individual solution,” said Anant Maringanti of Hyderabad Urban Labs.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sluice gates shut for more than 3,000 lakes in RR district||An expedient decision two decades ago pertaining to lakes in erstwhile Ranga Reddy district proved costly during recent floods that drowned several localities in GHMC limits and surrounding municipalities. Orders passed by the district administration over 20 years ago to shut down the sluice gates of several lakes in the district for good, has had repercussions much later, as the officials struggled in vain to open them at every lake that brimmed dangerously owing to the recent spate of excessive rainfall. Sluice gates of thousands of lakes in the district were shut between 1998 and 2002, a good number with concrete, in order to conserve water during the trying drought conditions prevalent back then. According to Irrigation department officials, the sluices of more than 3,000 lakes in the district were closed for good, with a view to save the precious resource for essential purposes. As per the orders, all lakes with less than 100 acres of irrigated extent were to be shut down, and no water there of should be exploited for irrigation. All such lakes were brought under the Panchayat Raj department, and only 250 plus lakes under which the ayacut was over 100 acres, were left with the Irrigation department. “It was a well meaning decision back then, considering the severe scarcity of drinking water and cattle fodder. Farmers lifted the gates for their requirement, and left them open with no regard for water wastage. The district authorities intended to conserve the water so that ground reserves got recharged in the surrounding localities, solving the drinking water and fodder issues,” shared an official. During recent floods, scores of lakes in the district overflowed, and with their weirs and surplus channels blocked or encroached upon by colonies and bastis during the intervening years, the only hope left was the sluices. “Weirs and not the sluices are designed to drain the excess water. Sluices are designed to release controlled flows for irrigation purpose, and their outflow capacity is very low compared with that of the weir. But everywhere, weirs were blocked and surplus courses were heavily constructed, leaving us no choice,” another official said. While even the sluice courses were thickly occupied by colonies, opening them would not have resulted in devastation as the outflows were meagre. It was a desperate measure looked upon by the officials as the last recourse to save the lakes from breaching. It was, however, not to be so simple. At Fox Sagar lake, they had to camp for over a week before they could work the sluice open. And in cases such as Gurram Cheruvu lake, which had breached the bund creating midnight mayhem, the sluice was buried under tonnes of debris and soil dumped by land grabbers, and levelled using heavy machinery. While the officials struggled in vain with the weir, the lake surged forth. At Burhan Khan lake upstream of Gurram Cheruvu, officials were under pressure to drain the lake, but could not work the sluice open.
28 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Manhunt launched in forest firing case||Vikarabad police have launched a manhunt for the suspect who opened fire in the Dammagudem reserve forest on Friday night, which resulted in the death of a calf. The offence came to light only after the owner of the cattle found the calf dead and reported the offence at Chengomul police station. Vikarabad Superintendent of Police M. Narayana said that when the cattle did not return at night after grazing in the forest, owner Ganga Naik went in search of them and found the calf dead. “Both the animals were tied to one halter rope,” he said. The bullet stuck in the calf’s neck was recovered after the carcass was sent for a post-mortem. The fired round has been sent for ballistic opinion to know more about the weapon from which it was fired. However, Mr. Narayana was tight-lipped about the rumours doing rounds on social media on involvement of family members of a famous sports personality. “We will arrest the accused in a day or two,” he said. Dentist abducted A dentist was reportedly kidnapped from his yet-to-be inaugurated clinic at Bandlaguda near Himayatsagar here on Tuesday afternoon. Rajendra Nagar police said that four persons clad in burqas barged into the premises and took away Dr. Behzad Hassan (55) in a car around 1.45 p.m. Following a complaint lodged by the doctor’s family member, a case was registered and special teams were formed to identify the suspects and rescue the victim. Sources said that Dr. Hassan’s family received a communication from the kidnappers who demanded ransom. “We suspect financial disputes to be the reason behind this. However, we cannot comment at this hour. Our teams are making efforts to trace and rescue him,” police said. Police are analysing the video footage of surveillance cameras in the area and are suspecting that the victim was not taken out of the city.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Irrigation lands identified, ownership transferred||The Irrigation Department has so far acquired 12.8 lakh acres land and the entire extent has been transferred in the name of the department by the Revenue officials, according to an inventory prepared by the department for proper management of the assets. There are 125 reservoirs and barrages in the State and the length of main canals is 8,661 km. Besides, the distributaries run for 17,721 km and minor canals convey water for another 910 km. The number of major lift schemes was 125 and there are another 20 medium lifts and 13 small lifts in the State. Further, the inventory states that number of tanks and ponds in the State is 38,510, check dams number another 8,021 and the length of tunnels is 175 km. There are 1,26,477 structures on canals, 108 sub-stations, 64 rain gauges and 21 river gauges. The details of the inventory were unveiled at a workshop organised here on Tuesday. Speaking at the meet, Principal Secretary (Irrigation) Rajat Kumar said the inventory of all assets of the Irrigation Department was a prerequisite for proper reorganisation the department as also the management of assets. He stated that the exercise had been taken up following the directions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to prepare a comprehensive inventory on all assets of the department, including the land acquired. He stated that the officials of the Irrigation and Revenue departments had been working on preparing the inventory for the last six months and it had a taken a proper shape now. Mr. Rajat Kumar complimented the officials of Irrigation department for completing the task of inventory preparation, which was not done for the last 50 years, in just six months. The inventory would now allow proper project monitoring system (PMS). The inventory would also play a significant role in the reorganisation of the department that is on cards. He asked the engineers of the department from assistant executive engineer level to chief engineer to be part of the PMS. Details of the inventory forming part of the PMS were explained by Godavari Basin Commissioner Madhusudan Rao. After detailed discussion, it was decided that the details of land to be acquired from now on had to be updated by May 31 every year along with lands leased to other departments. Engineers-in-Chief C. Muralidhar, B. Nagender Rao, B. Hariram, G. Anil Kumar and N. Venkateshwarlu, OSD to CM Sridhar Rao Deshpande, and others attended.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||E-boarding for international air passengers||GMR’s Rajiv Gandhi International International Airport (RGIA), which had earlier launched paperless e-boarding facility for domestic passengers, has now rolled out a similar indigenously developed digital solution for international passengers, becoming the first airport in India to do so. In line with the Government of India’s ‘Digital India’ campaign, the service is currently available for select international flights of IndiGo airlines following a successful pilot project. IndiGo became the maiden carrier to commence this facility when their Sharjah-bound passengers e-boarded themselves from Hyderabad (6E 1405 flight) on October 2. Other scheduled international carriers operating out of Hyderabad are in the process of integration with the airport’s e-boarding system, which will be rolled out soon, an official spokesman informed. The procedure Passengers are free to choose between using conventional paper boarding passes or electronic boarding passes on their mobile phones to use the system. Those opting for e-boarding can book the ticket online and do a web check-in. Once the passenger reaches the airport, the digital/printed boarding card should be displayed at the e-boarding scanner; the CISF personnel then validates the documents and allows entry. At the check-in counter, the agent scans the boarding card/s when passengers drop off luggage at the counter. Passengers then complete passport verification by officials of the Bureau of Immigration, the hand baggage is put on automatic tray retrieval system and follows the security check. The boarding card is scanned on an e-boarding scanner. The boarding card is once again scanned on an e-boarding scanner before the passenger moves towards the gates for boarding the aircraft. All international departures passengers are being processed from the Interim International Departures Terminal (IIDT). Airport CEO Pradeep Panicker pointed out that the e-boarding facility for domestic passengers was being run successfully for the last five years after its introduction in December 2015 and the process was automated for international passengers enhances safety and security during the present COVID-19 pandemic scenario.
28 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bathukamma celebrated at London’s Tower Bridge||The surroundings of historic Tower Bridge of London reverberated with Bathukamma songs as the Telugu diaspora celebrated the flower festival there in compliance with COVID-19 guidelines. Telangana Association of United Kingdom (TAUK) founder Anil Kurmachalam said women members not exceeding the limited number of six women played Bathukamma as a tribute to Telangana’s annual festival. Mr. Kurmachalam said the festival is held on a grand scale in London every year but in view of COVID restrictions, they scaled it down. “We have responsibility to promote and respect our culture and festivals, so instead of celebration, we took it as responsibility and appreciated TAUK women members who travelled all the way to London Tower Bridge braving the chilled weather,” said association president Pavithra Reddy Kandi.
28 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||How can money in Siddipet be linked to Dubbak bypoll: Revanth||Congress MP A. Revanth Reddy has said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was now experiencing the high-handedness of the Telangana police with the assault of BJP State president Bandi Sanjay by a police officer. “When we lodged several complaints with the Central government after the Congress leaders were ill-treated and manhandled by the police, for frivolous reasons, there was no response. Now they are realising when their State president himself faced it,” he said during an informal interaction with reporters here. Mr. Reddy said the Mr. Sanjay was not only the party president but was also a public servant being a Parliament member. “How can the police obstruct him when he wanted to visit Siddipet? Cases should be booked against the police for obstructing a public servant,” he argued. The Congress leader also questioned the role of police saying how can they relate anyone to the contestant in Dubbak and that too in a different town, Siddipet where elections were not being held. If it was illegal money the Income Tax department should have been alerted. “That money could have been of TRS supporters as well,” he claimed. Claiming that the BJP was divided as KCR supporters and those against his policies, he said even the response of Union Minister of Home for State G. Kishan Reddy to the incident clearly indicated that. “Instead of seeking an inquiry into the incident, he played it soft. YSRCP MP Raghurama Krishnamraju has been given protection with Central forces while requests for the same from Bandi Sanjay and Nizamabad MP D Arvind are pending. What does that indicate,” he asked.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana records 837 fresh COVID cases||Telangana recorded 837 COVID-19 cases on Monday even as 21,099 people were tested for novel coronavirus while four died. Results of 412 individuals are awaited. The new 837 cases include 185 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 76 from Khammam, 59 from Rangareddy and 51 from Karimnagar. Just one case was detected in Narayanpet and five in Kumram-Bheem Asifabad district. Of the 21,099 people who were examined on Monday, 20,172 opted for government health facilities and 927 got tested at private labs.  From March 2, when the first case was detected, till now, 41,15,516 samples have been tested and 2,32,671 were found to be positive for coronavirus. Of the total cases, 17,890 are active cases, 1,315 have died and 2,13,466 have recovered. Recovery rate in the State is 91.14%. At the 61 government hospitals, 4,751 oxygen beds and 1,165 ICU beds were available on Monday. In the case of 227 private hospitals, 2,995 oxygen beds and 2,276 ICU beds were vacant.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘108’ staff help woman deliver baby at home||Staff of GVK-EMRI ‘108’ ambulance performed delivery on a 25-year-old woman who was bleeding and writhing in pain at her home in Himayat Nagar on early Tuesday morning. The woman, identified as A. Saritha, who along with her family members, guards a farm land in the locality, had completed nine months of pregnancy and experienced labour pain on Monday midnight. The ambulance staff were alerted about it at around 5.45 a.m. on Tuesday. “It took us around 30 minutes to reach as her house was difficult to locate. By the time we reached, she was bleeding heavily and in great pain. There was no time to take her to a hospital. So we performed the delivery there. The woman gave birth to a girl,” said Shaik Rabbani, Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) who reached the place with the ambulance pilot Azhar. The mother and the newborn were safe post delivery, and later admitted to Modern Government Maternity Hospital, Petlaburj.
28 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Muthyam Reddy is the face of Dubbak: Congress||All the development in Dubbaka was done when her husband represented it and the ruling TRS party ignored the constituency totally after it came to power, said Vijayalakshmi, widow of late minister Cheruku Muthyam Reddy. During her campaign at Chegunta village in support of her son and Congress candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy, she said he was the face of the constituency and it was known across the combined Andhra Pradesh through Muthyam Reddy’s work. She recalled how several educational institutions came up in the backward constituency and said it was time for them to repay the gratitude to the late leader who worked for the masses and led a simple life. Along with former Cherial MLA, Kommuri Pratap Reddy and TPCC secretary Banda Chandra Reddy and local Congress leaders Laxmi, Ganesh and Ali, she visited several areas in Chegunta on Tuesday. Mr. Pratap Reddy said people themselves recalled the development done by Mr. Muthyam Reddy, who served as a minister in Y.S. Rajashekar Reddy government. The late leader’s wife, Vijayalakshmi asked the people to analyse the promises made by the TRS government and their delivery. She said it was important tha the Congress candidate wins the bye-election in the interests of the State. Mr. Banda Chandra Reddy said that only a Congress win here can wake the TRS out of its slumber.
28 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Defeat TRS to bring KCR into public’||Former PCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah has said that the defeat of TRS candidate in Dubbak bye-elections will force Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to come out of Pragathi Bhavan and see the plight of people under his regime. Mr. Lakshmaiah said declaration of support price for maize and assurance of DA to employees is people’s moral victory. “KCR made insulting remarks on employees but no sooner did the aspect of elections arise he came down to announce DA for them.” This realisation is because of the fight of the Congress party on behalf of farmers as well. “It is only when he is confronted did he satisfy the farmers and employees. So, it is only when we defeat KCR in Dubbak elections he will fulfil all the assurances he made. If we fall into his trap and elect TRS again he will conveniently cheat us once again,” he claimed. Claiming that every decision of the Chief Minister is linked to elections, Mr. Ponnala said the decision to give Rs. 10,000 per household in Hyderabad was taken keeping in view elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). On the other hand CM has not taken any decision on the recent crop damage due to heavy rains. “So breakdown of the ‘car’ is what will bring land for Dalits, double bedroom houses, Aarogya Sri, jobs for every home, reservations for Muslims and tribal people and free education from KG to PG,” he said.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Granules India, Laurus Labs to set up units in Genome Valley||Pharma companies Granules India and Laurus Labs will be investing Rs. 400 crore and Rs. 300 crore respectively to set up manufacturing facilities in Genome Valley, Hyderabad. The leadership of the companies met Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Tuesday and made the announcement. Their decision is a resounding endorsement of Brand Hyderabad, a release from the Minister’s office said. Granules will invest Rs. 400 crore to set up a facility with a capacity to manufacture 10 billion units of Finished Dosages (FDs). The proposed unit will generate employment for about 1,600 persons. The Hyderabad-based company had manufacturing facilities in eight locations and presence in 75 countries. It operates the world’s largest commercial Pharmaceutical Formulation Intermediates (PFI) facility at Gagillapur near here. The release said Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Prasad Chigurupati met the Minister at Pragathi Bhavan. Laurus Labs CEO Satyanarayana Chava also met Mr. Rao and announced that the company will be setting up a formulation facility with a capacity of 5 billion units. The company plans to invest Rs. 300 crore in two phases of Rs. 150 crore each. In the first phase the plant is expected to provide employment to about 150 persons. One of the leading manufacturers of API (active pharmaceutical ingredients) for anti-retroviral (ARV), oncology, cardio-vascular, anti-diabetics, anti-asthma and gastroenterology products, Laurus Labs has its research and development facility in IKP Knowledge Park, Hyderabad. It operates six manufacturing facilities in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. Thanking the leadership of the two companies for choosing to invest in Telangana, Mr. Rao said that the State government will provide all possible support to the firms. He said the proactive policies of the State government under the leadership of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao are attracting global leaders in IT, pharma, textiles, aerospace and defence and other sectors to Hyderabad and other parts of Telangana. The Minister expressed confidence that such investments in the manufacturing sector will provide the much-needed employment to local youth from Telangana, the release said.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Many lose medical records in floods||The recent floods in Hyderabad have washed away medical records of many people along with other belongings. These records are crucial for people suffering from non-communicable diseases (NCDs) such as diabetes and hypertension. Members of the Helping Hand Foundation (HHF), an NGO, said that some people managed to salvage empty medicine strips or boxes, and brought them to the medical camps organised by the NGO at Farooq Nagar, Ganga Nagar, Al-Jubail Colony, and Osman Nagar, among others. “What people with diabetes, hypertension or thyroid, who lost their records need is thorough medical assessment and follow-ups as they might suffer from complications if they neglect or do not take appropriate medication,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari of HHF. He said that a 17-year-old with Type-1 diabetes, who lost his medical file, had consulted them. While people with NCDs are treated at Osmania General Hospital (OGH), the teenager did not know about it. So, the NGO members took him there. Many like him are not aware of such information about which government health facility to approach for health complications. They had also come across senior citizens, and people above 40 years with stress induced hypertension, at their medical camps.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to publish village level statistical data||Vice-Chairman of the Telangana State Planning Board B. Vinod Kumar has stated that the Telangana State Development Planning Society would soon bring out a statistical abstract on village-level information to enable planners script road map for their comprehensive development on a fast-track. Speaking after unveiling the Telangana State Statistical Abstract-2020, brought out by the Planning Department here on Tuesday, along with Principal Secretary (Finance and Planning) K. Ramakrishna Rao, the Planning Board Vice-Chairman suggested the members of Parliament, members of the Legislative Assembly, members of the Legislative Council, chairpersons of the zilla parishads and representatives of rural and urban local bodies to go to the tspds website to download the e-copy of the abstract and explain it to people. Mr. Vinod Kumar underscored the need to bring out a book on comprehensive village-level statistical data. Stating that the Planning Department would play a key role in the governance, the data compiled by the department would act as a compass to other departments. Useful details The book unveiled during the event would have data on Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) estimates, status of flagship schemes and programmes of the State Government as also the achievements of the government. Principal Secretary (Finance) Mr. Ramakrishna Rao said they have compiled the book with comprehensive data that would be useful for various government departments. Chief Executive Officer of TSDPS G. Dayanand, Additional Director of State Remote Sensing Applications Centre (TRAC) G. Sreenivasa Reddy participated.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP urges Governor to intervene||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday urged Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, to seek an explanation from Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, on the “misuse” of State machinery in Dubbak, instruct Director General of Police (DGP) to immediately transfer all police officials of Siddipet involved in “high-handedness” against the BJP workers, leaders and family members of party candidate M. Raghunandan Rao and transfer the Siddipet Police Commissioner for “abusing” party chief and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar. In a memorandum to the Governor, a copy of which was released to the media, the BJP leaders — city president and MLC N. Ramchander Rao, general secretary G. Premananda Reddy — also requested her to “appoint a team of observers to Dubbak to take stock of the situation and submit the report” and “advise the Chief Electoral Officer of Telangana to take due cognisance of the incidents at Siddipet and Dubbak and initiate appropriate action to ensure fair polls”.  ‘TRS agents’ Drawing her attention to the “gross misuse of power and brazen attempts to muzzle the opposition space” in the ongoing campaign for the Dubbka Assembly segment bye-elections, the leaders charged that the local officials instead of providing a level-playing have adopted an extremely “lopsided” stance to benefit the ruling party. Earlier, the party delegation complained to the Election Commission that the ‘anganwadis workers’ who were designated as booth level officers instead of confining to the election work have been warning the people of not getting pensions if they do not vote for the ruling party.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR pioneer in e-tendering to arrest corruption: GM||Corruption can be eliminated if transparency and accountability is improved with the implementation of technological advancements in developing societies. South Central Railway (SCR) has been in the forefront of implementing e-office, e-tendering modules, taking up various checks/complaints, carrying out investigations, said General Manager Gajanan Mallya on Tuesday. Participating in a webinar on ‘Vigilant India, Prosperous India” organised as part of the vigilance awareness week, he said the emphasis should be on system improvements rather than punishing employees. “Corruption undermines productivity and does not provide us a level playing field so institutional mechanisms are needed to eradicate it,” said Lok Satta founder Jayaprakash Narayan. “Monopoly leads to corruption and transparency will arrest the corruption with introduction of information technology in various spheres helping it,” he said. Ramakrishna Math’s Vivekananda Institute of Human Excellence director Swami Bodhamayananda said the time has come for human excellence and to become great instruments of change. Academician M. Sridhar Acharyalu, deputy GM B.B. Singh, chief vigilance officer Chandrima Roy and others participated. A vigilance bulletin Animisha was released on the occasion digitally.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Events lined up as Vigilance Awareness Week begins||A webinar, walkathon and administering of integrity pledge to the workforce marked the launch of Vigilance Awareness Week, observed from October 27-November 2, by several public sector entities in the city on Tuesday. Pledge administered At NTPC-Southern Region headquarters in Secunderabad, the week commenced with regional executive director (South) C.V. Anand administering a pledge to the employees. Webinar on vigilance Founder of ‘Ethics India’ Anita Shantharam addressed a webinar on ‘Vigilant India, Prosperous India’, the theme of this year’s Vigilance Awareness Week, organised on the occasion, a release from NTPC said. NTPC will hold online essay writing competition for students of government schools and colleges in Secunderabad and Arts College Osmania University.  Vigilance walkathon Punjab National Bank organised a Vigilance Walkathon to mark commencement of the week. A release from the bank said Zonal Head and General Manager (Telangana State, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka) Ashutosh Choudhury flagged off the walkathon and administered integrity pledge to all the staff and general public participating in the event. At Bharat Dynamics, Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) Commodore Siddharth Mishra (retired) administered the pledge online to the employees of the company present at Bharat Dynamics Limited corporate office and at the units in Kanchanbagh, Bhanur and Visakhapatnam. Elocution, slogan writing, poster/collage making competitions are to held for employees of the company, their spouses and children and students of DAV School, Bhanur to spread vigilance awareness. An online vendor meet and a sensitisation programme for new recruits have been planned, a release from Bharat Dynamics Limited said. At NMDC, an integrity pledge was administered in Hindi by Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) Sumit Deb and in English by CVO VVS Sreenivas. The ceremony was also live-streamed across all the projects/research and development and regional offices of the NMDC. Various activities including individual and inter-departmental competitions and even sensitisation programmes are to be held for the employees during the Vigilance Awareness Week this year.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Health official’ arrested||Police have arrested a person who impersonated as an official from the Health department and sought to cheat outsourced employees with promises of regularising services in return for money. The accused, K. Srinivas Rao from Utnoor, Adilabad, called people employed on outsourced basis in the department. In return for money After introducing himself as an Health official, he told some of the outsourced nurses that jobs of some of them would be regularised provided some money was paid. When some of the nurses, who were contacted by the accused, took this to the notice of Health Minister Eatala Rajender, the latter directed his personal secretary to lodge a complaint. Police arrested Srinivas based on the complaint. The Health Minister’s office has cautioned doctors, and staff employed on contract or outsourced basis, not to trust anybody if they receive such calls assuring transfers, postings, or regularisation of their service.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 18k MT flood garbage cleared so far||GHMC has cleared close to 18,000 metric tonnes of flood related garbage from various spots in the city as part of the special sanitation drive taken up since October 18. A statement from the GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar has informed that the garbage was removed from 14,581 spots in the flood-hit areas. The highest amount of waste at 9,539 MT was removed from Charminar zone, while 2,379.5 MT was shifted from the LB Nagar zone. From Khairatabad zone, the trash removed was 2,353 MT, from Serilingampally, 1,266 MT, from Kukatpally, 1,433 MT and from Secunderabad zone, 988 MT. Meanwhile, it is learnt that several flood affected people conducted a demonstration in front of the Charminar Zonal Commissioner’s office on Tuesday, complaining that they have not received the relief amount of Rs. 10,000 sanctioned by the government.
28 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CEC asked to deploy Central forces for Dubbak bypoll||The Congress party has demanded that the Central Election Commission deploy Central forces in Dubbak bye-election to stop use of money power, bribery and corrupt practices by the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to create an atmosphere for free and fair elections. In the backdrop of incidents related to seizure of cash reportedly from the BJP candidate Raghunanda Rao’s relatives and the accusations over TRS using the police to nail the opponents, the Congress wrote a letter to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora to direct the officials to book cases against all those involved in the incident. The letter signed by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Congress Legislature Party leader Bhatti Vikramarka and chairman of TPCC Election Commission Coordination Committee Marri Shashidhar Reddy said that the seizure of Rs. 18.67 lakh allegedly from Raghunandan Rao’s relatives and Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy rushing to hush-up things confirmed the distribution of money. Earlier on October 15 too an amount of Rs. 40 lakhs was seized from four persons, Similarly, the Congress had brought to the notice of the Election Commission on October 22 about the offer of bribe made by Finance Minister T Harish Rao to a Congress party mandal president Laxman Goud to join the ruling TRS party, the letter said. The Congress leaders alleged that the TRS party would resort to influence the voters with the the use of money and liquor and that the local police would not be in a position to check their movement as they are totally under the influence of the State government and are under threat by the TRS leadership. The Congress recalled that in the past large sums of money were seized during the RK Puram Assembly bye-election in December 2017 and the Vellore Lok Sabha election in April 2019 in Tamil Nadu. In both those instances EC had cancelled the elections. At least the EC can deploy Central forces and direct officials to be fair, the letter said.
28 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Biker rams stationary truck, dies||A sweeper with Nagaram Municipality died after his bike rammed a stationary truck at Keesara on Tuesday morning. Cheruku Ramprasad from Rampally Dayara village in Keesara mandal was on his way home from work. “Around 8.30 a.m. when he reached Vardhana School, Keesara, he failed to notice the stationary poultry truck and hit it from behind. He suffered a severe head injury and died on the spot,” police said. A case was registered and Ramprasad’s body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy.
28 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Student found dead||A 23-year-old Pharma D student was found dead at her parents’ apartment in Old Alwal on Tuesday morning. Karthika V. Chandran died by hanging herself from a ceiling fan, Alwal police said. “Reasons for her extreme step are yet to be known. A case has been registered and a probe is on,” police said.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni.)
28 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Retd Addl SP booked||Retired Additional Superintendent of Police Kothi Sudarshan Reddy and four others were booked by Madirala police of Suryapet district on charges of cheating and destruction of evidence. Mr. Sudarshan Reddy’s brother K. Satyanarayana Reddy approached Thungathurthy court over a land dispute case. Following the order from the court, police registered a case and a probe is on.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||3 feared dead as jeep falls into well||Three out of 14 persons travelling in a jeep are feared dead after it plunged into a roadside well on Gavicherla outskirts in Warangal on Tuesday. The accident occurred after the driver Satish lost control of the vehicle following a bout of epileptic seizures. Apparently the jeep was at high speed and fell into the well located five to six metres off the road, Warangal police commissionerate Additional DCP Venkatalaxmi said. His body was retrieved. The accident occurred around 5.30 p.m. on Warangal-Nekkonda road in Sangem PS area. Villagers of Gavicherla pulled out 10 passengers to safety. “Due to darkness it was difficult to carry out the rescue operations. Efforts were on to rescue the remaining,” the officer said. Satish was operating the vehicle as private shuttle service from Warangal to Nekkonda.
28 October 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Teachers protest against govt.’s ‘indifferent’ attitude||Members of the Telangana Private Teachers’ Forum (TPTF) took out a rally here on Tuesday in protest against the alleged apathy of the ruling dispensation towards the plight of teachers of private schools and colleges hit hard by the coronavirus crisis in the State. The protest rally in Khammam made its way through the city’s main streets before culminating in a demonstration at the Dharna Chowk. TPTF president Shaik Shabbir Ali led the rally. Speaking at the demonstration, the TPTF leaders came down heavily on those at the helm charging them with remaining indifferent to the travails of private teachers reeling under the ripple effects of the pandemic-induced closure of schools. They deplored that private teachers were living in dire straits with mounting debt burden and loss of livelihoods. The TPTF leaders called upon private teachers to demonstrate their collective strength in the forthcoming elections to the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ Constituency in the Legislative Council to register their protest against the ‘callous attitude’ of the rulers towards their plight.
28 October 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Greedy traders exploiting cotton growers: CPI||The CPI State Assistant Secretary K Sambasiva Rao alleged that greedy traders were exploiting the gullible cotton growers at the Khammam market yard by denying them Minimum Support Price (MSP) citing moisture content. He was addressing a demonstration in front of the market yard on Tuesday. Earlier, mild tension prevailed when some aggrieved farmers tried to stall the transactions at the yard alleging that the errant traders were fleecing the hapless farmers. The agriculture market committee chairman M Venkataramana intervened and assured to look into their. Mr Rao alleged that cotton farmers were compelled to sell their produce at a meagre Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 2,500 per quintal as against the MSP of Rs. 5,825 per quintal.
28 October 2020||P SridharBHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Tribal women’s group to start food products unit||A group of trained tribal women of a Bhadrachalam-based Joint Liability Group (JLG) christened Sri Lakshmi Ganesha is all set to start a processing unit for millet-based nutritious food products in pursuit of economic empowerment. The enterprising move is expected to chart a new course of financial self-reliance for the members of the group and also supplement the nutrition interventions to address malnutrition prevalent in tribal areas. The members of the group including tribal women farmers had already undergone training at the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Hyderabad, in making nutritious ready-to-eat/cook products, sources said. Thanks to the collaborative initiative by the Tribal Cooperative Finance Corporation Ltd (TRICOR) and the Agribusiness and Innovation Platform (AIP) of ICRISAT, the group acquired the requisite skills to successfully run a micro enterprise to achieve financial self-reliance. It forms part of the joint initiative to promote the JLGs to set up micro, small and medium enterprises in areas such as soap/shampoo making, dal and sorghum processing in tribal areas under the jurisdiction of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Bhadrachalam, and other Agency areas elsewhere in the State by way of funding, providing them training and capacity building, establishing market linkages through the TSGCC, sources in the ITDA said. The trial run of the proposed processing unit for jowar meal and multigrain meal in Bhadrachalam was conducted recently, said Sujatha, Assistant Project Officer (Agriculture), ITDA, Bhadrachalam. The mandatory processes for operationalisation of the unit are under way, she said, adding that all the members of the tribal women-led JLG named ‘Sri Lakshmi Ganesha’ were trained in production of millet and pulses based ready-to-eat and ready-to-cook nutritious products and the business management skills at the Hyderabad-based ICRISAT.
28 October 2020||Siddipet,TELANGANA||TRS, BJP continue to spar at Dubbak, campaigning on||A day after a tense situation was witnessed in Siddipet and Dubbak over the recovery of money from a relative of BJP candidate M. Raghunandan Rao, major political parties continued campaigning without hurdle. Finance Minister T. Harish, addressing a motorcycle rally at Toguta mandal headquarters on Tuesday, said: “It was nothing but a self goal by BJP. Why did Raghunandan Rao go from Dubbak to Siddipet to Dubbak within half-an-hour if the money did not belong to him? A video came out where a person from whose house money was seized openly stated that the money was meant for distribution to voters by BJP candidate M. Raghunandan Rao. They are in frustration and reacting only because of that. They will distribute money in the next few days, be careful.” The BJP leaders on the other hand alleged that the TRS has been trying to fix them as it fears defeat in the bye-election. The BJP continued its campaign at Dubbak. Mr. Raghunandan Rao has been going door-to-door seeking votes. Party leaders D.K. Aruna and others came to Dubbak to participate in the campaign. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and other Congress leaders have been participating in the campaign at Chegunta mandal villages.
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||Big task ahead for DG (Prisons) as paroled inmates set to return||With over 6,800 inmates, who were released on interim bail or parole, set to surrender again following a Delhi High Court’s decision last week, the total population of the prisons is likely to reach an unprecedented 22,000, which may become unmanageable owing to the present COVID-19 situation. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel has informed a high-powered committee (HPC) set up to look into decongesting jails pursuant to the COVID-19 outbreak, that till date only on one occasion the maximum population of Delhi prisons has touched 18,000. The development came following an HC decision on October 23 to end its blanket order extending all interim stays and bails granted during the lockdown as the situation has improved. Significant number The DG (Prison) told the committee that at present, the total population of inmates inside the jails was around 15,800. He informed that owing to the High Court order, over 2,300 under trial prisoners (UTPs) or convicts will surrender by November 13, raising the population of inmates significantly. Mr. Goel, further, said if another 3,337 UTPs and 1,182 convicts who have been granted ‘interim bail/emergency parole’ under different criteria laid down by the HPC, are asked to surrender during the same duration, then the total population of Delhi prison is likely to reach 22,000. This, the DG (Prisons) said, would be “unprecedented and may become unmanageable, owing to the present situation and circumstances”. Calls for extension The HPC, headed by Justice Hima Kohli, taking note of the situation opined that interim bail granted to 3,337 UTPs under its criteria needs to be extended for a further period of 30 days. The HPC said it would be “highly inconvenient” for the jail authorities to accommodate UTPs and convicts released on ‘interim bail/emergency parole’ under its criteria, alongside those who would be surrendering in terms of the High Court’s orders. The recommendations of the HPC will be forwarded to the High Court for necessary action. The committee also stressed that its earlier decision to relax the criteria for grant of interim bail to the UTPs were made to help decongestion and to avoid the spread of virus in the jails. “...While doing so, it was to be kept in mind that the benefit of interim bail granted in such circumstances, cannot be to the detriment of social order,” the committee said. Since courts have resumed functioning through physical mode/videoconferencing mode, the committee has decided not to further relax the criteria for the purposes of recommending grant of interim bail to the UTPs. Cases in prisons Of the three active cases of COVID-19 among jail inmates, one is admitted in Lok Nayak Hospital, the other is recuperating in DDU Hospital. The third jail inmate is admitted in Maharaja Agarsen Hospital.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Khan Market gets its ‘resident musician’ back||“I had to announce to the world that I am back in town… it’s almost like starting over,” said Anshu Sinha, a 23-year-old singer performing in the open space close to the flea stalls in Khan Market. Mr. Anshu had gone home in Bihar before the lockdown but returned to his haunt in early October. “As fate would have it, I had gone back home in Bihar before the lockdown was announced and then got stuck there. I returned in October first week and realised the music scene has changed. Now, I am back to the Khan Market street to tell everyone that I am back to business,” he said. Mr. Anshu is from Barh, a town in Patna district, where his father Pramod Kumar Sinha had a major influence on him. Anshu’s grandfather also was a musician, he said. An ache, however, remains that his father couldn’t get a stage to display his talent or an opportunity to refine his skills. College days For Mr. Anshu, music and singing only began in college at Jamia Millia Islamia where he was pursuing a diploma in computer engineering in 2014. The first two years, he said, went by but in the third year, Mr. Anshu started singing in the canteen and a crowd would gather, enjoying his song covers. In the fourth year of his college, he also started playing in cafes of Hauz Khas village but it didn’t give the kind of recognition he was looking for. Coming from a ‘small’ town he believes has a huge bearing on decisions you make in life. “Things were not working out for me here. I was thinking what to do… should I get a Rs. 10,000-15,000 job or should I go back… but I didn’t want to go back to my small town empty handed… what would I tell my parents,” he said. One fine day, while surfing the Internet, he stumbled on the concept of busking – street performance for gratuities popular across the world – and he decided to explore the streets of Delhi. “I started with Connaught Place because that was where everyone in Delhi likes to hang out. I thought what better place than that, but the experience was bad. People there only came to pass time… they didn’t see me as an artiste… many just looked down upon me,” he recalled. Opportunity, not money Mr. Anshu then decided to hit Khan Market. The crowd respected him and his art of singing. “My aim to go to Khan Market or CP wasn’t to make money. We were financially weak but were still managing. My aim was to get contacts… for people to know that I can sing and Khan Market gave me that opportunity” he said, adding that money, however, is an important factor. Within a few months, he was being called for private gigs in cafes and clubs for live music and earned a “decent” name in the local singing circuit of the city. In February, however, Mr. Anshu flew home to attend to a personal matter. “I only returned this month,” he said. For Mr. Anshu, who managed with his savings in the last eight months, returning has certainly helped but “it is slowly picking up” as he has started visiting the market regularly every evening. He has been invited to seven events in the last 20 days, he said.
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||Former CEO of Religare held for siphoning off Rs. 2,397 crore||Delhi Police on Tuesday arrested former CEO of Religare Enterprises Ltd. (REL) and his accomplice in connection with siphoning of Rs. 2,397 crore. Maninder Singh, 56, a resident of Greater Kailash-II and former CEO of Religare; and Narendra Kumar Goushal, 56, a resident of Faridabad and promoter director of M/s Arch Finance Ltd. were arrested by the Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police. The alleged persons in connivance with promoters of companies systematically siphoned off and diverted public money for their own benefit, the police said. Maninder was the CEO of the firm in 2017 and a member of the Risk Management Committee for disbursement of corporate loans. Maninder and one Kavi Arora sanctioned and disbursed 13 corporate loans amounting to Rs. 700 crore approximately to sham entities resulting in ultimate pecuniary benefit to promoters of Religare Group. Mr. Singh was part of a larger criminal conspiracy with Malvinder Mohan Singh and Shivinder Mohan Singh, promoters of Religare Group, said the police. Mr. Goushal facilitated the financial transactions between Religare Finvest Ltd. (RFL) and the sham entities, said a senior police officer. A substantial chunk of the loan amounts ultimately landed in the bank accounts of firms controlled and managed by Mr. Goushal and his associates, the officer added. The matter came to notice after one Manpreet Singh Suri of RFL filed a complaint against Malvinder, Shivinder, Sunil Godhwani and others holding key managerial posts that the alleged persons — having absolute control on REL and its subsidiaries — had put RFL in poor financial condition by disbursing loans to firms having no financial standings. In his complaint, Mr. Suri alleged that these firms willfully defaulted in repayments and caused wrongful loss to Religare Finvest Ltd. to the tune of Rs. 2,397 crore. Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) O.P. Mishra said that after preliminary enquiry, a case was registered in March 2019 under Sections 409 (Criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and an investigation was initiated. In view of sufficient incriminating evidence, Malvinder, Shivinder and three others holding key managerial positions in RFL were arrested and chargesheeted, he said. Further investigation revealed the role of other key managerial officials, including Maninder and officials of entities through which money was routed and re-routed for diversion or misappropriation of public money, and the arrests were made, the police said.  Maninder Singh was the CEO of the firm in 2017 and a member of the Risk Management Committee for disbursement of corporate loans Economic Offences Wing Delhi Police
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Air quality improves but still ‘very poor’||The air quality in the Capital improved slightly on Tuesday with a 24-hour average AQI of 312 but remained in the “very poor” category. The AQI on Monday was 353, and 349, 345, and 366 on the previous three days. The forecast according to SAFAR shows that the air quality is likely to deteriorate and remain in lower end of “very poor” category on October 28 and “very poor” air quality is likely to persist till October 30. Impact quality SAFAR also reported a significant increase in the number of farm fires observed in Punjab (2,047), Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, which are likely to impact the air quality of Delhi-NCR and other parts of north-west India in the coming days. It added that the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s pollution rose to 23% on Monday, which is the maximum so far this season. “The increase in local surface wind speed is a positive sign for Tuesday and Wednesday but the impact of stubble related intrusion is a negative sign,” the SAFAR bulletin said. The air quality in Gurugram was also in the “very poor” category with an AQI of 306. Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad had AQI figures of 320, 306 and 318, respectively. “The predominant surface wind is likely to be from variable direction of Delhi with wind speed up to 05-10 kmph, mainly clear sky and mist in the morning October 28. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from East-Southeast/Northeast direction of Delhi with wind speed up to 05-10 kmph, mainly clear sky and mist in the morning on October 29,” stated SAFAR. ‘Green Delhi’ app Meanwhile, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will launch ‘Green Delhi’ mobile application on Thursday, using which citizens can bring pollution-causing activities to the government’s notice, Environment Minister Gopal Rai said on Tuesday. There will be a deadline to address complaints and the CM will get a daily report about resolved and pending grievances. The Delhi government has also launched a massive campaign against air pollution, named ‘Yuddh Pradushan Ke Viruddh’..
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||3 members of Neeraj Bawana gang arrested after gunfight||The Delhi police on Tuesday said that three members of the Neeraj Bawana gang were arrested early on Tuesday after an exchange of fire in north-west Delhi’s Karala. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said that the accused have been identified as Manish Dabas (27), resident of Ladpur Village, Deepak alias Katia (26), resident of Sultanpur Dabas, and Prince Panchal (23), resident of Burari. The police said that Manish and Deepak got bullet injuries but are stable. The three were involved in an extortion case and firing outside the house of a businessman in north-west Delhi’s Model Town. Threats to businessman The police said that the businessman received a threat call on October 2, wherein the caller said that he belongs to Neeraj Bawana gang and demanded Rs. 50 lakh. On October 21, the complainant again received an extortion call and the caller threatened to kill him or his family members if he did not fulfil their demand. On Saturday, they fired multiple rounds near his house, the police said. During investigation, the police got a tip-off on Monday that three members of the gang will come near Karala village, Mr. Yadav said, adding that a trap was laid and the accused were arrested. Exchange fire “They were signalled to stop, but they tried to escape and accelerated the car. Their car stuck at the road side, following which two of them came out of the vehicle and fired at the police. The police also fired four rounds in which Dabas and Deepak got injured,” he said.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||DSGMC launches civil services training academy||Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) announced the setting up of the Guru Tegh Bahadur Academy that will provide free training to Sikh students aspiring to join the civil services. The DSGMC said that the academy has been set up under the chairmanship of Vikram Sahni, president World Punjabi Organization and is aimed at increasing the representation of the Sikh community in the developmental process of the nation. Selected candidates DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said that currently under the scheme, selected Sikh candidates will be sponsored to enrol at training institutions in the Capital. “All Sikh students who have cleared civil services preliminary examination are automatically eligible for intensive residential coaching and the DSGMC will provide free boarding, lodging facilities round the year to Sikh students in the Capital to facilitate the meritorious students to crack the prestigious examinations,” Mr. Sirsa said. December-end He added that the training is likely to be started by the end of the December and the process of inviting applications and counselling and selection of students is under process by an expert committee of retired IAS/IPS Sikh officers.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Noida metro dedicates station to transgenders||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Tuesday unveiled Sector 50 Metro Station as a ‘Pride Station’ and dedicated it to the transgender community. Six members of the community have been recruited by the NMRC, undergone training and will work at the Sector 50 station. Sensitised staffers NMRC said that it has worked closely with NGO Nazariya to get a better understanding of the community’s concerns. The NGO also conducted workshops for NMRC staffers to sensitise them about transgenders. In a statement, NMRC said that the station has been named “pride” as it feels extremely proud and privileged to have qualified members of the transgender community as part of the NMRC family. Breaking stereotypes “It instils a sense of pride among the community and this step by the NMRC is bound to be a ray of hope for the upliftment of the members of this community and help in breaking stereotypes about them so that they too can live a dignified life with their head held high,” the NMRC said. The public transporter had come out with six vacancies — four for ticket vending operators and two for housekeeping staffers of the transgenders — specifically for deployment at the ‘Pride Station’. It added that the artwork and look of the station has also been done to signify the essence and spirit of the members of the transgender community.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Relative held for assaulting 8-year-old girl||An eight-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her distant relative in Wazirpur of North West Delhi, said a senior police officer on Tuesday. The accused has been arrested. The officer said that the victim’s parents work in a factory in the area and the accused is also a labourer and works in the factory. “On October 24, the accused took the girl from her house on the pretext of getting her a bottle of soft drink. He took her in the presence of her siblings and no one opposed as the accused was their distant relative and often visited their house,” said the officer. He took her to an isolated place near canal and sexually assaulted her. When she resisted, the accused attacked and injured her. He fled the spot leaving the girl in unconscious condition.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two arrested for firing at store owner||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly firing at a provisional store owner in north Delhi’s Timarpur area, the police said on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Anto Alphonse said that the accused have been identified as Inderjeet alias Rahul (21) of Timarpur and Ravi (24). While Inderjeet is involved in six cases of culpable homicide, there are 11 cases of burglary and thefts registered against Ravi. Police said that a PCR call was received stating that one Virender (45), who runs a provisional store at his residence, was shot at by three persons while sitting in front of his shop around 11.15 p.m. He sustained bullet injury in his head after which he was taken to a hospital. Police said that the accused were identified and two of them were arrested. During interrogation, Inderjeet allegedly told the police that he wanted to create dominance in the area and also thought that Virender was sharing information with the police. Other accused Ravi allegedly said that he was holding a grudge against Virender because the victim usurped his jhuggi .
28 October 2020||MUMBAI,||10th accused arrested in TRP manipulation scam||The Mumbai police have arrested a 10th person, a resident of Thane, for his alleged involvement in the Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation scam. “During investigation, he confessed that he has been accepting money from at least two news channels [Republic and News Nation] and used to pay to certain households through his associates. Two of such associates have earlier been arrested in this regard,” the Detection Crime Branch of the Mumbai Police said in a statement. It said many of the arrested and some of the wanted accused were employees of Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd and they misused the confidential data. “It has apparently been done for wrongful gains of various TV channels which had resulted in wrongful loss to various advertisers and their agencies. Preliminary investigations also revealed that the accused persons have manipulated the sampling metering services by inducing the barometer users by paying them periodically to watch particular TV channel/s,” the statement added. “Many people, in whose homes these barometers were installed, have accepted that they have been monetarily benefited for keeping their TV sets on even if they actually didn’t watch.” Stating that a team of forensic auditors had been specially deployed to assist the Special Investigation Team (SIT), the Mumbai Police said it had been revealed during the course of the investigation that the suspected TV channels were manipulating the viewerships to get better rates of advertisements as it was their only source of revenue. The police said a money trail of transactions between a Hansa Group company and ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd, which is the company operating Republic TV channels, was revealed. “These transactions and such connectivity with the suspect channels was not revealed to the SIT by any of the witnesses from any of the Hansa Group companies. As a matter of policy, the SIT is committed towards a fair probe,” the statement said. Hansa Research said it had no business dealings with Republic TV and had not made any payment to the channel nor received from it. Shekar Swamy, group CEO, Hansa, said: “Our group company Hansa Vision India Pvt Ltd is in the advertising business. It purchases advertising time and space in various TV channels and other media regularly for its clients. This is normal, routine business.” The last time Hansa Vision had purchased advertising time in Republic TV was two years ago for a value of Rs. 108 lakh. “The Mumbai Police are perhaps incorrectly linking this with the current TRP-related investigation.” Mr. Swami said in 2019 and 2020, Hansa Vision had not bought any advertising time from the Republic TV. “Hansa Research and the people working for this company have nothing to do with the advertising activities of the group company Hansa Vision.” Hansa Research works for BARC to collect data from the 30,000 barometers installed across Indian homes to monitor various programmes for assignment of TRP.
28 October 2020||Mumbai,||Row over Maratha quota law heats up in State||With the Supreme Court on Tuesday listing for hearing after four weeks the Maharashtra government’s pleas seeking the lifting of the stay on the implementation of the law to provide reservation to Marathas in jobs and education, the row over the quota has intensified. While the State government claimed the upper hand by stating that the court has granted time to hand over the matter to a Constitutional Bench, the Opposition said the government had yet again failed to deliver justice to the aggrieved community. State Minister Ashok Chavan, who heads the Maharashtra cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, said the Bench accepted the State’s plea. “Today’s proceedings are being misinterpreted by the Opposition. A glitch delayed the start, which happens in many cases. Senior lawyer Mukul Rohatgi represented the State’s stand that since matter has been directed to a Constitutional bench, the proceedings to lift interim stay should also be handed over to the same Bench,” he said. On October 10, the apex court informed the State that the matter should be taken up by a larger Bench. Mr. Chavan said, “However, the matter was taken up by a three-member Bench. The State government had pointed it out to the registry and applied for deletion. Still it didn’t move.” He said the State government is of the view that proceedings should be taken up by the Constitutional Bench. State BJP president Chandrakant Patil said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government was not serious about vacating the stay on the Maratha quota. “Not only the Maratha community but the entire State is suffering because of the failure of the State government. There was no coordination between lawyers. They were not prepared. This failure has delayed the admission process in the State, leading to chaos,” said Mr. Patil. Mr. Chavan said the Opposition is misleading the community. “BJP can always become a party to this case as over nine to 10 private individuals have come in support of the reservation. The Opposition is only interested in destabilising the government and has no intention of finding solutions.”
28 October 2020||Narwar (Shivpuri district),||‘Politics is about ideology’||Having weathered the political turmoil in Rajasthan just a few months ago, Congress leader Sachin Pilot hits the campaign trail for by-elections to 28 Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh, aimed at bolstering the party’s prospects especially in the Gwalior-Chambal region, a stronghold of former party colleague Jyotiraditya Scindia.  Who is the main adversary of the Congress in the byelection — Shivraj Singh Chouhan or Jyotiraditya Scindia? It is the BJP. While Mr. Scindia has quit, you’ve stayed on with the Congress. What kept your faith in the party? The Congress has given me quite a lot in the last 20 years of public life. And I believe it is the core ideology of the party that this nation needs, a pan-India political presence which is centrist, secular and forward-looking. Yet it upholds traditions. It is the only party I believe that has the thought capacity and the bandwidth to take on the BJP. You’re on the opposite sides today. How does it feel to be campaigning in this changed scenario against the BJP? I am campaigning for my party, and Mr. Scindia is campaigning for his. It’s not about individuals, but more about what ideology you stand for. And one is free to make political choices. I have campaigned in Madhya Pradesh in the past too, and I have been asked by the party to do so again. What has changed since the 2018 Vidhan Sabha election? That was an election after five years; this one is being forced in M.P. And people are not going to choose just between individuals but two parties. I am absolutely confident we will get an overwhelming majority. The previous election was about anti-incumbency after 15 years. The BJP was voted out, yet they wriggled their way back to power. Questions are now being asked, more by the public than the Congress, why they were back in the government again after being voted out. There is a continuing string of defections from within the Congress. What do you believe are the causes? We all know who is instigating these defections and what is the purpose behind it. But people are smart. Ultimately every MLA and MP is accountable to those he or she represents. So they will be the final judge of whether it was right or wrong. The party has not had a full-time president for more than a year. Do you think it’s affecting the organisation at the grassroots? I think that matter has been settled in the last working committee. And it has decided to conduct elections for the party president soon.  Cong. is the only party that has the thought capacity and the bandwidth to take on the BJP
28 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Man held for raping minor||The Rabale police have arrested a 27-year-old man for raping and impregnating a 15-year-old girl. Sumit Saha, who hails from Bihar, was arrested on Sunday night from Ghansoli based on his call data records. The accused helped out at a vada pav stall and befriended the girl in November 2019 while she was assisting her father, who ran another vada pav stall. On June 12 this year, the girl complained of persistent pain in her stomach. “Her father took her for a check-up and found out that she was eight months pregnant. A complaint was then filed with the Rabale police,” Vinayak Vast, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Vashi Zone, said.  The accused has been remanded in police custody till November 2.
28 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Police detain 350 PAPs||The Navi Mumbai Police on Tuesday detained around 350 project-affected persons (PAPs) who lived on the Navi Mumbai International Airport site after they attempted to stage a protest outside CIDCO Bhavan in Belapur. “The villagers had put up hoardings and gave us a notice regarding the protest. However, we called them a few days ago and requested them not to go ahead with the agitation. We told them that staging protests is not allowed during the COVID-19 pandemic, but they refused to obey our orders,” said senior police inspector Dinkar Mohite from Belapur police station. Mr. Mohite said they had to detain them for unlawful assembly, rioting and disobedience of orders issued by a public servant. The villagers were let off after an FIR was registered. While 22 people have been named in the FIR, it also mentions the presence of 300 others at the site. Residents of all 10 villages acquired for the airport project were present for the protest. The villagers said they had given a notice about the protest to the police around 15 days ago.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Senate votes to confirm Barrett to SC||With just a week to go until Election Day, Senate Republicans pushed through the confirmation of President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee Judge Amy Coney Barrett, potentially giving the Supreme Court a 6-3 conservative majority for decades. The Senate voted 52-48 to confirm the 48-year-old judge — with GOP Senator Susan Collins, who faces a tight election in Maine, joining Democrats to vote against the nomination. Soon after her confirmation, Ms. Barrett was sworn in by Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. Ms. Barrett, who was nominated to replace liberal justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, will be the first mother of school-aged children and the fifth ever woman appointed to the Court. With her appointment, six of the nine judges of the Supreme Court will be Catholic. Ms. Barrett has described herself as an originalist (someone who seeks to interpret the U.S. Constitution in accordance with the intent with which it was written) like her former Supreme Court mentor, the late Antonin Scalia. Democrats campaigned publicly against the nomination saying it was hypocritical for the Senate Republicans, who had blocked Merrick Garland, a Barack Obama nominee from the former President’s last year in office, to go through with Ms. Barrett’s confirmation with an election under way. Some 60 million Americans have already cast their ballots. Affordable Care Act Ms. Barrett’s potential positions on the Affordable Care Act (ACA), immigration, abortion rights, climate change, gay rights and how she may rule on any election related case in the event that a narrow victory or loss is litigated could impact the country for decades to come. U.S. President Donald Trump’s 11th-hour nomination had become a campaign talking point for both parties. During and before her confirmation hearing, Democrats warned that Americans’ health insurance could be in jeopardy during a raging pandemic if Ms. Barrett’s appointment went through — the Court is scheduled to hear a challenge to the ACA in November. During her confirmation hearing, Judge Barrett had declined to say whether she would recuse herself from the ACA case or any election-related cases. On the election, she said she would not allow herself “to be used as a pawn to decide this election for the American people”. When asked by Democratic Vice-Presidential candidate Kamala Harris whether climate change was “happening” and “threatening the air we breathe and the water we drink,” Ms. Barrett declined to answer, saying the issue was “very contentious” and a matter of public debate. A gathering Mr. Trump had hosted to announce Ms. Barrett’s nomination at the end of September is thought to have been a “super-spreader event” — one that resulted in a number of attendees, including Mr. Trump, getting infected with the coronavirus. At Ms. Barrett’s confirmation ceremony on Monday night at the White House, officials decided to follow social distancing norms: chairs were spread out and most attendees wore masks. “The Barrett family has captured America’s heart. It is highly fitting that Justice Barrett fills the seat of a true pioneer for women, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg,” Mr. Trump said at the ceremony. With Ms. Barrett’s appointment to the top court, Democrats are expected to consider term limits for Supreme Court justices as well as increasing the number of justices in the court.
28 October 2020||PESHAWAR,||Blast at Pakistan seminary kills 8||A powerful bomb blast ripped through an Islamic seminary on the outskirts of the northwest Pakistani city of Peshawar on Tuesday morning, killing at least eight students and wounding 136 others, police and a hospital spokesman said. The bombing happened as a prominent religious scholar was delivering a lecture about the teachings of Islam at the main hall of the Jamia Zubairia madrassa, said police officer Waqar Azim. He said initial investigations suggest the bomb went off minutes after someone left a bag at the madrassa. TV footage showed the damaged main hall of the seminary, where the bombing took place. The hall was littered with broken glass and its carpet was stained with blood. Police said at least 5 kg of explosives were used in the attack. Several of the wounded students were in critical condition, and hospital authorities feared the death toll could climb further. Authorities said some seminary teachers and employees were also wounded in the bombing. Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan condemned the bombing and asked authorities to ensure the provision of best possible medical aid to the victims.
28 October 2020||Martinsburg,||Trump, Biden battle for key State||President Donald Trump on Monday barnstormed Pennsylvania with three mass rallies Monday and his Democratic opponent also made a surprise appearance, hoping to defend his lead in a swing State that could well decide the outcome of the election in eight days. Hopping from rally to rally, Mr. Trump demonstrated how badly he wants to claim the State on November 3, telling large, enthusiastic crowds of supporters to ignore polls showing Mr. Biden leading there and across other battleground States. “We get Pennsylvania, we win the whole thing,” he said in Allentown, before flying to another rally in Lititz, then a final event in Martinsburg in the evening. Mr. Trump touted a poll from Rasmussen, which has long gone against the flow of more established polling companies to give him favourable numbers, and said many “hidden Trump voters” would back him in the polling booth on November 3. Mr. Biden, who has maintained a startlingly low profile during his campaign, made a surprise appearance in the Pennsylvania town of Chester, making the short trip from his home in neighbouring Delaware where he’d been scheduled to spend the day without public events. Sticking to his main campaign theme, he hammered Mr. Trump’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic, accusing him of giving up on mastering the virus. “He said we're not going to control it. The bottom line is Donald Trump is the worst possible President, the worst possible person to try to lead us through this pandemic,” Mr. Biden said. Mr. Trump “doesn't have any idea of what to do or he just doesn't care.” “Mr President, you have to have a little bit of shame, just a little bit of shame, because people are dying,” Biden said.
28 October 2020||Washington,||U.S. to sell defence systems worth $2.4 billion to Taiwan||The U.S. on Monday said it had approved a $2.4 billion sale of 100 Harpoon coastal defence systems to Taiwan, defying Beijing’s anger over a $1 billion missile deal last week. The announcement came just hours after Beijing said it would sanction U.S. firms involved in an earlier arms sales to the democratic self-ruled island. The proposed sale of the Harpoon systems “will help improve the security of the recipient and assist in maintaining political stability, military balance... and progress in the region,” the State Department said in a statement. The deal involves 100 Harpoon Coastal Defense Systems (HCDS), which includes 400 RGM-84L-4 Harpoon Block II surface-launched missiles with a range of around 125 km. The missiles, manufactured by Boeing, can be positioned on fixed platforms or mounted on trucks. The office of Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen released a statement thanking the U.S. for the sale, saying it would “upgrade asymmetric warfare capabilities.” Democratic and self-ruled Taiwan lives under constant threat of invasion by China, whose leaders view the island as part of their territory. They have vowed to one day seize Taiwan, by force if necessary. Beijing has ramped up diplomatic and military pressure on Taiwan since the 2016 election of Ms. Tsai, who views the island as a de facto sovereign nation and not part of “one China.” Military activity Chinese fighter jets and bombers have entered Taiwan’s air defense zone with unprecedented frequency in recent months, while propaganda films have shown simulated attacks on Taiwan-like territories and U.S. bases in Guam. Beijing said on Tuesday it “firmly opposed” such moves, urging the U.S. to “call off the relevant arms sales plan to Taiwan, so as not to cause further damage to China-U.S. relations and peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait”. China said it would “take necessary measures to firmly safeguard its national sovereignty and security interests.”
28 October 2020||Brussels,||France boycott call pushes Turkey ‘even further’ from EU||President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s support for a boycott of French goods is a further setback to Turkey’s already stalled bid to join the EU, the European Commission said on Tuesday. “Calls for boycott of products of any member state are contrary to the spirit of these obligations and will take Turkey even further away from the European Union,” a spokesman said. Accession talks Turkey applied to join the then European Economic Community in 1987 and began formal accession negotiations to the European Union in 2005, but the talks are seen as effectively frozen. Protests erupted in several mainly-Muslim countries after President Emmanuel Macron defended a cartoonist’s right to caricature religious leaders in the wake of a French teacher’s murder. History teacher Samuel Paty was killed in the street on October 16 after a social media campaign criticised him for showing students cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed during a lesson on free speech. Turkey has condemned the murder, but Mr. Erdogan has also resumed his long-standing and intense war of words with Mr. Macron, and has added his voice to calls for a boycott of French goods. This, in turn, has been criticised by several European leaders, exacerbating the tensions surrounding Turkey’s bid to drill for gas in waters claimed by EU members Greece and Cyprus. Now, the European Commission, which oversees the EU application process, has warned that an official boycott would breach the terms of Turkey’s relationship with the bloc. “EU agreements with Turkey foresee free trade of goods,” the spokesman said. “The bilateral obligations that Turkey has committed to under these agreements, as expressed in the Association Agreement, the Customs Union and the agricultural and coal and steel FTAs, should be fully respected.”
28 October 2020||PHILADELPHIA,||Philadelphia police’s shooting of Black man triggers unrest||Police shot and killed a 27-year-old Black man on a Philadelphia street after yelling at him to drop his knife, sparking violent protests that police said injured 30 officers and led to dozens of arrests. The shooting occurred before 4 p.m. on Monday as officers responded to a report of a person with a weapon, police spokesperson Tanya Little said. Officers were called to the Cobbs Creek neighbourhood and encountered the man, later identified as Walter Wallace, who was holding a knife, Ms. Little said. Officers ordered Wallace to drop the knife, but he instead “advanced towards” them. Both officers then fired “several times,” Ms. Little said. Wallace was hit in the shoulder and chest. One of the officers then put him in a police vehicle and drove him to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead a short time later, she said. Police cars and dumpsters were set on fire as police struggled to contain the crowds. Thirty officers were injured, most of them from being struck by projectiles such as bricks and rocks, according to preliminary information from police. . Video of the fatal confrontation recorded by a bystander and posted on social media shows officers pointing their guns at Wallace as he walks in the street and around a car. He walks toward the officers as they back away from him in the street, guns still aimed at him. They yell at him to put his knife down. Both then fire several shots and Wallace collapses in the street.
28 October 2020||BANGKOK,||Thailand protesters ask Germany to investigate King||Pro-democracy demonstrators in Thailand have expanded their protests internationally, marching to the German Embassy to appeal to Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government to investigate whether Thailand’s King has exercised political power during his extended stays in Bavaria. The protesters acted while criticising their own Parliament, which began a special two-day session earlier Monday to address political tensions resulting from the near-daily pro-democracy protests demanding the Prime Minister’s resignation, constitutional changes and reforms to the monarchy. They believe the King wields an inordinate amount of power in what is nominally a democracy under a constitutional monarchy. The scrutiny and public criticism of the monarchy displayed by some of the protesters is unprecedented in a country where the royal institution has been considered sacrosanct. It has also led royalists to stage counter-rallies. Letter to Embassy The protesters, between 5,000 and 10,000, defied police warnings that they constituted an illegal assembly and marched to the embassy in an effort to bring attention to the time King Maha Vajiralongkorn spends in Germany. The King in recent weeks has been in Thailand with a schedule of ceremonial events. A statement from the protest group said they presented a letter to Embassy officials asking that Germany investigate whether the king “has conducted Thai politics using his royal prerogative from German soil or not.” The German government already brought up the issue in early October, when Foreign Minister Heiko Maas, responding to a question in Parliament, expressed concern over any political activities the King might be conducting in the country. On Monday in Berlin, Mr. Maas said the government was following developments in Thailand and was aware of the demonstrations and “people taking to the streets for their rights.” He added that he also was watching the King’s activities in Germany.
28 October 2020||Los Angeles,||California wildfires force major evacuation||Fast-moving wildfires forced evacuation orders for more than 1,00,000 people and seriously injured two firefighters in Southern California on Monday as powerful winds across the state prompted power to be cut to hundreds of thousands to prevent utility equipment from sparking new blazes. A smoky fire exploded in size to over 29 sq. km after breaking out around dawn in Orange County, south of Los Angeles. Gusts pushed flames along brushy ridges in Silverado Canyon and near houses in the sprawling city of Irvine, home to about 2,80,000 residents. There was no containment. Nearby, a much smaller fire in the Yorba Linda area prompted the evacuation of at least 10,000 people, officials said.  Scientists have said climate change has made California much drier, meaning trees and other plants are more flammable. October and November are traditionally the worst months for fires, but already this year 8,600 wildfires in the state have scorched a record 16,600 sq. km and destroyed about 9,200 homes and other buildings.
28 October 2020||Khost,||Five dead in Afghan police base attack||An hours-long attack on an Afghan police special forces base involving car bombs and an intense firefight killed five policemen and wounded dozens of people, officials said on Tuesday. Three suicide bombers detonated their explosives-loaded vehicles targeting the base in the city of Khost near the Pakistan border, Khost police chief Ghulam Daud Tarakhil said. A fierce firefight that lasted for almost nine hours left five policemen dead and wounded 33 others, Mr. Tarakhil said.
28 October 2020||Dhaka,||Anti-France protests rock Bangladesh||Around 10,000 people in Bangladesh rallied in the South Asian nation’s capital on Tuesday to protest France’s President Immanuel Macron and his staunch support of secular laws that deem caricatures depicting the Prophet Muhammad as protected under freedom of speech. Protesters from the conservative Islami Andolon Bangladesh group, which supports the introduction of Islamic law in the Muslim-majority country, carried banners and placards reading: “All Muslims of the world, unite” and “Boycott France.” It was the largest protest yet against the cartoons in recent days. Muslim politicians, religious scholars and everyday people have condemned such depictions as a form of hate speech and view them as sacrilegious and insulting to Islam.
28 October 2020||Conakry,||Conakry, Oct 26, 2020 (AFP) -||A total of 21 people have been killed in unrest in Guinea following a disputed presidential election last week as international envoys attempted to soothe tensions in the African nation. The RTG state news channel reported that 21 people had been killed since October 19, including security personnel.AFP.
28 October 2020||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong, Oct 27, 2020 (AFP) -||A young Hong Kong activist, who was among the first arrested under Beijing's new national security law, was detained on Tuesday close to the U.S. consulate, local media said. Tony Chung, 19, was led away from a coffee shop opposite the consulate by unidentified men. Student Localism, a pro-democracy group, said two others were also arrested.AFP
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||GST and the complexity of political negotiations||Over the last couple of months, the Centre and States have not been on the same page over issues connected with the Goods and Services Tax (GST). As a result, Centre-State relations have plumbed the depths. This tussle, between the Centre and the States is, however, not uncommon and all federations witness bargaining in some form or other. A diversity of interests is the badge of federalism, and there will be constant negotiation and renegotiation. It is this tension that keeps a federation ticking. Called one of the most significant fiscal reforms since Independence, the GST replaced numerous central and State taxes with a one single destination-based tax. The Constitutional Amendment overhauled Centre-State relations, with States giving up almost all their powers to tax. In exchange for this bargain, the Centre assured them full compensation, for five years, for all losses arising due to the transition to the GST. A GST Council, made up of the Central and State Finance Ministers, was established and empowered to make recommendations about various issues related to the GST. Under strain This grand federal bargain was severely tested this year following the general economic slowdown and the COVID-19 pandemic induced disruption. Tax collections plummeted which in turn have led to a massive revenue shortfall. In turn, this has also reduced the available resources in the compensation fund. With the GST in place, the Centre held the whip hand and with limited abilities to raise revenues. The States in turn were left staring at a bad deal. The crisis and the unequal relationship created an incentive for the Centre to blur the lines. The Centre it appeared was no longer committed to the agreement and wanted to overturn parts of the deal that were “unfavourable” to it, creating an immense strain on the fragile consensus. The GST Council strategy The Centre was averse to providing succour, and when it did, it came with strings attached. For instance, in May 2020, it linked the increase in the fiscal deficit of States from 2% to 3% to reforms in four areas including universalisation of a ‘One Nation-One Ration Card’, electricity distribution, ease of doing business, and urban local body revenues. Similarly, on compensation, the initial noises were that it was not obligated to make good the compensation losses. Most States preferred that the Centre should borrow the entire shortfall and then lend it to States, while the Centre wanted the States to borrow the money directly. The GST Council meetings during this period did not help reduce the trust deficit and break the deadlock but only added fuel to the fire. States had no clue of what the Centre was thinking as there were no statements of intent at the Council meetings. For example, the Finance Minister of Kerala complained that decisions were not being made in the Council but announced subsequently in press meetings. The disinclination to use the Council was deliberate and intended to prevent “unionised bargaining” by the States. At the same time, by working outside the Council, the Centre was able to exploit asymmetries and divisions between States. In August 2020, States were offered two options to borrow money to meet the shortfall. When a sufficient number of States accepted one of them, the Centre argued that this was the favoured solution. The States, especially those ruled by the Opposition parties, were reluctant to accept this offer and stuck to their preferred position until the Centre finally relented in October. The friction not only shook the foundations of the GST, with at least one State threatening to go to court over the issue, but also exposed the hollowness of the Centre’s hype around cooperative federalism. The puzzle is why the States agreed to move authority in determining Budget spending (Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act earlier) and setting tax rates (value-added tax, or VAT, first and GST now) and in the process shrink their discretionary space to manage their financial affairs. The shift is counter-intuitive, especially since we expect States to protect their autonomy vigorously, and in fact attempt to enlarge their scope. Economic and fiscal federalism scholarship offers us reasonably sound economic and normative reasons for this shift, which include efficiency, equity, stabilisation, economic growth, and balanced development, among others. However, this logic does not make political sense and does not help understand the current new low in the relations between the Centre and States. Political linkages matter I argue that the nature of the party system and party linkages matters in Centre-State relations. In the period of Congress dominance, States had few issues when economic management was centralised in the name of development. Their concerns and grievances, if any, were taken up through intra-party channels. The Congress-ruled States went along with the central government given that the locus of power in the party was not at the State level but the Centre. Dissent against centralisation appeared only when non-Congress parties consolidated their position. The period towards the end of the one-party dominance was especially fractious, and government-Opposition relations increasingly coloured Centre-State relations. To check its competitors, the Congress used (and misused) every available means, including, the use of Article 356, the institution of the Governor and discretionary central grants among others to continue its dominance. In sharp contrast to the one-party dominant phase, the coalition era inaugurated a seemingly more cordial period of Centre-State relations based on a recognition of mutual interests. In federal coalitions, States and their interests were made to feel that they were being represented. Ironically, it was during this period, when State-based parties called the shots that much of the authority migration began. Former Finance Minister Yashwant Sinha in his memoirs underlines how the Centre chose to remain out of the limelight, and an empowered group of State Finance Ministers helped bring about VAT, the precursor to GST. The GST reforms also followed the same pattern. This decision-making process gave States both the confidence and ownership of reforms and the new institutions being put in place. State-based parties probably assumed that they would continue to influence national-level decision-making through the new institutions or through coalitions. It follows that authority migration towards the Centre might not make a difference to States/parties if their interests appear to be taken care of by the Centre/party. Party linkages between levels give State-level politicians greater space. In a polity-wide disciplined party, acceding to the central government’s demands may secure the career prospects of State-level leaders. Similarly, for State-based parties, there is access to resources and the possibility of influencing national-level decisions through federal coalitions. The greater the degree of party centralisation, the higher the possibility of federal centralisation. This explains why the Congress-ruled States did not make a noise during the one-party dominant phase, and the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled States do not do so today. Party linkages between different levels of government are crucial to both the making and the maintenance of federal compacts. Uphold the player rules The GST agreement also illustrates the complexity of political negotiations. The bargain quite naturally could not have foreseen 2020. More importantly, the nature of the relationship between the actors involved has changed. From a period in which State-based parties had heft, we now have a one-party formation calling the shots. All institutional arrangements we know have winners and losers; while the winners attempt to maintain status quo , the losers will attempt to overhaul the existing state of affairs. While the States are negotiating within the agreed framework, the Centre’s actions undermine the federal architecture. If this happens consistently over time, there is nothing to stop the States also from doing so. K.K. Kailash is with the Department of Political Science, University of Hyderabad
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||It is judgment time for Donald Trump||In the U.S., opinion polls can be grossly misleading, the electoral system throws up leaders who do not have popular support, unreadable ballot papers may lead to unexpected results, and absentee and advanced balloting may open a Pandora’s box. An intense battle in the Supreme Court may well bring out a result which goes against the majority public opinion. Like it happened in 2016, psephologists, journalists, strategists, thinkers and astrologers may fail to predict the outcome of the 2020 presidential election. But if poetic justice is of any consequence, the U.S. should get a new leader. Volumes have been written on the good and the bad about the incumbent President. Donald Trump’s claim for a Nobel Prize is not as far-fetched as it appears. His campaign will make a case by arguing: Who made the effort to tame the “rocket man” of North Korea? Who sought cooperation and friendship with China and Russia? Who volunteered to mediate India’s problems with Pakistan and China? Who downgraded NATO, a relic of the Cold War? Who brought about changes in West Asia, including normalisation of Israel’s relations with the UAE and Bahrain? Who ended the American war in Afghanistan? And who has refrained from despatching American troops to different corners of the globe?  The question is a moral one Within the U.S., many identified with slogans such as ‘Make America Great Again’ and ‘America First’. Mr. Trump’s conservative political, social and cultural policies and protectionist trade politics have a huge following. As a result, many may vote for him. But the question is a moral one. Is the U.S. today more prosperous, secure and liberal than in 2016? Has the U.S. increased its allies around the world? Does it inspire confidence among its friends? Does the U.S. government provide security, well-being, justice, inclusiveness, diversity, transparency and personal freedom to all its people? Has its handling of the pandemic saved more lives and livelihoods? Were the people given the right advice on health and prevention of infections? Did the President show by example how a responsible citizen should behave during the triple crisis facing the U.S. — the pandemic, the economic meltdown and racial strife? Weakening institutions In the international arena, the Trump administration’s biggest disservice was the undermining of the post-war architecture of peace, which was built brick by brick by the U.S. and its allies. The UN, which is at the centre of multilateralism, has been weakened to the extent of being paralysed. When China used its status as a permanent member of the UN Security Council to block even a meeting of the Council to consider a multilateral effort to fight the pandemic, the U.S. threw the baby out with the bathwater when it withdrew support from the World Health Organization (WHO). This left China as the champion of the WHO. The U.S., with its economic and scientific prowess, should have led an international effort in fighting the pandemic. Multilateralism reached its lowest ebb when the UN failed to tackle the biggest challenge to international peace and security. This would not have happened if Mr. Trump had not called the UN a “club” and made absolute sovereignty the fulcrum of his foreign policy. International treaties constitute another pillar of the international framework. Nations voluntarily sign these treaties after careful consideration and open debate. These treaties are ratified by the respective legislatures, where necessary. Occasions do arise for member nations to leave the treaties in their supreme national interest. But Mr. Trump walked out of treaties, agreements and arrangements on the environment, nuclear non-proliferation, arms limitation and trade with the abandon of someone leaving a distasteful stage show. Unpredictability and inconsistency are the stuff that bad foreign policy is made of. As David Nakamura wrote, Mr. Trump’s promise that “he could tame China’s rise through a mix of personal charisma and deal making prowess has faltered… giving way to the most hostile period of bilateral relations in decades.” Mr. Trump bewildered friends and foes alike, not to speak of his own advisers, by his foreign policy pronouncements and announcements on Twitter. Some of his advisers, whom he himself had chosen, marched out of the White House one after the other, while some others stayed on, pledging to safeguard the interests of the nation anonymously by violating the spirit, but not the word of the law. The handling of COVID-19 was the unkindest cut of all. Mr. Trump genuinely believes that COVID-19 is like the common flu, which would take its course with a few deaths here and there. He has defied science and ignored the experience of many countries. It is incredible that he sent out confused signals to the people, some of whom still seem to believe him more than they believe the health officials as his methods are oversimplified, though often contradictory and self-destructive. He could have saved many of the more than 2,25,000 lives, and thousands of livelihoods, lost in the bargain. Optimism and self-confidence are virtues for leaders, but not for the kind of leaders who fiddled as the nation burned. On India, calculated moves Indian Americans are of marginal significance in this election, but they have occupied centre stage because of the impression that Mr. Trump has been good to India and that many Indian Americans have moved from their traditional Democratic moorings to vote for him. Mr. Trump was no more friendly to India than his predecessors, except when he calculated that he could derive economic or political benefits for the U.S. and himself. It was an opportunistic posture, liable to be abandoned in the next tweet. He had no problem threatening his “good friend” Prime Minister Narendra Modi on matters of trade, immigration, or even on the issue of India supplying medication. ‘Howdy Modi’ and ‘Namaste Trump’ were sheer exhibitionism. On Pakistan and China, he preferred to mediate rather than support India. India has nothing to fear in a change of leadership as India-U.S. relations enjoy bipartisan support. Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, whatever their past record, would see the logic of friendship and cooperation with the world’s largest democracy. George Bush and Barack Obama were not great friends of India till they became Presidents. Indian Americans will vote in their own best interests; surveys indicate that many will remain loyal to the Democratic Party. The disastrous first presidential debate, which marked a new low in democratic traditions; Mr. Trump testing positive for COVID-19, his brief hospitalisation and his immediate recovery; his statements relating to white supremacy; his ambivalent position about peaceful transfer of power; and his resumption of the campaign have confused the world. None of it seems to have changed the situation on the ground. In the meantime, the White House has become a “super spreader” of COVID-19. The election process has started, with more than 65 million voters having cast their votes. When the final results are known, we will know whether poetic justice played a role in the U.S. presidential election. T.P. Sreenivasan, former Ambassador of India and Governor for India of the IAEA, is Director General, Kerala International Centre
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s DisCom stress is more than the sum of its past||Distribution Companies (DisComs) have been called the lynchpin but also the weakest link in the electricity chain. For all of India’s global leadership for growth of renewable energy, or ambitions of smart energy, the buck stops with the DisComs, the utilities that typically buy power from generators and retail these to consumers. Long gone are the days of scarcity of power; while the physical supply situation has mostly improved, the financial picture has not brightened much — and this was before COVID-19. More loan than stimulus The Indian government responded to COVID-19’s economic shock with a stimulus package of Rs. 20-lakh crore, out of which Rs. 90,000 crore was earmarked for DisComs (later upgraded to Rs. 1,25,000 crore). While it was called a stimulus, it is really a loan, meant to be used by DisComs to pay off generators. Our recent study on DisComs (https://bit.ly/37LFspq) shows a much graver picture than one that can be solved by a fill-up, even though such a liquidity injection is required (but probably insufficient). Newspaper reports abound with stories of how DisComs owe one lakh crore rupees to generators, and without such an infusion the chain will collapse. Unfortunately, the dues to generators are several times higher than this number, and, worse, the total short-term dues of DisComs are multiple times higher, which excludes long-term debt. Data on liabilities How did this magic figure of one-lakh crore capture popular imagination? This figure is roughly what the government’s PRAAPTI (or Payment Ratification And Analysis in Power procurement for bringing Transparency in Invoicing of generators) portal (https://bit.ly/3jyD47C) shows for DisCom dues to generators. However, what is not widely appreciated is that the portal is a voluntary compilation of dues, and is not comprehensive. The Power Finance Corporation (PFC)’s Report on Utility Workings for 2018-19 (https://bit.ly/3mmdsN6 and https://bit.ly/37M3Ze6) showed dues to generators were Rs. 2,27,000 crore, and this is well before COVID-19. It also showed similar Other Current Liabilities. Our analysis shows that what has happened over the years is that DisComs have delayed their payments upstream (not just to generators but others as well) — in essence, treating payables like an informal loan. But why do DisComs not pay on time? Conventional wisdom blames the utilities for inefficiency, including high losses, called Aggregate Technical and Commercial (AT&C) losses, a term that spans everything from theft to lack of collection from consumers. However, this is only an incomplete explanation. To understand what is going on, we have to dig into all the accounts of DisComs. Ideally, they should not incur losses as they enjoy a regulated rate of return. While AT&C losses can explain part of any gap, the first problem starts at the regulatory level where even if DisComs performed as targeted, across India, they would face a non-trivial cash flow gap, which was Rs. 60,000-plus crore in FY18-19 compared to their then annual cost structure of Rs. 7.23-lakh crore. Then, we have the severe challenge of payables to DisComs. These dues are of three types. First, regulators themselves have failed to fix cost-reflective tariffs thus creating Regulatory Assets, which are effectively IOUs, which are to be recovered through future tariff hikes. Second, about a seventh of DisCom cost structures is meant to be covered through explicit subsidies by State governments. Third, consumers owed DisComs over Rs. 1.8 lakh crore in FY 2018-19, booked as trade receivables.  States as defaulters State governments are the biggest defaulters, responsible for an estimated a third of trade receivables, besides not paying subsidies in full or on time. On an annual cash flow basis, the shortfall in subsidy payments appears very low — only about 1% — but cumulative unpaid subsidies, with modest carrying costs, make DisComs poorer by over Rs. 70,000 crore just over the last 10 years. This earlier equilibrium of increasing the dues as well as relying on continued subsidies (not to mention extensive cross subsidies between consumer categories) all worked as long as there was steady growth. However, such muddling along cannot suffice. To begin with, COVID-19 has completely shattered incoming cash flows to utilities. While there was a multi-month dip in demand, the revenue implications were far worse since the lockdown disproportionately impacted revenues from so-termed paying customers, commercial and industrial segments. On the flip side, reduced demand for electricity did not save as much because a large fraction of DisCom cost structures are locked in through Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) that obligate capital cost payments, leaving only fuel savings with lower offtake. We will probably need a much larger liquidity infusion than has been announced thus far, but it also must go hand-in-hand with credible plans to pay down growing debt. Stimulus loans are near market term and not soft loans. If there is a haircut to be taken, all the risk and future obligations should not be placed on DisComs alone. Generators, transmission companies, and lending institutions must all chip in. Else, we risk kicking the can down the road until we may require another future support package if not bailout. Unfortunately, we do not have the luxury of time to put the house in order. Renewable energy beckons The rise of renewable energy means that premium customers will leave the system partly first by reducing their daytime usage. And as battery technologies mature, their dependence on DisComs may wane entirely. Even without batteries, regulations permitting, they may want to find third party suppliers under competitive models. So what is the solution other than simply throwing money at the problem? Improving AT&C losses is important, but will not be sufficient. We need a complete overhaul of the regulation of electricity companies and their deliverables. Much of inefficiency is tolerated in the name of the poor but they do not get quality supply. We need to apply common sense metrics of lifeline electricity supply instead of the political doleout of free electricity even for those who may not deserve such support. For the rest, regulators must allow cost-covering tariffs. The financial problems of DisComs have been brewing for many years, and it is unlikely that a silver bullet, even privatisation, can solve the problems overnight. However, if business as usual was not even good enough before COVID-19, it will not be workable for the current national needs of quality, affordable, and sustainable power. Rahul Tongia and D. Rajasekhar are researchers with the Centre for Social and Economic Progress (CSEP), a not-for-profit think tank, originally established as Brookings India
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s outreach to Myanmar||The recent visit of Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and Chief of the Army Staff Gen. Manoj Naravane to Myanmar reflected India’s multidimensional interests in the country and the deepening of ties between Delhi and Naypyidaw. Coming a few weeks before Myanmar’s general election, the visit underscored two lines of thinking that drive India’s Myanmar policy: engagement with key political actors and balancing neighbours. For Myanmar, the visit would be viewed as India’s support for its efforts in strengthening democratisation amidst criticisms by rights groups over the credibility of its upcoming election. The Indian delegation met State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and Myanmar’s military Commander-in-Chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing. Non-interference in internal politics The political logic that has shaped India’s Myanmar policy since the 1990s has been to support democratisation driven from within the country. This has allowed Delhi to engage with the military that played a key role in Myanmar’s political transition and is still an important political actor. It has also enabled Delhi to work with the party in power, whether the military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party that won the 2010 polls or the pro-democracy National League for Democracy, which is in power now. India is cognisant of the geopolitical dimension of Myanmar’s democratisation. Myanmar’s political transition created challenges for Naypyidaw and limited its ties with the West. India and a few Asian countries have engaged Myanmar keeping in mind the need to reintegrate it with the region and world. This has been a strategic imperative for Naypyidaw as part of its policy of diversifying its foreign engagements. A key factor behind the military regime’s decision to open the country when it initiated reforms was, in part, to reduce dependence on China. By engaging Myanmar, Delhi provides alternative options to Naypyidaw. This driver in India’s Myanmar policy has perhaps gained greater salience in the rapidly changing regional geopolitics. Recent initiatives Like in other neighbouring countries, India suffers from an image of being unable get its act together in making its presence felt on the ground. Some initiatives announced during the joint visit suggest Delhi is taking steps to leverage its political, diplomatic, and security ties with Myanmar to address some of these issues. The inauguration of the liaison office of the Embassy of India in Naypyidaw may seem a routine diplomatic activity. However, establishing a permanent presence in the capital where only a few countries have set up such offices does matter. Interestingly, China was the first country to establish a liaison office in Naypyidaw in 2017. India has also proposed to build a petroleum refinery in Myanmar that would involve an investment of $6 billion. This is another indication of Myanmar’s growing significance in India’s strategic calculus, particularly in energy security. It also shows India’s evolving competitive dynamic with China in the sector at a time when tensions between the two have intensified. Another area of cooperation that has expanded involves the border areas. The joint visit reiterated the “mutual commitment not to allow respective territories to be used for activities inimical to each other.” Both Delhi and Naypyidaw have been collaborating in the development of border areas with the understanding that it is the best guarantee to secure their borders. And this is an area where the fruits of bilateral cooperation are already evident on the ground. Last, for Delhi, the balancing act between Bangladesh and Myanmar remains one of the keys to its overall approach to the Rohingya issue. Delhi has reiterated its support for “ensuring safe, sustainable and speedy return of displaced persons” to Myanmar. The choices before Delhi are limited on the issue. By positioning as playing an active role in facilitating the return of Rohingya refugees to Myanmar, India has made it clear that it supports Myanmar’s efforts and also understands Bangladesh’s burden. For Delhi, engaging rather than criticising is the most practical approach to finding a solution. Delhi’s political engagement and diplomatic balancing seems to have worked so far in its ties with Myanmar. Whether it has leveraged these advantages on the ground to the full is open to debate. The aforementioned initiatives could be the beginning of change on the ground by establishing India’s presence in sectors where it ought to be more pronounced. For India, Myanmar is key in linking South Asia to Southeast Asia and the eastern periphery becomes the focal point for New Delhi’s regional outreach. Harsh V. Pant is Director, Studies at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF) and Professor of International Relations, King’s College London; K. Yhome is a Senior Fellow with ORF’s Neigbhourhood Regional Studies Initiative
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The Gilgit-Baltistan game plan||Reports indicate that the Pakistan government is on the verge of declaring Gilgit-Baltistan a province of Pakistan. The most authoritative declaration came last month from Pakistan’s Minister of Kashmir Affairs and Gilgit-Baltistan who stated that Prime Minister Imran Khan would soon make an announcement to this effect. Technically speaking Gilgit-Baltistan was a part of the State of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) at the time of Partition although Dogra rule sat very lightly on this region. Much of it, particularly Gilgit, because of its strategic importance in the context of the Great Game in Central Asia, had been leased to the British by the Maharaja and was under the direct control of the British government until the lapse of suzerainty. Gilgit had its own British-officered local army, the Gilgit Scouts, which switched allegiance to Pakistan within a week of the Maharaja’s accession to India. From the beginning Gilgit-Baltistan was governed as a separate entity by Pakistan and not as a part of Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). Islamabad had hesitated to declare it a province of Pakistan because of its claim that J&K is disputed territory and its future must be decided by a plebiscite among all its inhabitants. Why change status now? There are several reasons why Islamabad has now decided to formally integrate Gilgit-Baltistan into Pakistan. First, the revocation of Article 370 by India and the bifurcation of the State into two Union Territories have sent a clear message that the Kashmir dispute is not only dead but also buried as far as New Delhi is concerned. Pakistan’s imminent move, transforming Gilgit-Baltistan’s de facto status into a de jure one, is a clear riposte to the Indian decision. Second, public opinion in Gilgit-Baltistan has long been in favour of full integration into Pakistan as a province as the predominantly Shia and ethnically distinct population of the region has very little in common with PoK. Islamabad feels that by declaring it a province will assuage domestic dissatisfaction on this score. Third, China has been encouraging Islamabad to turn Gilgit-Baltistan into a province. The China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) runs through Gilgit-Baltistan and China has invested heavily in the region. In view of India’s continuing claim to the area, Beijing is interested in delinking Gilgit-Baltistan formally from Kashmir so that its investment does not remain hostage to the possibility of another round of India-Pakistan hostilities over Kashmir. China also wants to repay India in its own coin following New Delhi’s decision to separate Ladakh from J&K. Beijing views the Indian move as the first step towards India attempting to enforce its claim on Aksai Chin, currently under Chinese occupation. In addition to CPEC, China considers Gilgit-Baltistan very important because of its strategic location. It is contiguous to Ladakh as well as Xinjiang and could act as a staging post against India if a major conflict erupts in Ladakh. Beijing possibly presumes that Pakistan will agree to a Chinese military presence in Gilgit-Baltistan because Islamabad would like to see India embroiled simultaneously in a two-front war — in Ladakh and Gilgit — with China. There is already substantial Chinese civilian presence in Gilgit-Baltistan related to CPEC projects. China is interested in stationing military personnel as well. Delinking the region from the Kashmir dispute would make it easier for the international community to accept Chinese presence in Gilgit-Baltistan. It would also serve Pakistan’s purpose of getting back at India for abrogating Article 370 as well as complicating India’s strategic environment by the implicit threat of turning it into a Chinese staging ground. India must calibrate its response carefully because merely by turning up the rhetorical heat, it may play into Chinese and Pakistani hands and escalate the situation. Rhetoric must always be determined by a meticulous assessment of capability. Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Compound conundrum||The Centre’s scheme to bear the difference between the compound interest and simple interest on retail and MSME loans availed by borrowers whose aggregate outstanding borrowings were less than Rs. 2 crore between March 1 and August 31, has come not a day too soon. In spelling out the norms for lenders to identify eligible beneficiaries and then ensure that the extra ‘interest on interest’ be refunded by November 5, the government has clearly been spurred by the Supreme Court’s admonition to expedite relief to small borrowers. With the top court having pointedly referenced the approaching festival of lights when it said “the common man’s Diwali” was in the government’s hands, the Centre has ended up setting a really tight deadline of less than two weeks for banks and NBFCs to credit the differential amount to the borrowers’ accounts. The lenders have their task cut out to make sure that they pick out all the eligible loans — education, housing, consumer durables, automobiles, consumption, credit card borrowings, as well as credit provided to MSMEs — and that the borrowings had not turned into non-performing assets as on February 29. They will then have to refund the difference between the compound interest charged for the six-month period and the simple interest. In making all the specified borrowers eligible for the ‘ex-gratia’, the government has sought to ensure equity between those who may have availed of the repayment moratorium and others who had opted to continue to service their borrowings. The move, however, has understandably evoked both relief and some disquiet. Retail borrowers, especially those who continued to meet their EMI commitments notwithstanding the disruptions caused by the pandemic and lockdowns, stand to marginally benefit from the government’s payment and will be a relieved lot. On the other hand, MSMEs may find the assistance far too small to make a material difference, given the scale of economic hardship they have had to endure — from demand destruction, to material and labour shortages and regulatory woes. Given that these businesses provide substantial direct and indirect employment and also generate valuable tax revenue, it would have made far greater economic sense for the government to have categorised them separately. The additional fiscal impact should be seen against the benefit that would accrue were even a reasonable number of these enterprises to remain viable and resume their contribution to the national economy. Also, the Rs. 2-crore limit for retail loans provides succour to not just ‘vulnerable’ borrowers but creates a moral hazard by benefiting the well-heeled too. All eyes will now be on the Court when it resumes hearing the matter next month.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Dead letter||Last year, when Chile was shaken by mass protests, the conservative President, Sebastián Piñera, agreed to hold a referendum on rewriting the country’s Constitution, introduced during the military dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet, in a bid for calm. On Sunday, 78% of Chileans voted in favour of replacing the charter, which the protesters say was the main hurdle in introducing social and economic reforms, with a new document. Since its transition to democracy in 1990, Chile has amended the Constitution — principally written by the Pinochet-aide, Jaime Guzmán, and approved in a fraudulent plebiscite in 1980 — to take away many of its anti-democratic features. But the document, which has enshrined the conservative free-market philosophies of the Milton Friedman school, stayed on. It allowed the private sector to thrive and helped the economy expand. But it also led to the concentration of wealth in a minuscule minority, triggering social tensions. Protests erupted last year over a small rise in metro fares but it soon snowballed into a public agitation demanding reforms — an abolition of the private pension fund system, implemented by Gen. Pinochet, an increase in investments in education and health care, and a strengthening of the rights of the indigenous communities. The protesters also demanded an overhaul of the Constitution as it was impossible to introduce far-reaching reforms with the current charter. With Sunday’s plebiscite results, they have won the first stage. Replacing the Constitution is going to be a two-year process. Next year, Chileans will elect a 155-member Assembly to draft the new document, which will then be put to a plebiscite in 2022. Half the delegates will be women. Political factions are still debating whether seats in the Assembly should be reserved for the indigenous groups. It may not be a smooth process given that different political factions represent different ideas and interests. The new Constitution is also expected to be a heated political issue, with the general elections next year. But despite the political and procedural challenges, it offers a fresh opportunity for Chile to say goodbye to a dark era. Gen. Pinochet came to power in 1973 after a U.S.-backed coup against Chile’s elected President, Salvador Allende. In the 17 years he was in power, Pinochet, who died in 2006, unleashed a reign of terror, resulting in the executions of thousands and the detention and torture of many more. The biggest problem with the present Constitution has been its origins. Now, through a democratic process, Chileans can bury the document and introduce a legitimate charter, which is an imperative for any modern democracy. It also offers them an opportunity to right the systemic wrongs of the past and chart out a more inclusive economic and social system that works not just for the government elites and the business classes but also for all Chileans.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Industrial development (From an editorial)||The dependence of India upon foreign countries was made strikingly manifest during the war and manufacturers and public men began to agitate for the adoption of a definite and progressive policy by the Government with a view to improve the indigenous industries and start fresh industries to meet the industrial deficiencies in the country. The appointment of the Indian Industrial Commission was welcomed by the Indian public. But the tardy and half-hearted manner in which the recommendations are given effect to has caused profound disappointment in the country. It is becoming more and more clear that India with all her rich natural resources of raw materials and dormant skill of the industrial classes should find out for herself ways and means for her industrial advancement. Western countries have built up their magnificent industrial structure by the close cooperation of science and capital and by a systematic application of scientific research to industrial problems.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Ceylon under emergency||The Ceylon Government today [October 27, Colombo] declared a state of emergency to arm itself with the power to call out military to provide maximum security as people rushed to banks to ex-change demonetised notes. Armed police and troops stood by as banks opened after a two-day enforced holiday. Indians holding temporary residence permits are being questioned by police and tax authorities as they try to change currency notes. Press reports said that well-known shops owned by temporary residence permit holders put up their shutters in their effort to dispose of currency hoards. Several Indians are being questioned by police following the arrest of a shop-owner while trying to exchange Rs. 1.5 lakhs in currency notes. Nevertheless, some 1,100 currency hoarders continued to buy currency notes rather than surrender them to the Government, the reports added. Textile shops alone reported sale of Rs. 4.5 lakhs yesterday. There was heavy rush in almost all commercial banks from the early morning to-day. The people’s anxiety to change whatever was left with them of hundred rupee and 50 rupee currency notes was evident from the long queues before banks.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Negative or zero growth, but firm recovery on’||In the government’s first remarks about the growth outlook for this year, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said that India’s GDP could see zero or negative growth, somewhat close to the International Monetary Fund’s projection of -10.3% for 2020-21. The Minister, however, exuded confidence that a steady and sustainable recovery was already underway, adding India would emerge as one of the fastest growing economies next year. ‘Agri doing well’ “The indicators show that the primary sector and related sectors of agriculture and rural India are doing very well,” Ms. Sitharaman said. “As a result, the demand for durables, agriculture equipment, tractors, vehicles are all going up. The festival season has commenced in India, as a result of which I expect the demand to go up and therefore, be sustainable also,” she added. Citing the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for the manufacturing sector in September, which stood at 56.8, Ms. Sitharaman said that this was the highest since 2012 and indicated that the revival was going to be steady and sustainable. “If that sustainable revival is going to happen between the third and fourth quarters, we expect that the overall GDP growth, notwithstanding the pandemic, should be something which as is being predicted by the IMF, growth will be negative or near zero this time. Next year, it will be clearly India seeing itself as one of the fastest growing economies,” she said. The IMF, in its World Economic Outlook released earlier this month, forecast India’s GDP would shrink 10.3% in 2020-21, and likely rebound to grow at 8.8% in the next financial year. The contraction in the first quarter was a result of the government’s conscious decision to ‘put lives before livelihoods’ and enforce a ‘very firm lockdown’, the Minister said in response to a query about India’s economic outlook by Lance Uggla, chairman and chief executive officer of IHS Markit, which compiles the PMI. Mr. Uggla said the firm’s global economics team expects India’s GDP growth to reach 9.3% next year. ‘Build assets’ To revive the economy, the government is eyeing sectors that can help build assets and generate employment, the Minister said, adding that public spending on infrastructure and boosting agriculture and easing farm produce exports, were part of that plan. Ms. Sitharaman, who was speaking at the India Energy Forum, said that India should have a greater role in setting global fuel prices as one of the largest consumers of energy, adding that the country was looking at investing in strategic fields overseas to achieve this objective. “We are investing in strategic reserves not just within India, but also looking at buying out fields outside India. This gives us the feeling and commercial sense that units elsewhere where India invests, will enable us to be a part of the global value chain and get to play a part in price determination… Because being the largest consumer, we should also play a part in being active in determining the price,” Ms. Sitharaman said.  Next year, it will be clearly India seeing itself as one of the fastest growing economiesNirmala Sitharaman,Finance Minister
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bharti Q2 loss narrows to Rs. 763 crore||Bharti Airtel on Tuesday reported a net loss of Rs. 763 crore for the quarter ended September 30 even as it posted its highest-ever consolidated quarterly revenue of Rs. 25,785 crore driven by a rise in data usage and new 4G users. The net loss for the second quarter is significantly lower than the net loss of Rs. 23,045 crore recorded in the July-September 2019 quarter on account of higher provisioning following a Supreme Court order related to adjusted gross revenues (AGR). “Despite being a seasonally weak quarter, we delivered a strong performance with revenue growing at 22% year-on-year,” said Gopal Vittal, MD and CEO, India & South Asia. “Our continued focus on ARPU improvement and cost optimisation led to EBITDA margin expansion by over 158 basis points in the quarter sequentially,” he added. The company said India revenue for the quarter came in at Rs. 18,747 crore, an increase of 22%, while mobile revenue rose 26%. The ARPU (average revenue per user) increased to Rs. 162 compared with Rs. 128 in year-earlier quarter. It added that 4G data customers increased by 48% to 152.7 million, while traffic increased to 77.3 petabytes (PB)/day compared with 48.9 PB/day a year earlier. Meanwhile, the home business segment witnessed a revenue growth of 7.3% with more than 1.29 lakh customers added during the quarter, taking the total base to 25.8 lakh customers.  On the AGR issue, the company said, “The group has represented to DoT that it has already paid more than 10% of the total dues as demanded by the DoT and will ensure ongoing compliance with the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s orders.” The company also said that its total capital expenditure for the quarter stood at Rs. 6,791 crore.
28 October 2020||Mumbai,||COVID to erode 3 years of fiscal consolidation gains of States: RBI||The additional outgo to combat the impact of COVID-19 will significantly erode the fiscal consolidation achieved by the State governments in the past three years, the RBI said in a report on Tuesday. In its study of the State budgets of 2020-21,the RBI has dwelled on ‘COVID-19 and its Spatial Dimensions in India’ and said that Gross Fiscal Deficit (GFD) of the States would spiral during the current fiscal. “States have budgeted their consolidated GFD at 2.8% of GDP in 2020-21; however, the COVID-19 pandemic may alter budget estimates significantly, eroding the gains of consolidation secured in the preceding three years — the average GFD for States that presented their budgets before the outbreak of COVID-19 is 2.4% of GSDP, while the average for budgets presented post-lockdown is 4.6%,” the RBI said. Credibility at stake Observing that the quality of spending and the credibility of State budgets will assume critical importance, it said, “The next few years are going to be challenging for the States. They have played an important role in the frontline of the defence against the pandemic. Going forward, they need to remain empowered to provide growth impulses to the Indian economy and build resilience against future pandemics as well. “Sustaining the recovery from the pandemic will reshape State finances, entailing boosting investment in health care systems and other social safety nets in line with the States’ demographic and co-morbidity profiles,” it added. States’ responses by delaying or cutting down expenditures, even wages and salaries, also need to be taken into account in the assessment of the pandemic’s effects on State finances.
28 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Tata Motors loss widens to Rs. 314 cr. on CV decline||Tata Motors Ltd. reported a wider consolidated net loss of Rs. 314 crore for the second quarter ended September 30 compared with a net loss of Rs. 217 crore a year earlier. The auto major had reported a net loss of Rs. 8,438 crore in the quarter ended June. Consolidated revenue in the latest quarter declined 18% to Rs. 53,530 crore due to a decline in commercial vehicle and Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) sales volumes. “Despite concerns around risk of a second wave of infection in many countries and other geopolitical risks, we expect a gradual recovery of demand and supply in the coming months,” the company said in a regulatory filing. During the quarter, JLR returned to profit, which, however, remained below the year earlier, pre-COVID-19 levels. Retail sales at the luxury unit declined 11.9% year-on-year. China sales rose 3.7% year-on-year.
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Engineering exporters fret over fresh wave in Europe||A resurgence in COVID-19 infections in Europe is a cause of worry for India’s engineering exporters; and could potentially impact their performance this fiscal as the European Union remains one of the top three markets for them, according to a leader of EEPC India. “The COVID-19 situation in Europe in the last 7-10 days is getting bad to worse; we are keeping fingers crossed. If we can reach our last year’s figures, we will happy,” former chairman of the engineering exporters body Rakesh Shah said on Tuesday. Engineering exports from the country totalled $75.81 billion in 2019-20 and after a dismal show in the first quarter this fiscal, amid the raging pandemic and lockdown, was on a recovery path in the second quarter. “It is reviving and we are looking at a positive situation in times to come,” he said, adding that engineering exports declined 29.4% in the first quarter ended June and increased 3.17% in the July-September quarter. In the first six months of the fiscal, the decline was 13.7%. The EU is among the top three partners in India’s engineering trade, consuming 17% of the exports. India’s engineering exports to the EU are about $14.24 billion.  The European Union is among the top three markets for engineering exports
28 October 2020||MUMBAI,||TechM buys 2 firms to boost digital offering||Tech Mahindra Ltd. said it had fully acquired Momenton, a digital enterprise technology firm offering consultancy and implementation services, and Tenzing Ltd., a technology consulting company for unspecified amounts. Together, these companies would enable digital capabilities, cloud-based architectures and transformation for customers in Australia and New Zealand, in financial services and other sectors, the firm said in a statement. Vivek Agarwal, head, Corporate Development, Tech Mahindra, said, “The acquisitions [will help] strengthen our digital capabilities, and offer... end-to-end transformation services”.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harley opts to ride pillion with Hero||Hero MotoCorp on Tuesday said it had entered into a distribution and licensing agreement with Harley-Davidson Inc. to develop and sell a range of premium motorcycles under the Harley-Davidson brand name in the country. The move comes almost a month after the U.S. company announced its decision to discontinue sales and manufacturing operations in India as part of a global strategic restructuring plan — The Rewire. “Hero MotoCorp will sell and service Harley-Davidson motorcycles, and sell parts and accessories and general merchandise riding gear and apparel through a network of” exclusive Harley-Davidson dealers as well as Hero’s existing dealer network, the Indian two-wheeler maker said in a statement. These actions, Hero said, were aligned with Harley-Davidson’s business overhaul plan. “This arrangement is mutually beneficial for both companies and riders in India, as it brings together the iconic Harley-Davidson brand with the strong distribution network and customer service of Hero MotoCorp,” it added.  Profit climbs Separately, Harley-Davidson beat profit expectations on Tuesday as shipments improved from pandemic lows and the company reined in costs as part of CEO Jochen Zeitz’s restructuring plan, Reuters reported. Net income rose to $120 million, or 78 cents per share, in the third quarter ended September 30, from $87 million, or 55 cents per share, a year earlier. ( With inputs by Reuters )
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Vivad se Vishwas: pay by March 31’||The government on Tuesday extended for the third time the deadline for making payment under the direct tax dispute settlement scheme ‘Vivad se Vishwas’ by three months to March 31, 2021. As per a CBDT notification, declaration under the Vivad se Vishwas Scheme shall be required to be furnished latest by December 31, 2020. “In order to provide further relief to the taxpayers desirous of settling disputes under Vivad se Vishwas Scheme, the government today further extended the date for making payment without additional amount from December 31, 2020 to March 31, 2021,” an official statement said.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,||FreshToHome raises $121 mn for expansion||FreshToHome, a fresh fish and meat e-tailer, on Tuesday said it had raised $121 million in Series C funding from investors including Investment Corporation of Dubai, DFC, Investcorp, Ascent Capital and the Allana Group. Iron Pillar, the lead investor from the earlier round, has now invested $19 million. The funds would be used for expansion in India and West Asia, the firm said.
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||RBI asks Lakshmi Vilas Bank to reconsider names proposed for new MD & CEO||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has asked Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB), which is in the midst of a merger process with Clix group, to reconsider the names proposed for the post of new MD & CEO, a senior official said on Tuesday.  “We had done interviews of three candidates and sent the names to RBI. We have started the process again ,” Shakti Sinha, independent director, told PTI.
28 October 2020||Bengaluru,||‘E-tailers see 55% rise in 1st week of festive sales’||The first week of festive sales ended October 21, saw a 55% year-on-year growth with goods worth $4.1 billion (Rs. 29,000 crore) being sold across several e-tailing platforms. This compares with last year’s $2.7 billion, exceeding RedSeer Consulting’s pre-festive sale forecast of $4 billion for the period. Smartphones constituted 47% of the total sales, driven by new launches and affordable models.
28 October 2020||Milan,||Roma shares points with Milan||Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored twice but AC Milan dropped its first points of the Serie A season as Roma came from behind to draw 3-3 at the San Siro on Monday. In a game played in an empty stadium after the imposition of a coronavirus curfew, Milan was without goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma and young Norwegian striker Jens Petter Hauge, who the club announced earlier on Monday had tested positive for COVID-19. Veteran Romanian goalkeeper Ciprian Tatarusanu, who joined Milan in September, made his debut in place of Donnarumma, and was twice caught on his line from corners and also spilled a shot in the build up to Roma’s second-half penalty. Milan, with 13 points, remains at the top of the standings, two points ahead of Napoli, which has won all four games it has played, and Sassuolo. Roma remains ninth. Lacklustre show Son Heung-min pounced to steal a 1-0 win for lacklustre Tottenham on Monday, linking up with Harry Kane yet again as Jose Mourinho’s side climbed to fifth in the Premier League table. South Korea forward Son scored his eighth league goal of the season in the 76th minute, heading in from close range after a headed pass from Kane.  The results: Premier League: Brighton 1 (Livermore 40-og) drew with West Brom 1 (Grant 83); Burnley 0 lost to Tottenham 1 (Son 76).   Serie A: AC Milan 3 (Ibrahimovic 2, 79-pen, Saelemaekers 47) drew with Roma 3 (Dzeko 14, Veretout 71-pen, Kumbulla 84).   Bundesliga: Bayer Leverkusen 3 (Alario 16-pen, 74, Diaby 90+4) bt Augsburg 1 (D. Caligiuri 51).   LaLiga: Levante 1 (Marti 48) drew with Celta Viga 1 (Vilarino 52).
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Saha, Warner deflate Capitals before Rashid has them in knots||Chasing a target of 220 is never easy but Delhi Capitals lacked intent and eventually faltered against Sunrisers Hyderabad at the Dubai International Stadium on Tuesday. SRH beat DC by 88 runs to stay alive in the tournament. Leading from the front David Warner led from the front, scoring a 34-ball 66 (8x4, 2x6) and then taking two catches to help dismiss the in-form Shikhar Dhawan — for a golden duck off Sandeep Sharma’s third ball — and Marcus Stoinis, off Shahbaz Nadeem, inside the PowerPlay. He even took the right DRS call towards the back end of the game, which saw the end of Rishabh Pant (36, 35b, 3x4, 1x6). Ajinkya Rahane (26, 19b, 3x4, 1x6) had tried to build a partnership with Shimron Hetmyer in the chase, but that was cut short by leg-spinner Rashid Khan, who dismissed them both. Rashid’s 17 dot balls Rashid’s three for seven strangled DC. He bowled 17 dot balls to finish with an economy-rate of 1.75. Earlier, Warner and Wriddhiman Saha (87, 45b, 12x4, 2x6), who replaced Jonny Bairstow, punished the DC bowling. Speeding to 77 in the first six overs without losing a wicket, SRH recorded its best PowerPlay performance of the season, with Warner taking on fast-bowler Kagiso Rabada to score 22 in an over. The southpaw smashed four fours and a six to completely change the momentum. The signature slash cut, the swipe over cow corner and the familiar flat-batted strikes left the Delhi fielders clueless. Saha — playing his second game of the season — swept the spinners and pulled the quicks with gusto. Warner and Saha added 107 runs off 58 balls before R. Ashwin sent down a loopy off-break to entice the left-hander; the mistimed lofted shot found extra cover. Saha looked set for his second IPL hundred, but he mistimed a length ball from Anrich Nortje to be caught at mid-off. Ashwin and Nortje were the only DC bowlers among the wickets. With this huge win, SRH has moved to sixth on the table. Its net run rate (0.396) is the best of the chasing pack. DC’s third straight loss puts it in jeopardy. Although still third with 14 points, its remaining games are against Mumbai Indians and Royal Challengers Bangalore, the top two.   Powerplay  Warner and Saha scored 77 in the first six overs, the highest this season eclipsing Royals’ 69 for one against Kings
28 October 2020||Chennai,||Varun has made rapid strides||His bewildering variety of deliveries and the fizz in his bowling have caught the attention of the National selectors. Varun Chakravarthy may not turn the ball big but does enough to beat defences, find edges and force miscued hits. He’s different and his selection in the Indian Twenty20 squad for the tour of Australia was not entirely unexpected. Surreal Although, Varun, apparently didn’t see the selection coming. “It feels surreal,” he said. A late bloomer — he is 29 and was a struggling architect before deciding to make cricket his career — Varun has rapidly climbed the rungs. His various deliveries in full view, Varun has bamboozled opponents in the ongoing IPL; his exploits for Kolkata Knight Riders include a five-for against Delhi Capitals. What makes Varun special is how well he disguises his deliveries. For instance, there is not much difference in his action and wrist position when he sends the googly or the top-spinner. And then he has the carrom ball and can also bowl conventional off-spinners and cutters. Tall with a high-arm action, Varun achieves natural bounce and has compelling variations of pace. For instance, he defeated M.S. Dhoni in flight and castled him in a high-pressure crunch situation and some of his other deliveries have been much quicker.  Varun is a thinking bowler who reads batsmen and uses the crease. This Tamil Nadu ‘mystery’ spinner will surely add teeth to the Indian attack. Batsmen do struggle to pick him. Practice bowler Travelling with Varun to Australia — as a practice bowler — will be Tamil Nadu compatriot T. Natarajan. The yorker specialist — he comprehends his release position exceptionally well — will be invaluable in Twenty20 cricket. And Natarajan will pick up more tricks from Indian bowling coach B. Arun. But then, Varun will be under greater focus.
28 October 2020||MUMBAI,||India gets extra warm-up game before Test series||India is set to play two warm-up games — instead of one, as originally scheduled — ahead of the four-Test series in Australia. According to the provisional itinerary shared by Cricket Australia (CA) with the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), the tourists were offered a solitary practice match, a day-night affair in Adelaide from December 11 to 13, ahead of the pink-ball Test at the Adelaide Oval from December 17. But considering that there has been no First Class cricket for the Indian players since the conclusion of the Ranji Trophy in March, the BCCI had asked for an additional warm-up tie. The Hindu understands that CA has acceded to the request. Cramped schedule  Since the itinerary is cramped, the first warm-up game — to be played either in Canberra or at a venue in Sydney — will clash with the limited-over series. It will be followed by a three-day floodlit tie at the Sydney Cricket Ground before the team departs for Adelaide on December 14. The change of venue for the day-night practice game was to ensure that the preparation for the Test at the Adelaide Oval isn’t affected. Besides, since the Australian broadcaster is keen on televising the match, it will have to be hosted at an international venue. All the 32 India cricketers selected across three formats, including the four back-up bowlers, along with the coaching and support staff, will travel to Australia together immediately after the conclusion of the Indian Premier League on November 10.
28 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Rohit’s omission from Oz tour shrouded in mystery||More than 24 hours after the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) announced the squads for India’s forthcoming tour to Australia, the mystery over Rohit Sharma’s exclusion from the squad for all three formats seems to have compounded. Rohit, India’s vice-captain in ODIs and T20Is, has missed Mumbai Indians’ last two games in the Indian Premier League owing to a left hamstring injury, as made official by his franchise. Since then, there has been no word on Rohit’s fitness. But minutes after the BCCI announced the squads on Monday evening, stating that the BCCI’s medical team “will continue to monitor the progress of Rohit”, the batsman had a full-fledged batting session in UAE. In fact, the manner in which Mumbai Indians put out an edited video of his batting across its social media handles gave rise to speculation on whether Rohit was making a statement with the bat. No explanation Barring the one-line update in the BCCI statement, there has been no explanation from anyone involved in the team. The player himself, the selectors, the BCCI, even the franchise have remained tightlipped over Rohit’s exclusion. As legendary batsman Sunil Gavaskar so eloquently put it in Monday’s post-match show on Star Sports, the fans deserve to know the reasons behind Rohit not being in the team for Australia. Instead of being transparent, the Indian cricket machinery has continued to operate in conspicuous ways. Was Rohit omitted from limited-overs squads due to the injury or does he not meet fitness criteria for international cricket? Did he make himself unavailable, citing the life in a bio-bubble, possibly without the family in Australia? Or was he ruled out of the ODIs and T20Is due to fitness concerns and was not considered for Tests? To add to it, is it the end of Rohit’s IPL campaign? Hopefully, the BCCI, headed by a former India captain, will put an end to all the questions soon.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Let’s expect a lot, but not too much: Brearley||When, at the turn of the century, it was decided to add a 417-word ‘Preamble’ to the Laws of cricket, I felt uncomfortable. The intentions were good, but the idea that those who played the game needed to be told such things as “It is against the spirit of the game to indulge in cheating” seemed ridiculous. It was like adding, “It is not good manners to murder your neighbour” to the criminal code. This was the ‘spirit’ of the game — every schoolboy is taught that you played within the written laws and the unwritten spirit, except that it was now decided to write down the spirit, thereby somehow diminishing it. You cannot build a fence around intent. It was possible to conclude that the Laws defined the game itself while the spirit was the code by which the individuals who played it were judged. Mike Atherton initially called the spirit “a lot of meaningless guff,” but few players or writers have explored the idea in detail. Till now, that is, when Mike Brearley, the sage of the game, has done so in his Spirit of Cricket.  Brearley has written about how the concept worried him. “I used to question the notion of the spirit of cricket,” he says, “I was worried that it was nebulous and I felt that those who advocated it most strongly tended to sound patronising or pompous.” Many of the ‘traditions of the game’, he says, “are not worthy of respect.” In Spirit of Cricket, Brearley brings the threads together, occasionally travelling outside the game into the realms of literature, philosophy and psychology to borrow concepts that are both relevant and explanatory. The book is subtitled Reflections on Play and Life.  Reading Spirit of Cricket gave me a feeling of completion, as if there is nothing more to be said on the subject. Few books, cricket or otherwise, inspire this sense of completeness. And it has been done without preaching, without getting technical, without holding back on his own self-doubts. It is quite an achievement. “There are risks in the (game’s) fantasy of purity and peacefulness,” writes Brearley; it is rugged, hard, passionate and urban. Harold Pinter called it, “a wonderfully civilised act of warfare” and a “very violent game.” Vague If the spirit is vague, the Laws tend to be too. They are a mixture of rules and playing conditions written by different organisations — the Marylebone Cricket Club, the International Cricket Council, the national bodies all add to them. By ‘spirit’, Brearley largely means ‘fairness’, a word unlikely to annoy those who get worked up by ‘spirit’. The spirit, admits Brearley, is meant to be vague, offering pointers rather than solutions to specific issues. The conflict with Laws arises because “We are happier with precision (and) inclined to view the material and the measurable as more real than the often unmeasurable emotional/mental.” There is the suggestion that the ‘spirit’ alters with time and circumstance. Brearley’s objection to Bodyline, for instance, is not based on moral grounds — “I am conflicted about Bodyline,” he says, “Like Greg Chappell I have a sneaking regard for what Jardine did” — but on the physical danger during an era when the batsmen were not well protected, and because the tactic was “too ruthless.” But he admits Bodyline, which involved fast bowlers aiming at the batsmen’s body with a packed leg-side field, was “against the spirit of cricket.” Atherton (in a chapter where other writers speak on the issue) has this to say: “One man’s spirit of cricket is far removed from another’s. As the game spreads — Afghanistan, Nepal, Papua New Guinea, America etc. — local customs will alter what has been traditionally accepted as the spirit of cricket, rendering it utterly changed from its original conception to the point where it becomes almost meaningless.” No longer an English game Cricket is no longer an English game alone, and will have to accept that cultural (or even moral) relativism might render redundant many concepts enshrined in the unwritten spirit. The theatre director Ian Rickson makes the point that ‘spirit of cricket’ has gone from a colonial maxim to teach subjects to obey a system of rules to a global market run by billionaires. Brearley’s approach is pragmatic, and a lesson for our times. “Let’s expect a lot,” he says, “but not too much.” His advice: Don’t hype cricket up into something elevated and imagine that it is too special. His hope: Cricket is special, and our better selves can prevail. That is a wonderful synthesis of the moralists and the nay-sayers. In the 2017 edition of the Laws, the preamble was cut to 163 words, an improvement. Brearley, who thinks the shorter the better, suggests a version that is only 39 words. The sage has spoken!
28 October 2020||Melbourne,||I have battled depression: Johnson||Former Australia pacer Mitchell Johnson has opened up on his battle with depression, saying he continues to struggle with his mental health even after retiring from all forms of cricket in 2018. “Through my cricket career I actually just dealt with it (depression), it’s just about me now actually moving forward and taking it upon myself to be active with certain things, to keep my mind going,” Johnson said in Channel 7’s SAS Australia. “I’ve found it tougher since retiring from cricket. All of a sudden, you’re not doing as much. You sort of lose your purpose a little bit,” he added. Johnson, who took 313 wickets from 73 Tests, retired from Tests in 2015, but continued to play for three more years in the IPL and Big Bash. Transition phase “I struggle with, probably, confidence at times. I’m in that transition now where I’ve been out of playing cricket for about two years,” the 38-year-old said. Asked if he had found retirement hard, Johnson replied: “Yeah, plenty of times. I found out I’ve got depression, but I think that was something I’ve had even from a younger age. “It (cricket) sort of blocked things out in a way. It sort of hid the depression, but there was a lot of times where you would go back to your room, you’re away from family and you start to dwell on things.” Lifestyle plays a role Johnson feels a cricketer’s lifestyle is at times responsible for such a condition. “You have your moments where you struggle with it really bad and it can be tricky when you’ve got a lot of time to think about things,” he said. You’ve just got no control whatsoever and your mind starts playing those tricks on you, you start thinking of the worst,” the left-arm pacer added.
28 October 2020||Portimao (Portugal),||No favouritism to Leclerc, says Binotto||Team boss Mattia Binotto on Monday rejected mounting speculation that Ferrari is favouring Charles Leclerc over Sebastian Vettel by giving him a faster car. The pair finished six places apart in Sunday’s Portuguese Grand Prix after which Vettel suggested that Leclerc had been driving a faster car. Leclerc came home fourth and four-time champion Vettel 10th, a result that extended the German’s season-long run of defeats by his teammate as he seeks a dignified exit in his swansong season with the Italian team. “The cars of Seb and Charles are identical, no doubt,” said Binotto. “I sincerely hope that Sebastian can qualify better at Imola and show more of what he is capable of during the race. “Charles is very good, but maybe you can expect more from the second driver.” Binotto’s cryptic comment followed an equally enigmatic explanation from Vettel for his struggle for form. “On the one hand, I’m satisfied because I had the feeling that I drove a good race,” said Vettel. “But, on the other hand, it’s obvious that the other car is much faster. Where do I lose time? I have been biting my tongue all year long. Some idiot might never figure it out, but am I a complete idiot? I doubt it. “At some point, you should be lucky and hit the limit. I never hit it and, if I do, then only with a lot of difficulty. On the other side (of the garage) it looks much easier.” A sparkling qualifying lap from Leclerc exemplified their differences as he claimed fourth on the grid and was half a second faster. Vettel avoided making any direct accusations after the race, adding: “I have to think that we have the same car. I trust the people around me and in the garage.” To add to Vettel’s current difficulties and much unwanted attention, he revealed also that he had sent Lewis Hamilton a pre-race text message, encouraging the six-time champion to claim a record 92nd race win. Vettel was told before the season began that he was not being retained by Ferrari for 2021. Since then, he has agreed to join Racing Point, which will compete as Aston Martin next season.
28 October 2020||MELBOURNE,||‘Think I let the noise get to me last time around’||Pace spearhead Mitchell Starc says he let the noise get to him when India toured Australia two years ago but “couldn’t care less” now as he gears up for the upcoming home Test series against Virat Kohli’s team. Starc had received flak for his performance against India after taking 13 wickets in the four-Test series in 2018-19. “I think I let the noise get to me, to be perfectly honest, which is a big reason why I don’t pay attention to anything now,” Starc was quoted by cricket.com.au . “By the end of that summer I was just running in and trying to bowl as fast as I could, just to focus on one thing. It worked out for the last Test of that summer.” Australia lost its first-ever Test series at home to India in 2018-19. India is set to tour Australia again for three T20Is, as many ODIs and four Tests next month. “The noise just got to me and (so did) people who really didn’t have any part of the team, (who voiced) opinions which they’re entitled to, (but) now I just couldn’t care less what people say,” said Starc. “I just don’t need to listen to that stuff anymore. I don’t read it and I’m a happier person for it. As long as I have people around me who I trust talking to, and (in) the changeroom as well that positive reinforcement is there no matter what.” Technical changes Starc said he made some technical changes during last year’s Sheffield Shield games ahead of the home series against Pakistan.  Starc, who had skipped the IPL to be with his family, said only “time will tell” if his extra First Class preparation would hand him an advantage in the upcoming series. “To have a couple of Shield games now, to just focus on that and continue to reinforce some of the little changes I’ve made over the last couple of months, it’s a good chance to make that happen against some good domestic players. “The wickets have been quite flat here so it’s just a chance to hone those skills on wickets that aren’t offering too much. You can look at it either way — the guys over in the IPL are over there playing an extremely high level of cricket, but I get to hone my skills with the red ball.”  The wickets have been quite flat here so it’s just a chance to hone those skills on wickets that aren’t offering too much
28 October 2020||London,||Norris apologises to Hamilton||Lando Norris apologised to Lewis Hamilton on Tuesday after downplaying the six-time Formula One world champion’s record-breaking victory at last weekend’s Portuguese Grand Prix. Hamilton surpassed Michael Schumacher’s feat of 91 race wins after triumphing at Portimao on Sunday. Not impressed But rival British F1 driver Norris did not appear overly impressed, suggesting the 35-year-old Hamilton ought to win most of the time given how superior his Mercedes car is compared to the rest of the field. McLaren’s 20-year-old, however, backtracked on Twitter saying: “I owe an apology. I’ve been stupid and careless with some things I’ve said lately in media and interviews and, and I haven’t shown the respect I should have to certain people.” He added: “I’m not that kind of person, so I know I should apologise to them but also everyone reading / listening. Sorry.” Speaking after Sunday’s race, Norris was quoted by RaceFans as saying of Hamilton: “I’m just happy for him, nothing more. “It doesn’t mean anything to me really. He’s in a car which should win every race, basically. “He has to beat one or two other drivers, that’s it. Fair play to him, he’s still doing the job he has to do.”
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||A lot of good golf, birdies and other positives: Anirban Lahiri||Anirban Lahiri will look to arrest the streak of inconsistency that has somewhat undone his good rounds in three events on the PGA Tour so far this season. During a virtual press conference on the eve of the $4-million Bermuda Championship on Tuesday, the 33-year-old sounded determined to minimise the mistakes that cost him dearly in two out of three events. “So far, this season has been good. I have been able to implement a lot of those changes that I’ve brought in. “Still some things are developing. I think as I get more tournaments in, as I get a little more experience in terms of handling some of the new attitudes, new approaches that I have on the golf course, it should gradually get better,” he said. Best finish T-6 This season, Lahiri’s best finish is tied-sixth in the $4-millon Caroles Puntacana Resort and Club Championship last month. He returned to competition at the $6.6-million Safeway Open in mid-September and finished tied-36th. Earlier this month, Lahiri shared the 37th spot in the $6.6-million Sanderson Farms Championship and took his season’s earnings to $191,121. “I think it’s been a bit of a mixed bag. I’ve obviously had one good result and a couple of average results. “I think the game has a few loose holes every event. The game has been one bad round or mediocre round every event, and there has been a lot of good golf and a lot of birdies and a lot of other positives as well. “There has been definitely some inconsistency with my iron play,” he admitted. On the lockdown days, Lahiri said, “I put a lot of work in during the lockdown when I was in India, put a lot of new processes, refreshed a lot of my old practices and things that used to work for me. So, the effort is to be able to perform at my best.”
28 October 2020||Abu Dhabi,||MI and RCB face off in a crucial contest; Rohit, Saini doubtful||Rohit Sharma is likely to miss his third game in a row when Mumbai Indians faces Royal Challengers Bangalore here on Wednesday with both teams aiming to secure a spot in the playoffs. Rohit’s fitness has become a subject of attention ahead of the game. Having missed the last two games due to a hamstring injury, the Mumbai Indians skipper returned to the nets on Monday, a day when his name was missing from the India squad for the Australia series. In Rohit’s absence, Mumbai would persist with Saurabh Tiwary and Ishan Kishan. Quinton de Kock (374 runs) had a rare failure against Rajasthan and would be keen to make an impact. Kishan (298 runs) and Suryakumar Yadav (283 runs) are among the leading run-scores who can go on the offensive against any attack. The Mumbai bowlers would be more than keen to forget the hammering they received from Rajasthan’s Ben Stokes and Sanju Samson. For RCB, Virat Kohli (415 runs) would like to continue his splendid run. Aaron Finch, Devdutt Padikkal and A.B. de Villiers need to be more consistent and support their skipper. But, RCB’s pacer Navdeep Saini has suffered a split webbing and there is no clarity on his participation in the game. In case he misses, Chris Morris and Mohammad Siraj would need to shoulder greater responsibility along with Isuru Udana.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Kings’ fifth straight win lifts them to fourth||When Mandeep Singh reached a well-deserved fifty, he raised his bat towards the sky. He was dedicating the knock to his father Hardev Singh, who passed away on Friday. His measured 66 not out (56b, 8x4, 2x6) and Chris Gayle's swashbuckling 51 (29b, 2x4, 5x6) — the pair added 100 for the second wicket — guided Kings XI Punjab to a comfortable eight-wicket victory over Kolkata Knight Riders at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Monday. A target of 150 for a formidable batting line-up on a ground with small boundaries was never going to be enough. KXIP romped home with seven balls to spare. It was the fifth win in a row for K.L. Rahul's men. What a turnaround it has been for them; two weeks ago, they were placed right at the bottom.   Kings 104 for one  Kings were 104 for one in 14 overs in reply, with Mandeep (39) and Gayle (35) at the crease. Rahul (28) was the batsman dismissed
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Manolo Marquez takes charge as HFC head coach||Hyderabad FC head coach Manolo Marquez joined the squad and oversaw his first pre-season training session for the club at Guirim (Goa) on Tuesday. The Spaniard was joined by other overseas coaching staff who stepped on to the field after completing the necessary quarantine procedures. “Getting back to training felt really good. We spent a long time away from our passion and we spoke about the same with the staff before the start of the training session. I think everyone who loves football would enjoy getting back onto the field,” said Manolo in a statement. Apart from the staff, Manolo was also joined by the foreign players in the squad — Joel Chianese, Joao Victor, Lluis Sastre, Odei Onaindia, Fran Sandaza and Aridane Santana. “The foreigners will obviously be very important for the team. They trained for the first time but I am really happy with the attitude of all the players,” he said. “I think they are happy as well as almost the entire team trained together.” Assistant coach Xavi Gurri, who was the interim coach in the latter half of the last season, assisted Manolo alongside Thangboi Singto. They were joined by new appointments Jose Carlos Barroso (strength and conditioning coach) and Marc Gamon (goalkeeping coach).  I am really happy with the attitude of all the players
28 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Warriors and Titans post facile wins||Warriors XI posted a five-wicket win over Chargers XI in the league phase of the Karbonn Harmonycity Andhra Cricket Association T20 league championship at the RDT Ground in Anantapur on Tuesday. Batting first, Chargers XI scored 157 for six in 20 overs with B. Sumanth (53, 42b, 3x4, 2x6) and Srikar Bharat (33, 30b, 2x4, 2x6) batting well. In reply, Warriors reached the target in the 20th over losing five wickets with Dharani Kumar scoring a breezy 48 (44b, 4x6). He was declared Man-of-the-Match. In another match, Titans XI scored a comfortable, seven-wicket win over Legends XI with Hemanth Reddy (3/13) and Man-of-the-Match D.G.J. Chaitanya (51 n.o., 38b, 7x4, 1x6) and Ch. Kranthi Kumar (30, 19b, 1x4, 1x6) being the key performers. This is Titans’ fourth consecutive win in the tournament.  The scores: Chargers XI 157/6 in 20 overs (B. Sumanth 53, Srikar Bharat 33) lost to Warriors XI 160/5 in 19.3 overs (Dharani Kumar 48).   Legends XI 117 in 18.3 overs (Prudhvi Raj 52, Hemanth Reddy 3/13) lost to Titans XI 118/3 in 14.5 overs (D.G.J. Chaitanya 51 n.o., Ch. Kranti Kumar 30).
28 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Chandrasekhar wants to invest in the future||Mumbai-based former hockey international N. Chandrasekhar has decided to set up a hockey academy in his hometown. To start with, he will host an under-16 girls’ match at the BHEL Ramachandrapuram ground on Wednesday. “A full-fledged academy is my plan,” the 61-year-old told The Hindu . After prize distribution at a recent inter-district championship, some girls approached him for help, Chandrasekhar said. He is being assisted in his endeavour by friend and sportslover Ravi Madan of Indiana Sports. The former right-winger said the match between City XI and Royal Club XI on Wednesday would be the beginning of his efforts. “I feel great to be back at BHEL where I was born. I also played a Test for Indian Railways against Pakistan Railways, scored the winning goal too,” he said. Chandrasekhar said he had formed more than 40 teams in different age-groups in Navi Mumbai (where he is now settled). “There is tremendous untapped talent across the country,” he said.
28 October 2020||Colombo,||Five overseas players pull out of LPL||The inaugural T20 Lankan Premier League (LPL) — to be held from November 21 to December 13 — has been dealt a severe blow with five overseas players pulling out. While David Miller, Faf du Plessis and Dawid Malan are unavailable because of the South Africa-England limited-overs series, West Indian Andre Russell has pulled out due to a knee injury. Indian wicket-keeper batsman Manvinder Bisla is the fifth player to withdraw from the tournament. “The franchises will have to negotiate with other players to take their place,” LPL director Ravin Wickramaratne told ESPNcricinfo.
28 October 2020||SHARJAH,||‘Remain not out in every game’||KXIP opener Mandeep Singh, grieving the death of his father, said he was glad to have fulfilled one of his wishes — remaining unbeaten while steering the side to victory. “My father used to tell me that ‘you should remain not out in every game’ and that is what I wanted to do,” Mandeep said after the win against KKR. “Before the match, I told Rahul ‘let me play my game, even if I take a few balls I can win matches.’ I think my father would be really happy that I finished the game,” he said.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||RR Gymkhana in final||Yuvraj Rathi and Kavya Pandey picked up three wickets each and man of the match Yug Gupta top-scored with 35 as Rohtak Road Gymkhana beat TN Memorial by two wickets to enter the final of the Turf Youth Cup Under-17 tournament.  The scores: TN Memorial 102 in 30 overs (Yuvraj Rathi 3/22, Kavya Pandey 3/27) lost to RRG 103/8 in 38 overs (Yug Gupta 35; Tanay Singh 2/21) .    Aryan Arora's 116-run knock helped Uday Gupte Academy win by seven runs against Gross Sporting in the B.R. Sharma memorial tournament.  The scores: UGA 266/8 in 40 overs (Aryan Arora 116; Gurmukhi Singh 3/55) bt Gross Sporting 259/9 in 40 overs (Vikas Bhati 65, Jagdev Bhati 47; Priyansh Jain 2/36, Biren Pal Singh 2/59) .
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Absolute Truth||Though Rama abides by His role as a human being, His Paratva is also unmistakable in quite a few occasions. It may not be as explicit as in Krishna avatar, but it surfaces in authentic ways. Among these, Rama’s promise of succour that He proclaims with great force at the time of explaining His stance to accept Vibhishana is a strong and powerful statement of His Paratva, pointed out Velukkudi Sri Krishnan in a discourse. Rama’s swabhava as the heir to Ikshvaku race makes Him say thus. “If one comes to me for protection, be he good or bad, my swabhava does not allow me to reject him. This is my dharma by birth and my inherent nature. Even if I am going to face losses because of this, I will not bother. Even if my life would be put to risk, I will not bother. I will uphold this dharma at all costs. I will not give up this dharma. I do not fear any danger from Vibhishana. Why Vibhishana? Even if Ravana comes I will protect Him without examining his intentions. So why should I not give protection to his brother? So go and bring him to my presence.” Vibhishana is a realised soul who recognises Rama as the Supreme Lord and he seeks Him with total confidence. Surrender has to be done to one who has the capacity, power and willingness to protect. Only a Rama or a Krishna can proclaim to protect and also fulfil their vow to do so. This is the basis of all faiths. Above all, the Lord’s compassion is the greatest boon for the erring jivatma. When He says, “Do not fear. Do not worry. I shall release you from all sins,” it is the expression of the Absolute Truth. Humanity finds solace in these words that reveal Lord’s power to protect as well as His boundless concern for man.
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 07:26 IST,||Sudoku - October 28, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||An Ocean of kindness||When Himanshu Joshi and his family caught COVID-19, he was overwhelmed by how kind humanity can be. “Every meal, groceries we needed... everything came from our neighbours,” recalls the vocalist of one of India’s oldest and pioneer rock bands, Indian Ocean. The 32-year-old band behind songs such as ‘Desert Rain’, ‘Bandeh’ and ‘Mann Kasturi’, recently paid its tribute to other such selfless COVID-19 heroes with an anthem to the show,Bharat Ke Mahaveer, airing in November on Discovery India. Starring Dia Mirza and Sonu Sood as hosts, it will showcase 12 stories about India’s spirit of solidarity through the COVID-19 pandemic. While the anthem video honours those who have shown kindness during these troubled times, over a Zoom call, Indian Ocean members Himanshu, Rahul Ram and Amit Kilam recall the people they have personally witnessed in the act of building a more empathetic India. “I have seen Amit Kilam and his wife go around distributing food packets to migrant workers when the great migration started in April. My wife, who is part of an organisation that works with street dogs, saw how people spontaneously came forward to help,” says Rahul Ram. Acknowledging that there was an initial stigma against people who tested positive, Amit says, “The same housing society group chat where I could see rash unreasonable behaviour, has now evolved to be more kind. As we see how inevitable it is, people are learning to be less scared.” Incidentally, Amit, who plays the drums and has also lent his vocals for the anthem, “crossed the Covid speed bump” (as the band members call it), right before they recorded the song. “I didn’t notice it then, but looking back, I do get out of breath while singing longer sections. There are some long-term side effects that need to be monitored, but breathing exercises should help,” he shrugs. “So the two members who live the healthiest lifestyles caught Covid, whereas Nikhil [Rao] and I did not. Looks like our vices have paid off,” jokes Ram, lightening the mood. Apart from recording this song in August, the band has not been able to meet very often, despite all of them living in Delhi. “Maybe we will when Himanshu-ji gets better and I come back from Manali,” says Ram, who has temporarily taken to the hills. “Oh yes, right before you called, he was showing us the valleys outside his window. You could call that a random act of unkindness,” Amit says, side-eying his long-time collaborator. What’s next for the ocean The inside jokes point to almost half a lifetime of performing together. Known for giving fusion rock a voice, the band stood out for its strong vocals and the incorporation of Indian musical instruments in a formerly westernised genre. In the past few years, however, their live concerts were proving more popular. They are now doing the same online, something that they think will continue even after live performances return. “We can reach fans in cities we have never played at,” says Ram, explaining the advantages of online concerts with this analogy: “It is like watching cricket on your TV — you get to watch the spin and the strike closely. You are watching better cricket but you miss the energy of 3,000,00 people cheering with you. So both are valid experiences and will continue.” Before the pandemic hit, the band had composed and recorded five songs, ready to be released. Two of them are collaborations — one with ghatam maestro Vikku Vinayakram and the other, with American saxophonist George Brookes. “But then we realised that nowadays people watch music, rather than listen to it. Half of them watch on their phones, so the bass player wants to kill himself,” laughs Ram, who is the bassist for the band. The band was halfway through recording the videos, when the country went into lockdown. “And then there are eight more songs, which are imploring, banao mujhko, banao ! The batter is ready, it just hasn’t been fried yet,” says Ram. As of now, the band has not decided when the new originals will be released. Prod Amit for a tentative date and he says, “Whenever the vaccine is made.”
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Memories of kitchens past||Leela Mathew skins, cores and chops an apple with the flair of a master chef. The apple is to go into a smooth dough and then be dunked in hot oil. Home cook Leela is making apple appam (Indian style apple fritters) for an eager online audience. Her YouTube channel and Instagram page, My Mother’s Kitchen , has been drawing followers from around the world ever since it was launched in March. The videos are edited by her septuagenarian husband, who also handles the photography. “He learned [to operate] an editing software just for this,” says Leela, from Baltimore, U.S., where she lives. A growing tribe of people over 55 is discovering the joys of social media. For the women particularly, it is an indulgent space, where they get to show off their recipes and share fond food memories. At least for a few of them, it has also been a way to beat the lockdown blues. “When I first started, I didn’t know if anyone would be interested in watching at all. But I did the show because I wanted to record how to make traditional recipes for my children,” says Leela. Her videos are mostly of traditional Malayali dishes, a few with an American twist, such as a cabbage and kale thoran or a skillet cookie, for instance. Leela is originally from Kottayam, and adds, “I like doing things the old fashioned way. I like when I hear people say that my cooking makes them nostalgic for Kerala and reminds them of their mothers.” Traditional food is a hit with the fans of Sundari Krishnamurthy, 56, from Chennai as well, who says she gets emails and messages about traditional food. She started her Instagram page four years ago and enjoys the fact that she can connect with her followers. “And for that reason, I manage the page myself,” says Sundari, who conducts cookery classes as well. Her videos include south Indian staples such asidliand ellu milagai podi , to innovative ones such as a bottle-sprouted green gram salad. Artist Manjri Varde, 65, whose videos with her daughter-in-law, Bollywood actor Sameera Reddy, are already hugely popular, says she has never put herself out there much before, but is enjoying the fun. “Cooking is something I have always done. During the lockdown, Sameera suggested we do a video and we enjoyed it. All the content is prepared by her and I just try to be myself,” she says. One of the first videos Manjri and Sameera posted was on how to make a rotla with leftover rice. “Back in my day, we never wasted things. So this rotla was one such recipe.” Sameera posts at least two videos a week under the hashtag #sassysaasu, which has not just culinary, but other aspects of saas-bahu bonding with a twist. Manjri, who is currently in Goa, makes Gujarati and Maharashtrian dishes mostly, with dashes of her own improvisations. Baby steps While most seek the help of grandchildren and children to shoot videos, edit them and manage their accounts, the Internet offers ready solutions for seniors new to social media. From how to create an account to finding friends, tagging and similiar tricks and tips, help is at hand. Nalini Menon’s YouTube channel, Ennu Swantham Amma , is managed by her son Jay. “So I am not so clued in on the number of followers, but I feel happy when absolute strangers compliment me on my dishes and ask for recipes,” says the 68-year-old from Ernakulam. Nalini cooks simple Kerala food. “I don’t take any extra effort for this. I just cook what I normally do at home — sambar, theeyal, molakushyam (a lentil curry) and different kinds of chutneys,” Nalini adds. Seventy-three-year-old Mary Mathew from Kolenchery, Kerala, is a fan of MasterChef Australia , which she used to watch with her grandson John, who also shares her love for cooking. When Mary started her Instagram page, @cookingfrom1970, she sent a message to Matt Preston and George Calombaris of MasterChef Australia , introducing her page. Mary was not expecting a response, but George replied saying her food looked tasty and Matt advised her on how to take a good food photograph so that the dish stood out, pointing out her kappa ularthu as a good example. Mary posts recipes of dishes her mother used to make. Chakkapazham unakkiyathu (candied jackfruit), bilimbi thoran (bilimbi stir-fry) and boiled yam with chilli chutney to mention just a few. “I get a lot of responses, especially for traditional dishes, and I find there is a lot of interest in age-old recipes. Earlier , we used to ask neighbours and relatives for tips, now we just put it out there for the world to access,” she says. Online definitely is the way ahead, so Neena Najma, just shy of 60, joined baking and pizza-making classes on the Internet. Her Instagram page (@bakeshop37) is filled with images of “new-age” confections and pizzas. Her daughter-in-law, Aysha Thaniya, manages her account. “I have six grandchildren at home,” she says. “So I can afford to do a lot of experimenting with food; it never goes to waste.”
28 October 2020||October 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Breaking taboos||When Sravani got her first period, she had no idea how to manage the bleeding since nobody had spoken about it to her. Even her mother was hush-hush about it. She ended up using cloth and missing a week’s class at school. Several girls like her in Billalavalasa village in Vizianagaram district, Andhra Pradesh, would miss school for a week every month, some even dropping out once they attained puberty. Last year, the girls saw a ray of hope when Balamitra Foundation launched a crowd-funded project to distribute menstrual hygiene kits among girls of Classes VIII to X at the ZP High School (ZPHS), Billalavalasa. Around 150 sets were distributed by the Hyderabad-based NGO. Stigma around menstruation is one of the biggest challenges faced by social organisations aiming to empower women in rural Andhra Pradesh. “When we approached the school, we realised that there were high numbers of absentees among girl students in higher grades, which eventually led to dropouts. We wanted to eradicate the taboo about menstrual hygiene by talking to the parents and counselling them,” says Chandrika Kanumuri, managing trustee, Balamitra Foundation. “Our objective is to bring about empathy and empowerment in young India. This year, for the menstrual hygiene kit project, two volunteers from Visakhapatnam are leading the way in raising awareness for crowd-funding,” says Chandrika. As part of the project, Balamitra Foundation’s Run For A Better Future 5K run was conducted in Hyderabad last year. The money raised was used to put together 150 menstrual hygiene kits. Each kit contains 100 sanitary pads, newspaper strips for disposal, two pairs of underwear, soap strips for handwashing, a pouch to carry napkins to school, and a pamphlet with information on maintaining menstrual hygiene. The NGO procured bio-degradable sanitary pads from Hyderabad-based Mahina Napkins and Visakhapatnam-based women-led organisation, Sampoorna. These pads are made from wood pulp, gel sheets, woven fabric and paper. “Menstrual hygiene practices are structured by cultural norms, economic status and socio-economic pressures in rural belts. We realised that making the sanitary pads accessible was just one part of this issue. Creating a change in their mindset was the main challenge. We, hence, visited the school with psychologists and counselled parents,” says Chandrika.
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||Shameful that civic bodies not releasing doctors’ salaries: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal launched an all-out attack on BJP-run civic bodies on Tuesday stating that the protest by municipal doctors who have allegedly not been paid their salaries for several months was “shameful”. The move comes a day after the Mayors of the three civic bodies staged a protest outside Mr. Kejriwal’s official residence demanding dues worth Rs. 13,000 crore. Mr. Kejriwal said that the Centre should grant funds to the civic bodies so that salaries of doctors and other workers can be released. According to Delhi government sources, Rs. 1,965.91 crore was due to the municipalities between April 1 and October 26, out of which Rs. 1,752.61 crore had already been paid, and the remainder had already been disbursed and was in the process of being credited to the municipal corporations as per records of the Urban Development Department. ‘Civic bodies owe govt’ “The civic doctors are on strike due to non-payment of salaries for many months now. This is utterly shameful. The doctors who risked their lives to protect, treat, and serve us and our families, this is not right. This is a very sensitive matter, and there should be no politics on the issue,” the CM said. “The civic bodies owe us Rs. 3,800 crore, which were given in the form of loans by the Delhi government. They also owe Rs. 3,000 crore in bills to the Delhi Jal Board. The Centre gives grants to all municipal corporations across the country, based on Rs. 485 per person. However, the Centre is not paying grants to the three Delhi civic bodies for the last few years,” said Mr. Kejriwal. Since the population of Delhi is 2.25 crore, the per year calculation comes to Rs. 1,100-Rs. 1,200 crore (according to Rs. 485 per person) which amounts to Rs. 12,000 crore for 10 years, Mr. Kejriwal said, adding that the Centre should give the money to the civic bodies “how else will they function”. Out of the Rs. 12,000 crore, Rs. 6,000 crore is for salaries. Mr. Kejriwal further said the Delhi government was also suffering from an economic loss because of the coronavirus pandemic and no tax collection. “But still, we are managing the situation. We have not stopped salaries of our workers, including teachers,” he said, adding: “I want to appeal to the Centre, the doctors are suffering as they have not gotten salaries for many months now. In time of pandemic, when we should be rewarding them with medals for being on duty, they are not getting their salaries.”
28 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Tough fight likely in Baroda bypoll||As the Baroda Assembly seat in Haryana’s Sonipat district goes to the poll on November 3, the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party, backed by its alliance partner the Jannayak Janta Party, seem to be poised for a tough battle even as the former looks placed a tad comfortable than its rivals. As campaigning for the bypoll is at its peak in the constituency, considered to be a stronghold of the Congress, the BJP would want to make inroads into the Jat-dominated constituency. On the other hand, for the Congress, retaining its traditional seat would be self-assurance about its hold in State politics. The death of Congress’s sitting MLA Krishan Hooda in April this year had necessitated the bypoll.  ‘In Jat belt’ “The Baroda constituency is in the predominantly Jat belt and the ‘Hoodas’ command a good hold across this region. The Congress definitely has an edge as the seat is its stronghold. Besides, Independent candidates’ — Kapoor Narwal’s and Joginder Mor’s — withdrawal in support of the Congress candidate is an added advantage,” said Kushal Pal, head of the Department of Political Science with Dyal Singh College in Karnal. “The BJP has once against fielded Yogeshwar Dutt, who does not have any baggage, besides Chief Minister Manohar Lal has a clean image, which goes in the party’s favour. The BJP has fielded a non-Jat candidate, which indicates their strategy to play around consolidation of the non-Jat voters. The consolidation would have benefited the BJP, however, given the ongoing resentment among farmers against the Centre’s recent farm laws, the consolidation looks unlikely,” he said. Vijay Chauhan, assistant professor and head of the Department of Political Science, Maharana Pratap National College, Mullana, said the Baroda by-election is a litmus test for the ruling BJP-JJP while for the Congress, it’s a matter of pride. “The result would be a reflection on performance of the BJP-JJP alliance. For the Congress, there is a pressure of retaining the seat.”
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital witnesses highest single-day spike in cases||The Capital recorded its highest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases with 4,853 new cases reported in the past 24 hours, according to a heath bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. A total of 57,210 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 8.48%. The bulletin added that 44 deaths were also reported in the past 24 hours and 2,722 patients recovered in the same period. The death rate in the Capital based on the last 10 days data was 1.02%. The previous highest single-day spike of 4,473 cases was recorded on September 16. The cumulative figures here now stand at 3,64,341 positive cases with a positivity rate of 8.18%, 6,356 deaths with a case fatality rate of 1.74%. 3,30,112 patients recovered from the virus are there are at present 27,873 active cases. Out of the active cases, 16,415 cases are in home isolation. Out of the total of 15,765 hospital beds, 5,453 are occupied. At dedicated COVID-19 care centres that have 7,887 beds, 847 are occupied and in dedicated COVID-19 health centres, 222 of the 527 beds are vacant. The total number of containment zones in the city is now at 3,032.
28 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||22 students of this govt. school cleared NEET, five got into IITs||Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday visited a government school — Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidhyalaya — in Paschim Vihar after five of its students secured admissions in the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology. Also, 22 students from the school managed to clear the NEET examinations. Mr. Sisodia, also the Deputy Chief Minister, congratulated the school principal and teachers and also discussed how the success of the school can be replicated in other Delhi government schools. “The best practices from this school should be adopted by other schools so that we can repeat and multiply this success. It is the dream of the Chief Minister that every child of Delhi should get such exciting and valuable opportunities to enhance their talent and make the country proud,” Mr. Sisodia said. Mr. Sisodia added that five years ago the Delhi government dreamt of providing quality education and now, with the 98% result in the Class XII board examination results, and the scale of success in JEE and NEET, that “dream was coming true”. ‘Quality of govt. schools’ “This also shows that the quality of government schools in Delhi has become very high. We have to learn from these successes to make Delhi’s education revolution so effective that it will not only inspire our country but the entire world,” Mr. Sisodia said. Teachers at the school told the Minister that they had to make a conscious effort to change the perception among children that to succeed in JEE, NEET, one needs to enrol in expensive coaching centres. Principal Preeti Saxena said the school has adopted a Five-C’s approach towards teaching — connect, counselling, constant motivation, curiosity and creative thinking.
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘AAP govt. harassing corona warriors’||A day after the Mayors of the three civic bodies sat on a dharna outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s official residence, the Opposition BJP on Tuesday accused the CM of troubling the “poor citizens of Delhi” by “harassing the municipalities.” Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta requested the Delhi government to “not do politics” and “not harass” ‘corona warriors’ such as doctors, nurses and sweepers who are “serving Delhiites without caring for their lives during the ongoing pandemic”. “If the Delhi government does not release the dues of the civic bodies within the next 10 days, then on the 11th day, the Mayors of all the three corporations will sit on a dharna outside the CM’s residence,” North Corporation Mayor Jai Prakash said. East Corporation Mayor Nirmal Jain said the Delhi government’s intention was to cripple the municipalities. “The Kejriwal-led government may have political differences with the civic bodies, but what have the civic employees done to the government?” Mr. Jain said. South Corporation Mayor Anamika Mithilesh Singh alleged that the Delhi government has given the civic body only Rs. 303 crore of the sanctioned Rs. 1,157 crore.
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Farmer’s unhappy over crop prices’||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Tuesday alleged that the Capital’s farmers were unhappy over the non-payment of their crop in mandis in accordance with the minimum support price (MSP) set by the Centre. Mr. Bidhuri said the farmers had decided to launch a movement against the Arvind Kejriwal-led government a week later according to a decision to this effect at the Kisan Khat Mahapanchayat organised in Narela earlier during the day. “There is a lot of resentment among the farmers that millet is being purchased in the mandis of Delhi at Rs. 1,000/quintal while its fixed MSP is Rs. 2,200/quintal. Similarly, farmers are being given a price of Rs. 1,500/quintal for paddy while the fixed MSP is Rs. 1,880/quintal,” he alleged. Mr. Bidhuri said the biggest reason for the resentment against the Kejriwal government among the farmers was that the Chief Minister himself had announced that his government would pay Rs. 897/quintal more than the MSP fixed on paddy to the farmers of Delhi but they were not even being given the fixed MSP.
28 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Group demands judicial probe into gang-rape case||Bekhauf Azaadi, a Chandigarh-based women collective, has demanded a judicial probe on the allegations of gangrape of a Dalit girl and sexual harassment of her cousin in police custody in Sonipat’s Butana earlier this year. A five-member fact-finding team from the collective, in its report, also sought immediate medical attention for the two girls and an independent probe by different commissions for human rights, women and minorities. The girls were arrested in connection with the murder of two policemen on June 30 in Butana village. The two were allegedly part of a gang of six persons — accused of murdering the two policemen. The prime accused, Amit, was later shot in an encounter. The two girls surrendered, as per the fact-finding team report, and one of them was then allegedly raped by a dozen policemen. Her cousin was also stripped and assaulted. The victim’s mother registered a case in this connection at Sonipat Women police station. The girls are now in judicial custody. The fact-finding team said the murders should not be confused with the custodial gangrape of the victim. “At a time when we are witnessing erosion of long fought rights of survivors in matters of sexual violence whether it is in Hathras incident or Gurmandi case in Delhi, it is all the more important to recognise that patriarchy creates conditions that makes it more difficult to believe survivors in such matters,” the report concluded.
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||Waste-to-power plant unveiled in Ghazipur||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday inaugurated a 15 TPD waste-to-power plant at Ghazipur poultry market, which will produce electricity through bio-gasification of bio-degradable waste generated from the market. With the establishment of more such waste-to-power plants, waste will not be disposed of in a landfill and will be recycled and used to generate electricity. It is only through this “judicious recycling” that Delhi can prosper, he said. “I am glad that the waste-to-power plant is starting today [Tuesday]. The waste generated from this mandi will be used to create electricity through bio-gasification,” he said. “This is a small plant that will combust only 15 tonnes of waste to produce 1,500 units of electricity, however, many such small plants should be established across Delhi. With an existing big waste-to-power plant and the establishment of hundreds of such small plants, the waste should no longer be dumped on these garbage mountains,” he also said. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia took the opportunity to attack the municipal corporations stating that the responsibility of waste management lays with the civic bodies but the effectiveness of their waste management system was questionable.
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||MoU for multilevel depots||The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) on Tuesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the National Buildings Construction Corporation Limited (NBCC) for the development of its major land parcels in various locations across Delhi. The MoU, the government said, appoints the NBCC as the Project Management Consultant for the development of land parcels for multi-level bus parking depots, redevelopment of residential colonies of DTC and more commercial facilities. NBCC, in the first instance, will take up the redevelopment of four land parcels, including the Vasant Vihar depot, Shadipur residential colony, Hari Nagar residential colony and Hari Nagar I and II depots. “DTC and NBCC have signed MOUs today to build multilevel bus depots at Hari Nagar and Vasant Vihar, first such depots in the country...,” tweeted CM Arvind Kejriwal.
28 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Concern over fall in COVID tests||The Centre has expressed concern over the decline in the number of daily COVID-19 tests in Odisha. At a recently held meeting with 14 States, the Union Health Ministry said there was a steady decline in the number of tests being conducted in Odisha. The State, which had touched 68,906 tests on August 22, has been bringing them down consistently. The last over 50,000 tests were carried out on September 29. According to the Health Department, 30,303 tests were conducted during the past 24 hours. Shalini Pandit, State Director of the National Health Mission, said, “Odisha is testing as per requirements following the ICMR guidelines.”
28 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: Court grants bail to man in 4 cases||A court here has granted bail to a man in four separate cases related to February’s violence in north-east Delhi, saying there were no independent witnesses, CCTV footage or video-recording to show his involvement.
