28 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers protest during airing of PM Modi’s Mann ki Baat||A 55-year-old advocate from Punjab died in yet another case of alleged suicide at the farmers’ agitation site in Tikri and demonstrations were held at several places across the country, with protesters clanging utensils and oil tins during the airing of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat programme on Sunday. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, however, reiterated at a government function in Himachal Pradesh that no one could take away farmers’ land through contract farming. Farm leaders, meanwhile, said there had been no official response to their proposal for talks on December 29. Amarjit Singh, a lawyer from Fazilka district, allegedly consumed a poisonous substance at Bahadurgarh and was declared dead at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak. “We are waiting for his family to come to ascertain the cause behind him taking the extreme step. We are not in the possession of any suicide note,” said Inspector Surender Kumar, Station House Officer, Sadar Bahadurgarh. Chief Medical Officer, Jhajjar, Sanjay Dahiya, said the patient was brought to Civil Hospital at 9-30 a.m. with a history of having consumed an unknown substance and was referred to Rohtak. Farmer unions, however, claimed Amarjit left behind a suicide note in support of the agitation. In a statement, the AIKSCC said farmers, workers and other sections of people assembled and beat vessels in response to the call to clang vessels during Mr. Modi’s Mann Ki Baat broadcast to protest against his indifference to farmers.  (Those in need of help can contact Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health over telephone: 011-4076 9002.)  D
28 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Peaceful polling in Dharwad||Polling for the second phase of gram panchayat elections in the district of Dharwad concluded peacefully on Sunday with people coming out in large numbers to exercise their franchise. In two instances of confusion in voter list, people stayed away from polling stations at Katnru and Amaragol villages in the district. Protesting against the delay in fulfilling their demand for making their village headquarters of the gram panchayat, residents of Malligawad village boycotted polling. Barring these three, polling concluded without any hassles in Hubballi, Kundgol, Navalgund and Annigeri taluks of the district. Election was held for 385 constituencies in 71 gram panchayats and polling was conducted in 469 polling stations. Of the 1,032 seats in the second phase, candidates in 62 have already been declared elected unopposed and polling was held for the remaining 970 seats where 2,912 candidates contested. The district administration had made elaborate arrangements and care was taken to ensure strict adherence to COVID-19 guidelines. Voters were let into the polling stations after thermal screening and being given hand sanitisers. Tricycles were provided at the polling stations for helping the physically challenged persons and arrangements were made for elderly voters. In most of the places brisk voting was witnessed from early morning. The last hour was meant for COVID-19 patients. A man in Sherewada village exercised his franchise by wearing personal protection equipment. The police had made elaborate bandobast for the elections.
28 December 2020||Special Correspondent NEW DELHI,||Daily virus cases below 19,000 after 6 months||India’s daily new COVID-19 case load dropped below 19,000 after six months on Sunday, according to a release issued by the Health Ministry. “18,732 cases were added to the national tally in the last 24 hours. The new added cases were 18,653 on July 1. Also, 279 fatalities were reported in the past 24 hours,” said the release. The Ministry noted that 10 States/Union Territories account for 75.27% of new deaths, with Maharashtra registering the most casualties (60). West Bengal and Delhi follow with 33 and 23 daily deaths, respectively. Lowest since July As per the Health Ministry’s data, India’s total active case load has fallen to 2.78 lakh (2,78,690) currently. This is the lowest after 170 days. The total active cases were 2,76,682 on July 10. “The country has reported a trend of sustained decrease in the number of active cases. India’s present active case load consists of 2.74% of India’s total positive cases,” said the release. Currently, 76.52% of the new cases are concentrated in 10 States and UTs, with Kerala reporting the highest daily new cases at 3,527. It is followed by Maharashtra with 2,854 new cases. A total of 21,430 people recovered and were discharged in the last 24 hours. The total recovered cases stand at 97,61,538. The gap between recovered cases and active cases is nearing 95 lakh and presently stands at 94,82,848, said the Ministry. “Kerala reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 3,782. 1,861 people recovered in West Bengal, followed by 1,764 in Chhattisgarh. 72.37% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 States/UTs,” said the release. D
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,||AIADMK kick-starts campaign||The ruling AIADMK on Sunday kick-started its campaign for the 2021 Assembly election, with its co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami pitching his government’s “achievements” against the DMK’s “unimplementable promises”. On the occasion, the party, through its second-line leader K.P. Munusamy, also sent out a strong message that the AIADMK was not in favour of a “coalition government” after the election. Addressing a public meeting at the YMCA Ground at Royapettah here, the Chief Minister gave an account of his government’s achievements in the last four years. With 41% of higher secondary students in government schools, the 7.5% horizontal quota had helped 313 of NEET-qualified government school students join M.B.B.S. and 92 pursue B.DS. Last year, only six such students secured admission to medical courses. When 11 new medical colleges start functioning next year, the figure would rise by 135.
28 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||EAMCET: exercise of options by candidates from today||The AP State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) and the Department of Technical Education, which jointly conducted EAMCET-2020, have released the schedule of exercising the options for the qualified candidates. The students who secured 1 to 60,000 ranks can enter their options on December 28 and 29 (Monday and Tuesday) and those who secured ranks from 60001 till the last rank, can exercise their options on December 30 and 31 (Wednesday and Thursday). The candidates who want to make fresh options or change their options (from ranks 1 to the last rank) can do it on January 1 while allotments will be displayed on the website after 6 p.m. on January 3. Verification Those who paid processing fee online and their eligibility status in the web portal shows as ‘not eligible’ or eligible students who want to change the data, can also attend the certificate verification process. Verification of certificates for ‘special’ candidates who did not attend counselling earlier will be conducted on December 29 at the Government Polyclinic College in Vijayawada. The verification of certificates for the candidates of general category from rank 1 to the last rank will be conducted in all the helpline centres, except at the Government Polytechnic College in Vijayawada. The candidates in the ‘special’ category (physically handicapped, NCC, CAP, Sports and Games) from rank 1 till last rank will have to attend the process at Government Polytechnic College, Vijayawada on December 29.
28 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Barring minor incidents, polling goes off smoothly in twin dists.||Barring a heated exchange of words between two groups over bringing voters to the polling booth in Kundapur taluk of Udupi district and the arrest of a candidate for an alleged sexual assault in Sullia taluk of Dakshina Kannada district, polling in the second phase of gram panchayat elections went on smoothly in the twin districts on Sunday. Dakshina Kannada district reported an average polling of 78.12 %. Sullia taluk saw a maximum of 80.54 % voters turning up, followed by 78.45 % polling in Puttur, 77 % in Kadaba and 76.52 % voting in Belthangady taluks. Among those who voted included 27 COVID-19 positive patients — 14 in Belthangady, 12 in Kadaba and one in Puttur taluk. Being under home quarantine, they arrived wearing personal protection equipment provided by the district administration in the last hour of polling, said District Health and Family Welfare Officer Ramachandra Bairy. Udupi district witnessed an average of 75.62 % polling with Karkala taluk reporting 76.21 % voter turnout, followed by 76.09 % in Kundapur taluk and 73.08 % in Kaup taluk. There was a heated exchange of words between two groups of supporters of candidates at a polling booth in Amparu village of Kundapur taluk after one group objected to supporters of a rival candidate bringing voters in vehicles. Police rushed to the spot quickly and dispersed them by use of force. In Hantyaru village of Puttur, Assistant Commissioner Yatish Ullal seized pamphlets having photographs of candidates from a polling booth. The pamphlets were being distributed along with voter slips. The Bellare Police on Saturday arrested Hukrappa alias Narayana Puchama, a contestant in the Kalmadka Gram Panchayat of Sullia taluk, for an alleged sexual assault on a 15-year-old girl. Her parents filed a complaint on Saturday after doctors reported that their daughter was three months pregnant. Hukrappa has been charged under provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.
28 December 2020||Srinagar,||LAC hotspots turn brand buzzwords in Valley||‘Galwan’, ‘Pangong’, and ‘Finger 5’ continue to remain flashpoints between India and China in eastern Ladakh, but for a Delhi-based shoe company these volatile locations have become money-spinners; a range of winter shoes named after them is flying off the shelves across the Kashmir Valley. Earlier this month, the Valley’s English and Urdu newspapers were splashed with advertisements from the firm, John Mart, showcasing its new range with models named after the flashpoints, including ‘Galwan’, ‘Doklam’, ‘Kargil’, and ‘Point 5’ among others. Wasif Ahmad, owner of Big Raja Footwear, a shop in Srinagar, says the marketing pitch has definitely spurred sales. “The branding does generate curiosity among the buyers and draws attention,” he said. The people of Kashmir are news buffs and these names resonate with them. “One hears of ‘Galwan’ all through the year on television and suddenly, you get to flaunt the shoe of the same name — it does add to the machismo,” said Sajad Ahmad, a gym trainer. The brand has set up special outlets in volatile south Kashmir’s Pulwama, Kulgam and Anantnag, besides Sopore and Kupwara in north Kashmir. Hilal Ahmad, of Kohinoor Footwear in Pulwama, said the names of the shoes did create a buzz among youth in the town. “One customer remarked that buying the shoes reminds us of Ladakh, which once was a sister district of the Kashmir region but is now a separate Union Territory,” a salesman at the shop said. Tapping into the emotional connect with these locations has paid off for the firm, which was launched in 2014 in J&K. Pawan Kumar Lakra, Delhi-based proprietor of John Mart, said, “I zeroed in on these names on the basis of their popularity. There is a tendency in India to name brands after borrowed foreign names. I was keen to name the range of shoes after well-known spots of India like Doklam and Galwan. The quality of my shoes is attracting buyers but the branding, too, helps locals connect with it.”
28 December 2020||Kolkata,||Radio-collared tiger released in Sunderbans||The West Bengal Forest Department has radio-collared a tiger in the Sunderban Tiger Reserve and released it in the wild. The initiative taken by the department’s wildlife wing in collaboration with the World Wild Fund for Nature India is aimed at ‘assessing tiger-human interactions through radio-telemetry’. According to senior forest officials, the radio-collaring was conducted on December 26 and 27 in Harikhali beat under the Bashirat range. “The Forest Department has always given priority to the scientific management of biodiversity in the Sundarban biosphere reserve and such initiatives will help the managers safeguard tigers, their habitat, and the human population, as well as help in understanding the habitat utilisation pattern along with the behaviour of this keystone species,” Vinod Kumar Yadav, principal chief conservator of forest-wildlife and chief wildlife warden, said.
28 December 2020||Kolkata,||Abhishek dares BJP to prove charges against him||Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday dared the BJP to prove its allegations against him. “They are saying that the nephew is an extortionist. Let them prove it. I challenge them. In fact, they are the ones who are entangled with Saradha and Narada scams, not me. The CBI is not investigating me; the Central government agency is investigating them,” Mr. Banerjee, who is a nephew of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, said while addressing a gathering at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas. The TMC MP’s remarks were directed at BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari who recently quit the Trinamool Congress and joined the BJP. Along with Mr. Adhikari, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda had targeted the young MP. Mr. Banerjee pointed out that the TMC turncoats who joined the BJP were accused in different scams. In fact, there were three BJP leaders — Mukul Roy and Sovan Chatterjee along with Mr. Adhikari — who could be seen in Narada sting videos allegedly taking cash on camera, he claimed.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD / CHENNAI,||Rajinikanth discharged from hospital||Two days after being admitted to a hospital in Hyderabad, Tamil film superstar Rajinikanth was discharged on Sunday afternoon. However, “in view of his post-transplant status”, doctors advised him a week’s bed rest and to avoid any activity that increases the risk of contracting COVID-19. The actor reached Chennai by a flight in the evening. Consequent to his health condition, there was ambiguity if Mr Rajinikanth would announce the date of the launch of his proposed political party on December 31 as promised earlier this month. He was admitted at Apollo Hospitals on Friday morning with severe hypertension and exhaustion.
28 December 2020||MANGALURU,||20 booked after Udupi TP officer files complaint||The Hiryadka Police have registered a case against 20 gram panchayat contestants who are said to have distributed pamphlets on December 19 claiming that they are candidates supported by a national party. The case was registered on a compliant by Mohan Raj, in-charge Executive Officer of Udupi Taluk Panchayat, who was the Model Code of Conduct Nodal Officer for the panchayat elections.
28 December 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra adds 3,314 new cases, 2,124 recoveries||Maharashtra’s active cases continued to rise with the State reporting a spike of 3,314 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday as opposed to just 2,124 recoveries. As per the State Health Department figures, the active cases have surged to 59,214 while the total case tally stands at 19,19,550. As many as 66 fatalities saw the death toll climb to 49,255. The cumulative recoveries are 18,09,948 while the State’s recovery rate stands at 94.29%. “Of a total 1,25,02,554 laboratory samples tested thus far, 19,19,550 (case positivity rate of 15.35%) have returned positive with over 51,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality was 2.57%. Pune district reported over 550 new cases for the second consecutive day to take its total case tally to 3,70,635.
28 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Five killed in road accident, 17 injured||Five persons who had returned to their native villages for voting in the gram panchayat elections were killed and 17 injured in a road accident near BG Kere Molakalmur in Chitradurga district on Sunday. The deceased have been identified as Thimmappa (40), Ratnamma (38) of Hosur village, Mahesh (19) of Gujjalli village, Durgappa (16) and Amaresh (55) of Somanamaradi village in Raichur district. Sources said that the deceased were migrant workers who had returned to their native villages for casting their votes in the gram panchayat elections. They were proceeding to Bengauluru when a public transport bus hit the multi utility vehicle that they were travelling in. The public transport bus was on its way to Lingsugur from Bengaluru. The multi utility vehicle was packed with passengers and according to the police, a total of 22 persons were in the vehicle. Molakalmur Police have shifted the injured to taluk and district hospitals.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Women’s commission appointed||The State government has constituted the Telangana State Women’s Commission with former Minister V. Sunitha Lakshma Reddy chairperson and six other members. The members are Shaheena Afroze, Kumar Eshwari Bai, Kommu Umadevi Yadav, Gaddala Padma, Sudham Laxmi and Katari Revathi Rao. The term of the chairperson and members was five years, said an order issued by the Chief Secretary.
28 December 2020||Vijayawada,||Four COVID cases are contacts of U.K. returnees||The State has reported two more COVID-19 deaths and 349 new infections, taking the toll to 7,094 and the tally to 8,81,061. The new infections included four contacts (three from Guntur and one from Nellore) of U.K. returnees, who had tested positive upon arrival recently. So far, six returnees tested positive. So far, 1,216 returnees and 3,282 contacts were identified and their samples being tested, and the results were yet to be received.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||U.K. returnees test positive in Telangana||The number of people who had come to Telangana from the United Kingdom and tested positive for coronavirus has reached 20, with two more diagnosed with COVID-19 on Sunday. The two are from Medchal-Malkajgiri.Page 10
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||EU nations roll out mass vaccination||Europe launched a massive vaccination drive on Sunday with pensioners and medics lining up to take the first shots to see off the COVID-19 pandemic that has crippled economies and claimed more than 1.7 million lives worldwide.Page 11
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Harsimrat flags dip in cotton purchase||Former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Sunday said the apprehens-ions of farmers were already coming true in Punjab, with the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) placing daily ceilings on the procurement of cotton.Page 11
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Nadda shares Rahul’s speech on middlemen||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Sunday accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of playing politics over the farmers’ protest, citing a 2015 speech by Mr. Gandhi where he spoke about the issue of middlemen in agriculture.Page 11
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||176 more telecom towers vandalised||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s appeal to protesting farmers to not damage telecom infrastructure seems to have failed to deter new attacks, with over 176 sites being vandalised in the past 24 hours.Page 11
28 December 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal asks Centre to repeal farm laws||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday visited the Singhu border and addressed the farmers. He demanded that the Central government repeal the farm laws, guarantee MSP and end the struggle of the farmers.
28 December 2020||Lucknow,||Allahabad HC reunites interfaith couple in Etah||The Allahabad High Court has reunited an interfaith couple in Etah, observing that since the woman had attained the age of majority, she has a choice to live her life on her own terms and with her husband without any restriction or hindrance by others.
28 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||More time to renew RC, driving licence||The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways on Sunday said it had issued an advisory to the States and Union Territories to extend the validity of vehicle-related documents, including driving licence, vehicle registration certificate and permits, till March 31, 2021.
28 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Street lamps on flyover yet to light up||Though it has been nearly a year since the Pumpwell Flyover at the junction of NH 66 and NH 75 was thrown open for traffic, the street lights installed on it are yet to be turned on. Light poles on this nearly a one-kilometre-long flyover and its ramps are placed in a way that lamps on both the sides will not only throw light on the flyover but also the service roads on both the sides that connect the roads that lead traffic in and out of the city.
28 December 2020||Pune,||Second nearby||With the recent death of Bharat Bhalke, the sitting Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA from Pandharpur-Magalvedha in Solapur, speculation is rife that Parth Pawar — Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar’s son and NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s grand-nephew — may be put forward as the party’s possible candidate in the by-election to be held in the near future. A section of Parth’s supporters has even written to Mr. Sharad Pawar to recommend his name as a candidate on grounds that it would augur well for the development of the temple town of Pandharpur.
28 December 2020||Bengaluru,||‘80% progress achieved in RTE reimbursement’||The State government has already released the Rs. 550 crore earmarked in the 2019-20 Budget for reimbursement of fees of children admitted under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, according to S. Suresh Kumar, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education.
28 December 2020||Mysuru,||GP elections: Brisk polling in Mysuru belt||Polling in the second phase of the gram panchayat elections in Mysuru region on Sunday was brisk and peaceful. There was no untoward incident reported.
28 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Committee members rebut Karnataka officer’s allegations||Claims and allegations made by D. Roopa, Secretary–PCAS, Home Department, who is in the dock over alleged unauthorised intervention in the Rs. 619 crore Safe City Project tender, were met with strong rebuttals from members of the Chief Secretary-led State Level Apex Committee monitoring the tender. The State government has instituted a probe by Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant over the call Ms. Roopa made to the Project Consultant allegedly requesting for a copy of the classified Request for Proposal (RFP) before its publication. Hemant Nimbalkar, member secretary of the Apex Committee, who held a press conference on Sunday, responded to allegations of “bias in tender drafting” by Ms. Roopa and said, “There has been no allegation till date that the RFP has been drafted with bias, not even by the bidders.” Attempts were being made to cast aspersions on the process, he said.  Ms. Roopa had claimed there were two complaints alleging irregularities in the tender pending as of June 2020. However, there is no information on whether these complaints have been closed. In her letter to the Chief Secretary, she had claimed to be a “whistleblower” who was “studying” the tender file and found “serious irregularities in tender drafting.” She said that the Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, had given her the project file to “study”, implying that her intervention was not unauthorised. However, this has been denied by Rajneesh Goel, ACS, Home Department, who has released a list of seven questions addressed to Ms. Roopa challenging her to produce evidence to the claims she has made. “The file has never been marked to you and also does not contain any observations/ comments by you,” Mr. Goel’s note said. BEL’s participation Ms. Roopa had also alleged that “Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) was wrongly disqualified in the tender by the tender scrutiny committee and tender was sought to be given to a particular vendor. BEL complained to PMO and this led to cancellation of biased tender.” This charge was dubbed “infactual” by Mr. Nimbalkar on Sunday. Till date, the government has called for tenders for the project thrice, the third one under way presently. “In Call-I, BEL never participated and the tender was cancelled in January 2020, as all three participants could not qualify the pre-qualification requirements for the tender,” Mr. Nimbalkar said. Call-II saw BEL participate and its bid was accepted after technical qualification. It is clear that claims made that BEL was wrongly disqualified is thus proven to be false, his statement said. However, BEL did write to PMO and played a role in the tender being cancelled. A copy of the letter available with The Hindu shows the objections raised by BEL were not on the draft of the RFP. The letter takes objection to Matrix Solutions and Surveillance Pvt Ltd, one of the bidders quoting Chinese brand Huawei for all major elements like cameras, servers and storage. Use of Chinese products “The usage of Chinese products in this important project of public security poses a great security risk as enormous data of residents of Bengaluru can be accessed by other than intended users and can be used for tracking and monitoring,” the letter from July 6, 2020, said. Ten days later, the State government cancelled Call – II of the tender as “Karnataka Government issued an order banning Chinese make/ Chinese origin products in any procurement process including ongoing tender process for procurement in the light of national security and was never cancelled for non-existent allegations about biased and unfair tender,” Mr. Nimbalkar said. Meanwhile, Ms. Roopa, on Sunday, alleged that Mr. Nimbalkar was “misleading and giving misinformation to higher ups in the government” and that there were several violations in the tender presently underway and demanded a probe into his role. Call–III of the tender is under way and January 8 is the last date for submission of bids.
28 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Make a resolution to use local products: PM||In his last Mann ki Baat broadcast of the year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to make a New Year resolution to substitute foreign-made products for indigenous goods in 2021 “for the sake of the country”. Mr. Modi also asked manufacturers to make sure that Indian-made products are up to global standards, as a part of the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) push and the ‘Vocal for Local’ campaign. He reiterated his earlier appeal to Indians to make a list of products used daily, identify which ones are made abroad and look for Indian substitutes. “Think of things manufactured abroad that have permeated our lives unknowingly, in a way, shackling us down. Let us find out their substitutes made in India and decide that henceforth, we shall use products made with the hard work and sweat of the people of India. You make New Year resolutions every year…this time one has to certainly make a resolution for the sake of the country,” Mr. Modi said, according to an English translation of his address released by the government. Later in his address, he urged people to buy saffron from Kashmir, which he said had a unique flavour. Mr. Modi said while there were many challenges in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the country had learnt a lesson with every crisis. Plastic menace He said due to the pandemic, the topic of single-use plastic was not discussed much this year, but ridding India of single-use plastic should be another resolution for 2021. Amid the ongoing agitation by farmers from Punjab against the farm laws, the Prime Minister spoke of the sacrifices of Guru Teg Bahadur, Mata Gujari, Guru Gobind Singh and his sons, remembered as the four Sahibzade, and Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh, adding that it was these kind of sacrifices that kept the fabric of India intact. Leopard population Mr. Modi also spoke of the increase in the leopard population from 7,900 in 2014 to 12,852 in 2019. Referring to the “uniqueness” of the Bhagavad Gita, the Prime Minister reminded listeners that it was Gita Jayanti two days ago. He lauded the efforts to clean up the Someshwar beach in Karnataka by a couple, Anudeep and Minusha, and different areas in the Himalayas by Pradeep Sangwan, but said there was a need to question why so much plastic and garbage ended up at these places to begin with.
28 December 2020||Jammu,||3 held for Poonch terror plot||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Sunday said they had arrested three Pakistan-linked militant associates and recovered six grenades from them, foiling a terror plot to attack a temple in the border district of Poonch and disturb communal harmony. Senior Superintendent of Police Ramesh Kumar Angral said the arrested were planning to carry out a grenade attack on a temple at the behest of their Pakistani handler to disturb communal amity in the district. The officer told presspersons in Poonch that the ploy was revealed after the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the police, along with troops of the 49 Rashtriya Rifles, detained two brothers — Mustafa Iqbal Khan and Murtaza Iqbal of Galhuta village — from their vehicle near Basooni in the Mendhar sector on Saturday. On interrogation, it was found that Mustafa had received a call from a Pakistani number and was directed to execute the grenade attack. “On being questioned further, he admitted to have been tasked with throwing a grenade at a temple in Ari village. A video on how to use a grenade was also found in his phone,” the SSP said. The SSP said it came to light that Mustafa was involved in militant activities, and on his confession two of his associates — Mohammad Yaseen and Rayees Ahmad of Dabbi village of Balakote near the Line of Control (LoC) — were apprehended. Another police official said the three were arrested later, while Murtaza Iqbal is still in custody. The SSP added, “Vital clues were obtained during the questioning of the trio and searches were conducted in the house of Mustafa from where six grenades, some balloons with Pakistani marking and a few posters of hitherto unknown J&K Ghaznavi Force were recovered.” Asked about the link between the arrested persons and the December 13 encounter in Dogrian village of Poonch which left two Paksitani terrorists dead, he said it was the follow-up of that very operation.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Tariq Anwar to meet UDF leaders today||Tariq Anwar, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in charge of Kerala, will meet United Democratic Front (UDF) leaders on Monday for a candid one-to-one on the coalition’s poor showing in the local body polls. Mr. Anwar is likely to face a resurgent Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), which might stake a forceful claim for more seats across Kerala in the next Assembly elections. He also has to hold close a “weakened” Kerala Congress (Joseph) who had accused the Congress of bending over to accommodate the IUML’s demands while giving it the step-motherly treatment. Disappointment Coalition leaders had also barely concealed their disappointment with the UDF’s faltering poll campaign. They had accused the party of ceding a headstart and early bird advantage to the Left Democratic Front (LDF). They had blamed the Congress leadership for holding up the announcement of candidates in scores of wards till the penultimate day of filing nominations to accommodate the see-sawing demands of opposing group leaders intent solely on seeing their loyalists get seats. Some felt Congress could have done better by fielding Independent candidates with local acceptance in “unsure” wards to prevent the constituencies from flipping over to the LDF. LDF strategy In stark contrast, the LDF had deployed an estimated 2,500 Independent candidates to dilute the anti-government sentiment ratcheted up by the Opposition. It had also worked through Anganwadi, Kudumbshree and Asha workers. The LDF used the trust the grassroot-level workers had built over time within their respective communities to woo voters. UDF candidates had no such fall back. The Congress had also left its women candidates, many new to electoral politics, in the lurch. Weighed down by lack of funds and organisational support, many fought an uphill battle against the well-oiled campaign machinery of the LDF. The UDF had ruled out any centring of Kerala Congress(M) votes in Central Travancore favouring the LDF as claimed by Jose K. Mani. The coalition partners had also faulted the Congress's “failure” to spotlight the LDF “tie-up” with SDPI in 62 panchayats. The UDF had fared better in Malabar given the IUML’s strong presence at the hustings. There was little understanding between coalition partners in many other districts, some UDF leaders felt.  Front partners blame Congress leadership for holding up the announcement of candidates in scores of wards till the penultimate day of filing nominations
28 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Wistron will reopen soon: Minister||Karnataka Labour Minister A. Shivaram Hebbar visited the trouble-hit Wistron plant at Narasapura near Kolar on Sunday for the first time since violence broke out at the factory over pending wages recently. He said the government was working towards getting the iPhone manufacturing plant restarted in the next 20 days. “All the departmental heads of the plant were not present on Sunday. We will serve them notices and hold a meeting in Bengaluru soon to iron out all issues. We will work towards finding a permanent solution to the problem and our priority is to restart the plant as soon as possible,” he said. Investor sentiment There have been concerns in the State government over the message the incident had sent to investors, and the government was keen on correcting it, sources said. However, he said the company would not be let off the hook. “The government will ensure all pending dues of salaries and overtime pay to all employees, both on rolls and on contract, will be paid by the company,” he said. While promising that all those working at the plant would get back their jobs, he said those arrested by the police for violence at the plant would have to face legal consequences. The Minister said the Labour Department was committed to promoting good ties between managements and workers. “Toyota Kirloskar plant at Bidadi was shut for the past 26 days. After three meetings on the issue, first shift has started and we are confident that in the next 10 days, second shift will also be restarted,” he said.
28 December 2020||GUWAHATI/IMPHAL,||‘Inner-Line Permit is Centre’s biggest gift to Manipur’||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the Inner-Line Permit (ILP) had been the Centre’s biggest gift to Manipur since its statehood. Implemented under the British-era Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation, the ILP is an official document issued to let an Indian citizen enter a protected area for a limited period. Pressure groups in the northeast view this permit as a shield against the entry of illegal immigrants. “ILP was a long-standing demand of the people of Manipur. Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji thought denying ILP will be an injustice to the indigenous people of Manipur. So, he gave it to the State in December last year. This is the biggest gift given by the Centre to Manipur since it was established as a State,” Mr. Shah said at a public function in State capital Imphal. Apart from Manipur, ILP is needed in Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Nagaland. Several groups in Meghalaya have been demanding the implementation of ILP. Slams Congress The Union Home Minister slammed the Congress for failing to solve the problem of extremism in Manipur. “No effort was made during the Congress rule to initiate peace process with such groups or facilitate surrender of their members and people kept getting killed. The BJP government has established peace in Manipur,” he said, claiming peace agreements with most groups were signed after 2014. “I believe the remaining groups, currently outside the purview of peace process, will soon join the mainstream,” Mr. Shah said. “There was a time when Manipur was known for bandhs and blockades. Law and order always used to be in discussion. Modi ji had promised to the people of Manipur that bandhs and blockades will be a thing of the past and over the past three years, there was not a single bandh in the State,” he said. He appealed to the State’s civil society groups to have faith in the government and include Manipur’s development in their charter of demands. The civil society organisations had on Saturday said the people of Manipur would not accept any ethnic-based territorial council within Manipur. They said such an arrangement would create more political and ethnic problems in the State.
28 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘BJP should stop insulting farmers’||The ruling Congress and the former NDA member Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday hit out at the BJP, accusing party leaders of using derogatory terms against the protesting farmers. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh asked the BJP leaders to stop maligning the farmers and their genuine fight for justice by using offensive terms such as ‘urban Naxals’, ‘Khalistanis’ and ‘hooligans’. “If the BJP cannot distinguish between anguished citizens fighting for their survival and terrorists, militants and hooligans, it should give up all pretence of being a people’s party,” the Chief Minister said in a statement. ‘Lost right to rule’ A party which treats citizens exercising their democratic right of protest as Naxals and terrorists had lost all right to rule over those citizens, he added. Hitting out at BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh over his alleged description of farmers in Punjab as ‘urban naxals’, Captain Singh said with these remarks, the BJP leadership had hit a new low in its desperation to promote its political agenda. He pointed out that such protests by angry farmers were taking place not just in Punjab but also in BJP-ruled States such as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. “Do the farmers protesting at all these places look like Naxals to you? And does that mean law and order has collapsed everywhere,” he asked. “What is being seen in all these States, as well as the Delhi borders, is the sorry fall-out of the BJP-led Central government’s failed policy on agriculture, and its mishandling of the situation triggered by the farmers protest,” the Chief Minister said. Instead of heeding the plea of the annadatas (food producers) and responding to their concerns, the BJP was busy trying to demean them and stifle their voice, he said. ‘BJP should apologise The SAD also condemned the BJP leaders for terming the farmers of Punjab “urban Naxals”. “It is reprehensible that the Punjab BJP unit has fallen so low that it is calling the farmers of the State urban Naxals. This insult is intolerable and I advise the Punjab unit to take back this slur inflicted on the annadaatas immediately and apologise for the same,” SAD farmer’s wing president Sikandar Singh Maluka said. The Punjab unit of the BJP, meanwhile, accused the Congress government of patronising criminal elements and unleashing violence against political opponents. BJP State general secretary Subhash Sharma wrote a letter to the Chief Minister stating that despite being fully aware of the content and intent of the farm laws, the Congress had been misguiding the farmers.
28 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong. leaders in Kerala for more youth as candidates||Several Congress leaders on Sunday reportedly expressed a profound lack of conviction that the party‘s current leadership set-up in Kerala could offer a convincing fight to the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the Assembly election in 2021. By several accounts, scepticism that the LDF could win again next year was pervasive among a section of leaders as they took turns “baring their soul” on intra-party matters to Tariq Anwar, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in charge of Kerala affairs. LDF gains discussed Mr. Anwar is here on a “stocktaking mission” to examine the local body poll debacle and correct course. Several MLAs and MPs reportedly pointed out that the “modest” lead and new inroads the LDF had established in the polls was an “ominous sign” that the ruling front had improved its re-election chances drastically. Moreover, they felt the LDF had moved to cement its victory further by fielding youngsters to lead local bodies. The leaders argued for a convincing generational shift in selecting candidates to counter the purported ebb in enthusiasm among youth to vote for the Congress. The generational tension was evident in the local body polls with relatively young faces new to electoral politics winning at the hustings overwhelmingly. “The AICC might have reservations about changing the party’s leadership framework abruptly. But, it might be inclined to accommodate more youngsters as candidates and perhaps give them a higher role in fixing the election campaign modalities and finalising the manifesto. The AICC realises that the Congress has to offer a credible social-media powered platform of change to counter the LDF campaign,” a party insider said. He said the party would shift out district presidents having parliamentary responsibilities, signalling leadership changes in Wayanad, Ernakulam and Palakkad. District-level leaders had given more weightage to group equations than the winnability factor in candidate selection.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||3 held for app-based loans in Warangal||Warangal police on Sunday busted a gang operating mobile phone loaning app and arrested three persons in Bengaluru. A Chinese national Erik Penglu, kingpin in the case, and another accused Padra Binda Ray are still at large. The three arrested, Debashish Das, B.R. Sanjay and Santosh Kumar Nayak, were brought from Benglauru to Warangal. They were presented before a local court there and remanded in judicial custody. The arrested trio working in Bengaluru-based Shine Bey Technology private limited admitted to police that the Chinese national colluded with them to make the mobile loaning app to make a fast buck. They prepared mobile loaning apps and uploaded them on Google Play Store. They used to post ads about the apps named Fast Credit, Loan Pro and Smart Rupee on social media platforms, offering instant loans to netizens. “When people downloaded the apps, we used to access their contact list, photos and personal information without their knowledge,” the arrested told the interrogators. They used to transfer money to customers through internet banking with a rider that the loan should be repaid within seven to 10 days. When the customers failed to repay the loan amounts, the arrested trio and the absconding Padra Binda Ray would call up the customers and abuse them in filthy language, Warangal Police Commissioner P. Pramod Kumar said. The gang used to create specific WhatsApp groups with the contact numbers of customers’ friends, relatives, family members and known persons. They would bombard the group with messages, defame and humiliate the customer and try to collect the loan amount. In addition to the three apps, the gang created another app called Neo Rupee. The gang would collect details of Aadhaar card and PAN card, self employment certificate/bank statement and income proof of the customers. After sanctioning the loan amount, Debashish Das used to take selfies with the customer and secure the latter’s digital signature. Even after the customer repayed the loan, the gang would not close the loan file. They would charge 22% interest amount on the loan and transfer the file to the collection department whose members would repeatedly call the customer insisting for further repayment of the loan and harass them, the Commissioner said. Three laptops, three mobile phones and SIM cards were seized from the arrested trio. Janagaon police of Warangal received complaints of harassment by the group and issued FIRs. They traced the accused to Bengaluru and arrested three of them. Hunt is on for the Chinese national and the other accused.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||20 returnees test COVID-19 positive||The number of people who had come to Telangana from United Kingdom and tested positive for coronavirus has reached 20, with two more diagnosed with COVID-19 on Sunday. The two are from Medchal-Malkajgiri. Since December 9, a total of 1,216 people came to the State from the U.K. All samples were sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) for genome sequencing to know the strain of the virus. Director of Public Health Dr. G Srinivasa Rao said they were awaiting the results. Whether the coronavirus in the 20 patients is the new U.K. variant might be known by Monday. The 20 people who tested positive include eight from Medchal-Malkajgiri, four from Hyderabad, two from Jagtial, one each from Mancherial, Nalgonda, Rangareddy, Sangareddy, Siddipet, and Warangal Urban. They were admitted in in different hospitals. Besides, their immediate contacts were also traced. Till Saturday evening, Health department staff had identified 79 immediate contacts of the 18 patients, who were kept under quarantine and their health condition was monitored. Of the 79 immediate contacts, three have tested positive for coronavirus. 154 yet to be traced Till Saturday evening, 184 of the 1,216 people who had come from the U.K. were yet to be traced. On Sunday, 30 more were identified. Appeal to come forward Officials said the phone numbers and addresses of the remaining 154 were incorrect. And 92 belong to other States. Dr. Srinivas has appealed to people who have returned to the State from the U.K. or via that country after December 9 to provide details by calling on 040-24651119, or send details through WhatsApp on 9154170960. Samples for coronavirus tests would be collected from their home.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Harsimrat flags dip in cotton purchase||Former Union Minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Sunday said the apprehensions of farmers were already coming true in Punjab, with the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) placing daily ceilings on the procurement of cotton and effecting a four-times reduction in its purchase. Urging Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take note of the CCI’s actions, Ms. Badal said in a statement issued on Sunday, “Even though you have given repeated statements about the continuance of minimum support price (MSP), your inability to specify anything regarding assured government purchase at MSP is already having an adverse effect on government departments. It is unfortunate that the CCI is not ready to procure limit as per even last year’s schedule and is throwing cotton farmers to the mercy of private players by announcing a daily purchase ceiling of 12,500 quintals against a daily arrival of 50,000 quintals of cotton in mandis across seven districts in Punjab.” ‘Issue directive’ “A clear cut directive needs to be issued by you [the PM] guaranteeing government procurement of all agricultural products listed under the MSP system. This is the need of the hour as even a government department like CCI, which has a mandate to procure cotton on MSP, is abdicating its responsibility. If CCI can do this, what can farmers expect from private players?” the statement said. She urged the Prime Minister to bring in simultaneous legislation, making it mandatory for private players to procure farm produce at rates not less than the MSP. Ms. Badal said that even though cotton arrivals had peaked in the Malwa region, the CCI had announced that it would stagger purchase by restricting buying to only 12,500 quintals per day across 22 purchase centres. She said this would not only result in overcrowding at  mandi s with farmers vying with each other to get their produce procured first, but would also result in corrupt practices besides distress sale to private players. “As per the present schedule fixed by CCI, the purchase season would extend till September next year. Small farmers can neither store their produce nor wait it out for so long. They will be forced to sell cheap to private players,” she said. Ms. Badal said the situation was already precarious at the major mandi s of Bathinda, Abohar, Mansa and Maur.
28 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||Allahabad HC reunites interfaith couple in Etah||The Allahabad High Court has reunited an interfaith couple in Etah, observing that since the woman had attained the age of majority, she has a choice to live her life on her own terms and with her husband without any restriction or hindrance by others. A Division Bench of Justices Pankaj Naqvi and Vivek Agarwal also quashed the FIR lodged against the woman’s husband. Custody of parents A chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court had earlier sent the woman to a Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and then to the custody of her parents. Shikha’s husband Salman, alias Karan, had filed a habeas corpus writ pleading that she had been sent to her parents’ house by the CWC against her wishes. The Bench interacted with the woman, who submitted that she was a major, born in 1999, and had entered into wedlock with Salman. “As the corpus has attained the age of majority and she has a choice to live her life on her own terms and she has expressed that she wants to live with her husband Salman @ Karan she is free to move as per her own choice without any restriction or hindrance being created by third party,” the HC noted in an order dated December 18. The CJM Etah, in an order dated December 7, had handed over the woman to the custody of the CWC, which a day later handed her over to her parents, “without any application of mind and against her wish,” the court noted. “The act of the CJM and the CWC Etah reflects lack of appreciation of legal provisions,” the judges said.  FIR quashed The court quashed the FIR registered on September 27 under Section 366 of the Indian Penal Code (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage) at the Kotwali Dehat police station. The court had also directed the investigating officer of the case to ensure that appropriate protection was granted to the couple till they returned to their residence, and directed the police chief of Prayagraj to provide necessary police security for their safe passage.  ...the corpus has attained the age of majority and she has a choice to live her life on her own terms and she has expressed that she wants to live with her husband...
28 December 2020||New Delhi,||Eminent dance scholar Sunil Kothari dead at 87||Eminent dance scholar and critic Sunil Kothari, 87, passed away on Sunday morning in a private hospital in Delhi because of COVID-19-related complications. A Sangeet Natak Akademi fellow, Kothari blazed a new trail in documenting Indian classical dance forms. Born in Kheda district of Gujarat, Kothari qualified as a chartered accountant and taught in Mumbai’s Sydenham College for a brief while before turning to dance studies. He completed his Ph.D. on the dance drama traditions of south India and Natyashastra in 1977 from M.S. University, Baroda. He was awarded a D.Litt. by the Rabindra Bharti University for his research on dance sculptures in the medieval temples of north Gujarat. With a photographic memory and an insatiable quest for knowledge, Kothari travelled to every nook and corner of the country to document both celebrated and less-known performers. He remained the quintessential Sunil bhai to a generation of exponents, always accessible, always encouraging. He was always keen on taking a twirl with a dancer, try out a dance movement in a workshop and punctuate an academic paper presentation with a brief demonstration himself. The fact that he spent hours learning Bharatanatyam from T.P. Kuppaiah Pillai, and Kathak from Pandit Badriprasad gave him the confidence that many of his contemporaries lacked. In the league of archivists and scholars like T.K. Govind Vidyarthi and Mohan Khokhar, Kothari researched and recorded the journey of Indian dance forms — how they took shape, blossomed, and survived the colonial rule. With 20-odd books to his credit, as a dance historian, Kothari focused on anecdotal accounts. The Padma Shri winner wrote extensively on Bharatanatyam, Kathak and Manipuri dance forms. His scholarly work, Sattriya: Classical Dance of Assam , helped in creating a better understanding of the dance form in the national and global circuit. His other notable contributions include New Directions in Indian Dance and Kuchipudi Indian Classical Dance Art . Also unforgettable are his lucid pieces, knitting past and present trends in dance forms, in leading newspapers, including The Hindu . Kothari was instrumental in establishing the School of Arts and Aesthetics at the Jawaharlal Nehru University and mentored many art scholars. “While documenting any art form, he inspired students to follow a ‘people-first’ approach to understand the artiste and their passion for the art first,” said arts writer Shrinkhla Sahai, a student of Kothari at JNU. Veteran Kathak exponent Geetanjali Lal, a neighbour of Kothari in the Asian Games Village, said, “He devoted his entire life to dance.”
28 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,||Ducks die in large numbers in Kuttanad||Mass death of ducks in Kuttanad here has created panic among farmers. According to farmers, around 10,000 ducks died in the region in the past one week. Majority of the dead ducks belonged to two farmers in Thalavady and Pallippad. Animal Husbandry Department officials said they had collected samples and sent them for testing. “The cause of death can only be ascertained after receiving the test results,” said an official. ‘Bacterial infection’ Although the exact cause of the deaths is yet to be ascertained, officials said that a bacterial infection could be the reason. In February, a large number of ducks died at Pavukkaram, near Mannar, due to a bacterial infection. Samples examined at the Avian Disease Diagnostic Laboratory at Thiruvalla then revealed that the ducks had been infected with Riemerella anatipestifer, an antibiotic-resistant bacteria. In September 2018, a large number of ducks died of bacterial infection in Upper Kuttanad. Then the duck deaths had been reported from the flood-hit areas. The dead ducks were infected since they were reared in contaminated waters.
28 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nadda shares 2015 speech of Rahul speaking on middlemen||Bharatiya Janata Party president J.P. Nadda on Sunday accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of playing politics over the farmers’ protest, citing a 2015 speech by Mr. Gandhi in the Lok Sabha when he spoke about the issue of middlemen in agriculture. Mr. Nadda tweeted a video of the speech and commented that the Congress leader was now opposing what he had advocated earlier. The Congress has come out in support of the ongoing protests by the farmers against the three agriculture reform Bills. The BJP chief said Mr. Gandhi was not concerned about the interest of the country and the farmers, but was only playing politics. “But this is your bad luck that your hypocrisy will not work. People of the country and farmers have recognised your double standards,” Mr. Nadda tweeted in Hindi. Old conversation In his speech, apparently made in the last Lok Sabha when he was an MP from Amethi, Mr. Gandhi is seen recounting a conversation with a potato farmer who asked him how it was possible that they sold potatoes for Rs. 2 per kg, but their children bought a packet of potato chips for Rs. 10. Mr. Gandhi then said the farmer’s explanation for this was the distance between the farms and the factories, leading to middlemen taking a cut.  People of the country and farmers have recognised your double standards J.P. Nadda BJP president
28 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Three more in police net in loan mobile app case||Three people, including a Chinese national, were arrested by the Cyber Crime police of Rachakonda on Sunday in the instant mobile app loan cases. According to police, Liang Tian Tian, the Chinese national, got married to one Parshuram Lahu Takye in 2013 and came to India on a dependent visa in 2016. Takye started Hypertel Pvt. Ltd. at Koregaon in Pune to provide BPO services with limited employees and closed the company in March 2020 due to COVID-19 lockdown. In June, he started Jiya Liang InfoTech Pvt. Ltd. and Tian assisted him in running the company affairs and monitoring the employees’ day-to-day activities. Their company got registered with ROC in July and executed business agreement with Bienance Infrastructure Technology, West Mumbai, Ajaya Solutions Pvt. Ltd, Thane and Taelde Technology Pvt. Ltd, Mysore, for providing telecaller services for recovery of online loan payment dues, Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh M. Bhagwat said. “The companies were sanctioning personal unsecured loans through digital apps to the borrowers,” he said, adding that the companies did not produce valid licences by their clients from RBI to run the non-banking finance company business. Currently, around 650 employees are working in the accused’s company and are instructed to use their personal mobile numbers to contact borrowers. “As per instructions, the employees were calling loanees, their relatives and friends and insisting them to repay the loan amounts along with interest,” Mr. Bhagwat said, adding that Takye’s clients developed around 16 instant loan applications, including Krazy bean. Krazy rupee, Cashplus, Rupee Pro and Gold bowl. “These applications are developed in such a way that on installation, they get access to the contacts and other data on the device. These apps collect the ID proofs, PAN card, KYC documents, and bank account details of customers,” he said. Another accused was identified as Sk. Aaqib (20), a student from Munduwa, Pune. Mr. Bhagwat said the Cyber Crime police had registered two cases against the loan apps.
28 December 2020||Bengaluru,||RTE reimbursement: ‘80% progress achieved in Dec.’||The State government has already released the Rs. 550 crore earmarked in the 2019-20 Budget for reimbursement of fees of children admitted under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, according to S. Suresh Kumar, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education. Rubbishing allegations that the government had failed to reimburse school fees of RTE children in private and unaided schools, he said that as on December 23, around 80% progress was achieved, with fees amounting to Rs. 441.53 crore deposited in the accounts of various schools. He also claimed that it is for the first time since 2012-13 that the reimbursement of fees had happened in December itself. The government had resorted to online transfer for reimbursement to cut out the middlemen and ensure that school managements did not suffer on account of anything, he said, adding that the managements were required to submit the requisite documents online in order to claim reimbursement. “Some schools have failed to adhere to this. For the 2016-17 academic year, 12 schools are yet to submit the requisite documents. It is 29 schools for 2017-18, 71 for 2018-19, and 1,039 for 2019-20. The fees of the RTE students of these schools have not been reimbursed,” the Minister said.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana to raise Rs. 1,000 crore more||Telangana has opted for another tranche of Rs. 1,000 crore open market borrowings through the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to meet immediate financial requirements. The State has offered to sell securities through auction to be conducted by the RBI on Tuesday. While it has notified an amount of Rs. 750 crore, it has opted for additional borrowing of another Rs. 250 crore through the green shoe option. The latest open market borrowings take the total borrowings during the current month to Rs. 7,000 crore. The government has raised Rs. 6,000 crore so far in the form of State Development Loans during the four auctions by the RBI starting December 1. The government had, in fact, notified loans to the tune of Rs. 4,500 crore, but availed additional borrowing of another Rs. 1,500 crore through the green shoe option in the first four auctions. COVID-19 impact Given the precarious financial situation due to the impact of the COVID-19 during the current fiscal, the State had joined five others which showed highest increase in the Ways and Means utilisation as a per cent of the limit available. The RBI said, in its half yearly review, that the financial accommodation availed by the States had risen significantly higher during the current year compared to previous years, particularly for Ways and Means Advances (WMA) and Special Drawing Facility. The RBI recalled that it had increased the WMA limit available with States by 60% as a measure to ease financial pressure and smoothen the borrowing calendar for States. “State-wise, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Nagaland and Telangana showed the highest increase in WMA utilisation as a per cent of the limit available,” the RBI said. D
28 December 2020||Patna,||R.C.P. Singh, close confidant of Nitish, is new JD(U) president||Ram Chandra Prasad Singh, Rajya Sabha member from the Janata Dal(U) and close confidant of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, became the new party president on Sunday after Mr. Kumar resigned from the post. The Chief Minister had been holding the post for long, and Mr. Singh was the national general secretary. At the national executive committee meeting held at the party headquarters in Patna, Mr. Kumar proposed Mr. Singh’s name as the new president, which was subsequently accepted unanimously by the party’s executive body and party leaders.  Taking charge Mr. Singh, a former IAS officer of the Uttar Pradesh cadre, has been with Mr. Kumar since the latter’s stint as Union Agriculture Minister. “I’ve been with Mr. Kumar for the past 23 years and hope to rise to the expectations of the party as its president,” Mr. Singh told mediapersons. He added that he would strive to make the JD(U) a national party and “also ensure that developments like Arunachal Pradesh did not happen again”. Recently, six JD(U) MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh joined the ruling BJP, upsetting party leaders who termed the move “unfriendly”. Mr. Singh was the Principal Secretary when Mr. Kumar became Bihar Chief Minister in November 2005. In 2010, he was nominated to the Rajya Sabha and became the party’s national general secretary. Hailing from Nalanda, the home district of Mr. Kumar, Mr. Singh is known for his organisational skills. He also is said to have played an important role in stitching together the BJP-JD(U) alliance for the 2019 Lok Sabha poll and the State Assembly poll held a month ago. JD(U) and State BJP leaders hailed Mr. Singh, and said the JD(U) would “reach new heights under him”.
28 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Those stranded during lockdown faced racial abuse’||A report from the Nagaland government has noted how stranded residents from the State were subjected to “racism and harassment” in the wake of the March 24 nationwide lockdown. A report by a working group on the inter-State movement of stranded persons, authored by IAS officer Dinesh Kumar, was presented to the Nagaland government earlier this month. The report chronicles the return of migrants during the months of May, June and July following relaxations by the Union Home Ministry that allowed some Shramik special trains and a limited number of buses to operate. Faced discrimination The panel report highlighted that the Nagaland context was slightly different as the demographic of stranded persons was different. It said, “Nagaland persons who are part of the hospitality sector suddenly saw themselves out of jobs due to continuing lockdown and were running out of their limited means of sustaining themselves outside Nagaland. There were instances of racial discrimination and removal of some Nagaland persons from their rented homes by the owners in other States, who also found themselves stranded suddenly.” The report said that as many as 18,255 stranded persons registered on the ‘I am Stranded’ portal, that was created by the State government to ensure that all affected persons were registered and brought back in a systematic manner. A one-time assistance of Rs. 10,000 was also offered to residents who wished to stay back. Eventually, 13,549 residents returned. On March 23, the Home Ministry issued an advisory to all States to ensure sensitisation of law enforcement agencies to take action against harassment of persons of the northeast amid several incidents of racial attacks linking them to the COVID-19 outbreak in India. Several incidents were reported where those from the northeast were blamed for the pandemic that is said to have originated from Wuhan in China. Suddenly homeless “Nagaland students, who were studying in various parts of India, suddenly had no means to return home; adding to their woes was the anxiety of their parents/loved ones back here in Nagaland — in some of the remotest villages/areas in the country. Additionally, a migrant population of persons of outside States also was present in Nagaland which became suddenly stranded owing to closure of economic/construction activities within the State,” it said. It added, “In many occasions, the teams found themselves dealing with highly distressed persons with immediate grievances including being thrown out of their homes, losing their jobs, depression, racial/sexual abuse. The teams handled to the greatest extent possible with empathy and ensuring the best was done to alleviate the problems/distress as faced by the stranded persons. There were several instances of persons crying due to distress/helplessness, the calls/messages from whom were dealt empathetically despite the team themselves working long hours.” The working group was created on May 9.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||LAC hotspots turn brand buzzwords in Valley||The brand has set up special outlets in volatile south Kashmir’s Pulwama, Kulgam and Anantnag, besides Sopore and Kupwara in north Kashmir. Hilal Ahmad, of Kohinoor Footwear in Pulwama, said the names of the shoes did create a buzz among youth in the town. “One customer remarked that buying the shoes reminds us of Ladakh, which once was a sister district of the Kashmir region but is now a separate Union Territory,” a salesman at the shop said. Tapping into the emotional connect with these locations has paid off for the firm, which was launched in 2014 in J&K. Pawan Kumar Lakra, Delhi-based proprietor of John Mart, said, “I zeroed in on these names on the basis of their popularity. There is a tendency in India to name brands after borrowed foreign names. I was keen to name the range of shoes after well-known spots of India like Doklam and Galwan. The quality of my shoes is attracting buyers but the branding, too, helps locals connect with it.”
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers protest during PM’s speech||“While the farmers demand government investment in agriculture infrastructure and food processing, the government refuses to help farmers’ development and plans to spend crores of rupees to help corporates and multinational companies to invest in Indian agriculture. This is the path of self-destruction, not atmanirbharta (self-reliance),” said the statement. Meanwhile, farmer leader Hannan Mollah said there has been no response from the government to the farmers’ proposal for talks and dismissed claims that the Left parties were behind the agitation. “The government till now said we did not want a meeting, now that we have specifically told them when, where and what of the meeting, there is no response from them,” the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) general secretary said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, in an address to mark three years of the Himachal Pradesh government, said people with vested interests were spreading rumours to create misunderstanding that the minimum support price (MSP) scheme would end, but the facts were contrary. He reiterated that no one could take away farmers’ land from them. Mr. Singh said misinformation was being spread that farmers’ land would be taken away through contract farming.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana withdraws regulated farming||The State government has withdrawn regulated farming, which was introduced in the last agricultural season to discourage maize and promote fine variety of paddy, pulses and oilseeds for reasons of demand in the market. In the ongoing rabi season, farmers were left to decide for themselves their preferred crops. Similarly, the government has also decided not to purchase produce on its own from farmers in their villages, which was also taken up in the last season. Now, the farmers can sell their produce wherever they fetched good price. This was the broad understanding at an official meeting presided by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to discuss the procurement policy of government, regulated farming, implementation of Rytu Bandhu, usage of Rytu Vedika platforms of farmers, supply of seed and fertilizers and agriculture extension programmes. A release later said the meeting was of the view that it was not possible for the government to purchase or sell farmers’ produce as it was not into merchandise. Also, the new farm laws enacted by Centre envisaged that farmers could sell their produce anywhere. Therefore, the farmers should be allowed to sell at the local agricultural markets like in the past but a token system of arrivals on scheduled dates should be introduced. The meeting discussed the release of money under Rytu Bandhu scheme of investment support to farmers for the ongoing rabi into their bank accounts from Monday through January. A sum of Rs. 7,515 crore was envisaged for release to 61.49 lakh farmers for 1.52 crore acres of farm lands at Rs. 5,000 per acre for the season, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said at an official meeting to discuss the rollout of the programme. He asked officials to ensure that the money was directly credited to the bank accounts till the last farmer, a release said. Officials explained to the Chief Minister on the occasion that the government had suffered a loss of about Rs. 7,500 crore due to its procurement policies since the formation of the State. The government procured at minimum support price paddy, maize, jowar, red gram, bengal gram, sunflower, black gram and other crops but sold the produce at lesser rates as there was no demand in the market. This was a recurring problem every year. The loss on account of paddy alone was Rs. 3,935 crore while it was Rs. 52.78 crore from jowar, Rs. 413.48 crore from red gram, Rs. 52.47 crore from red jowar, Rs. 9.23 crore from black gram, Rs. 108.07 crore from bengal gram and Rs. 14.25 crore from sunflower. The net loss on account of labour charges and The meeting was attended by Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy, Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Chief Advisor to government Rajeev Sharma and Vice-Chancellor of agricultural university Praveen Rao, among others.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD/CHENNAI,||Rajinikanth discharged from hospital||Two days after being admitted to a hospital in Hyderabad, actor Rajinikanth was discharged on Sunday afternoon. However, “in view of his post-transplant status”, doctors have advised him a week’s bed rest, and have asked him to avoid any activity that puts him at risk of contracting COVID-19. The actor reached Chennai by a flight in the evening. Consequent to his condition, there has been ambiguity about whether he would announce the date of the launch of his proposed party on December 31, as promised earlier. He was admitted to the Apollo Hospitals on Friday morning with severe hypertension and exhaustion. “Mr. Rajinikanth’s blood pressure has stabilised and he is feeling better. In view of his improved medical condition, he is being discharged from the hospital today,” a hospital bulletin said on Sunday afternoon. “In view of his post-transplant status, labile hypertension and age, the following advice has been given in addition to the medications and diet: complete bed rest for one week with regular monitoring of blood pressure; minimal physical activity, and avoiding of stress,” the hospital said. Consequently, the actor was counselled to avoid any activity that increases his risk of contracting COVID-19.
28 December 2020||New Delhi,||On Nepal, India prefers to watch from sidelines||Within just seven months, the disposition of Nepal’s top leadership towards New Delhi has undergone a complete turnaround. On the one hand, Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli, who was on a collision course with the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing it of territorial hegemony, has considerably softened his tone and courted high-level visits from India towards the end of 2020. On the other, his rival in the unified Nepal Communist Party, Pushpa Kamal Dahal, or Prachanda, who was seen as sympathetic to India’s cause, is now clearly seeking China’s intervention in the current political crisis in Nepal, sparked by Mr. Oli’s dissolution of Parliament’s lower house. Envoy meets Oli In another turnaround, China, which used to stay aloof from internal politics, has shown its hand in the current crisis, while India, which is often accused of instigating instability in the Himalayan nation, is watching the situation, albeit closely, from the sidelines. Indian Ambassador to Kathmandu Vinay Kwatra travelled to Delhi after a meeting with Prime Minister Oli last week, setting off speculation that he had carried a message from the Nepali Prime Minister to the Modi government explaining his reasons for the “coup”. The Ministry of External Affairs, however, said that while it had “noted” the developments, these were “internal matters for Nepal to decide as per its democratic processes”. In contrast, Chinese Ambassador Hou Yanqi has been busy since the dissolution announcement last Sunday, and met the Prachanda-Madhav Nepal faction as well as President Bidhya Devi Bhandari, after which Beijing dispatched Guo Yezhou, vice-minister of the International Department of the Communist Party of China (CPC), to Kathmandu. Mr. Guo had last visited Kathmandu just after the election win of the Left alliance in 2018 and before the unification of Mr. Oli’s UML (United Marxist Leninist) and Prachanda’s Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist), and is believed to know all communist party leaders well. Those in Delhi watching the developments closely say the Modi government, which has only recently patched up with the Oli government after the map conflagration in May, is also taking the calculated risk that while Mr. Oli could lose control of the party, he retains the balance of power. President Bhandari’s acceptance of his decision to dissolve the House, as well as the decision of Constitutional Bench of the Supreme Court not to immediately stay the decision, have been seen as indicators of that. “If we speak, we are accused of interfering. If we don’t act or make a statement, we would be accused of being cut out of the picture in Nepal,” said an official.  (With inputs from   Kallol Bhattacherjee)
28 December 2020||Staff Reporter,||3 passengers from U.K. test positive in Karnataka||Three passengers who came from the United Kingdom tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. While as many as 153 of them were tested on Saturday, 87 tested negative and the reports of 63 are awaited. The bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare states that so far, 26 passengers coming from the U.K. tested positive. A total of 1,587 passengers coming from U.K. have been tested and 1,264 have tested negative, while the reports of 297 passengers are still awaited. The State government is keeping a close watch on passengers coming from the U.K. owing to the emergence of the new coronavirus variant. Meanwhile, as many as 911 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Karnataka on Sunday. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the State stands at 9.16 lakh. The total number of discharges in the State stands at 1,214, taking the total number of discharges to 8.91 lakh. Out of the total 13,080 active cases in the State, as many as 209 patients are admitted in intensive care units . As many as 11 new deaths due to COVID-19 were reported on Sunday, taking the total number of deaths to 12,062. As many as 94,795 tests were conducted in the State on Saturday.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Two drown||A 17-year-old girl and her 21-year-old cousin drowned when they accidentally slipped into a stone quarry pit filled with rainwater in Chikkajala on Saturday. They are Jennifer and Prem Kumar. According to the police, Prem Kumar had come to visit his relatives. The family went to the farm house near Nettahalasuru and stopped the car near the quarry. Jennifer went near the quarry to play with their dog and slipped into the pit. Prem jumped in to save her, but he too drowned. The family tried to save them, but in vain. The pit was around 60 feet deep. On Sunday, the bodies were recovere. The Chikkajala police have taken up a case of unnatural death and investigation is on.
28 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Woman was electrocuted by husband: Kerala police||The police team investigating the death of 51-year-old Shakakumari at Karakkonam here in Kerala suspect it to be a premeditated murder by her 28-year-old husband Arun. The post-mortem examination on Sunday revealed electrocution to be the cause of death. The police waited for the findings of officials from the Electrical Inspectorate on Monday before proceeding with the arrest. Confesses to assault According to the police, Arun allegedly confessed to have assaulted Shakakumari late on December 25. “After an argument, Arun attacked her by hitting her on the nose and attempted to strangulate her in the bedroom. He later dragged her to the sitting room, where she was electrocuted using a live wire connected to the electricity meter. Blood stains were found in both rooms. Arun waited until around 6 a.m. to alert the neighbours,” an officer said. While the police firmly believe that Arun married Shakhakumari with an eye on her property, the financial transactions of both are being examined. They married in October after four years of friendship.
28 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Three held in loan app case in Telangana||In the continuing crackdown on instant app-based lenders, the Telangana police on Sunday busted a Pune-based call centre allegedly used for harassing borrowers of online app firms for recovery and arrested three people, including a Chinese woman. The trio was arrested based on a complaint by a city-based person that he was harassed by the online loan app firms over repayment with higher rate of interest, the police said. The action comes close on the heels of the arrest of four people, including a Chinese national, here on Friday for allegedly using coercive methods to recover dues from defaulters who had used 11 instant loan apps developed by them and availed loans. The crackdown was launched after three cases of suicide, including that of a software engineer, due to harassment by such companies were reported in Telangana in the last one month. Those arrested in the latest action were the director of the call centre in Pune, his wife a Chinese national, and an HR manager.
28 December 2020||New Delhi,||PM spoke on everything but farmers: Cong.||The Congress on Sunday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of “showing insensitivity” towards farmers. The party said while Mr. Modi spoke on everything from “garbage to animals” in his last  Mann Ki Baat  broadcast of the year, he did not mention the farmers’ agitation. Congress MP from Punjab Ravneet Singh Bittu said the Union government, before its next meeting with farmers, should withdraw the clause of penalty for stubble burning in the farm laws and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 in its entirety. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke on garbage to animals in his last Mann Ki Baat but did not speak a word about the farmers’ agitation. Surely, a Prime Minister who as a tea-seller has spent time on railway platforms should understand the pains of the farmers,” Mr. Bittu said at a press conference here.   Mr. Bittu said many soldiers posted at the borders with Pakistan and China too had requested the government to intervene at the earliest, so that their parents can return home. “We don’t understand what the government wants? The farmers have been sitting on protest for 32 days now, many have died due the biting cold. Does the government want their blood,” he asked.
28 December 2020||Chandigarh,||176 more tower sites vandalised||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s appeal to protesting farmers to not damage telecom infrastructure seems to have failed to deter new attacks, with more than 176 signal transmitting sites being vandalised in the past 24 hours, sources said on Sunday. The towers belong to Reliance Jio and the common access infrastructure of the telecom industry This has taken the total number of telecom tower sites damaged to 1,411, they said. Incidents of snapping of power lines to attempts to axe the towers have been reported from various areas. “Site managers are slapped and abused for trying to persuade protesters from damaging sites,” one of the sources said.
28 December 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul leaves on personal visit abroad||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi left for abroad on Sunday for a short personal visit, the party said. Though the Congress did not disclose Mr. Gandhi’s destination, the chief spokesperson of the party, Randeep Surjewala, confirmed that he would be away for a few days. “Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has left for abroad for a short personal visit and will be away for a few days,” Mr. Surjewala said.  Sources said Mr. Gandhi left for Milan in Italy on a Qatar Airways flight in the morning. His grandmother stays in Italy and he had visited her earlier too. Foundation Day Mr. Gandhi’s travel abroad comes amid the farmers protest against the three agriculture laws and a day ahead of the Congress’s 136th Foundation Day celebrations on Monday. The flag of the party will be hoisted at the All India Congress Committee headquarters on the occasion.
28 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SII to launch pneumonia vaccine||The first indigenous vaccine against pneumonia, developed by the Serum Institute of India (SII), will be launched by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday, says information released by the Institute here on Sunday. According to sources, the vaccine will be much more affordable than the existing ones manufactured by two foreign companies. In July, India’s drug regulator had granted market approval for the Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Conjugate vaccine.
28 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||More time to renew RC, driving licence||The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways on Sunday said it had issued an advisory to the States and Union Territories to extend the validity of vehicle-related documents, including driving licence, vehicle registration certificate and permits, till March 31, 2021. In a statement, the Ministry said the decision was taken in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Similar advisories The Ministry had issued similar advisories to extend the validity of documents related to the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, and the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989, on March 30, June 9 and August 24. The validity of documents, including all types of permits and fitness certificates, were extended till December 31. The latest advisory said, “Taking into consideration the need to prevent the spread of COVID-19, it is further advised that the validity of all of the above referred documents may be treated to be valid till 31st March, 2021. This covers all documents whose validity has expired since 1st Feb, 2020 or would expire by 31st March, 2021.” Distancing norms The Ministry said the extension would help citizens in availing transport services while adhering to social distancing norms. The Ministry statement said the States and UTs were asked to implement the “advisory in letter and spirit so that the citizens, the transporters and various other organisations which are operating under this difficult time during the pandemic may not get harassed or face difficulties”.
28 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. defends new rule under GST||The Central government has defended its new rule under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime that mandates cash payment of at least 1% of tax liabilities for businesses with a turnover of over Rs. 50 lakh a month, instead of using their input tax credits to discharge their entire tax dues. The rule, introduced last Wednesday, had attracted criticism from several chartered accountants and tax payers over social media, stoking fears that the mandatory cash payment would adversely affect small businesses, increase their working capital requirement and make GST a more complex indirect tax system. Revenue Department sources, however, said these fears were misplaced and “only risky or suspicious dealers and fly-by-night operators” would be affected by the move aimed at curbing fake GST invoice fraud. Several entities with a turnover of Rs. 6 crore a year (or Rs. 50 lakh a month) would be excluded from the ambit of the rule, they said. “If a registered person deposited more than Rs. 1 lakh as income tax in each of the last two years, or received a refund of more than Rs. 1 lakh in the preceding financial year on account of export or inverted tax structure, they will be exempted from the rule,” an official said. Official data suggest that just four lakh taxpayers supply a value greater than Rs. 50 lakh a month, while only around 1.5 lakh of those pay less than 1% tax in cash, the source said.
28 December 2020||Hassan,||‘Bababudangiri shrine to be a Datta Peetha’||Udupi-Chikkamagaluru Lok Sabha member Shobha Karandlaje has expressed confidence that the Sri Guru Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy Dargah, atop Bababudangiri in Chikkamagaluru taluk, would soon be declared a Datta Peetha, a place of worship for Hindus. Speaking to presspersons in Chikkamagaluru on Sunday, she said the shrine would become a Hindu place of worship, as has been in the case with the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. “There are some legal hurdles. Legal experts are looking into them. It should become ours. I am hopeful it will be a reality soon,” she said. The MP is in Chikkamagaluru to take part in the three-day Datta Jayanti celebrations, which began on Sunday.
28 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Neolithic celt discovered in a Nagarkurnool village||A Neolithic celt made out of solaris stone was discovered at Somasila village in Kollapur Mandal of Nagarkurnool district. The discovery was made by E. Sivanagireddy, archaeologist and CEO of Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravati. While Dr Reddy was on a survey of archaeological remains in and around Somasila village, located on the left bank of river Krishna, he chanced upon a Neolithic tool (axe) measuring 4x2x1 inches with a very sharp cutting edge derived out of grinding and polishing. Dumped in pit The celt is coated with patina of lime and ash denoting that it was dumped in a pit after usage, Dr.Reddy said. “After analysing similar evidence found at a nearby village Chinnamarur where Neolithic habitation was excavated by the Department of Archaeology and Museums in the early 1980s and the features of the stone tool noticed at Somalia village, we dated it to the period between 4000-2000 BC during which domestication of animals, intensifying of agriculture and settling at one place began,” he said. Kept in museum He said that the celt was found in an agricultural field of Telugu Pentaiah from where Neolithic tools like discoids, pestles and grinding stones were recovered two decades ago, and are now kept at a local museum.
28 December 2020||PALAKKAD,||CPI(M) to re-induct MLA who faced punitive action||The Kerala CPI(M) has decided to re-induct P.K. Sasi, MLA, into the party district secretariat. He is returning to the party forum after facing punitive action for his alleged misbehaviour with a woman leader of the DYFI. He was suspended from the primary membership of the party in November 2018. It was revoked in September 2019.
28 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sunil Kothari condoled||The executive committee of Bharath Bhavan and the Dr. Kapila Vatsyayan Indian Classical Dance festival committee have condoled the passing away of dance scholar and critic Sunil Kothari. Bharath Bhavan member secretary and festival director Pramod Payyannur recalled Kothari’s contributions in taking Indian art forms to the global arena.
28 December 2020||Idukki,||Mercury drops for the second day at Munnar||The temperature level remained low in Munnar for the second consecutive day on Sunday. While it was minus 2 degrees Celsius on Saturday, it was 1 degree Celsius on Sunday. The temperature recorded at various places in Munnar on Sunday: Latchmi and Nallathanny: 1 degree Celsius each; Sevenmalay, Chenduvarai: 2 degrees Celsius each; Mattupetty and Periyakanal: 3 degrees Celsius each. Pallivasal and Gundumalay recorded 6 and 5 degrees Celsius respectively. There was a heavy rush of tourists to Munnar in connection with the Christmas and New Year holidays. Hotels sold out Almost all the rooms at hotels and resorts have been booked till January 1. Other tourist centres such as Wagamon and Ramakkalmedu also witnessed high turnout of tourists.  However, Thekkady witnessed a lull in tourist arrival. The check-post on the border with Tamil Nadu remaining closed and many tourism packages yet to be opened hinder inflow of tourists. The business activities at Kumily is entirely dependant on tourism in Munnar. Shibu M. Thomas, secretary, Merchants Association, Kumily unit, said the closing of the check-post was a hindrance. He said the Forest Department was not promoting tourism at Thekkady. The Idukki dam witnessed heavy tourist inflow. An official at the ticket counter at the Cheruthoni dam said that 4,890 people visited Idukki dam on Sunday. More than 10,000 people came to Idukki and Cheruthoni dams over three days, he said.
28 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Voting for final phase of Gram Panchayat polls in Karnataka concludes||The polling for the second and final phase of gram panchayat elections in Karnataka concluded on Sunday. Votes will be counted on December 30. Over 60% voter turnout was recorded till 3 p.m. in the State, according to officials. In all, elections took place in 5,728 village panchayats in 226 taluks of the State for 72,616 seats.PTI
28 December 2020||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Two workers killed as van overturns near Tiruchuli||Two persons were killed and nine injured when a van carrying workers to a private spinning mill got upset near Panaiyur in Tiruchuli on Sunday morning. The deceased were identified as P. Poosaiyah (27) and C. Srikanth (19) of Chellaiahpuram. The police said that the driver, S.Muniyasamy (22) of Sattur, had lost control of the speeding vehicle while taking the workers from Anaikulam to Sri Parameswari Spinning Mill in Pandalgudi. Consequently, it fell on its side at around 7 a.m. Both the deceased had sustained head injuries, the police said. The driver had claimed that the vehicle got upset as he tried to avoid hitting another vehicle. The injured, including six women, were given first-aid at Tiruchuli Government Hospital. Meanwhile, the absence of doctors at the Tiruchuli Government Hospital angered the relatives who smashed the glass there. They complained that only nurses had to give first-aid to the injured and later they moved them to a private hospital in Aruppukottai. Tiruchuli police are investigating.
28 December 2020||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK supporting Centre that acts against Tamil identity’||People should reject the AIADMK government, which could not even muster courage to question the BJP-led Centre that acts against the interests of Tamil language, identity and pride, DMK MP M.K. Kanimozhi said. Addressing a ‘makkal gram sabha’ at Palavanatham, near Aruppukottai, on Sunday, Ms. Kanimozhi said that those going to banks seeking loans were confronted with officials who could not speak Tamil, but just Hindi. “This is the case even in railway stations and airports. This even happened to me at an airport. When I said I didn’t know Hindi and asked that I be spoken to in English, I was asked if I lived in India. This happened at an airport in Tamil Nadu,” she said. The Tamil Nadu government should have questioned the Centre but did not have the courage to do it, she said. “We need to pack off such a government,” she said. Ms. Kanimozhi said the AIADMK government supported the Centre on the three farm legislation which were against the interests of farmers. “Although only four months are left for the present government, the AIADMK chose to not speak against the legislation to cling on to power.” Students were being denied scholarships, she said.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation works out plan to revive Mambalam Canal||Once a rainwater carrier snaking through the heart of the city for nearly 6 km, the Mambalam Canal has become a sewage carrier over the years. The condition of the canal renders the task of desilting hard. The civic body now plans to spend over Rs. 10 crore on every kilometre to revive it. Under a plan to redevelop the canal, which criss-crosses T. Nagar, Teynampet and Saidapet before flowing into Adyar river, the civic body will deepen and desilt it and construct retainer walls. The project will be taken up under Area Based Development (ABD) of the Smart Cities Mission. The civic body has completed the detailed project report and has called for a tender to execute it. Corporation Commissioner K. Prakash said funding was available; so unlike the pedestrian plaza which was delayed, the project could be completed within nine months of a contractor having been identified. The civic body is pushing for the renovation of the canal as encroachments, which normally hold up restoration of canals and cause social upheaval, are minimal. L. Nandakumar, Chief Engineer (General), said the removal of encroachments was completed two years ago along the canal from Valluvar Kottam to Saidapet. While an integrated stormwater drain system and macro-canals have been completed in the extended areas of the city, the Mambalam Canal restoration is the first project in the city aimed at flood mitigation, apart from beautification. Meetings of stakeholders have been held, and residents have welcomed the project, Mr. Nandakumar said. “Once the restoration work is completed, the profile of the areas around the canal will change,” he noted. The Corporation plans to convert the canal not only into a sewage-free flood-carrier by desilting it and constructing a retaining wall but also into an attractive urban landscape with pedestrian pathways, a cycling track, greenery and parks. The civic body will stem the flow of sewage from houses and commercial establishments into the canal by installing pipes on both sides of the canal and link them to the collection points. From there, the sewage would be taken to the nearest Metrowater sewage pumping station. R. Govindaraj, president, Exnora-Greater Chennai, said the Mambalam Canal must be restored as the macro-canal that passes through the city was on the verge of collapse with rampant encroachments, dumping of garbage and letting of sewage.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||People will chase AIADMK govt. away, says Duraimurugan||DMK general secretary Duraimurugan on Sunday said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had no locus standi to criticise DMK president M.K. Stalin since the only achievement of the AIADMK was that even its former Chief Minister [Jayalalithaa] faced a disproportionate wealth case and went to jail. Reacting to Mr. Palaniswami’s claim that the AIADMK had given the best government to the State, Mr. Duraimurugan said the AIADMK had seen four Chief Ministers and one of them went to jail in a corruption case. “Mr. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam are facing cases for allegedly amassing wealth disproportionate to their known sources of income,” he claimed. As for Mr. Palaniswami’s call to the party cadre to chase away the enemies of the AIADMK, Mr. Duraimurugan contended that the people of Tamil Nadu were ready to chase the AIADMK away and the intelligence wing of the police had not informed the Chief Minister of the prevailing trend in the State. He said Mr. Palaniswami could not take credit for the 7.5% horizontal reservation for students of government schools in medical education since the Governor gave his assent to the legislation only after DMK president M.K. Stalin threatened to launch a protest. Mr. Duraimurugan criticised Mr. Palaniswami for “admitting” that his government had thrown to the dustbin the petitions collected by the DMK during the COVID-19 pandemic. “He has patted himself on his back even though his government failed in its efforts to contain the pandemic. His government has failed to release the financial assistance to the medical professionals who lost their lives in the battle against the novel coronavirus disease,” he also alleged. Mr. Duraimurugan charged that the AIADMK government had pledged the rights of the State and paved the way for the introduction of NEET for admission to medical courses.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senior AIADMK leader dismisses demand for share in power||The ruling AIADMK’s deputy coordinator, K.P. Munusamy, on Sunday hogged the limelight at the launch of the party’s campaign for the Assembly election. Known for being blunt while articulating his position, Mr. Munusamy rebutted criticism levelled against the Dravidian movement for being a “non-performer”, and rejected the demand for share in power. Pointing out that there were “several persons who were doing calculations” to gain a foothold in the State, making use of the absence of leaders of the stature of M.G. Ramachandran, Jayalalithaa and M. Karunanidhi, he stated that “some blacklegs, some national parties, some opportunists, a community and a group, determined to finish off the Dravidian movement and its leaders from the days of Periyar [Dravida Kazhagam founder E.V. Ramasamy] were carrying out a campaign, saying that Tamil Nadu had been destroyed during the 50-year rule of the Dravidian movement.” Mr. Munusamy, former Local Administration Minister and now an MP (Rajya Sabha), said the State’s progress in different fields such as higher education, agriculture and health was “all possible” only due to Dravidian rule. At the same time, he contended that the “owners” of the movement were former Chief Ministers C.N. Annadurai, M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa, and not Karunanidhi. Under the present circumstances, the “ownership” of the movement belonged to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and other members of the party, he said. As for the idea of sharing power, the ruling party’s senior functionary emphasised that it would be an AIADMK-led government that would be formed in the event of success in the Assembly poll. “There is no meaning or need for a coalition government,” he said. R. Vaithilingam, another deputy coordinator, underscored the importance of unity among members of the party. D. Jayakumar, Fisheries Minister and district secretary of the north Chennai (southeast) unit of the AIADMK, said since 1977, his party had gained victory in 10 Assembly elections and it would continue with its winning streak this time too. E. Madhusudanan, chairman of the party presidium, and P. Thangamani, Electricity Minister and secretary of the Namakkal district unit of the party, were among those who addressed the function.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMRL starts trial run of north line||Chennai Metro Rail on Sunday began a trial run of trains along the 9 km stretch of the phase I extension project between Washermenpet and Wimco Nagar in north Chennai. This is the first time that the trains are being run on this stretch; on Saturday, a locomotive engine was operated. This stretch may be thrown open to the public by the end of January next. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), the trains will be running on this stretch for a few hours every day. “Such trial runs are essential to know the technical problems that mushroom at this stage; so, when we inspect continuously during these runs, we can fix them immediately,” an official said. The signalling test, too, was expected to be conducted on Sunday but it was postponed, sources said. “With the tunnels in the underground corridors and the elevated viaducts proving ready for operations on this 9.051 km stretch, the work on finishes and fit-outs are being done day and night to achieve early commissioning. Also, the surface restoration work is going on in parallel,” according to a release. The sources said that though trial runs had started, the construction of stations was not being done fast enough for them to be ready by January-end. One or two stations were behind schedule, and it might be very difficult to complete them in another month, they said. “Also, during the trial run with the locomotive engine, we found infringement [of a few structures] at two stations. Such issues should not have been there. It has been corrected now,” another source said. Before beginning operations, CMRL needs to get signalling software and the final approval certificate from the Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety. It is not clear how these processes will be completed in a month.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ministers must make balanced comments’||Strains are visible in the AIADMK-led NDA, with the BJP not decisively backing Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami as the alliance’s face for the 2021 Assembly polls. In an interview on Sunday, the national party’s co-incharge for Tamil Nadu, P. Sudhakar Reddy, says AIADMK Ministers must counter the DMK’s charges and take the good work of the State and Central governments to the people. Excerpts:  Of late, there seems to be growing dissonance between the AIADMK and the BJP… I have been seeing the observations made by Ministers of the AIADMK, our partner in the NDA under the leadership of Modi ji . My appeal to the Ministers is to be balanced in their statements, and, instead, counter the motivated tirade of the DMK, which is attacking the AIADMK and the BJP at the Centre. This is the conspiracy of the DMK, and you [AIADMK] should not fall into the trap. Whatever decision has to be taken on the election mechanism, it will be taken by our Parliamentary board, whenever the situation arises. Naturally, it is their party [AIADMK], they can decide their CM candidate. They should talk about the good things they have done for the people of Tamil Nadu. More funds are coming from the Centre — 12,000 villages will benefit. Tamil Nadu BJP leaders have repeatedly said that the CM candidate will be decided by the BJP… The BJP is concentrating on strengthening the party even at the booth level. We are going around, talking about our central schemes like ‘New India’ and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Following a resolution at our morcha meeting today [Sunday] in Hosur, we are appealing to the State government to put up Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo at all panchayat offices. That is the protocol since they are an NDA partner. No formal meeting has been held so far [on alliance-related issues]; that will be discussed later. Will the alliance continue for the Assembly election? I am reiterating that they are our NDA partner. [Home Minister] Amit Shah ji has already said that they are our NDA partner. As junior partner, can the BJP dictate terms on the CM candidate? This is a technical thing. Whenever the election notification comes, it should be discussed. When do you expect the seat-sharing talks to begin? Whenever the situation arises, our Parliamentary board will take a call. Only then can we decide on all aspects. If Rajinikanth starts a party and is inclined to join the alliance, will the BJP be open to it? Firstly, I wish him a speedy recovery. Let us see the situation. Nobody knows what will happen. What is Mr. Rajinikanth’s goal? What will he do? When the situation arises, our Parliamentary board will take a call. Have you asked your T.N. leaders not to talk on the CM candidature? Our leaders are all mature. They know what to speak and what not to. They know everything will be considered by the high command, at the appropriate forum.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Runaway girls from Kotturpuram traced in six hours||Technology, proper coordination and information from a responsible transperson and a few other train passengers helped trace two girls who went missing from their house and boarded a train to Srivilliputhur on Saturday. The police rescued them within six hours. According to the police, a 13-year-old girl and her 8-year-old cousin went out on Friday. As they did not return home, the 13-year-old’s father lodged a complaint with the Kotturpuram police. A special team headed by Sembeddu Babu, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Kotturpuram, was formed trace the children. “The 13-year-old had taken her mother’s mobile phone. When we tracked it, the location appeared as Kattankulathur. However, after sometime, the tower location showed Villupuram and we realised that they were on a train. On checking the railway schedule, we found that Podhigai Express was running at that time. We immediately informed the Government Railway Police, sent them the children’s pictures and tried to rescue them,” he said. At the Villupuram station, a transperson and a few other passengers spotted the unsupervised children. “The transperson, who did not reveal her name, handed the children over to the Railway Police, who immediately realised that they were the same ones who had gone missing from Chennai,” Mr. Babu added. By then, the Kotturpuram police team reached spot and took custody of the children. “We have asked the All-Women police team to investigate the issue.” “They had boarded the train from Egmore at 8.30 p.m. We identified their location by 11 p.m. and rescued them in an another few hours,” the Assistant Commissioner said.  (Childline operates a toll free helpline 1098 for children in distress across the country.)   The 13-year-old had taken her mother’s mobile phone. When we tracked it, we realised that they were on a train Sembeddu Babu Assistant Commissioner of Police, Kotturpuram
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three more U.K. returnees test positive for virus infection||Three more U.K. returnees tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Sunday. With this, 13 returnees and 12 of their contacts have tested positive so far. The State recorded 1,009 more infections, taking its case tally to 8,14,170. As many as 1,091 persons were discharged after treatment and 10 more persons succumbed to the virus. A total of 7,93,154 persons have been discharged so far, even as the State’s toll has touched 2,069. The number of active cases in the State dropped under 9,000, with 8,947 persons, including 2,854 in Chennai, undergoing treatment at present. According to a bulletin issued by the Health department, 10 U.K. returnees had tested positive for the infection till Saturday. The samples of three more persons — one each from Chennai, the Nilgiris and Chengalpattu — returned positive on Sunday. Among the 93 contacts of the 13 patients, 12 have tested positive and the results of 76 have returned negative. Results of five persons are awaited. All primary cases and their positive contacts have been kept in separate isolation wards. Approximately, 2,300 passengers returned from the U.K., between November 25 and December 21. Of these, 1,437 have been traced and tested. A total of 1,224 persons have tested negative for COVID-19 and the results of 201 persons are yet to be known . Tracing of the remaining passengers is under way. Of the fresh infections, Chennai accounted for 290, while Coimbatore saw 94. In Chengalpattu, 67 persons tested positive, while there were 48 cases in Tiruvallur and 40 in Tiruppur. A total of 37 persons each tested positive in Erode and Salem, while there were 35 cases in Kancheepuram. Nine districts logged new cases in single digits. This includes Perambalur (one) and Ariyalur (three). All 10 persons who died had co-morbidities. Five of them died in Chennai. Two of them were in their 40s. 48-year-old man from Kanniyakumari, with chronic kidney disease, diabetes and systemic hypertension died on December 25 at the Kanyakumari Medical College. A 49-year-old man from Chennai with systemic hypertension died at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on December 24. In the last 24 hours, 64,283 samples have been tested in the State, taking the total figure to 1,39,24,527. Puducherry’s tally The COVID-19 toll in the Union Territory rose to 631 on Sunday, with one death reported in Karaikal. Forty-eight fresh cases took Puducherry’s tally to 37,995. A 77-year-old man died at the Karaikal General Hospital. The cumulative toll in Puducherry is 516, Karaikal 62, Yanam 45, and Mahe 8. Of the fresh cases, Puducherry accounted for 34 infections, Mahe 6, Karaikal 5 and Yanam 3.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||When Vaiyacheri dominated the music world||Long before small villages in the composite Thanjavur district earned a name for themselves in Carnatic music, thanks to the musicians born there, Vaiyacheri held a pre-eminent position. It is the birthplace of Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer or Vaidyanatha Sivan (1844-1893) and his brother Ramasamy Iyer, both great musicians and Tamil scholars. They had performed all-Tamil concerts comprising songs fromThevaram,ThiruvasagamandPeriya Puranam. A narrow road between the Cauvery, on the one side, and emerald paddy fields dotted with teak and bamboo trees, on the other, leads to the village which is also the birth place of musicians Anai Ayya brothers and mridangam player Vaidyanatha Iyer, who was the teacher of Palghat Mani Iyer. “He was incomparable. No one possessed the talent of Vaidyanatha Sivan, who travelled across Tamil Nadu and converted the places where he performed into ‘Gandharvalokha’. None with such a talent existed before him,” writes Tamil Thatha U.V. Swaminatha Iyer, who had listened to their concerts. There is a portrait of Vaidyanatha Sivan at the Agastheeswarar temple at Vaiyacheri today. It alone reminds the people of the musician born there. The house where the brothers lived disappeared with time; just a few old bricks that were part of the foundation remain. “I have seen the house. But years of neglect led to its destruction,” said Rajapaa, 71, who as a child had listened to concerts in Thiruvaiyaru. Swaminatha Iyer, who has penned the biography of Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer, recalls one particular concert held at the Thiruvavaduthurai Mutt that stands testimony to Vaidyanatha Iyer’s greatness. “And then Vaidyanatha Iyer sang alone. He displayed a variety of skills. From the lowest notes, he traversed the base, mid-level and higher octaves with an admirable facility. His voice, much like nibble fingers sliding through the frets of the veena across octaves, glided through the notes effortlessly like a diving kingfisher. His music bore a stamp of victory that day.” It was on this occasion that Melagaram Subramania Desikar, the head of the Thiruvavaduthurai Mutt, conferred the tile ‘Maha’ on Vaidyanatha Iyer in the presence of another musician Periya Vaidhyanatha Iyer after he rendered ‘chakravakam’. “He elaborately rendered a raga and no musician could identify it. Desikar also asked Periya Vaidhyanatha Iyer and he, too, could not identify it. Then Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer said it was ‘chakravakam’, and its grammar had been explained in Sangeetha Ratnakaram.” “He went on to sing to explain its nuances and everyone present enjoyed the occasion,” recalls Swaminatha Iyer. Composer-singer Mysore Vasudevacharya in his book, Naa Kanda Kalavidharu , had recorded the ban imposed on him and other students by Patanam Subramania Iyer from attending the concerts of Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer in Thiruvaiyaru. He and others would sneak into the concerts after Subramania Iyer slept. Swaminatha Iyer says Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer would not sing continuously for more than one-and-a-half hours. He would begin withVathapi Ganapathimand it would be followed byEkkalathilum Maravene, a song fromPeriya Puranam. “He would perform siva katha for two hours. He would begin his raga alapana by singing the word ‘sankara’. He would avoid preparing his throat before the concert, spending a few minutes to align his voice with sruthi and drinking liquids frequently during the concerts.” Thirukodikaval Krishna Iyer was one of the violinists who accompanied him. Narayanasamy Appa had played mridangam for him.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Manali’s Kadapakkam lake to be restored soon||The Kadapakkam lake, located in the industrial belt of Manali, is set to be restored into an important water source for north Chennai residents. The waterbody, which belongs to the Water Resources Department (WRD), will be rejuvenated by the Greater Chennai Corporation through a grant from the Asian Development Bank (ADB). With the Villivakkam lake renovation nearing completion, the Corporation has identified the Kadapakkam lake, with a spread of 125 acres, for restoration because of the several industries located in Manali and also for the mushrooming residential population. The project work will be executed at a cost of more than Rs. 55 crore. A senior civic official said the lake was once used for irrigating farms but had been in a state of neglect for several years.The Kadapakkam lake was identified as one of the 100 waterbodies the civic body was planning to restore. The detailed project report was prepared after getting a no objection certificate from the WRD. It will be restored on the lines of the Villivakkam lake, with several modern amenities along with environmental protection. The lake will become a hotspot for residents, who have few leisure amenities in the locality, with the inclusion of cycling paths, a Miyawaki forest and camping facilities.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former Congress MLA Yasodha passes away||Senior Tamil Nadu Congress leader and four-term MLA D. Yasodha died on Sunday owing to health complications. Yasodha was elected MLA from the Sriperumbudur constituency in 1980, 1984, 2001 and 2006. Yasodha was earlier a vice-president of TNCC and president of the TNCC Mahila Congress. She was one of the trustees of the TNCC Charitable Trust. A senior leader in the TNCC said Yasodha collapsed during a party meeting, recently, and had been admitted to a private hospital in the city. She was a prominent Dalit leader of the party. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said Yasodha joined the Congress at a very young age and had remained a life-long Congress person. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and DMK president M.K. Stalin, among others, expressed their condolences.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Portrayal of Tiruvalluvar in saffron condemned||Former School Education Minister Thangam Thennarasu (DMK) on Sunday condemned the portrayal of Tamil poet Tiruvalluvar clad in saffron on Kalvi TV of the State Education Department, saying that it had sowed poison in the minds of the students. In a statement issued in Chennai, he charged that the AIADMK government, which had sought to black out the picture of Tiruvalluvar on the textbooks, had now gone to the extent of allowing his portrayal in saffron. “Anyone who has love for Tamil language and self-respect cannot accept it. People’s anger will teach a fitting lesson to the AIADMK government. It should at least now take action against those behind the portrayal and prevent such incidents,” he said. ‘RSS puppet’ MDMK general secretary Vaiko urged the government to immediately remove the picture from the visual lessons prepared for the students. “Mr. Palaniswami has become a puppet in the hands of the RSS and the Sangh Parivar. Already Manonmaniam Sundaranar University removed Arundhati Roy’s book from the syllabus and Anna University included Bhagavad Gita in its syllabus. These are part of the BJP government’s efforts to saffronise Indian education,” he alleged.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nigerian national held for possessing cocaine||A 46-year-old Nigerian national was arrested by the police on charges of possessing 55 g of cocaine in Thiruvanmiyur on Saturday. According to the police, Alif Oluwasun Ibrahim came to the Thiruvanmiyur bus terminus to board a bus to Puducherry. He was carrying 55 sachets of cocaine that he was planning to sell there. He was nabbed based on a tip-off. Inquiries revealed that he visited Pune from Nigeria and purchased cocaine in bulk. After that, he travelled by bus from and to Chennai to avoid detection. Once in the city, he contacted customers, who placed orders in advance, and sold the drug for Rs. 10,000 per gram. After concluding the sale, he would head back to Nigeria at the earliest. This time, he was planning to fly back on Sunday after selling the cocaine in Puducherry. The police said he had come to India before the lockdown.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Virus is no reason to put unreasonable curbs in religious matters, says HC||The spread of COVID-19 could not be cited as a reason to impose unreasonable restrictions in religious matters, the Madras High Court said on Sunday and set aside the Cuddalore district administration’s decision not to permit “outsiders” to participate in the Chidambaram Nataraja temple’s ongoing ‘Margazhi Arudra Darshan festival. Justices R. Mahadevan and Anita Sumanth held a special sitting through video-conference and directed the district administration to permit devotees, irrespective of the place they belong to, to participate in the festival, subject to the ceiling and timing fixed by the authorities. It was also ordered to subject all devotees to thermal screening. Making it clear that only those with high temperature should be prevented from entering the temple and subjected to COVID-19 tests at their own cost, the judges said those who are found negative in the rapid test could be allowed to get into the temple. All devotees must wear masks, maintain physical distance and follow other standard operating procedures. The entry of devotees during ‘‘Arudra Abhishekam’ and darshan, with 200 devotees in every hourly batch, would be on the principle of first come, first served basis, and the same principle should be followed for the car procession too, they said.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Separate wards in view of virus’ new variant||In view of the new variant of the virus identified in the U.K., exclusive wards will be established at all government medical college hospitals in the State, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. Till date, 13 U.K. returnees and 12 of their contacts have tested positive for the infection in the State. A 120-bed exclusive ward, which includes a 50-bed Intensive Care Unit, has been set up at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) in the wake of the new COVID-19 strain identified in the U.K. A dedicated team of doctors and staff nurses will work at the ward. He said the Department was monitoring returnees from the U.K., who had tested positive for the infection, as well as their contacts. A separate team with Health and Police Department personnel was monitoring the contacts of the patients, he said. Virulence and impact “We have sent the samples to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for genomic analysis, to identify if it is the new variant. The result will be known in two days. We do not have new treatment protocols for the strain. There is no additional information on the virulence and impact of this variant. So, all patients are being fully monitored and are undergoing treatment as per the existing protocol. All of them are doing well,” he told reporters following an inspection at the RGGGH on Sunday. He added that the e-pass system had enabled them to trace those who had arrived from the U.K., via direct flights, or had landed in airports in Bengaluru, Mumbai and Delhi, and reached the State via domestic flights or by road. “The tracing is almost complete and all of them are being monitored.” On the vaccine, he said the Health Department had taken up preparatory works, in full swing, and was working on the cold chain, human resource and training of staff nurses. The RGGGH has, so far, done 5 lakh RT-PCR tests. A total of 29,000 COVID-19 patients were treated at the hospital. The zero-delay ward had handled 10,000 patients. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan was present during the inspection.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Professor files plaint over abusive calls||The Kotturpuram police are inquiring into a complaint by an Anna University professor alleging that he received threatening calls. Professor Arul Aram, head of the Media Sciences Dpartment, said he received 21 missed calls from unknown numbers on December 20. The person on the other end hurled abuses at him and so, he registered a police complaint.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New post in AIADMK for Jakkaiyan||Cumbum legislator S.T.K. Jakkaiyan has been made an organisation secretary of the ruling AIADMK, according to a press release issued by party co-ordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Forum’s plea to Finance Minister||The Chennai Citizens’ Forum has requested Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to extend all deadlines under the Income Tax Act for the assessment year 2020-21 to March 31, 2021. In a representation to the Union Minister, the forum said the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic had created financial and practical difficulties for taxpayers and tax professionals, thereby necessitating an extended timeline to complete regular compliance procedures. The forum requested the Union Minister to direct the Central Board of Direct Taxes to extend all deadlines under the Income Tax Act for the assessment year 2020-21 to March 31, 2021. It also requested that the due date for filing the annual return and reconciliation statement under the GST Act for the financial year 2018-19 be extended to January 31, 2021, and for the financial year 2019-20 to March 31, 2021. Vivad Se Vishwas It also requested an extension of the due date for filing applications under the ‘Vivad Se Vishwas’ scheme to March 31, 2021. Considering the unprecedented situation, there was a requirement for a notification to be issued immediately for the extension of the various due dates, the forum said.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Will set up special courts to deal with sexual assault’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday said the party, once elected to power, would set up special courts in every district to deal with cases of sexual assault on girls and women. Reacting to the report, ‘And, they all fall down’, published by The Hindu on Sunday, he said what happened to the 13-year-old girl would create palpitations in everyone’s heart and bring tears to their eyes. Mr. Stalin said the girl, who was forced to work because of poverty, was subjected to sexual assault. The failure of the police and civil society to protect her had shamed everyone, he added. “All the legislation enacted to protect the girl child, even the Pocso Act, have failed to protect girls,” he said. “I plead with folded arms that parents should take extra care when it comes to girls, as should the neighbours. The police and the Social Welfare Department should work together to change the mindset against filing complaints against the culprits,” the DMK president said. He said it was unacceptable to earn a name that the present generation had not protected girls from predators. Reiterating that special courts would deliver justice without any delay, he said a confidential unit would be created to encourage people to file complaints of sexual assault on girls and women.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former Congress MLA Yasodha dies||Senior Tamil Nadu Congress leader and former MLA D. Yasodha died on Sunday due to health complications. She was elected from the Sriperumbudur constituency in 1980, 1984, 2001 and 2006. Ms. Yasodha was earlier vice-president of the TNCC and president of the TNCC Mahila Congress. She was also among the trustees of the TNCC Charitable Trust. A senior TNCC leader said Ms. Yasodha collapsed during a party meeting recently, and was admitted to a private hospital in the city, where she died. He said she was a prominent Dalit leader. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said Ms. Yasodha joined the Congress at a very young age and remained a life-long Congress-person.
28 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eye hospital bags award||Rajan Eye Care Hospital bagged an award for ‘Best Eye Care Hospital during this pandemic 2020’ and Dr. Mohan Rajan and Dr. Sujatha Mohan received the award for ‘Best Ophthalmologist during COVID-19’ as part of the ‘COVID Warriors Award 2020’, organised by Top Gallant Media. Union Minister of State for AYUSH Shripad Yesso Naik and BJP’s general secretary Tarun Chugh participated in the event, which was held through video conferencing.
28 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK to lead NDA in T.N.’||Former MP C.P. Radhakrishnan said on Sunday that the AIADMK will lead the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Assembly election in Tamil Nadu and it will take a decision regarding the Chief Ministerial candidate. “We have no confusion in this,” Mr. Radhakrishnan, who is in-charge of the Kerala BJP, told mediapersons here. Regarding the recent remarks made by other BJP leaders that the party’s national leadership should formally announce the Chief Ministerial candidate, Mr. Radhakrishnan said that the BJP’s national leadership decided that the NDA will be led by AIADMK for the 2019 Lok Sabha election and it will continue in the Assembly election. Both, the AIADMK and the BJP, are strong parties in the Kongu region, he said. “It is natural that both the parties desire to contest here,” he said, expressing hope that the “alliance leadership will realise this” and allocate more seats to the BJP. However, he refused to disclose the number of constituencies the BJP plans to ask in the State. He commended Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for announcing 11 new medical colleges in one year and introducing the 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical and dental courses for government school students.  ‘An achievement’ This is an “achievement” of the State and Central governments having a “mutual understanding,” he said. Mr. Radhakrishnan accused the DMK and the Congress of “attempting to divert the attention of the public” and asserted that their victory in the Lok Sabha elections will be their last win in the State.
28 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kovai Courtallam reopened after nine months||Nearly 2,000 visitors thronged the popular tourist spot Kovai Courtallam, which reopened on Sunday after remaining closed for nine months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Pooluvapatti Forest Range Officer R. Muthukrishnan said that 1,778 adults and 218 children visited and enjoyed a bath in the waterfalls. The visitors, who were from Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Nilgiris and Erode districts, were allowed from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. COVID-19 precautionary measures were put in place for the visitors. All visitors were subjected to thermal scanning at the entrance of Kovai Courtallam and masks were made mandatory. “We provided masks if they did not have one,” Mr. Muthukrishnan said, adding that the visitors must wear masks on the premises at all times except while bathing in the waterfalls. A team of Forest Department officials patrolled the premises to check violations, he said. Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle) I. Anwardeen, District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh and other senior officials reviewed the arrangements made at Kovai Courtallam prior to its reopening on Sunday, according to Mr. Muthukrishnan. The first day saw a collection of Rs. 1.11 lakh, he noted.
28 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Robbery case: Rs. 90 lakh seized from car||The Navakkarai robbery case took a murky turn on Sunday as the Coimbatore district police said that cash totalling Rs. 90 lakh, which is suspected to be hawala money, was recovered from the car involved in the case. At around 4 a.m. on Friday, a gang waylaid a car at Navakkarai, attacked a real estate businessman from Kerala named Abdul Salam (50) and drove off. Salam initially claimed to the police that the car contained a bag with cash worth Rs. 27.5 lakh. On Saturday at around 1 a.m., the police found the vehicle abandoned at Madhampatty. Police said the car was brought to the premises of the K.G. Chavadi police station subsequently. On Saturday evening, as the police examined the car, they found bundles of cash inside two hidden compartments. The police personnel recovered Rs. 60 lakh from a compartment in the car’s rear and Rs. 30 lakh inside the backrest of the car’s rear seat. Moreover, additional hidden compartments were also found in the front seats and the car doors, which were found to be empty. The police suspect that more cash might have been stored in these compartments, which was stolen by the gang that stole the car on Friday. Superintendent of Police Ara Arularasu said on Sunday that the Coimbatore district police informed the Income Tax Department and the Enforcement Directorate regarding the suspected hawala cash seizure. “As there are no claimants, we will handover the cash at Madukkarai Judicial Magistrate Court on Monday and send a report,” he said. Two police teams went to Kerala on Sunday to conduct inquiries with Salam and another businessman named Mohammad Ali regarding the seized cash. The two men provided contradictory information to the police during preliminary inquiry, he said. The third police team is reviewing the CCTV camera footages to identify the gang members, Mr. Arularasu said.
28 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Makkal sabai meetings will go on as scheduled’||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam party will continue to hold the ‘makkal sabai’ meetings as scheduled, DMK Coimbatore east urban unit in-charge and MLA N. Karthik said in a release issued here on Sunday. He said the DMK will not be cowed down by the pressure that Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani was exerting through the police. The party would go ahead with the meetings, as called for by president M.K. Stalin. On Saturday, when the DMK was conducting one such meeting, the police, at the behest of Mr. Velumani, attempted to prevent the meeting by arresting a few workers, Mr. Karthik alleged. The attempt to prevent the DMK from holding such meetings showed the authoritarian approach of the ruling AIADMK government and the increasing people’s support for the same. Under the present government the administration was so crippled that the people did not have any mechanism to even air their grievances. It was for this reason that the meetings were becoming a hit, Mr. Karthik said and reiterated that the DMK would not fear such tactic from the government. It would continue to hold more such meetings.
28 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman jumps from 5th floor of hospital||A 27-year-old woman, who was admitted to a private hospital at Peelamedu on Saturday, allegedly jumped from the fifth floor of the hospital in the early hours of Sunday. Following the incident, she was admitted in the intensive care unit of the hospital, the police said. Peelamedu police have registered a case and further investigations are on.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
28 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Worker killed in accident||A worker involved in the construction of the flyover on Trichy Road was run over by a vehicle in the early hours of Sunday. Police sources said that John Jothri (27) was diverting vehicles near Ramanathapuram at around 3 a.m. when a four-wheeler ran over him, killing him on the spot. The Traffic Investigation Wing (East) police have registered a case.
28 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Pongal cash gift with poll in mind’||Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi general secretary E.R. Eswaran on Sunday said that the State government announced the Rs. 2,500 Pongal cash gift for rice cardholders with the Assembly elections in mind. “They might have done this for the elections, but they will not reap its benefits,” he asserted. Speaking to reporters in Tiruppur after inaugurating a blood donation camp, he said the release of V.K. Sasikala from prison will cause disturbances within the AIADMK. He accused the State government of instigating caste-based riots through its recommendation to group seven Scheduled Castes under the name of ‘Devendra Kula Vellalars’. Alleging that the move was done for political gains, he said that protests have been taking place across the State condemning the announcement.
28 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Youth arrested for damaging car||The R.S. Puram police on Sunday arrested a 25-year-old youth on charges of pelting stones on a car which had an image of Dravidar Kazhagam founder Periyar E.V. Ramasamy. The police said that on Saturday, Rajesh along with another youth allegedly pelted stones on the car at Lawley Road, which belonged to Gnanavel, the police said. The stones damaged the rear window glass, which bore the image of Periyar, they added. Rajesh was arrested and remanded in judicial custody and efforts to arrest the second accused are on, the police said.
28 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Council to conduct PG diploma course||The Coimbatore Productivity Council will conduct a part-time post graduate diploma course in Personnel Management, Industry Relations, and Labour Welfare. The one-year course will start in January. For details, contact: 9952404302 or 8220000371.
28 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Rehabilitation centre opened for alms-seekers in Erode||A rehabilitation centre where rescued alms-seekers would be given training to start their own business was inaugurated here on Sunday. M. Elangovan, Corporation Commissioner, and R. Sivakumar, Superintendent of Police, Prohibition Enforcement, Salem Zone, inaugurated the centre at Ram Nagar in Soolai. It was established by Atchayam Trust, an NGO involved in rehabilitating alms-seekers in the district. Founder of the trust P. Naveen Kumar said the centre had 25 beds and currently 18 alms-seekers were accommodated. The trust members had rescued 585 people in the past seven years and provided sessions on counselling, yoga and meditation. Also, counselling was provided to many persons to give up smoking and drug addiction in all these years. Jobs He said job opportunities were created for 60 persons who were working as security men, cooks and many were running snack shops in pushcarts. Also, a rehabilitated person was trained in paper plate making who runs his own unit now, Mr. Naveen Kumar added.
28 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||20 persons fined for entering forest||Five persons, who entered the reserved forests in Hasanur Division in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve, and 15 persons, who consumed liquor in Anthiyur forest area, were levied fine. On Saturday, the forest squad nabbed a person who entered the forests on the Dhimbam – Mysuru stretch of National Highway 209 and imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 on him. Alcohol consumption In the evening, four persons, who were found consuming alcohol inside the forests along the national highway, were caught. A case was registered against them. They were fined, warned and let off. Also, 14 persons, who consumed liquor in a vehicle that was parked in the Varattupallam Reservoir in Anthiyur, were fined Rs. 50,000. During the patrol, the forest staff found them consuming liquor. They told the staff that they came from Erode and were on their way to Thamaraikarai in Bargur Hills. They were taken to the Anthiyur Forest Range office and a case was registered against the van driver and 14 others. A fine of Rs. 50,000 was levied on them and they were let off after a warning.
28 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||1,500 more street vendors to be given loan||Under the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi), the Corporation has planned to cover 1,500 more vendors so that they can get loan of Rs. 10,000 each to develop their business. Since street vendors were severely affected by the COVID-19 lockdown, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs had launched the special micro-credit facility scheme in June to provide affordable loans to them to resume their business. Street vendors, who had received the Certificate of Vending (CoV) by the Town Vending Committee, could get loan of Rs. 10,000 under the scheme at 4% interest. Initially, 736 vendors had registered with the Corporation and their applications were submitted online. Canara Bank at Karungalpalayam branch sanctioned the loan and all the street vendors received the loan in the second week of December. However, the Ministry had asked the civic body to identify more street vendors following which 1,500 vendors were identified. Special camps to submit online applications commenced on Saturday and continued on Sunday. The loan can be repaid in 12 monthly instalments and there is no need to provide collateral security for the loan. Vendors engaged in sale of vegetables, fruits, tea, breads, eggs, textile, apparel, footwear, books and stationery and laundry services are eligible for the loan. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu vendor online applications would be recommended to the bank for sanctioning loan and all the 1,500 vendors would be given the loan.
28 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||New Year programmes in hotels banned||The district administration has banned conduct of special programmes on New Year’s eve in hotels and bars and warned that action will be taken against the owners if they violate the order. Collector C. Kathiravan, in a release, said people in large numbers were expected to gather on the night of December 31 in public places, hotels and bars to welcome the New Year. Hence, as a precautionary measure, the government banned such celebrations. The release said bars should be closed at 10 p.m. on December 31 and if violations were found, action would be taken against the bar owners.
28 December 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal sees subdued Sani Peyarchi event||Sani Peyarchi was observed in a subdued manner with relatively low footfalls at Sri Saneeswara Bhagawan temple here on Sunday, in view of the COVID-19 curbs. Thousands of devotees, who had purchased e-tickets, had darshan of the deity. The festival usually witnesses lakhs of devotees descending on the temple. The event was last conducted on December 19, 2017. On Sunday, maha deeparadhanai and special prayers were conducted at 5.22 a.m., accompanied by the chiming of bells, to mark the transit of Lord Saturn from dhanusu (sagittarius) to makaram (capricorn). Special abhishekams were performed on Lord Saneeswara with turmeric, sandal paste, fruits, honey, curd and other materials. Relaxed restrictions Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Ministers R. Kamalakannan and Kandasamy, and Madras High Court Judge Velmurugan were among the dignitaries who offered prayers at the shrine. The Puducherry government had relaxed the requirement of COVID-19 negative certificates after intervention by the Madras High Court.
28 December 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Subdued devotee footfall at Thirunallar||Sani Peyarchi festival was observed with subdued footfall of devotees, in view of COVID-19 restrictions, at Saneeswara Temple here on Sunday. Thousands of devotees from near and far, who purchased e-tickets online, had darshan of Lord Saneeswaran. The festival usually witnesses presence of devotees in lakhs. The festival was conducted earlier on December 19, 2017. On Sunday, Maha Deeparadhanai and special prayers were conducted at 5.22 a.m. to the accompaniment of chime of bells to mark the transit of Lord Saturn from Dhanusu (Saggitarius) to Magaram (Capricorn). Special abhisekams were performed to Lord Saneeswara placed on a golden crow mount with turmeric, sandal paste, fruits, honey, curd and other materials. Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Ministers R. Kamalakannan and Kandasamy and Madras High Court Judge Velmurugan were among the dignitaries who offered prayers at the shrine. The Puducherry government had relaxed the requirement for COVID-19 negative certificates after intervention by the Madras High Court.
28 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Residents can maintain land earmarked for park’||Taking note of the fact that residents of a Tamil Nadu Housing Board Colony in Thoothukudi district were maintaining land earmarked for a park, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that it could not be termed encroachment. The court was hearing a petition filed by Renugadevi of Kovilpatti. The residents of the colony had erected a thulasi madam and a platform to perform yoga on the land that was allotted for public purpose. The petitioner said the local authorities were supposed to maintain a park there. Since they had not done it, the public erected the thulasi madam and the platform. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that when the area was earmarked for a park, it was the duty of the local body to maintain it. Since it failed to do so, it was open for the public to use it for public purposes. In this case, the residents had planted plants and erected the platform for public purpose and this could not be termed encroachment, the court said, and quashed the order passed by the authorities to remove the thulasi madam and the platform.
28 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||City hospital performs Impella-assisted surgery||Using a mechanical heart pump called Impella, surgeons at Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre here have successfully performed angioplasty on a 77-year-old woman about a week ago. Speaking to reporters on Thursday, Dr. Sivakumar said their hospital was the first to use the technique in southern Tamil Nadu, while it had been performed in Chennai and Vellore. The patient had fully recovered and was fit to resume her normal activities, he said. Explaining the salient features of the heart pump, he said that in the procedure known as protected percutaneous coronary intervention, the Impella was removed after the surgery was performed. When angioplasty was performed on a patient whose heart was too weak, even a minimally-invasive heart surgery such as angioplasty could overwhelm the heart and make it stop, causing death. But Impella would bring down the mortality rate during angioplasty from over 25% to less than 5%. The pump could perform the heart’s function up to a week post-surgery. MMHRC chairman R Gurushankar said Impella-assisted surgery would be of immense help to patients, especially those with weak or failing heart.
28 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Tahsildars should follow circulars in issuing legal heir certificate’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed Tahsildars to follow circulars issued in 1991 and 2017 by the Revenue Department that state they should not issue legal heir certificates in cases where more than one wife/husband exist for the deceased. Applicants should be advised to approach a competent court for obtaining the certificate, the High Court Bench said. Hearing a public interest litigation petition that was filed in this regard, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that it was clear from the circulars that Tahsildars had got no powers and jurisdiction to issue legal heir certificates in such cases. The court was hearing a Public Interest Litigation petition filed by one J. Ravi of Tiruchi who had pointed out two particular instances. A Tahsildar had granted legal heir certificate in favour of one of the parties in each case where one man had two wives. He said this was contrary to the circular that was already issued. The court directed the authorities concerned to conduct an inquiry and take a decision after issuing notice to all parties in connection with the cases.
28 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urged to relax rules for conduct of jallikattu events||The Tamil Nadu Jallikattu Ilaignar Peravai has appealed to the State Government to relax some of the new standard operating procedures introduced for conduct of jallikattu. Talking to reporters here on Sunday, its State founder president, GR. Karthi, said that some of the rules were rigid and owners of bulls would find it difficult to comply with. All owners should get an opportunity to release their bulls in the jallikattu arena and the government should announce a new set of rules with relaxed conditions, he added. Regarding the event at Avaniyapuram, Mr. Karthi said that the jallikattu should be conducted by including people from all community. “If a dispute arose among people from different groups, the State Government should conduct the event,” he added. The Government has reduced the number of people who can accompany the bull-owners and the bull from five to one. And both should produce a COVID-19 negative certificates. They would be given identity cards by the district administration and those without identity cards would not be allowed into the arena. The bull-owners should register 7 days prior to the date of conduct of the event and get the identity cards. Similarly, bull-tamers should also produce their identity card. Spectators would be allowed in compliance with COVID-19 SOP. COVID-19 negative certificate is must for officials and staff of all departments and organisers involved in conduct of the events.
28 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||11,250 kg ration rice seized||Madurai district police have seized 11,250 kg of ration rice that was illegally stocked in two rice mills in Tirumangalam on Sunday. Based on alerts, police led by Tirumangalam Deputy Superintendent of Police, Vinodhini, raided a rice mill in Keelakottai and found 125 bags of rice, weighing 6,250 kg. The police team picked up one Senthil Kumar. In another rice mill at Melakottai, the police found 105 bags of rice, weighing 5,000 kg. The police picked up Ajmal Khan. The rice had been collected door to door and also from the ration shops through brokers, the DSP said. She said that the rice mill used the ration rice to make broken rice and grind them into flour and sell them. The goods and the suspects were handed over to the Civil Supplies – Criminal Investigation Department team for further investigation.
28 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||PRTC workers to strike work from today||Workers of the government-owned Puducherry Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), including 750 drivers, conductors and other employees, owing allegiance to various trade unions, have proposed to go on an indefinite strike from December 28 in protest against the proposed move to privatise the services. A spokesperson of the DMK-affiliated Labour Progressive Front (LPF) said representatives of all trade unions had submitted a memorandum to the government asking it to reconsider the decision. “We will go ahead with the strike if the government fails to consider our demands and guarantee the rights and benefits of the transport workers,” he said. Ten unions, including LPF, BMS, INTUC and PRTC All Employees Unions, had called for the strike. The PRTC has a fleet of 140 buses, including 55 Express buses. ‘Salaries not paid’ “The attempts of the government to privatise services will not be tolerated. Salaries of the crew and workers attached to various depots have not been paid for six months,” V. Ramamoorthy, general secretary of LPF, said. “The management also failed to pay insurance premium and dues to the Employees Provident Fund Organisation,” he added. Trade unions said that a majority of the buses were not fit to ply on the roads. Despite repeated attempts, the government had failed to revamp the fleet or shore up revenue, they said. “Increasing the fleet size, payment of pending salaries and regularising the services of contract employees — these are our main demands,” a spokesperson of the PRTC All Employees Unions Associations said.
28 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rain adds to the woes of people living near Kurumbapet garbage dump||The recent spell of heavy rainfall has further increased the risk to the health of people living near the Kurumbapet dumpyard. Those living near the yard complain that the quality of water had further deteriorated after the recent rain. Several studies in the past have highlighted the deterioration in the quality of groundwater in the area, ever since civic bodies started dumping waste in the 23-acre yard. Assessment by the Local Administration Department revealed that the ground held around 5 lakh tonnes of legacy waste. “After it rained, we had to leave the tap open for around one hour to drain out the yellowish water. Now, the yellowish colour has reduced but the water tastes bad,” said V. Poovarasan, a resident of Gopalankadai Pet. He said, even now, rainwater filled with slush from the yard was getting drained into several residential areas in the locality. “We rarely ever open the windows of our houses because of the foul smell,” he added. Cattle deaths According to S. Rajesh, Anbu Nagar, Gopalankadai, the accumulated waste was posing a serious health hazard to the cattle as well. “Many in the area depend on dairy farming for a living. Cattle deaths due to illnesses have become common,” he said. When children in the area fall sick, they are left under the care of relatives until they get cured. “Children here fall sick quite often due to the pollution. Their recovery takes longer if we treat them at our homes, so we shift them to our relatives’ places,” he added. C. Balamurugan, ex-councillor, Villianur Commune Panchayat, said several assurances had been given to the residents by successive governments. The National Green Tribunal had directed the government to do away with legacy waste. “We have been fighting for the cause for the last several years. Cases were registered against us in the past for staging protests,” he said. According to a municipal officer, the Local Administration Department had shortlisted Erode-based Zigma Global Environ Solutions Private Limited for bio-mining of the accumulated waste. The procedure involved segregation of waste into organic and inorganic waste. While organic waste would be recycled for compost, inorganic waste would be used as fuel and in cement factories. “We shortlisted the firm two months ago and have been waiting for financial sanction to move ahead with the project. The Puducherry Urban Development Agency will be the nodal agency,” he said. The bio-mining of legacy waste and remediation of the landfill would cost around Rs. 42 crore. The government had allocated Rs. 16 crore in the current budget to execute the project, a government official told The Hindu .
28 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||One more death in Karaikal takes COVID-19 toll in Union Territory to 631||The COVID-19 toll in the Union Territory rose to 631 on Sunday, with one death reported in Karaikal. Forty-eight fresh cases took the tally to 37,995. A 77-year-old man died at the Karaikal General Hospital. The cumulative death toll in Puducherry is 516, Karaikal 62, Yanam 45, and Mahe 8. Of the fresh cases reported on Sunday, Puducherry accounted for 34 infections, Mahe 6, Karaikal 5 and Yanam 3. As many as 2,984 samples were tested in 24 hours. The Health Department has tested 4.73 lakh samples so far, of which 4.31 lakh returned negative. 15 persons test positive Cuddalore district reported 15 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the district's tally to 24,610. While 24,214 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 114. In Villupuram district, 10 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 14,952. Kallakurichi district reported six positive cases, taking the overall count to 10,789.
28 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Five strays found dead||The D. Nagar police are investigating the death of five stray dogs whose carcasses were found in a drain on Perumal Kovil Street in Coundanpalayam here on Sunday. The incident came to light after locals found the carcasses and alerted the police. Investigations by the police revealed that the dogs had been poisoned. The carcasses were removed and sent to the Veterinary Hospital for post-mortem examination.
28 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Directive on new variant||The Health Department has requested people returning from or via the United Kingdom to Puducherry to self-report in the wake of reports about a new variant of SARS CoV-2 virus, State Surveillance Officer L. Ravivarman stated in a general notice. People could alert them through emailidspssupdy@gmail.comor dial 0413-2333644, toll free number 104, L. Ravivarman 9087872020 and V. Srividhya 9176685072. Trace and test The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Services has directed all the States to trace and test people who arrive from the United Kingdom, the statement said.
28 December 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Remand prisoner dies in Ramnad GH||A remand prisoner Sekar (43), who was in the district jail here in a murder case, died in the Government Hospital here on Sunday. On November 10, he had allegedly attacked Thavasimuni (52) of Keelakarai Thattanthope, a Hindu Munnani functionary with a knife. In the assault, Thavasimuni died. The police arrested Sekar and remanded him in judicial custody here. In the early hours, he had complained of breathlessness following which the jail authorities rushed him to the GH, where he had died within a few hours of admission, police added. The Bazaar police are investigating.
28 December 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘No entry for outsiders for Arudra darshan’||The two-day annual Arudra darshan festival, to be held on December 29 and 30, would be celebrated at the famous Sri Mangalanatha Swami Temple in Thiru Uthirakosamangai in the district by following the standard operating procedures (SOP) laid out in view of COVID-19 pandemic. According to the Superintendent of Police E Karthik, with the State government having imposed a curfew since March 25, it would be adhered to. Though the administration had subsequently announced certain relaxations, the SOP would be enforced by the police to ensure that there was no spread of the viral disease due to overcrowding. Devotees, who normally visited the temple for the Arudra darshan festival, would not be permitted this time. Similarly, children below 10 years and those above 65 years would also not be permitted as a precaution. At any given point, only a maximum of 200 devotees from the local district alone would be permitted. As a part of the festival, the administration alone would perform special aarathi and puja. Individual devotees would not be permitted to break coconut or perform aarathi in the temple, the SP said.
28 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||770 kg waste collected in plogging||About 400 volunteers, including senior police officials, participated in Salem Plogging on arterial roads in the city and collected 770 kg waste, including plastics, here on Sunday. Plogging involves jogging and picking up litter along the way and disposing it safely. To keep the city clean and create awareness among the residents, the Corporation is organising plogging on weekends in which officials, volunteers, members of residential welfare associations, NGOs and others are participating. On Sunday, plogging was conducted on Kombai Patti Road, Yercaud Main Road, Pachiyamman Theatre Road, ATC Nagar in Hasthampatti zone in which City Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar, Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran and other officials participated. Police personnel, youngsters and members from Rotary Associations among others, all numbering around 400, picked up 770 kg plastic materials and non-biodegradable waste from the roads. On Saturday’s plogging, 450 persons participated and they removed 860 kg waste.
28 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Three persons detained under Goondas Act||City Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar has invoked the provisions of Goondas Act on three accused who were recently arrested for sexually harassing three minor girls. The police said K. Kannan (35) of Ammapettai, A. Kesavan (28) of Pachapatti had committed the crime on a 12-year-old girl and were arrested in October this year. Likewise, N. Raveendran (42) of Kakkampatti had committed the crime on 15-year-old and 12-year-old girls, who were working at his godown. He was arrested in November. All the three were lodged at the Salem Central Prison. Detention orders were served to them at the prison on Saturday.
28 December 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Tourists throng Courtallam||Neglecting the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP), laid out in view of COVID-19 pandemic, tourists thronged Courtallam falls in large numbers, causing anxious moments to officials on Sunday. A majority of the waterfalls were overcrowded in view of the long Christmas weekend and only a few visitors appeared to be adhering to the SOP. “For the number of tourist footfall, the police personnel at the falls appeared to be no match. The men in khaki, repeatedly appealed to follow the SOP and staggered the crowd, but by noon, the number touched an all time peak,” a tourist Ramesh from Virudhunagar said and added that the markings made by the officials on the ground went for a toss. As the falls drew a huge crowd, lodge owners, auto drivers and restaurant operators were happy. “The saral season totally went dry for us due to the lockdown. Subsequently, in August-September, when the trade and merchant associations pleaded with the government, there was no sign of any relaxation. Only since the last 10 days, there has been a crowd arriving here,” said Antony, who works in a lodge here and added that the last three days were house-full on our premises. When The Hindu contacted, Collector G.S. Sameeran said that the officials were clearly told about the guidelines to be followed. “At any given point, we had planned to allow only 20 minutes for a group to go near the falls and after the batch was released, the next batch came in. Being a long weekend, the crowds had thronged the Courtallam and the footfalls had gone up. We will continue to keep a close vigil and depending on the need, the number of police personnel may be increased,” he added. Health Department officials said that though Courtallam received a floating population, the surroundings were kept clean and tidy. The Collector said that the entry points to the district and the check posts, including Puliyarai, were under a constant watch. “The returnees from overseas were being screened based on the government data of arrivals at the airports. The residents can also share details of their neighbours with the officials, who have just arrived from overseas as it may be useful to get checked early,” he added. After the pandemic surfaced, the State government had announced lockdown since March 25. Very recently, when there were certain relaxations in the curfew, the Courtallam was opened to the tourists from December 15. With heavy flow and floods, the visitors were not permitted initially, but in the last three days, braving cold conditions, people thronged the spot.
28 December 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in fire caused by LPG leak||Two workers of a private LPG dealer who were under treatment for burn injuries died on Sunday. Police said Vaikundam (70) of Tiruvengadam, Kali (36) of Thazhaioothu and Pasupathi Pandian (25) of Veeranapuram near here were working with a private LPG dealer here in Tiruvengadam. Three days ago, when Vaikundam, a bachelor, was cooking at his house, Pasupathi Pandian, the van driver of the LPG agent, had informed Vaikundam that one refill delivered to a customer four days ago had complained of leak. To attend to the complaint, Vaikundam had directed Pasupathi Pandian to bring the refill to his house. Hence, accompanied by Kali, he took the refill to Vaikundam's house. According to police inquiries, when Vaikundam had reportedly attempted to set right the leak in the refill, the gas from the refill had spread to the room, where he was already cooking. In the next few minutes, the fire surrounded the trio. Vaikundam and Kali, who were rushed to Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital, died on Sunday, while Pasupathi pandian was still under treatment, police said. A case has been registered by the Tiruvengadam police.
28 December 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||22 reach Theni from abroad; one from U.K. tests positive||Over the last two to three weeks, as many as 22 people had arrived here from other countries and a screening revealed that one man from the UK tested positive to the covid-19 virus. Further evaluation by the health officials with the family members resulted in two more fresh cases (both relatives of the returnee) tested positive to COVID-19. While the health department officials said that the samples had been sent for comprehensive tests to a lab in Pune and only on receipt, would they know, if the patients had infected the new variant of coronavirus, which is now prevalent in the UK and other countries. All the patients were under constant observation in an exclusive section in the Government Medical College Hospital here. Collector M Pallavi Baldev in a press release issued on Sunday said that all precautions had been taken to monitor the condition of the foreign returnees. The district administration, along with multi-department officials, including the police, were fully geared to handle the situation. There was no need for panic. The public should continue to wear face masks, use sanitisers and maintain physical distancing, the Collector said. Superintendent of Police Sai Charan Tejaswi said all the entry points to the districts had been maintaining the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) as per the guidelines issued by the Government. The check-posts have been functioning round the clock and he appealed to the travelling public to cooperate with the staff manning the checkposts by giving the information. The doctors at the Medical College Hospital said that the covid-19 isolation ward was being monitored regularly by a trained team, including para-medical staff. Those in home isolation too were constantly under observation, they added. According to the State medical bulletin, the district had 70 active cases as of Sunday and 16,584 patients were discharged till date out of 16,857, who had tested positive to the virus since March.
28 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Honest minds will unseat corrupt regime’||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Sunday said people of integrity had joined hands to unseat the “corrupt government” and usher in an era of honest politics in Tamil Nadu. Beginning his four-day election campaign in the central districts from Tiruchi, he said people of all walks, including industrialists and entrepreneurs, were fed up with the “corrupt and commission practices” of the rulers. Commission had become a regular phenomenon for everything. The time had come for demonstrating the real meaning of honesty and probity in public life. “The Assembly election will be a great opportunity to defeat the corrupt forces and bring about a change in government. People are waiting for it,” he said. The actor-politician said he alone could not bring about the change. “It is the duty of every citizen who opposes corrupt practices to campaign for a new era of governance,” Mr. Haasan said. “It is an honest crowd [attending his rally]. No one is brought to the meetings. They come on their own to make an honest change in the State,” he said. According to him, there was no concrete plan to eradicate poverty. The poor were being deceived with freebies. They were brought to polling booths. However, the rich, in spite of their awareness of various issues and the misdeeds of the rulers, chose not to exercise democratic rights, he said. At a meeting of tiny, small and medium-scale entrepreneurs, Mr. Haasan said his party would strive to make the State a strong economy. If voted to power, his party would introduce measures to engineer growth and ensure a single-window paperless governance.
28 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||100 persons, including three UK returnees, test positive||The central districts on Sunday recorded 100 fresh COVID-19 cases, continuing the trend of reporting low cases. Three patients, who returned from the United Kingdom to Thanjavur, tested positive. Two deaths, one each from Karur and Thanjavur, were reported. Tiruchi recorded the highest number of cases in the central region on Sunday with 28 patients testing positive. A slight spike was also reported in Tiruvarur where 10 patients reported positive. Among those who tested positive were primary contacts of those who tested positive earlier and patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses (ILI). Meanwhile, 13 patients were discharged from Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after recovering from the viral infection. In Thanjavur, 24 patients tested positive, while in Nagapattinam, 17 cases were reported. A total of 12 patients tested positive in Karur, while in Tiruvarur 10 patients reported positive. Patients in both districts were local contacts with no contact or travel history, patients detected through fever camps and patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses. In Karur, the patients were residents of Gandhigramam and Chithalavai among other localities. Interdistrict travellers from Namakkal also tested positive. In Pudukottai, five patients tested positive. In Ariyalur, three patients tested positive, while in Perambalur, one new case was reported. Three persons among a group of 56 travellers to Thanjavur from the UK tested positive for COVID-19. Following an investigation, three of their primary contacts also tested positive. All six were admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital for treatment. A senior official of TMCH said all six samples were sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune, for genomic analysis, and reports are awaited.
28 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Railway workshop manufactures 250 freight wagons during lockdown||Notwithstanding the COVID-19 lockdown, the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here has manufactured 250 freight wagons of different types alongside carrying out its core activities of overhauling broad gauge diesel locomotives and passenger coaches. The 250th wagon is planned to be formally dispatched from the sprawling workshop premises soon. ‘An achievement’ The 250 wagons of BLC and BOXN and other types have been manufactured during the last seven months despite the lockdown in place, says Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram, terming it as an achievement for the over 80-year-old workshop which is engaged in a myriad of activities. The workshop was completely shut in late March when the nationwide lockdown was clamped in view of COVID-19 spread and reopened with 30% of its total staff strength initially in May when the relaxations were announced. However, the manufacture of freight wagons picked up only from June when the workshop resumed to function with cent per cent staff. The wagon manufacturing activity gained momentum thereafter to reach the 250 mark now in a span of seven months, says Mr. Shyamadhar Ram. The new wagons have been manufactured for requirements of various railway zones as well as for Container Corporation of India, a Government of India undertaking, adds Mr. Shyamadhar Ram. New Nilgiri steam loco Works are also underway simultaneously for the manufacture of the first coal-fired metre gauge steam loco at the workshop. The new steam loco is being manufactured to chug in the hilly Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) terrain. With crucial components such as boilers and cylinders received from vendors, the assembly works of the steam loco are on. The new steam loco is planned for dispatch in February, says Mr. Shyamadhar Ram, adding that the workshop will take up manufacture of an oil-fired steam loco for the NMR thereafter.
28 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Steps taken to distribute Pongal gift hamper token for cardholders’||All steps have been taken to distribute the tokens to the eligible cardholders to collect the Pongal gift hamper announced by the State government, said Collector Vishnu here on Sunday. In a press release, the Collector said that the ration shops in the district had been instructed to commence issuance of the tokens from Dec 30. The door-to-door issuance would be completed as per the time table. Hence, the card holders need not throng the shops out of turn, but present as per the time and date to collect their gift hampers. In the event of any complaint or clarification, cardholders may contact the control room at the District Supply office in the following numbers: 0462-2500761, 94450-00379 and 94434-16041. In all probabilities, the exercise would be completed by January 12, 2021 and the people may celebrate the Pongal on time, Mr. Vishnu said.  Waste removed As part of the dengue prevention exercise, the Corporation authorities here have been conducting a cleaning drive every Saturday. According to Commissioner G Kannan, on December 26, a total of 10 wards (7, 9, 16, 25, 27, 30, 39, 40, 49, 55) were identified and 6.5 tonnes of waste, including unused tyres, paint box, coconut shells and other goods dumped in open space of the premises, were removed. The Corporation City Health Officer Saroja said that 19178 houses were checked by a team of 513 staff and 450 conservancy workers on a single day from morning till evening. During the campaign, the people were sensitized to keep their environs clean and not dump unused materials. They also lifted larvae from 111 houses, samples were taken from 115 persons, who had symptoms of cold and cough and a little over 1000 people were given kabasura kudineer.
28 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Two robbers held||A special team led by Inspector Adam Ali of Palayamkottai crime wing arrested Kartik son of Kaliaperumal of Veera Vanchi Nagar Kovilpatti and his accomplice Seeni Mariappan, son of Isakki of Tirunelveli Town, on Sunday. During a check, the team picked up the duo and interrogations revealed they committed the crimes. The police found they had cases pending against them in Chennai, Madurai City, Coimbatore and Tirunelveli. They were already arrested by Tirunelveli police in the past. Recently, they had brandished knives against a merchant and robbed valuables from him.
28 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||MJK functionary held with banned tobacco products||The Tiruppur city police arrested a Manithaneya Jananayaga Katchi (MJK) functionary on the charges of possessing banned tobacco products weighing 15.5 kg. on Saturday. MJK’s Tiruppur district secretary Hyder Ali, 52, was riding a two-wheeler with a bag containing the tobacco products on Saturday night. Anupparpalayam police stopped him for a vehicle check at Olapalayam Street and found the banned products. The accused was booked under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act and was remanded in judicial custody, the police said. A senior police officer alleged that Mr. Ali was involved in the sale of banned tobacco.
28 December 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Mega job mela to be held in Tiruvarur on Jan. 7||A mega job mela will be held at Sorakudi in Nannilam taluk in the dsitrict on January 7. Disclosing this to reporters at Aarooran Polytechnic College, Sorakudi, where the mega job fair is to be held, Food Minister R. Kamaraj said that 300 companies would be participating in the fair to select more than 10,000 persons for employment in their respective establishments. Further, skill development institutes functioning in the district would be participating in the job mela to select students/job seekers eligible to undergo skill development programmes conducted by them free of cost. Guidance and procedures for taking up self-employment, higher studies, availing bank loans for starting business/trade and other activities would also be provided to the visitors by various banks and other financial institutions, he added. Interested persons in the age group of between 18 and 40 years with minimum educational qualification of eighth standard can register their names through online by clickingwww.tnprivatejobs.tn. gov.inorhttps://thiruvarur.nic.in. Loan certificates given Later, the Food Minister distributed loan certificates to 394 women self-help groups functioning in Velangudi, Keeranur, Menankudi and Kovil Thirumalam in Nannilam Taluk declaring them eligible to receive a total credit of Rs. 1.29 crores from the banks and other financial institutions in which they had their accounts.  300 companies will take part in the fair to select more than 10,000 persons R. Kamaraj Food Minister
28 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Winter break witnesses increase in tourists to the Nilgiris district||Owners of hotels, restaurants and small businesses in the Nilgiris breathed a sigh of relief as tourist inflow into the district increased over the festive period. Since Christmas Day, more than 25,000 people have visited the Government Botanical Garden, a substantial increase since parks and other tourist spots re-opened, Horticulture Department officials said. Hotel and restaurant owners said that one of the reasons for the increase in the number of tourists could be the fact that popular tourist spots such as the Ooty Lake and Boat House, Pykara, Ninth Mile and Doddabetta re-opened earlier this month. Prior to this, only parks and gardens run by the Horticulture Department were allowed to be reopened. “As the re-opening of the tourist spots coincided with the winter break, many families have decided to travel to the Nilgiris. A good winter tourist season was essential to keep many businesses afloat as the COVID-19 pandemic had severely affected us this year,” said an owner of an eatery in the Nilgiris. The increase in the number of tourists also led to traffic snarls across Udhagamandalam and Coonoor. Traffic had to be managed on Commercial Road, Garden Road and Ettines Road, while gridlocks were also reported on the way to Doddabetta Peak. Police personnel were deployed across the district to ensure that traffic did not come to a standstill.
28 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Forest Department considers direct treatment for injured tusker||Forest Department officials are considering a more direct approach to treat an injured elephant that has been roaming around Bokkapuram, in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, for two weeks. The elephant, an adult tusker, was first noticed around Bokkpuram on December 12, with an injury to his back. Forest officials decided to treat the animal with medication, kept inside fruits and other edibles. However, the condition of the elephant continued to deteriorate over the last two weeks, officials said. “He has become very slow and is not leaving the human habitation. We are also unable to get too close to the animal as we fear he may lash out at forest staff,” said Deputy Director of the MTR buffer zone L.C.S. Srikanth. Forest veterinarian K. Rajesh Kumar will continue to monitor the animal over the coming days. Medication will be provided to the elephant to allow it to convalesce, he added. However, if such attempts fail and there is no considerable improvement in the condition of the animal, the Forest Department may have to deploy kumkis to get close to the animal and treat it. “ Kumkis are now being brought to Bokkapuram. Based on the opinion of veterinarians, we will take a call on employing them to treat the elephant,” said Mr. Srikanth.  He has become very slow and is not leaving the human habitation. We are unable to get close as we fear he may lash out at forest staff
28 December 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||With 28 cases, Vellore’s tally reaches 20,148||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,148 after 28 new cases were reported on Sunday. While 19,602 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 206. The district’s death toll is 340. In Ranipet district, 9 cases were reported positive, taking the tally to 15,882. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,414 with 10 new cases. In Tiruvannamalai district, 12 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,102. Of this, 18,712 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 110.
28 December 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram teacher draws praise from Prime Minister||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has lauded the innovative method adopted by a school teacher at a village in Villupuram district for teaching Class X students during the COVID-19 lockdown. In his Mann Ki Baat radio address, he referred to N.K. Hemalatha of the Government Higher Secondary School at C. Kunnathur. He said the teacher had loaded the lessons on 53 chapters of various subjects in pen drives and shared them with the students who would sit for the public examination in 2021. He praised the teacher for instilling confidence in the students and said such an initiative should be popularised through the Diksha platform of the Union Education Ministry. The teacher had also taught students through the education television channel of the Tamil Nadu government. As all educational institutions were closed during the lockdown, the teacher hit upon a new teaching method to ensure that the students did not lose their grip on the subjects, and the confidence required for taking the examination. Ms. Hemalatha told reporters that she was happy that her efforts had been appreciated by the Prime Minister. She thanked Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and the Education Minister for facilitating her work.  As all educational institutions were closed during the lockdown, Hemalatha adopted an innovative teaching method
28 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘No infrastructure development in T.N.’||DMK women’s wing leader Kanimozhi on Sunday alleged that the AIADMK government had failed miserably in attracting investments for industrial development over the last 10 years. In an interview, she sought to know what happened to the 50,000 MSMEs that were closed down post-demonetisation and GST rollout. Excerpts:  How do you view the industrial development under the AIADMK’s rule, especially in the southern districts? The AIADMK government has failed to attract investments for industrial development over the last 10 years. Moreover, after the way it handled the anti-Sterlite protesters, no one has come forward to invest. The government has done nothing for infrastructure development. Even existing industrial units have started to leave the State. The State government’s policy note has acknowledged that 50,000 MSME units have been shut down post-demonetisation and rollout of GST. What has the State done to reverse it? It is yet to respond to DMK president M.K. Stalin’s demand for a White Paper on the investment and jobs generated after holding two Global Investors’ Meets. Will the Sterlite firing incident have any resonance during the Assembly election? The State government has kept the issue relevant with its pronounced inaction. It has not met the demand of the family members of those killed for qualification-based government jobs. Many of the injured need to undergo surgeries to lead a normal life, and they are still struggling. No one has heard about the progress of the CBI probe into the firing. The CBI has shown some progress in the case of the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son Benicks. The Chief Minister, who is in charge of the Police Department, had claimed that he came to know about the firing only through television channels. If not him, who else could have ordered the firing on protesters? The Centre and the State government have been blaming each other regarding the handover of the land for AIIMS in Madurai… Not just AIIMS, the present government has not been clearing [the files on] any project. The State has not given clearance for the proposed night landing facility at Thoothukudi airport as well. It seems the Chief Minister thinks that the mere laying of a foundation stone is enough. People will have to wait for [another] four months for the work on AIIMS to start. How do you see the crisis in the fireworks industry? The State government has not reached out to the industry to resolve the crisis affecting the livelihoods of eight lakh workers. Even with regard to green crackers, the State has not made efforts to ascertain their feasibility. It failed to take up the issue with the Centre even when the industry was facing the threat of a ban on crackers during Deepavali year after year. No action has been taken on the Sagayam Commission report on the granite scam in Madurai… Not only the granite scam, the State has not acted on complaints regarding several scams. In the gutkha scam, even the CBI has not made any concrete progress. Our party president has promised to take it up once the DMK returns to power.  The government is yet to respond to DMK president M.K. Stalin’s demand for a White Paper on the investment and jobs generated after holding two Global Investors’ Meets
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Forest Department considers direct approach to treat injured elephant||Forest officials are considering a more direct approach to treat an injured elephant that has been roaming around Bokkapuram in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve for the last two weeks. The elephant, an adult tusker, was first noticed around Bokkpuram on December 12, with an injury on its back. The forest officials decided to treat the animal with medication kept inside fruits and other edibles. However, the condition of the elephant has continued to deteriorate over the last two weeks, officials said. “He has become very slow and is not leaving the human habitation. We are also unable to get too close to the animal as we fear he may lash out at forest staff,” said Deputy Director of MTR (Buffer Zone), L.C.S. Srikanth. Forest veterinarian K. Rajesh Kumar will continue to monitor the animal over the coming days. Medication will be provided to the elephant in an attempt to allow it to convalesce, he added. However, if such attempts fail and there is no considerable improvement in the condition of the animal, the Forest Department may have to deploy kumkis to get close to the animal and treat it. “The kumkis are now being brought to Bokkapuram. Based on the opinion of the veterinarians, we will take a call on employing them to treat the elephant,” said Mr. Srikanth.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mixed response to decision to allow New Year celebration||While the Puducherry government’s decision to permit New Year celebration with adherence to COVID-19 safety norms has been welcomed by the trading community, it has not gone down well with some sections of the public. Since Tamil Nadu has banned the celebration in public places, Karaikal, in all probability, will draw people in droves from neighbouring districts. Controlling the spread of COVID-19 will be a difficult proposition in such a situation, said V.R. Dhanaseelane, president, Karaikal District Citizens and Rail Users' Welfare Association. There will be a spurt in movement of people from Tamil Nadu into Karaikal for purchase of liquor on New Year Eve, Mr. Dhanaseelane apprehended. Medical infrastructure The absence of medical infrastructure to tackle spread of COVID-19 is a cause for huge concern, said S. Anandkumar, president, India Against Corruption, Karaikal. In the backdrop of the outbreak of a new strain of COVID-19 virus, the failure of authorities to establish a facility for RT-PCR test is deplorable, he added. Meanwhile, the trading section has welcomed the government’s decision. “We wholeheartedly welcome the decision to permit New Year revelry. Karaikal economy is mostly dependent on trade with customers inTamil Nadu. Also, other than trade and service sector, there is no other source of revenue for the Puducherry government,” A. Muthaiya, president, Karaikal Chamber of Commerce. Even in the case of the new strain of the virus, the control measures remain the same. “The need for additional thrust on safety protocol is understandable, but the obstruction of trade for an indefinite period citing this reason on a perennial basis does not make sense,” Mr. Muthaiya said. The police department seems to be prepared to tackle the situation and does not expect much movement of people from Tamil Nadu. “We do not anticipate large gatherings in Karaikal for New Year celebration,” Senior Superintendent of Police Niharika Bhatt said.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Velalar outfits hold protest in Tiruchi||A demonstration was organised by Velalar Urimai Meetpu Kuzhu here on Sunday condemning the recent announcement by the Chief Minister that the State government would recommend to the Centre inclusion of seven Scheduled Caste sub-sects in Devendra Kula Velalar community. Over 1,000 members from various Velalar outfits participated in the demonstration that was held at Chinthamani for over an hour. It was headed by Tamil Nadu Sozhiya Velalar Sangam founder president V. Jayapal. Mayilvaganam Selvam, founder president of Tamil Nadu Sozhiya Velalar Nala Sangam, R.V. Hari Arun, Velalar Munnetra Kazhagam State general secretary, and others participated in the demonstration. Urging the Chief Minister to desist from going ahead with his recommendation to the Centre, the demonstrators raised slogans resolving to fight against the State government’s announcement on the issue.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Student wins global femto-satellite designing contest||S. Riyasdeen of Karanthattankudi, Thanjavur, has won the global competition ‘Cubes in Space’ for designing femto-satellites conducted by idoodleduinc in collaboration with NASA, USA. Disclosing this to reporters here on Saturday, Riyasdeen said he completed his schooling at D.A.V.School, Adambakkam, in Chennai and is pursuing B.Tech (Mechatronics) at SASTRA. He was selected for designing two femto-satellites through global competition for 2019-20. The satellites designed by him were named as VISION SAT v1 and VISION SAT v2. VISION SAT v1 was made of polyetherimide ultem 9085 and v2 polyetherimide ultem 1010. Stating that both were technology experimental satellites designed for atmospheric and space studies and micro-gravity material research, Riyasdeen said the 37-mm size machines had 11 sensors each to record 17 parameters and likely to be launched by NASA next year.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK kick-starts its election campaign||“The 7.5% quota was not demanded by the Opposition or people. It was conceived by us,” he reiterated. Mr. Palaniswami faulted the DMK for not honouring the Lok Sabha election promise of waiver of jewel and farm loans. “They [the DMK] are conducting a false campaign now by providing assurances that cannot be fulfilled,” he alleged. ‘Respect to workers’ He also claimed that his party was the only organisation that “pays respect to every worker”. AIADMK leaders were “not from landed gentry”. Instead, “they are all of modest background”. Unlike in other parties where leaders would expect their children to succeed them, the AIADMK rewarded those who were loyal to the party and the leadership, he contended. The Chief Minister insisted that the DMK’s memorandum to Governor Banwarilal Purohit levelling corruption charges against him and his ministerial colleagues was “full of lies”. According to him, the memorandum included one tender which was cancelled last year. The mausoleum for Jayalalithaa on the Marina and the memorial house — Veda Nilayam — would be thrown open to the public shortly, he said. Party coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam criticised the DMK for having “forsaken” the State’s rights on the Cauvery and not taking steps to get water level of the Mullaperiyar dam raised, despite having shared power at the Centre. Centre’s sanction On the contrary, though the AIADMK was not a part of the Union Ministry, it was able to get 11 medical colleges sanctioned, besides securing approval for establishing an AIIMS in Madurai. “We are getting the Central government’s nod for schemes that are doable and beneficial to people. This is why we are supporting the Central government,” he contended. Other leaders said the legacy of the party founder M.G. Ramachandran was “time-tested” and “enduring”. Almost all the senior AIADMK leaders and Ministers attended the event. But representatives of the AIADMK’s allies were not present, despite the Chief Minister having reiterated that his party’s alliance remained intact. But Electricity Minister P. Thangamani told this correspondent recently that the event would be only an AIADMK affair. Though the party’s release had called upon the cadre to adhere to physical distancing norms, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, a large number of workers who came for the meeting violated safety protocols.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Swimming pool at Anna Stadium reopens for training||The swimming pool at Anna Stadium in the city is now open to competitive swimmers for training. A set of guidelines has been issued to ensure that COVID-19 norms are followed at such facilities across the State. According to the guidelines, only 16 swimmers are allowed at a 25 metres, eight-lane pool such as the facility at Anna Stadium. So far, 10 swimmers have registered with the facility, said K. Prabhu, District Sports and Youth Welfare Officer. “Only competitive swimmers preparing for international, national and State-level competitions are allowed to train. Parents and other visitors are not allowed on the premises,” he added. The participants must bring their own equipment and ensure that it is not shared, and they must not gargle. “While instructions have been issued not to use the changing areas, we have ensured that the space is utilised through conformity with social distancing, and it is and safe for participants as they will need to change out of their swimming gear,” Mr. Prabhu said. Adherence to norms Temperature checks at the entrance for staff members and athletes, and adherence to COVID-19 norms such as preventing practice in case anybody is found ill or coughing will be followed. “We have also advised the participants to wash their hands with soap before entering the premises. A basin and soap have been made available. Staff members were given special training for enforcing the safety protocol,” he further said.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK is leader of NDA in Tamil Nadu’||Former MP C.P. Radhakrishnan, who is in charge of the Kerala BJP, said on Sunday that the AIADMK is the leader of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the State, and a decision regarding the Chief Ministerial candidate rests with the AIADMK for the upcoming Assembly election. ‘No confusion’ “We have no confusion in this matter,” he told mediapersons here. Regarding the recent remarks made by BJP leaders that the party’s national leadership should formally announce the Chief Ministerial candidate, Mr. Radhakrishnan said the BJP’s national leadership had decided that the NDA will be led by the AIADMK for the 2019 Lok Sabha election, and this will continue in the upcoming Assembly election too.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||View from the top||
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rajinikanth discharged from hospital||The actor reached Chennai by a flight in the evening. He was admitted to the Apollo Hospitals on Friday morning with severe hypertension and exhaustion. “Mr. Rajinikanth’s blood pressure has stabilised and he is feeling better. In view of his improved condition, he is being discharged from the hospital today,” a hospital bulletin said on Sunday afternoon. “In view of his post-transplant status, labile hypertension and age, the following advice has been given in addition to the medications and diet: complete bed rest for one week with regular monitoring of blood pressure; minimal physical activity, and avoiding of stress,” the hospital said. Consequently, the actor was counselled to avoid any activity that increases his risk of contracting COVID-19. Film shoot The actor was in Hyderabad for the shoot of his film Annaththe . While four crew members contracted the infection, Mr. Rajinikanth had tested negative. However, he suffered severe blood pressure fluctuations a couple of days later. After being admitted to the hospital, he was kept under close medical supervision. Medical investigations were performed and nothing alarming was found.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem reports 37 cases||Salem district reported 37 COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 31,444. While 53 persons were discharged, 374 persons continue to be under treatment. Erode district reported 37 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 13,541. While 19 persons were discharged, 291 persons were under treatment. Namakkal district reported 18 cases, taking the district’s tally to 11,122. As many as 21 persons were discharged, while 184 persons continue to be under treatment. Coimbatore district reported 94 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, which took the overall tally to 51,980 cases. The Health Department said that 857 were active cases. No deaths were reported on Sunday and the district’s toll remained at 645. On Sunday, 109 patients from the district were discharged. Tiruppur district reported 40 fresh cases, taking its case tally to 16,904 cases. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 16,334 patients have recovered and 355 were active cases. In the Nilgiris, 12 people tested positive.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Religion   Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Trust: Margazhi prayers, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal temple, Kovaipudur, 5.20 a.m.; “Ra Pathu” utsavam, 6.30 p.m.  General   New Century Book House: Book festival, Nehru Stadium, 9.30 a.m.
28 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Voting goes off peacefully in seven taluks in Belagavi dist.||Voting was largely peaceful in the second phase of the gram panchayat elections in seven taluks in Belagavi district on Sunday. In Karoshi Gram Panchayat, supporters of two candidates quarrelled over allegations that they were campaigning in front of the booth, which is prohibited by law. Some of them came to blows with one another and the villagers tried to console them. A police mobile squad arrived on the spot and dispersed the crowd. Polling continued under additional security. Polling began on a slow note. As much as 45 % voting was reported from all the booths by 2 p.m. The highest polling was in Chikkodi taluk with 49 %. Nippani registered 48 % voting. Poll duty staff took precautions as per COVID-19 protocol. They wore masks and gloves. They distributed masks to voters who had come without masks. They checked the temperature of voters and gave them a few drops of hand sanitiser before letting them in. Mobile squads stopped at some booths to check if polling was going on smoothly. There were no reports of technical errors or other problems. A total of 1,789 polling stations had been set up in seven taluks. As many as 9,325 personnel were on duty. Votes will be counted in the taluks on December 30. In Bagalkot Meanwhile, in Bagalkot district, election officers declared that polling for the Kaladagi Gram Panchayat would be postponed to Tuesday due to errors in the ballot paper. This decision was announced after candidates complained that officials had swapped symbols of candidates Hasan Ahmed Ronad and Shahnaz Begum. Polling was stopped in the first hour itself.
28 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Retired Dy.SP found dead||A retired Dy.SP allegedly ended his life at his residence in M.C. Layout, Vijayanagar, on Sunday. Hanumanthappa was suffering from chronic ailments and was under depression, and this could be the reason behind his extreme step, a senior police officer said. Hanumanthappa had served as ACP in Vijayanagar sub-division before he retired in 2013. He was also part of the STF involved in the Veerappan operation. He was awarded the President’s medal. A case has been registered.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help. )
28 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New KSRTC number||The call centre contact number of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will be, effective from January 1, changed from 94495 96666 to 080-26252625. The KSRTC said in a release that any suggestion/complaint/enquiry can be made on this new number.
28 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Good turnout registered||The second phase of the gram panchayat polls, held on Sunday, saw a turnout of 80.71%, as against 82% in the first phase held on December 22. “The turnout was almost in tune with that in the first phase,” said State Election Commissioner B. Basavaraaju. While Bengaluru Rural district recorded the highest turnout, at 91.86%, Bengaluru Urban district recorded the lowest turnout (67.48%), followed by Vijayapura (69%) and Yadgir (70%). The turnout data might change slightly with all the reports coming in and tabulated by Monday, sources in the SEC said. Meanwhile, Dr. Basavaraaju said, 97 COVID-19 patients cast their vote in the polls.
28 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nine injured in serial accident||As many as five cars were damaged and nine persons injured in a serial accident that occurred on airport road on Sunday morning. A car coming from KIA towards the city lost control and jumped the median, after which it collided with four other cars coming from the opposite direction on the flyover near Byatarayanapura. Traffic on the flyover was disrupted for some time. The Hebbal traffic police cleared the damaged cars to facilitate vehicle movement. The injured have been admitted to a private hospital and the police are awaiting to question them for further investigation. The driver of the car that jumped the divider told the police that it was the result of confusion created by a biker, who, in a bid to overtake the car, scared the driver by coming too close to the car. As a result, the driver lost control of the car.
28 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Villagers boycott polls again in Malligawad of Hubballi taluk||Residents of Malligawad village in Hubballi taluk of Dharwad district boycotted elections again to register their protest against what they termed as faulty gram panchayat restructuring exercise because of which their village has been deprived of being named a gram panchayat headquarters. The village has six gram panchayat seats and the residents of the village had boycotted the gram panchayat elections in 2015 too. Subsequently, although the byelections were declared for the six seats, the village residents again had boycotted them. On Sunday, while the rest of the villages in the taluk were witnessing heavy turnout for polling, the residents of Malligawad staged a demonstration after announcing that they were again boycotting the polls. Their main grouse is that their village should have been made a gram panchayat headquarters during the restructuring of gram panchayats, which led to creation of new gram panchayats. The village has a population of over 2,000. “When the new gram panchayat was created out of Umachagi and Malligawad villages, we expected our village to be the headquarters considering its population and the number of seats (six) it had compared to five in Umachagi village. However, due to political pressure, Umachagi was made gram panchayat headquarters,” said C.V. Hiremath, a retired teacher. Mr. Hiremath told presspersons visiting the village on Sunday that they had all the facilities such as a hospital and a bank within one kilometre and other basic amenities. “If we have to go to the gram panchayat office, either we have to walk seven kilometres or take a circuitous bus route of 14 km. That too there is no proper bus facility. It is cumbersome for the residents every time they have work in the panchayat office,” he said. The residents of Malligawad have already moved court seeking panchayat headquarters for their village and it has been pending for the last five years. The residents have decided to boycott every election coming until their demand is met.
28 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||GP polls conclude peacefully||Barring a few instances of technical delay, disturbance at polling stations, and poll boycott, the second phase of the gram panchayat elections in the State concluded peacefully on Sunday, with a good turnout reported. The second phase saw one pollpostponement owing to error in ballot paper. In Belagavi district, during polling in Kadampur Gram Panchayat in Ramdurg taluk, it was found that the symbol of a candidate was printed wrongly on the ballot paper. Commotion prevailed for a while and subsequently, polling was put off to Monday. A similar case was reported in Mattihalli Gram Panchayat in Harapanahalli taluk of Ballari district, where voters boycotted polling for the same reason. In Amaragol and Katnur villages of Dharwad district, voters stayed away following technical issues concerning the voter list. In Malligawad village, voters boycotted polling again, protesting the delay in meeting their demand of making their village a gram panchayat headquarters. The residents of one village in Chamarajanagar boycotted voting over man-animal conflict. Clashes and arrest In Gadag district, Congress and BJP workers clashed after zilla panchayat member Shivakumar Neelagund (BJP) was allegedly attacked at a polling station at Menasagi village in Ron taluk. After being suspended for over an hour, polling resumed under heavy bandobast. In Nipanyal village, near Raibag, Yashwant Myagadi was injured when Chandru Talwar, a candidate, and his supporters attacked him, allegedly after he complained about them distributing money on Saturday. In Dakshina Kannada district, the police arrested Hukrappa alias Narayana Puchama, a contestant in Kalmadka Gram Panchayat of Sullia taluk, on the charge of sexual assault on a 15-year-old girl. The candidate was supported by the BJP. Candidate gives birth Much before polling began at Ingalagi Gram Panchayat in Chitapur taluk of Kalaburagi district on Sunday, a contestant gave birth to a baby girl. Manjula Guduba, contesting from ward number 4, gave birth in the early hours of Sunday, sources in her family said. Interestingly Manjula’s mother-in-law is also in the fray, but from ward number 3.
28 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||74.55 % voter turnout in Kalaburagi district||Around 74.55 % of voters exercised their franchise in Kalaburagi district in the second phase of polling for the gram panchayat elections on Sunday. Voting was slow till afternoon but it picked pace as the day progressed. The district recorded 8.26 % turnout in the first two hours, 23.38 % by 11 a.m., 43.43 % by 1 p.m. and 60.81 % polling by 3 p.m. The highest voter turnout was recorded in Sedam taluk with 82.39 % followed by Jewargi taluk with 77.65 %. Chincholi and Yeddrami taluks recorded 76.85 % and 69.65 % polling, respectively. Chittapur recorded the lowest turnout in the district with 66.20 %. In Bidar As much as 74.32 % voter turnout was recorded in the second phase of gram panchayat elections in Bidar district on Sunday, an official said. A turnout of 21.52 % was recorded till 11 a.m., 37.84 % of voters till 1 p.m. and 56.65 % by 3 p.m. The final figure was 74.32 %. The highest voter turnout was recorded in Kamalanagar taluk with 75.49 % followed by Aurad taluk with 75.42 %. Bidar taluk recorded the lowest turnout in the district with 72.06 %.
28 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||81.10 % voting in Ballari dist.||As much as 81.10 % voter turnout was recorded in Ballari district in the second phase of polling for the gram panchayat elections on Sunday. The district recorded 43.71 $ voting till noon and 64.32 % by 3 p.m. The highest voter turnout was recorded in Haranapahalli taluk with 83.34 % followed by Hagaribommanahalli taluk with 83.17 %. Kottur taluk and Kodligi taluk recorded 82.36 % and 81.22 % polling, respectively. The turnout in Hadagali taluk was 78.92 % and Sandur taluk registered 78.18 % polling.
28 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Street lamps on Pumpwell Flyover yet to light up||Though it has been nearly a year since the Pumpwell Flyover at the junction of NH 66 and NH 75 was thrown open for traffic, the street lights installed on it are yet to be turned on. Light poles on this nearly a one-kilometre-long flyover and its ramps are placed in a way that lamps on both the sides will not only throw light on the flyover but also the service roads on both the sides that connect the roads that lead traffic in and out of the city. A ride through the flyover early on Sunday morning revealed that none of the street lights had been switched on. Neither were street lights on the median between Karnataka Bank Head Office and Nantoor Circle. Only those between Fisheries College and the flyover were working. Social activist G.K. Bhat said that street lights had not worked ever since the flyover was thrown open to traffic in January. The flyover is curved in shape that demands lighting during nights for safe driving. Though there have been a few road accidents on the flyover, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) authorities have not taken steps to turn on the street lights. In August, three students had a miraculous escape after a car bound for Kasaragod in Kerala overturned on the flyover at night. Mr. Bhat said that he wrote to Project Director of NHAI in Mangaluru Shishu Mohan highlighting, among others, the need to illuminate the flyover. “I even met him personally to explain about the problem faced by motorists,” he said and added that he has brought this issue to notice of MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel also. “The NHAI officials were washing off their hands saying that they were not in position to instruct the firm that collects toll for traffic on the stretch. This was a lame excuse for not turning on the street lights,” he said. A phone call made to Mr. Mohan and SMS sent to him remained unanswered. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) M.A. Nataraj said that the city police will take up the issue with NHAI.
28 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NHAI accused of filling potholes, craters haphazardly on NH 75||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) that woke up belatedly to fill potholes and craters on National Highway 75 between BC Road and Addahole has been executing the work haphazardly, road users have said. NHAI took up four-laning work on NH 75 between BC Road and Addahole in Dakshina Kannada district and Maranahalli and Hassan in Hassan district in 2017. With contractors chosen for the work walking out for different reasons, NHAI was hardly able to maintain the existing two-lane highway in a motorable condition. As pothole-filling work carried out during the summer gave way even before the monsoon season, the entire stretch was filled with potholes and craters, with road users crying hoarse. The authority began repair works in November laying fresh coats of bitumen on select stretches of the highway. Harish Mambady, a resident of Bantwal, said that the stretch between Melkar and Uppinangady has been pathetic with multiple potholes and craters remaining unattended to. The worst part is that the carriageway at many locations is too high from the road shoulder thereby making driving a miserable experience, he said. Gopal Pai Mani, a native of Mani village, said that only namesake pothole filling was done along the stretch. Neither the NHAI nor the elected representatives were concerned about motorists as well as the importance of the highway connecting the port town with the State capital. Thousands of goods vehicles, including container trucks, operate on the stretch with great difficulty, he said. Mr. Mambady further said that even fresh bitumen-coated stretches do not offer a pleasant driving experience. Differences between layers at their joining points give a jolting experience to drivers and passengers, he lamented. During a ride on the stretch of the highway between BC Road and Narahari Parvatha Junction on Sunday, it was found that the stretch from BC Road to Melkar was given a fresh coat of bitumen. From Melkar till Narahari Parvatha Junction, the highway was in a pathetic condition.
28 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kateel says CFI bid to picket his office is an act of terrorism||Dakshina Kannada MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Sunday likened the attempt by activists of Campus Front of India (CFI) to picket his office in the Mangaluru district office complex on Saturday to an act of terrorism. “There are legal processes to get relief upon one being arrested,” he said, referring to the claims made by CFI activists that their picket attempt was to protest against the arrest of Popular Front of India leader Ravoof Sharief by the Enforcement Directorate. Definitely picketing the MP’s office was not the mode to get relief, he said. The act of attempt to lay a siege to his office smacked of a larger conspiracy to spread terror in the region, Mr. Kateel told reporters in Udupi. The recent wall writings in Mangaluru lauding terrorist organisations too was a part of this conspiracy, Mr. Kateel said and added that the government would sternly deal with such acts. Speaking about the just concluded elections to the gram panchayats, Mr. Kateel reiterated his earlier claims of BJP supporters gaining hold in at least 80 % of the panchayats in the State. Though the elections are fought on apolitical lines, the BJP has extended support to upright candidates, he said. The Opposition Congress, Mr. Kateel said, was on oxygen support to stay alive. The party was unable to find booth level workers leave alone finding right candidates to extend support, he said. Bid foiled On Saturday, the Campus Front of India activists made an attempted to picket the office of Mr. Kateel. The police took some activists into custody and foiled it. The CFI activists assembled in large numbers near the gate of the district office complex. Raising slogans against the Union government, they made an attempt to enter the complex. While pushing them out, the police took some of the activists into custody. They released the activists later. Condemning the action of CFI activists, BJP State spokesperson Ganesh Karnik said that Ravoof was arrested as an amount of more than Rs. 2 crore was deposited in his account from Oman and Qatar and this amount was used for anti-national activities. The PFI continues to associate with anti-national forces and this needs to be banned. It was foolishness on the part of CFI activists to picket the office of Mr. Kateel, he said. In a tweet, district in-charge and Fisheries Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said that the police have registered a case against the CFI activists. Tough action will be taken against all those who take the law into their hands, he said.
28 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Couple’s gesture gets PM’s attention||A newly-wed couple from Byndoor in Udupi district were in for a pleasant surprise on hearing their names being mentioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Mann Ki Baat programme on Sunday. A gesture by Anudeep and Minusha in cleaning up the Someshwara Beach in Byndoor town instead of going on their honeymoon immediately after their marriage on November 18 has caught the attention of the Prime Minister who has been encouraging people to make the country clean and green. The couple, who went for an evening walk on the serene beach after their marriage, noticed trash piled up all along the stretch. When Anudeep expressed his desire to clean up the beach instead of going on a honeymoon, Minusha responded positively to the thought. From November 27, the couple took up the task of cleaning the beach two hours every evening. The 800 m long beach abutting the Ottinene Hill was full of waste, from plastic bottles to footwear and from empty liquor bottles to plastic waste. As their daily routine attracted local residents, they too joined hands with the couple in their mission. As a result of this effort, over 800 kg of trash was removed, before the beach looked clean. Anudeep is into digital marketing of products and he has volunteered with Clean Kundapur Project that organised over 60 cleaning drives around Kundapur. Minusha works for a pharma company. The couple said that they were inspired by Mr. Modi’s Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and are happy that their little contribution to keeping society clean and healthy has been noticed by the Prime Minister himself.
28 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Signboards too absent||There are no signboards either at the start of the Pumpwell Flyover on NH 66 to help motorists if they wish to take a deviation through the service roads to reach Mangaluru. One comes across the entry to service roads all of a sudden either while driving down from Nantoor or from Fisheries College towards Pumpwell thereby not being in a position to take a left turn towards the city, said Santhosh Kumar, a resident of Bajjodi. The absence of signboards puts motorists, particularly those new to the region, in discomfort. If a motorist misses to take the turn onto a service road, he has to drive for nearly two kilometres on the highway to return to the same point again, he said.
28 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||GP elections: Mysuru belt sees brisk and peaceful polling||The voting in the second phase of the gram panchayat elections in Mysuru region was brisk and peaceful. There were no untoward incidents and though polling began on a dull note given the chilly weather conditions, it gained pace by afternoon. Polling in the second phase was held in Mysuru, Nanjangud and T. Narsipura in the district in which 5,069 candidates were in fray for 1,834 seats spread across 102 gram panchayats. Though there are 1,929 seats across these GPs, 82 have already been elected unopposed while there were no contestants for 13 seats. The polling percentage from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. was a measly 6.05 and increased to 18.47 by 11 a.m. It further increased to 42.08% at 1 p.m. and reached 81.17% by 5 p.m. Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah was among the prominent voters in the region and he exercised his franchise at Siddaramanahundi in the afternoon. Prior to voting, he visited the Siddarameshwara temple in the village and offered prayers. Voters queued up in front of their respective polling booths where there were arrangements for thermal screening to ascertain if anyone was running a high temperature. This was to ensure safety and identify any voter with symptoms of COVID-19 in the shadow of which the elections were held. In the neighbouring district of Mandya, polling was held for the 879 gram panchayats spread across Pandavpura, Srirangapatana, K.R. Pet and Nagamangala taluks. There were 5,56,274 registered voters in the GP constituencies in these taluks against which 68.79% of them had exercised their franchise by 3 p.m. Voting in Pandavpura was brisk from morning and 71.35% of the voters had cast their votes by 3 p.m. In Chamarajanagar district, elections were held for 872 seats in 52 gram panchayats of Yelandur, Hanur and Kollegal taluks. There were no nominations for 9 seats and 35 were elected unopposed. In all, 3,02,889 registered voters were eligible to exercise their franchise against which 67.49% of the voters had cast their vote by 3 p.m. In Kodagu, polling was held for 366 seats in 35 gram panchayats and the polling was dull till 3 p.m with polling percentage being 58.63 at 3 p.m.
28 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Let Deve Gowda reveal who opposed Kharge’s candidature as Chief Minister: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah took a swipe at the former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda and asked him to reveal as to who prevented veteran Congressman Mallikarjun Kharge from being appointed the Chief Minister of the State. His reaction came in the backdrop of Mr. Gowda’s remarks that he was prepared to support Mr. Kharge as the Chief Minister after the State elections in 2018 when the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) teamed to form a coalition government. Mr. Gowda had stated in a press conference in Bengaluru that when the Congress approached the JD(S) to form a government, he had suggested the name of Mr. Kharge but instead they extended unconditional support to the JD(S) and H.D. Kumaraswamy became the Chief Minister. In reply to these remarks, Mr. Siddaramaiah who was in Mysuru district to exercise his franchise in the gram panchayat polls on Sunday said it is for Mr. Gowda to reveal the name. “At least I did not oppose and it is for Mr. Deve Gowda to reveal as to who in the Congress opposed Mr. Kharge’s candidature,” said Mr. Siddaramaiah. He also termed the proposed agitation for inclusion of Kurubas under the Scheduled Tribes as a “conspiracy” of the RSS to divide the community. Questioning the need for a Kuruba convention scheduled to be held in Mysuru on December 29, Mr. Siddaramaiah said all the conveners are in the BJP and hence the onus was on them to get the ST status for the Kurubas based on a survey report. “What is the convention for and against whom are these leaders, including K.S. Eshwarappa, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, A.H. Vishwanath, MLC, and others, fighting when there is a BJP government in the State and the Centre?” he questioned. Earlier in the day, Mr. Vishwanath convened a press conference in the city and urged Mr. Siddaramaiah to participate in the convention of Kurubas of the region in Mysuru. He sought Mr. Siddaramaiah’s support on the grounds that the issue pertained to the community and its socio-economic empowerment.
28 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Local travel propels tourism sector recovery||Travel and tourism sector, which was down in the dumps for the greater part of the year due to the pandemic, is breathing a sigh of relief as the footfall of the year-end tourists has increased in Mysuru and surrounding regions. Hotels are reporting a good number of inquiries that are converting into accommodation bookings helping the hospitality sector register a slight recovery. Narayana Gowda, president of the Hotel Owners’ Association, said almost 60% of the rooms in the city are booked by tourists and this uptick in the arrival is being witnessed since December 24. There was a visible trend from December with a slight increase in tourism footfall and the stakeholders had expressed confidence that the occupancy rates in hotels could peak at around 60% by the end of the month. Notwithstanding the concern over the second wave of the pandemic due to the new strain of the virus, people are travelling and this is evident in the daily arrivals. Bulk of the tourists are walk-in clients though there are tourists who make bookings online on the portals of the hotels, said Mr. Gowda. The hotels have increased their recruitment to cope with the rush and the current occupancy rates match that of February 2020 after which the travel and tourism industry came to a grinding halt, he said. However, restaurants have cut down on the menu and some of the north Indian cuisines as the cooks from those regions are yet to return or have quit the job. Statistics from the Palace Board indicate that for the first time after the unlocking the monthly footfall to the Mysuru palace is likely to cross the 1 lakh mark. About 91,000 tourists visited the palace as on December 27, which is the highest for any month after the unlocking. Prashanth of Safe Wheels said as far as the tourist taxi and vehicle service providers are concerned, the demand is for Kodagu, Wayanad and Ooty. “We are getting not only local Mysuru-based residents opting to go out but have clients from other parts of the State as well which indicates their preference to resorts and mountains at this juncture,” he said. That resorts and hill stations are preferred choice of destinations is evident in the surge in tourists footfalls in the neighbouring district of Kodagu. “It is as if the pandemic has been erased from the memory as a bad dream and people seem to be travelling with a vengeance,” said Jeevan, a resident of Virajpet.
28 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Yadgir registers 70.34 % polling, Raichur 77.11 %||Elections in the second phase to gram panchayats in Yadgir and Raichur districts were peaceful, according to officials. As many as 56 gram panchayats, 22 in Yadgir taluk, 17 in Gurmitkal and 17 in Wadagera, with 837 seats, faced elections in Yadgir district. The approximate percentage of voting was 70.34 in Yadgir district. Yadgir taluk recorded 71.55 % polling, Gurmitkal taluk 67.26 % and Wadgera taluk recorded 71.69 voting. In Raichur district, the approximate percentage of voting was 77.11. As many as 80 gram panchayatss, 29 in Lingsugur, 30 in Sindhanur and 21 in Maski, with 1,269 seats, went to the polls on Sunday. Lingsugur taluk registered 76.82 % polling, Sindhanur taluk 78.62 % and Maski taluk recorded 74.61% voting.
28 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Polling stopped for some time in Banniganur||Tension prevailed at polling station no 3 in Banniganur village in Ragalaparvi Gram Panchayat for some time after Abhishekh Nadagouda, son of Sindhanur Janata Dal(S) MLA Venkatarao Nadagouda, charged the Returning Officer with working in favour of a candidate supported by the Congress and demanded that the officer be replaced immediately. Following the incident, election officers closed the doors of the polling station, suspending voting for 20 minutes. They later allowed voting to resume after officers, including Tahsildar Yallappa Subedar, spoke to Mr. Abhishekh Nadagouda stating that the Returning Officer had been asked to leave the polling station. Reacting to the Banniganur incident, Raichur Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar told The Hindu : “I have sought a detailed report from the tahsildar of Sindhanur. I will take action against the Returning Officer based on the report.” Mr. Venkatesh Kumar has also denied reports that breakfast was distributed in Banniganur village. In another incident, it was said that candidate Jamadagni distributed breakfast to people within a radius of 100 m from the polling station at Rangapur village in Gudadur Gram Panchayat in Maski taluk.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Taking to the streets: Year of changed farm laws, agitated farmers||Indian farmers, instead of ploughing the land and harvesting produce, are on the streets as the year draws to a close, expressing resentment against the ruling class. When the whole economy was crippled and the GDP had shrunk by a whopping 24%, agriculture marked a growth rate of 3.4%, beating the bottlenecks imposed by the pandemic during the first quarter of 2020. When life was threatened and people were afraid to get out of their houses, farmers went to their fields, produced 292 MT (million tonnes) foodgrains, 320 MT fruits and vegetables, 187 MT milk, 32 MT sugar, and several other life sustaining commodities. It would have been disastrous if there was scarcity of supply and prices of food had skyrocketed in this period. Instead of acknowledging this contribution and compensating the invaluable service of the peasantry, the government’s attempt to install an element of misgiving and apprehension on their livelihood has deeply hurt the sentiments of farmers. This is reflected in the ongoing agitation in Delhi, following far-reaching changes made to farm laws that govern agrarian relations and farm commodity marketing, that too without discussions, during the lockdown. In the State too, amendments were brought to Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, which dilutes the rules governing ownership of agricultural land. It has created fears of paving the way for corporate farming. The amendments brought in by the State government is a death knell to social justice that moves away from peasant farming, which has proved to be most sustainable across the world. The experience in the USA and other countries has shown that corporate farming is a failure economically, unsustainable environmentally, and unjust socially. Farmers see a “design” not only to slowly withdraw the government’s role in protecting their interests but also to give it away to the powerful corporate lobby. Added to this, the fear of losing their land and the corporate takeover of farm sector have further broadened the trust deficit on the ruling dispensation that already existed due to unfulfilled promise on remunerative MSP (as recommended by noted farm scientist Prof. Swaminathan) and hollow assurances such as doubling their income in five years. Before the opportunity to heal the hurt and seal the trust deficit in agitating farmers withers away completely, a responsible government must sincerely attempt to at least infuse an element of hope in agitating farmers of India, as the year that has seen far reaching changes in farm laws draws to a close. As per a study by the Karnataka Agricultural Prices Commission, near0ly 75% of farmers in Karnataka are living below the poverty line, if income from agriculture alone is taken into account. The study also highlights the fact that there exists a wide disparity in income between farmers and the rest, as the average income of farmers forms just 32% of the per capita income in the State. Precisely for this reason, the National Commission on Farmers headed by M.S. Swaminathan, while making far-reaching recommendations ensuring a minimum 50% profit margin while announcing minimum support price (MSP), was also categorical in highlighting the “pay parity” and placed on record that “the net income of farmers should be comparable to those of civil servants.” Farmers’ organisations are very blunt in asking that their average income should be equivalent to the salary of the lowest category of government employees. It’s time for introspection not only for the government but also all those who are concerned to seek answers as to why such a genuine claim of farmers is yet to be heard sympathetically. Nothing could stir hope in agitating farmers other than an assurance of a remunerative MSP for their toiling efforts as per the recommendation of Prof. Swaminathan that incorporates all costs and a decent margin followed by a clear-cut means to ensure the same. A legal recourse to ensure the right for such a MSP followed by comprehensive procurement programs is long due. Rather than a whimsical loan waiver for the purpose of electoral games, a comprehensive Act to relieve farmers from indebtedness by one-time complete waiver of outstanding loans and ensuring that they won’t fall prey again, as demanded by the coalition of farmers’ organisation in 2018, needs to be considered seriously.  (Prakash Kammaradi is retired professor of agricultural economics, UASB, and former chairman, Karnataka Agricultural Prices Commission.)
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Candidates make last-ditch effort||The polling in the second phase of gram panchayat elections was peaceful in Hassan and Shivamogga districts on Sunday. The voters stood in long queues to cast their votes even as candidates were engaged in seeking votes at the last minute. In Hassan district, Arsikere, Belur, Alur and Holenarsipur taluks and in Shivamogga district, Sagar, Sorab, Hosanagar and Shikaripura taluks went to polls. There were no reports of untoward incidents on the day. Residents of Bellikoppa in Padagodu Gram Panchayat in Sagar taluk staged a protest in the village boycotting the elections in the morning. They wanted the district administration to not allow MSIL liquor shop in the village. As the news of protest reached the district administration, Sagar tahsildar Chandrashekhar Naik visited the place and convinced the villagers to cast their votes, assuring them that he would convey their feelings to the Deputy Commissioner. Later, the villagers withdrew the protest. Three women candidates contesting for Kallur seat in Heddaripura Gram Panchayat of Hosanagar were seen sitting together, keeping aside their rivalry, and appealing to voters with folded hands near the polling booths. Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar visited a few polling booths in Shikaripur and inspected the polling. He noticed people standing in queues ignoring the direction to maintain social distance. He directed the officers to ensure people follow the COVID-19 guidelines. In the second phase, the elections were held in 244 gram panchayats, where 3,679 candidates were in the fray. In Hassan, polling was held for 1,648 seats of 120 gram panchayats in four taluks. There were 5,273 candidates in the fray. The voters’ turnout was impressive. According to statistics released by the district administration, 83.72% of voters cast their votes on the day. The highest turnout of 86.61% was recorded in Arsikere taluk. In Belur, the turnout was 84.25%, in Holenarsipur 80.59% and Alur, the voters’ response was 78.99%. Two people with COVID-19 infection voted on the day. The administration had made special arrangements for them. The officers seized a four-wheeler carrying steel utensils and liquor near Belavatta Halli in Arsikere taluk. The seized goods were meant to be distributed to voters a few hours before the polling. In Shivamogga More than 80% of voters cast their votes in Shivamogga. According to the statistics released by the district administration, till 5 p.m. on the day, the voters’ turnout was recorded at 80.91%. The highest turnout of 86.31% was registered in Shikaripur taluk. In Sorab, the voters’ response was 86.22%, in Sagar 79.84% and in Hosanagar 69.35%.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Peaceful polling||The district administration had made elaborate arrangements and care was taken to ensure strict adherence to COVID-19 guidelines. Voters were let into the polling stations after thermal screening and being given hand sanitisers. Tricycles were provided at the polling stations for helping the physically challenged persons and arrangements were made for elderly voters. In most of the places brisk voting was witnessed from early morning. The last hour was meant for COVID-19 patients. A man in Sherewada village exercised his franchise by wearing personal protection equipment.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Unlike in the Assembly or Lok Sabha elections, poll officials/observers find it difficult to take note of violations of model code of conduct in the gram panchayat elections, as candidates tend to arrange small gatherings without attracting the attention of officials. During the first phase of the polls in Channarayapatna taluk, an official with the Revenue Department received information about a candidate hosting a party for voters in a village. He, along with his team, visited the spot. On arrival, he found a “birthday party” in progress. In fact, one of the participants even offered cake to the officials. The officials returned, having eaten the cake, though they had doubts about the real intention of the gathering.   E-governance, though introduced almost two decades ago in many departments, has not been effective in the Higher Education Department. What is more, the department has not even conducted transfers in its admin-istration in four years. Now, the New Year resolution of Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan(in picture)is to make e-governance mandatory from the first day of 2021, said an official, who made a presentation on the department on Good Governance Day on December 25. The department, which plans to make big changes to the Universities Act, seems keen to effect an overhaul of its functioning.   The renaming politics of the BJP, which began from Uttar Pradesh, has entered Hubballi, although with a slight difference. On former Prime Minister A.B. Vajpayee’s birth anniversary, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, accompanied by local MLA Aravind Bellad, performed bhoomi puja for the construction of houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana  and renamed Ashraya Colony, where the function was held, as “Atal Nagar”. The colony was earlier called Mahatma Gandhi Nagar, and the change of name riled up locals, who questioned the rationale behind renaming a locality named after Mahatma Gandhi. The BJP leaders sought to know whether there were any municipal records on the earlier name. What they seemed to have forgotten was that they themselves had not followed procedure for changing the name to Atal Nagar. When the protesters did not budge, the BJP leaders finally agreed to install a name board calling it Mahatma Gandhi Nagar and name only the portion of the layout with the new houses as Atal Nagar.  Sathish G.T.      Nagesh Prabhu   Girish Pattanashetti
28 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Christian man cremated||The body of an 83-year-old Christian man, a member of the St. Joseph Church, Thirunalloor, Cherthala, was cremated on his house premises following a long-pending dispute between the deceased and the parish. Varkey Mathai of Thirunalloor, who died on December 24, was cremated the same day with the help of Open Church Movement. Right of way Mathai was engaged in a dispute with the church over a right of way to his house through the St. Joseph Church compound. The church had bought around 20 cents of land from Mathai’s family and some eight years ago it constructed a compound wall closing the way to his house, which is next to the church. “St. Joseph Church was built on land provided by Mathai’s family, but the church later denied him and his family members right of way through its compound,” said, Jossy Thomas, chairman, Alappuzha regional committee of Open Church Movement. According to the church authorities, they offered to conduct the funeral at the church and burial at the church cemetery as per Christian tradition, but the family rejected the offer. “Me and other members of the church requested the relatives of Varkey Mathai to bring the body to the church and conduct the burial at the church cemetery. But, Varkey Mathai’s adopted son rejected the offer. From my side, I visited the home and conducted all rituals,” Fr. Jacob Kozhuvallil, vicar, St. Joseph Church, Thirunalloor, said. The church authorities said they had earlier offered to build a gateway for facilitating movement of the family members, but they rejected it wanting an open way without wall and gate.
28 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Soumya Raj likely to head Alappuzha municipality||Soumya Raj (Indu Vinod), the Communist Party of India (Marxist) councillor representing Eravukadu ward, is likely to be the new chairperson of the Alappuzha municipality. After deliberations within the party, the CPI(M) finalised her name for the top post. An official announcement will be made after a meeting of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) on Monday. Earlier this month, the LDF wrested the civic body from the United Democratic Front (UDF) by winning 35 out of the 52 seats. Meanwhile, Illikkal Kunjumon, former municipal chairman, was elected as the Congress parliamentary party leader in the Alappuzha municipal council. He is a councillor representing the Vattayal ward.
28 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||231 new cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 231 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. It also recorded two COVID-19-related deaths. Of the new cases, 216 patients contracted SARS-CoV-2 through local transmission while the source of infection of another 15 people remains unknown. Meanwhile, 208 people recovered from the disease in the district. The active caseload stands at 4,472.
28 December 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Low price puts ginger farmers in a fix||The low price of ginger rhizomes and a sharp decline in production have cast a shadow on thousands of ginger farmers across Kerala and Karnataka. The spot price of ginger in the Wayanad market on Saturday was Rs. 850 to Rs. 900 a bag (60 kg) as against Rs. 2,900 a bag in the corresponding period last year. “During winter, there was huge demand for the produce in north Indian markets. However, there were no enquiries from those markets following the farmer agitation,” said K. Benny, a trader at Sulthan Bathery. From 350 loads to 50 “Earlier, nearly 350 loads of ginger rhizomes used to be transported a day from Kerala and Karnataka to other parts of the country. Now, we transport below 50 loads only to south Indian markets,” he added. Starts at winter Ginger harvest usually starts at the advent of winter. The harvest during the period also helps in getting a better price for the produce, as ginger rhizomes are in demand in northern States during the season, according to Navrang Mohanan, general secretary, All India Ginger Growers Association. However, the price and production dropped drastically this year. P. Shobhan Kumar, a farmer at Sulthan Bathery, said he had invested nearly Rs. 5 lakh on the crop on leased land. “I cannot recoup half of my investment, if I harvest the crop at the lowest price,” he added. Acreage goes up The area under ginger cultivation increased nearly threefold this season because of the good price for the past two years, Mr. Mohanan said. The average yield of ginger rhizomes from an acre is 18 to 20 tonnes, but it declined to 10 to 12 tonnes this season, as many a farmer started cultivation two months later owing the pandemic outbreak. Around 25,000 farmer groups in the State cultivated the crop on nearly 1,00,000 hectares of leased land in Karnataka alone this year.
28 December 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||‘Major irrigation projects in four years’||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Sunday that major irrigation projects in Wayanad such as Karapuzha and Banasura Sagar projects would be commissioned in four years. Addressing a select group here on Sunday as part of the ‘Kerala Paryadanam,’ Mr. Vijayan said Karapuzha and Banasura Sagar irrigation projects would be commissioned by the end of 2023 and 2024 respectively. As many as eight acres had been acquired for the Karapuzha reservoir recently, and it would help double the storage capacity of the dam, he said. The government was seriously considering to set up an airstrip in the district, especially in the wake of recent natural disasters, the Chief Minister said. Projects would be executed in a time-bound manner to mitigate the escalating man-animal conflict in the district and steps had been adopted to provide land to all landless tribespeople, Mr. Vijayan said. Steps were under way to set up a coffee park in the district to solve the issues of coffee farmers, he said.
28 December 2020||Kannur,KERALA||T.O. Mohanan to be Kannur Mayor||Adv. T.O. Mohanan will be the new Mayor of the Kannur Municipal Corporation. Mr. Mohanan was chosen for the post after winning 11 votes as compared to his contender and former Deputy Mayor P.K. Ragesh, who got nine votes. Another contender, KPCC general secretary Martin George, opted out of the race. Mr. Mohanan is a member of the KPCC executive committee. He began his political career through the KSU 34 years ago. He was chairman of the welfare standing committee of the Kannur Urban Council and chief of the public works standing committee in the Kannur Corporation.
28 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Corporation Council to elect Mayor, Deputy Mayor today||With the Left Democratic Front (LDF) having the upper hand in the 74-member council with the backing of 36 councillors, including two Independents, CPI(M) district committee member M. Anilkumar is set to be the next Mayor. The party officially finalised on Sunday that Mr. Anilkumar, who has served three terms as a councillor and led the CPI(M) election campaign this time, will be its candidate for Mayor. He was elected from Elamakkara North, Division 33 of the corporation, this time, and has represented Puthukalavattam earlier. He was also the CPI(M) candidate from the Ernakulam constituency for the Legislative Assembly election in 2016. The LDF candidate for Deputy Mayor is K.A. Ansiya, the CPI councillor representing Mattancherry, who contested and won for the first time this year. A United Democratic Front (UDF) parliamentary party meeting on Sunday decided to field Antony Kureethara to contest against Mr. Anilkumar for the post of Mayor. Seena Gokulan is the UDF candidate for Deputy Mayor. Mr. Kureethara is returning to the council for the second time, after having represented Fort Kochi in the 2010-15 council. Ms. Gokulan was elected from Puthukalavattom this time. The UDF had won 31 seats in the council. Of the four Independent candidates who won this time, one candidate decided to side with the UDF. While the NDA councillors usually abstained from participating in the election to the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor, they are contesting this time, having won five seats in the council. Sudha Dileep Kumar, BJP councillor representing Ernakulam Central, said she would contest for the post of Mayor while Priya Prashant, who won from Amaravathy, would contest for the post of Deputy Mayor. “The BJP has so far held only a maximum of two seats in the council. Since we bagged five this time, the party decided that the NDA councillors will contest in the election,” she said. The District Collector will preside over the election on Monday.
28 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New civic body to cope with many inherited problems||With projects at the Kochi Corporation having hit hurdles mounted by procedural delays, the COVID-induced lockdown and near-empty coffers this year, the new council will have to resolve many inherited problems. The lockdown and then the contractors’ strike when their dues were not paid left several files pending, said a former Congress councillor. Those projects, particularly on roads and streetlights, would have to be dusted off and revived, he added. The Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) housing tower in Thuruthy was one such project that would have to be completed on priority basis, said another former UDF councillor. On the reason for the UDF’s failure to complete it, he said that consistent opposition had kept the towers from materialising. The e-governance project, which would permit online tax payment and grant birth, death and marriage certificates online, would also have to be implemented immediately, said C.D. Valsala Kumari, LDF councillor from Vennala, who is returning to the council for a third term. The Corporation had not been able to identify land for the implementation of housing projects for the landless, she added. Those projects were also to be taken up on priority, she said. First-timers in the council would like to see some new projects implemented. “The Corporation does not have any artistic spaces for cultural performances. The Subhas Bose Park could be turned into one such space that could save performing artistes the rent that they shell out for an auditorium,” said Sasikala Devidas, a Kathakali artiste and councillor representing Ravipuram. Decentralised waste management could be implemented effectively in the divisions, given time and encouragement among residents’ associations, said Dipin Dileep, the councillor representing Ponurunni East. Waterlogging A master plan was crucial to handle the perpetual waterlogging menace, said an outgoing LDF councillor. Crores of rupees was spent every year on cleaning the canals with no clear purpose, he added. The former Congress councillor added that the Corporation Council would have to work closely with the Operation Breakthrough team to be able to resolve the problems in the city’s canal network ahead of the monsoon next year. Both former councillors also pointed out that waste management would have to be the new council’s top priority. “The plan for a waste-to-energy plant has not progressed after the contract with the previous company was cancelled. To prevent a disaster at Brahmapuram, the council will have to ensure that work progresses,” he said.  The e-governance project will have to be implemented immediately C.D. Valsala Kumari LDF councillor from Vennala
28 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Queen’s Way to get a facelift||The 1.80-km-long Queen’s Way along Chathiyath Road is set to get the much-needed facelift with additional amenities amid widespread complaints by regular users about indiscriminate dumping of waste and proliferation of stray dogs along the walkway. Ever since the beautified walkway was opened to the public six years ago at an investment of Rs. 5 crore by the Tourism Department at the initiative of then Ernakulam MLA Hibi Eden, it has emerged as a popular joint for joggers, cyclists, and families looking to have a peaceful outing. However, the place has taken a hit over the years, with many of the imported non-corrosive chairs turning unusable thanks to miscreants who have stolen their steel rods. At the heart of the problem lies the absence of an agency responsible for proper maintenance and upkeep of the place. “The Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA) earns revenue from the amphitheatre and renting out space for film shootings. It is natural for the agency to use the money for maintenance of the space, and I am about to approach the District Collector with such a proposal. The chairs in bad shape will be repaired using single-piece stainless sheet at a cost of around Rs. 1.50 lakh in a week,” said Mr. Eden. Separate container toilets for men, women, differently-abled, and transgenders are also being planned in association with CREDAI using the corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds of the Cochin Shipyard. As of now, the upkeep of the place is done in association with three separate apartment complexes in the area, with each assigned a stretch of 600 metres each. Ranjith Thampy, a social activist, said the proliferation of stray dogs posed a serious menace. “Dumping of waste, including industrial waste, is rampant along the service road opposite the walkway where vehicles are parked,” he added.
28 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||LDF forms Joint Parliamentary Party Committee in Corpn.||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has formed a Joint Parliamentary Party Committee, a new coordination mechanism, in the Kochi Corporation. The committee will have all the councillors of the Front and district secretaries of the CPI(M) and the CPI as its members. CPI(M) leaders C.M. Dinesh Mani and C.K. Manisankar, and the CPI’s C.A. Shakkeer and T.C. Sanjith will be its members. CPI(M) councillor Benedict Fernandez will be the convener. The committee will meet before crucial meetings of the council and ahead of major policy decisions. The first meeting of the committee was held at Lenin Centre, Kaloor, the district headquarters of the CPI(M). Till now, parliamentary party committees of major parties with councillors of the respective parties as its members used to meet before corporation council meetings to finalise strategies to be adopted at council meetings. Despite the formation of the joint committee, parliamentary party meetings of the front constituents will be held separately, said an LDF leader who was privy to the development. CPI demand The CPI, the second biggest constituent in the LDF, will demand the chairmanship of one standing committee in the corporation. The party put up its best performance ever in the council by winning four seats. It will not be legitimate on the part of the party to demand more posts, considering the present composition of the LDF. The Front will have to spare some posts for Independents who have offered to support it, said P. Raju, district secretary of the party. The Front is yet to begin its discussions on allocation of posts, he added. CPI councillor K.A. Ansiya, who is tipped to become Deputy Mayor, is the party’s sole nominee in the past half-a-century to adorn the post after T.A. Abu, who was elected Mayor 50 years ago, Mr. Raju said. Ms. Ansiya will serve as Deputy Mayor for the full five-year term, he added. The CPI(M) had earlier decided to field its fourth-time councillor and district committee member M. Anilkumar as the Mayor candidate at the election to be held on Monday. The Congress will field Antony Kureethara and Seena Gokulan as its Mayor and Deputy Mayor candidates. The BJP will also contest the election. As the BJP is unlikely to vote in favour of its political adversaries, the LDF and the UDF, the Left candidates are likely to win the election.
28 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||District records 605 positive cases||Nine health workers were among the 605 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. The source of infection could not be traced in 77 cases. Koothattukulam recorded 31 new cases, while Ayyampuzha registered 28, Thripunithura 26, and Vengoor recorded 22. The district recorded 450 recoveries on Sunday, taking the active case load to 8,398. For testing, 4,754 samples were sent. A total of 28,450 people remain in quarantine. While 6,597 people are recovering at home, 147 are being monitored at first-line treatment centres, 337 are at second-line treatment centres, 481 are at private hospitals, 84 are at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, and 47 patients are at the PVS Hospital.
28 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Sahodaran to be back in print after decades||Decades after it was shut down, the magazine launched by revolutionary social reformer Sahodaran Ayyappan will be relaunched this week. The magazine, Sahodaran , aimed at spreading the message of social justice, science, and brotherhood, was first launched in 1917. But it was closed down in 1956 amid Sahodaran Ayyappan’s efforts to turn it into a daily. The relaunch is scheduled for December 30. Academic and social activist M.K. Sanoo, who was associated with Sahodaran , will be the chief editor of the relaunched magazine. N.D. Premachandran, a lawyer and the president of Sree Narayana Seva Sangham, is the managing editor. The first copy of the relaunched magazine will be released by Congress leader V.M. Sudheeran. The first copy will contain articles by noted social commentators and writers Sunny M. Kapikad, S. Ramesan Nair, Thottam Rajashekharan, K. Venu, Sachidananda Swami, Thampan Thomas, Shaukat, and S. Shaji. “We will stick to the ideas proposed by Sahodaran Ayyappan, who insisted that we speak only about what we believed in and act on what we talked about,” said Mr. Sanoo. Ideals of equality The relaunch was an attempt to inculcate the ideals of equality, for which Sahodaran Ayyappan valiantly fought, he added. Sahodaran Ayyappan’s idea was to use the magazine to spread the ideals of equality, social justice, and reforms, said M.K. Sasheendran, who has been involved in spreading the ideals of the magazine. Eradication of caste system and spreading the ideals of social justice and brotherhood were among the aims of the magazine, he added. Shaji George, managing director of Pranatha Books, said the ideals spread by the visionary were much ahead of his times. The publisher is bringing out a book of reflections by 20 writers on the significance of Jaathi Nirnayam by Narayana Guru, which was published in the third anniversary edition of Sahodaran in 1920. Jaathi Nirnayam contains the cornerstone of Narayana Guru’s ideal of the unity of humankind – Oru jaathi, oru matham, oru daivam, manushyanu (One caste, one religion, one God for all). Mr. Premachandran said the basic idea behind the relaunch was a keen desire to see that the ideals of social justice, fraternity, and scientific temper prevailed.
28 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Prisoners escape from FLTC||Two prisoners lodged at the COVID first-line treatment centre (FLTC) at EMS Town Hall in Perumbavoor escaped in the early hours of Sunday. It is learnt that Vineeth, 22, and Mishel Shafeek, 22, fled from the centre before 5 a.m. on Sunday. They reportedly used the space left for an exhaust fan to escape.
28 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Gold theft suspect to be produced in court||One of the key suspects in a major gold theft from a jewellery outlet at Eloor is likely to be produced in court here on Monday. According to the police, the store lost around 3 kg of gold as well as 25 kg of silver. The theft took place on November 15. Sheikh Baboo Adiblar, 37, the key accused, was arrested as he was trying to cross the Indo-Bangladesh border at Petrapole in West Bengal.
28 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ajita to lead Thrikkakara municipality||The Ernakulam district leadership has elected veteran Congress party councillor Ajita Thankappan to lead the Thrikkakara municipality in the first half of the five-year term during which the United Democratic Front (UDF) is expected to rule the council. Radhamani Pillai, another veteran Congress party councillor, is likely to take the chairperson’s position in the second half. Seat-sharing deal The decision to share the position of the chairperson is the result of a settlement between the ‘A’ and ‘I’ factions of the Congress party. While Ms. Thankappan is the ‘I’ group nominee, Ms. Pillai is the ‘A’ group nominee. The vice chairperson is likely to be K.K. Ibrahimkutty of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). Congress block president Noushad Pellechi said there had been a general consensus on various issues and that the party district leadership met on Sunday to take decisions and air views on them. 43 members The Thrikkakara municipality has a total of 43 members, of whom 21 are UDF councillors, 17 are LDF councillors and five are Congress party rebels.
28 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Six arrested under Operation P-Hunt||Six persons were arrested by the police under Operation P-Hunt in Ernakulam district on Saturday. Cases were filed against another 22 persons. The arrested are Suhail Bava, 20, from Chengamanad; Harikrishnan, 23, from Aluva; Sanoop, 31, from Neryamangalam; Mohammed Aslam, 23, from Mudickal near Perumbavoor; Biju Agusti, 42, from Kalady, and Mohammed Islam, 20, a migrant worker. The police also seized their mobile phones. Three squads under District Police Chief K. Karthi led the operation. Around 50 places were searched in Aluva, Perumbavoor, and Muvattupuzha.
28 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam Port yet to see regular cargo movement||Despite repeated announcements about Kollam Port going fully operational and becoming a major terminal in south Kerala, the project is yet to see regular cargo movement. The port was expected to meet the requirements of shipping line operators by last December, but even after one year, emigration clearance procedures remain incomplete. While the authorities say steps have been taken to expedite the process, Kollam MP N.K. Premachandran attributes the delay to government apathy. “The State government’s inability in providing basic facilities has caused the delay. The Centre had sent several mails to the State government directing the authorities to set up the basic facilities needed to establish the system.” ‘Facilities not ready’ According to Mr. Premachandran, the Union Ministry of Ports, Shipping, and Waterways and the Ministry of Home Affairs had asked if the State government had set up emigration clearance counters, server room, detention room, in-charge immigration, queuing-up area, back-room office, record room, and multipurpose room, but received no response. “They had sent a detailed mail explaining how to set up each facility, but the State government is yet to follow that. They should provide the facilities as per the guidelines and inform the Centre,” he said. Kollam Port, which can handle ships with draft of 7.5 m and length up to 180 m, has the potential to become a hub for cargo operations and cruise tourism. The multipurpose terminal can accommodate both passenger and cargo ships and Kollam being the nearest city to Minicoy Island is an added advantage. Once operational, it will be easy to divert the passengers who currently depend on Beypore and Kochi to travel to the island. The port is also expected to facilitate the transport of raw cashew nut (RCN), Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd. (KMML) products, and merchandise from the seafood industry.
28 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam sees 501 new cases, 185 recoveries||The district reported 501 new COVID-19 cases and 185 recoveries on Sunday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 484 contact cases, five NRIs, seven persons from another State, two health workers, and three persons without any known source. Cases with no known source have been reported from Kottarakara and Thazhava. The health workers who contracted the infection include a 45-year-old Ayathil resident and a 26-year-old Eravipuram resident.  Total samples collected The district currently has 12,540 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 5,72,719. While 992 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 1,36,005 primary and 12,652 secondary contacts of the positive cases.
28 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Theatre artiste selected for award||Theatre artiste and director Mahasayan has been selected for this year’s N.B. Thrivikraman Pillai Smaraka Samagra Puraskaram instituted by N.B. Thrivikraman Pillai Foundation. The award that carries a purse of Rs. 25,000 and a plaque will be handed over at a function to be held at Kollam Press Club on December 30. N.K. Premachandran, MP, will inaugurate the function. EMS library, Klappana, will receive the award for best library on the occasion.
28 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Fish-vending kiosks||Society for Assistance to Fisherwomen (SAF) has invited applications for starting hygienic mobile fish-vending kiosks. Women’s groups with two to five members in the age group of 29 to 59 can apply. Interested persons can contact the Matsyafeds concerned or the SAF office at Saktikulangara. For details, contact 9207019320, 8078539513, 8547783211.
28 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC(M) set to retain key post||Months after walking out of the United Democratic Front (UDF) following a dispute over power-sharing in the Kottayam district panchayat, the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani is set to take up reins of the local body once again. According to the KC(M) leadership, 55-year-old Nirmala Jimmi, who won from the Kuravilangadu division, will be nominated as president of the Kottayam district panchayat for a term of two-and-a-half years. A formal announcement regarding her nomination is expected after a meeting of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) on Monday. Ms. Jimmi, who became president of the district panchayat earlier in 2012, has already been appointed as the leader of the KC(M) parliamentary party in the district panchayat while Jose Puthenkala, who won from the Kaduthuruthy division, will be assisting her. She will be sharing the post with a Communist Party of India (Marxist) nominee, who will be handed over charge for the remaining two-and-a-half years. Confirming the move, KC(M) district president Sunny Thekkedam said the aspects of a power-sharing agreement with the CPI(M) would soon be finalised. “Discussions to this effect are indeed taking place but there are no disputes whatsoever,” he said. In the 22-member district panchayat, the LDF has 14 seats, with the CPI(M) and the KC(M) holding six and five seats respectively. The Communist Party of India (CPI) has three seats. Having severed its decades-long association with the UDF following a dispute over the change of guard at the district panchayat, retaining the local body’s top post is indeed a matter of priority as far as the KC(M) is concerned. Equal seats Meanwhile, the LDF will be nominating Sheeja Anil as its chairperson candidate to the Kottayam municipality. In the local body that has 52 seats, the UDF currently possesses 21 seats against the 22 seats of the LDF. But with Bincy Sebastian, the lone Independent councillor in the municipality, deciding to extend her support to the Congress-led coalition, both the coalitions now have an equal number of seats in the council. With this, the chairperson is set to be elected through a draw of lots. In Pala municipality, Anto Jose Padinjarekkara of the KC(M) is set to become the chairman for the first two years. He may be succeeded by a CPI(M) councillor for a term of one year while the seat will be handed over to the KC(M) for the remaining two years. In the 28-member Erattupetta municipality, Suhura Abdul Khader of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and Muhammad Ilyas of the Congress are most likely to be appointed as chairperson and vice chairman. The UDF has 14 members in the council against the nine members of the LDF. The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), meanwhile, has five members in the council.  She will hand over charge to a Communist Party of India (Marxist) nominee after half the term
28 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||509 cases in Kottayam||As many as 509 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Sunday. Of the new cases, 504 patients contracted the virus through local contact. The new cases also included 51 children and 77 persons aged above 60. With 72 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Changanassery with 41 cases. Ettumanur reported 40 cases while Pala witnessed 20 cases. With 239 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,578 active cases.
28 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Emergency Operations Centre in Kottayam||A state-of-the art District Emergency Operations Centre, which has been set up at the District Collectorate in Kottayam for coordination of disaster management activities, will commence operations on Monday. Revenue minister E. Chandrasekharan will inaugurate the facility at a function to be presided over by Thomas Chazhikadan, MP, Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan, MLA, District Collector M. Anjana, District Police Chief G. Jayadev, ADM Anil Oommen, and hazard analyst Atulya Thomas will speak. The centre, comprising a control room, incident commander’s cabin, conference hall, resting space, and pantry, has been established with Plan funds from the State Disaster Management Authority. A team of revenue, police, and Fire and Rescue Services officials, led by the Chief Executive Officer of the District Disaster Management Authority, will work round the clock from the centre. The centre is also equipped with high-speed network, hotline connections with the State Disaster Management Authority, satellite phones, police wireless systems, multimedia projectors, and smart televisions.
28 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Govt. will sort out row over S.M. Street, says Chief Minister||Talks will be held to sort out the issues that were raised after the beautification of S.M. Street in the city, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was responding to suggestions from people from different walks of life at the Kozhikode district-leg of the ‘Kerala Paryadanam’ (Kerala Tour), an interactive session with people from different walks of life, at the Government Higher Secondary School, Karaparamba, here on Sunday. Mr. Vijayan said that some of those issues [at S.M. Street] were related to vehicle parking and serious in nature. A comprehensive approach was needed. He claimed that the government was encouraging the real estate sector. It could engage with builders who raised objections to some of the laws related to building construction. Sewage system would have to be implemented in all cities. e-governance would get a boost in local bodies, Mr. Vijayan said. Bypass work The problems related to the development of the Kozhikode Bypass had been sorted out and work would begin in 20 days. Work on the Kozhikode-Wayanad tunnel road would be taken up after a study by the Konkan Railway Corporation. He said that CNG stations would be set up in Kozhikode district once the GAIL project is launched on January 5. The 6-km distance between Kallai river and Sarovaram Biopark and the 3-km distance between Korappuzha and Sarovaram too had been cleaned. The path between Korappuzha and the Kallai river would be fit for transport once the ongoing development projects are over. The flyovers at Ramanattukara, Thondayad and Panniyankara had been thrown open to traffic and bridges would be built at Paloli and Moorad. The government was considering the second phase of the Kerala Infrastructure and Investment Fund Board. Ten roads that are 26-km long would be developed. The detailed project reports of seven of them were ready. A sum of Rs. 693 crore had been spent in the first phase of the City Road Improvement scheme. Six roads that are 22.25-km-long had been developed. Tender works were on for maintenance drudging at the Beypore Port, he added.  Shortage of land The government was trying to utilise the vast tracts of land belonging to the defunct Gwalior Rayons at Mavoor. Shortage of land was one of the problems before starting new industrial ventures. There was a proposal to introduce a facility through which people starting industrial units on government land can deposit the land price in instalments. The Chief Minister said that Kozhikode figured in the government’s efforts to boost the tourism sector. Instead of the government developing tourism on its own, joint ventures and private ventures would be encouraged. Night life-based tourism activities would be pushed through once the COVID situation eased. A museum showcasing Kozhikode’s history was in the pipeline. The government Cyber Park in Kozhikode would soon get a new chief executive officer. Representatives of industry, commerce, community organisations and others were present.
28 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||LDF aiming all-round development, says CM||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government is working towards all-round development of all sections of society based on the principles of social justice, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking at the Kozhikode district leg of the ‘Kerala Paryadanam,’ an interactive event with prominent personalities from different walks of life, at the Government Higher Secondary School, Karaparamba, on Sunday. Mr. Vijayan claimed that the LDF had interacted with the people in all districts ahead of preparing its manifesto for the Assembly polls in 2016. Promises The government implemented its promises one by one and released progress reports every year. Of the 600-odd promises made in the election manifesto, only 30 remained incomplete despite the State facing severe crises in the recent past. The Chief Minister said the State had to face disasters one after the other without a break, such as the Ockhi cyclone, Nipah outbreak, two floods, and now the COVID-19 pandemic. But, with people’s support, the government could withstand all these. The government launched four missions for development. The production of vegetables, which was seven lakh tonnes in 2016, had risen to 15 lakh tonnes now. Every house was cultivating vegetables. Students dropping out of schools could be reined in due to the government interventions in the public education sector in the form of infrastructure development. LIFE Mission provided houses to 2.5 lakh of homeless people, Mr. Vijayan pointed out. He said the government had also attempted to make Kerala an industrial-friendly State, as we have the best startup eco-system here. The State would not allow industries that destroy the environment. Corruption would not be tolerated, Mr. Vijayan said. Ministers A.K. Saseendran, T.P. Ramakrishnan, and E. Chandrasekharan, and MLAs and MPs were present.
28 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kappad opens a new chapter in tourism||The prestigious Blue Flag will be hoisted on the Kappad Beach in Kozhikode on Monday, endorsing a beach destination’s compliance with a number of global safety and environmental standards. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran will hoist the flag which will mark the culmination of efforts made by the Tourism Department and the district administration to secure the most coveted recognition by the Foundation for Environmental Education. At the national level, the flag hoisting ceremony covering all the eight beaches that won the honour will be opened by Minister for Forests and Environment Prakash Javadekar. It was on October 11 that a formal declaration on the beach winning the long-cherished eco-label was confirmed by the Union government. The much-awaited certification was a proud moment for the district, as it was the only destination in Kerala shortlisted for the Blue Flag tag. A number of quality parameters had been met for unfolding a new chapter in the history of Kappad where Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama landed in 1498. Tourism Department officials said the total cost earmarked for the renovation project was Rs. 8 crore. There were over 30 different criteria to be met while executing work. A professional team had been appointed to implement the project. According to officials, the maintenance of the beach for the next two years too has been entrusted with an agency for meeting certification guidelines. It was in 2018 that Kappad beach was shortlisted for the unique certification process. There were 12 States in India which were eligible to vie for the title. Considering the eco-label’s role in tourism promotion activities, the district administration had conducted a series of awareness programmes to sensitise local communities to the process and its importance in the international tourism sector. As part of the final certification process, ‘I am saving my beach’ flag had already been hoisted on the beach. All the major renovation projects and safety arrangements had also been completed. A number of factors, including environmental issues, safety measures and sanitation standards, had been taken into account while executing projects. The national jury representing the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change had evaluated the renovation work and forwarded its report to the international jury for final approval. There was also a district-level committee under the District Collector to oversee the implementation of various projects as part of the certification process. Nearly one kilometre of the beach had been brought under the development project based on its recommendation. Facilities such as jogging track, washrooms, and scenic rain shelters had been completed at the site, apart from many other beautification projects.
28 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Samastha hails govt. initiatives||The Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama, a politically influential council of Sunni scholars that has always backed the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in the past, has expressed satisfaction with some of the initiatives of the LDF government. Umar Faisy Mukkom, Samastha leader, said this after attending the Kozhikode district leg of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s ‘Kerala Paryadanam’ at the Government Higher Secondary School, Karaparamba, on Sunday. Representatives of the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind were not invited to the event, while those from the Kozhikode and Thamarassery and Kozhikode archdioceses of the Syrian Catholic Church, did not attend it citing other engagements. The Samastha leader said the State government was one of the first in the country to pass a resolution in the Assembly against the Citizenship Amendment Act. “Not only that, Mr. Vijayan also led an agitation against the Act. There are also some praiseworthy development works as well,” Mr. Faisy said. Meanwhile, he welcomed the exclusion of the Jamaat-e-Islami from this event. “They are supporters of a theocratic state, which is against the cultural ethos of our land,” Mr. Faisy said. Asked about the UDF’s tie-up with the Jamaat-backed Welfare Party of India in the recently held local body polls, he said the UDF had denied reports about any alliance. “However, it was out in the open that they had an understanding with that party. Any political party that joins hands with the Jamaat will be decimated, whether it is IUML or the UDF,” he added.
28 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode records 579 fresh cases||The Health Department on Sunday confirmed COVID-19 in 579 more persons in Kozhikode. With this, the total number of patients undergoing treatment for the viral infection touched 6,454 in the district. Of the newly reported cases, 553 persons contracted the infection through local transmission. The source of infection was unknown in 16 of the remaining cases. On Sunday too, the highest number of local transmission cases was reported within Kozhikode corporation limits. Five health workers were among the infected. There were 10 patients who had reached here from other States. For the first time, no fresh case was confirmed among those returned from different foreign countries. The district also reported 447 recoveries. As many as 4,263 samples were collected and sent for lab tests on Sunday. Over 1,000 persons were added to the list of people under observation. There were 182 COVID-19 patients from other districts as well who got admitted to various hospitals in Kozhikode district. The number of Kozhikode natives undergoing treatment in other districts was around 70. Health Department officials said the number of first-line treatment centres would be reduced again considering the declining number of patients.
28 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||45 kg of ganja seized||The Medical College police on Sunday seized nearly 45 kg of ganja from a 32-year-old man. Nissam, the accused, was netted during a vehicle check at Thondayad bypass. The police said the youth brought the contraband for sale from Maharashtra. He was tracked following a tip-off received by the District-level Anti Narcotic Special Action Force. A car he allegedly used for smuggling ganja was also impounded. According to the police, Nissam, a native of Kunnamangalam, is an active carrier who used to procure huge stock from non-Kerala suppliers and brought it to the district for sale. Many local drug peddlers in Kozhikode had close links with him, they said. The police added they were actively conducting surprise inspections in vehicles in view of the New Year celebrations. Within a month, three major smuggling attempts had been thwarted, they said. On Christmas day, the Koduvally police had arrested two Kasaragod natives with six kg of ganja and more than half kg of hashish oil. Nearly three weeks ago, two others from the same district had also been detained by the squad.
28 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Accused in ‘honour’ killing remanded||The Judicial First Class Magistrate Court, Alathur, remanded the two accused in the alleged Thenkurissi ‘honour’ killing in judicial custody on Sunday. Aneesh, aka Appu, 27, was murdered on Friday evening at Thenkurissi. His wife Haritha’s father Prabhu Kumar and uncle Suresh were arrested in connection with the murder. The police took the accused to the crime scene and recovered the weapons allegedly used for the crime from their house. The police said Prabhu Kumar and Suresh hacked Aneesh to death in retaliation to the marriage of Aneesh and Haritha. The incident was branded as honour killing as Haritha’s family had opposed the marriage and had constantly threatened Aneesh since the wedding three months ago. Haritha and Aneesh belonged to Pillai and Kollan communities respectively. Aneesh’s family blamed the police for ignoring their complaints about threats from Prabhu Kumar and Suresh. Crime Branch to probe Minister for Welfare of Backward and Scheduled Communities A.K. Balan visited the parents of Aneesh on Sunday, and said the investigation would look into police lapses too if any. The police said the Crime Branch would investigate the case. ‘A shame on Kerala’ The DYFI district secretariat condemned the murder and described it as a shame on Kerala. Welfare Party of India State vice president Surendran Karippuzha said the incident was proof of strengthening casteism and communalism in Kerala. “This is not the first ‘honour’ killing in the State, that too when the Left Democratic Front (LDF), which boasts of social renaissance, is in power,” he said.
28 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Municipal chairpersons, deputies to be elected today||The chairpersons and their deputies in the new municipal councils will be elected on Monday. The chairpersons will be elected at 11 a.m. and the vice chairpersons at 2 p.m. The chairpersonship of Palakkad, Pattambi, Ottapalam and Chittur Thathamangalam municipalities is reserved for women. Shoranur, Cherpulassery, and Mannarkkad municipalities will have general seats for chairperson. The BJP has retained power in Palakkad and the United Democratic Front (UDF), in Mannarkkad. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has wrested Pattambi, Cherpulassery and Chittur Thathamangalam, while retaining Shoranur and Ottapalam municipalities. The BJP is yet to announce its chairperson candidate in Palakkad. All major parties are likely to stake claim to either the chairperson or the vice chairperson post in municipal councils with a slender majority. The chairperson can be elected only if at least half of the elected members assemble. There is no need for a quorum for vice chairperson’s election. The election of both posts will be through open ballot. In case of a tie, the winner will be decided through draw of lots. The election of civic heads in the three-tier panchayats will be held on Wednesday. Stance on support The UDF and the BJP have advised their members not to seek each other’s help to assume power. BJP district president E. Krishnadas said his party would not support either the UDF or the LDF in the election of civic heads. Congress district president V.K. Sreekandan, MP, too said the UDF would not take the support of the BJP.  Chairpersonship of four municipalities in Palakkad is reserved for women
28 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||230 cases in Palakkad||As many as 230 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad on Sunday. When 108 of them contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons, the source of infection could not be traced in 118 cases. There were two health workers and two persons who came from across the borders among the new cases. The district registered 327 recoveries.
28 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||P.K. Sasi to be re-inducted||The CPI(M) has decided to re-induct P.K. Sasi, MLA, into the party district secretariat. Mr. Sasi is returning to the party forum after facing punitive action for his alleged misbehaviour with a woman leader of the DYFI. A meeting of the CPI(M) district committee held on Sunday decided to re-induct Mr. Sasi to the district secretariat.
28 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta has 389 cases||As many as 389 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. Of the new cases, 367 persons contracted the virus through local contact. Meanwhile, the disease claimed one more life in the district with a 48-year-old Thriuvalla native found dead at a lodge. With 216 recoveries, the district currently has 4,750 active cases.
28 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Suresh to head district panchayat||D.Suresh Kumar is returning to familiar turf as president-designate of the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat. Back in 2005, he had become a member of the district panchayat for the first time, after winning with a record margin from Balaramapuram. Youngest member At 26, he was then the youngest member in the council, which was then headed by the current CPI(M) district secretary Anavoor Nagappan. This time too, he has come with a record of sorts, having won with a considerable margin from the Malayinkeezhu division, which has been with the United Democratic Front (UDF) for a long time. Speaking to The Hindu on Sunday, after the CPI(M) district committee announced his name officially for the president post, he said that new governing council in the district panchayat has much to live up to after the performance of the previous five years under V.K.Madhu. “The district panchayat had become a model in the previous term winning several national and State awards with innovative projects for the people, and even getting its name on the Guinness Record. So, we have a responsibility to continue some of those projects and launch new ones, as promised in the Left Democratic Front’s poll manifesto. For instance, there is the commitment to extend the employment guarantee scheme to urban areas too and to provide more houses under the LIFE project. We also intend to formulate projects in various sectors after discussions with subject matter experts,” says Mr.Suresh Kumar. He feels that much has changed since his previous tenure in the district panchayat, with decentralisation becoming strengthened further. “This being the silver jubilee year of the people's plan programme (Janakeeyasoothranam), we can expect a lot of projects and more funds for local bodies,” he says. Suresh Kumar had dived deep into politics quite early in his life, becoming the unit secretary of the Students Federation of India (SFI) at the Government Higher Secondary School in Balaramapuram. Student leader He was also a leader of the SFI at the Christian College in Kattakada and continued being active in campus politics while pursuing his law degree. He also headed the welfare standing committee in the Nemom block panchayat. “My father was a party member. So, I naturally was attracted to the party and became a member while in school,” he says. Currently, he is the district joint secretary of the Pattikajathi Kshema Samithi (PKS), and a member of the CPI(M)'s Nemom area committee as well as the CITU area committee. A.Shailaja Begum, who was the vice-president of the district panchayat in the previous term, is set to retain the post for the next five years.
28 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||C.S. Sreeja to helm Nedumangad||C.S. Sreeja is set to helm the Nedumangad Municipality in her maiden entry into the 39-member council. The 41-year old CPI(M) worker is expected to sail through the election for the chairperson’s post smoothly on Monday. While the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has won 27 seats, the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) have eight and four seats respectively. The chairperson’s post has been reserved for a SC (Scheduled Caste) woman councillor this time. However, the talks for finalising the nominee for the post of vice-chairman has hit a roadblock with the CPI (M) opposing CPI’s efforts to retain the post, citing the latter’s dwindling presence in the council. Third woman Ms. Sreeja, a first-time councillor, will become the 10th person to lead the council and its third woman chairperson. An ASHA and Kudumbashree worker, she had emerged victorious in the Paramuttom ward by defeating three-time councillor J. Geetha by a margin of 120 votes. While CPI leader S. Raveendran was tipped to become the vice-chairman, the Nedumangad local area committee of the CPI(M) has thrown a spanner in the plan. Pointing out that the CPI could only win three seats at the elections, the CPI (M) has now projected its veteran councillor P. Harikesan as its nominee for the post. With several rounds of post-sharing talks coming to a naught, the district leaders of the LDF are expected to intervene to thrash out a solution prior to the election to the post on Monday afternoon. The election for the chairperson’s post will become a contest between the LDF and the NDA, which will be represented by Vinodini who won the Netta ward, with none of the SC women candidates who were fielded by the UDF managing to win at the polls.
28 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Guidelines issued on school reopening||In the first week of school reopening from January 1, the first lot of students will attend classes for a maximum of three hours, starting from 9 a.m. or 10 a.m. If need be, another batch can also come in for three hours starting from 1 p.m. or 2 p.m. In schools that have up to 300 students in class 10 and Plus Two grades separately, up to 50% of students can be present at a time. In schools where the student strength exceeds 300, 25% of students can attend classes at a time. The General Education Department has issued detailed guidelines on precautions to be taken at the school-level in the wake of the government decision to bring back class 10 and 12 students to school to prepare them for the public examinations from March 17. As per the guidelines, the number of students who should attend in a day should be determined on the basis of number of students, classrooms available, and other facilities. One student will occupy one bench in the first week. Students must maintain a physical distance of two metres from one another. Those who have COVID-19, symptomatic persons, and those in quarantine should come to school only after the days stipulated by the Health Department. Those who hail from families where people have tested positive should avoid coming to school. School premises, furniture, stationery, staff room, water tank, kitchen, canteen, laboratory, library, and toilets should be disinfected. Water sources such as tanks, wells, and others should also be disinfected. Digital thermometer, masks, sanitisers, and soaps should be arranged in schools. Physical distancing should be ensured in staff rooms too. Markings should be made in areas where drinking water is available, hands are washed, and in washrooms. Physical distancing should be observed in school buses. Thermal screening should be done before allowing students inside school buses. Masks are compulsory. Windows should be opened. Health check-ups should be arranged for students and staff. Each school should constitute a COVID-19 cell, chaired by the principal or headmaster. The cell should meet once a week and its activities should be documeted. School principals will be responsible for drawing up plans on how students should reach schools, arrangements for exam, etc.
28 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Shakakumari’s murder was a ‘premeditated’ one, say police||The Vellarada police have arrested 28-year-old Arun in connection with the death of his wife Shakakumari in Karakkonam on Christmas night. Arun of Pathamkallu in Neyyattinkara, who has been in police custody since Saturday, has been charged with murder. The investigation team, which firmly believed the case to be a ‘premeditated’ murder, will produce the accused at a local court on Monday to remand the accused. The post-mortem examination on Sunday revealed electrocution to be the cause of death. Strengthening its case, the police also awaited the findings of officials from the Electrical Inspectorate on Monday. According to the police, Arun allegedly confessed to have assaulted the 51-year old woman late on December 25. “After the couple were involved in an argument over having children, Arun attacked her by hitting her on the nose and attempted to strangulate her in the bedroom. He later dragged her to the sitting room where she was electrocuted using a live wire that was connected to the electricity meter. Blood stains were found in both rooms. Arun waited until around 6 a.m. to alert the neighbours and take the body to a hospital,” an officer said. While the police believed that Arun married Shakhakumari with an eye on her property, the financial transactions of both were being examined. They had married in October following four years of friendship.
28 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Arya to be elected Mayor today||The election to the Mayor post of the city Corporation will be held at 11 a.m on Monday morning, while that for the Deputy Mayor post will be held in the afternoon. The Left Democratic Front, which has 52 seats in the 100-member Corporation council, had earlier declared 21-year old Arya Rajendran as their Mayor candidate. Though the results of the contest are a foregone conclusion considering the LDF’s comfortable majority in the council, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, which has 34 seats and the United Democratic Front, which has 10 seats, have decided to contest the elections. While the UDF has decided to field Kunnukuzhy councillor Mary Pushpam for the Mayor post, the BJP was yet to choose its candidates when reports last came in on Sunday evening. The Mayor will be sworn in as soon as the results of the election are out. District Collector Navjot Khosa will be administering the oath. Leaving nothing to chance, the CPI(M) district committee has scheduled a mock polling for the LDF councillors on Monday morning. The election to the Deputy Mayor post will be held at 2 p.m. The LDF will be fielding Pattom ward councillor P.K.Raju as its candidate, while UDF will be fielding Akkulam ward councillor S.Sureshkumar. The BJP has decided to field Simi Jyothish, who headed the tax appeal standing committee in the previous council, as the Mayor candidate and Palkulangara ward councillor P.Ashokkumar as the Deputy Mayor candidate. Two councillors who are under observation for COVID-19 will cast their votes from a separate room in the Corporation building.
28 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held for murdering mother in Aruvikkara||The Aruvikkara police on Sunday arrested a 48-year-old man for allegedly murdering his mother on Christmas eve. Shibu of Kachani was apprehended by the police in connection with the death of his mother, 72-year-old Nandini. He has been accused of brutally assaulting the aged woman around 11.30 p.m. on December 24. According to the police, Shibu, a chronic alcoholic, used to frequently attack his mother under the influence of alcohol whenever she objected to his habit. An ex-serviceman, the accused has been separated from his wife. On the day of the crime, Shibu purportedly manhandled Nandini and later slept on the terrace. It was only the next day that he realised that his mother had died. While he purportedly confessed his wrongdoing before the police, his actions were validated by the findings of the post-mortem examination that revealed a deep injury in the deceased’s head and wounds in other parts of the body.
28 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mandis not an option for State: Minister||Accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of misleading the nation on the farmers stir to subserve the interests of rapacious corporate giants seeking to fleece farmers for profit, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar on Sunday said the mandis under the APMC Act were never an option for Kerala. In a pressnote issued here, he flayed Mr. Modi’s efforts to find fault with the Left parties for the nationwide stir by farmers. Mr. Kumar said Kerala had decided not to implement the APMC Act because the State had a strong grassroots-level procurement system in place for paddy and copra, the two crops eligible for assistance from the Centre under the MSP regime. “Farmers in the State get a production incentive over and above the MSP on the paddy procured by Supplyco from the field itself. The State has a procurement and marketing system for fruits and vegetables. In this context, the concept of mandis becomes irrelevant in Kerala.” The Minister explained that farmers in Kerala preferred to sell raw coconuts rather than convert them into copra. “A strong procurement system, together with a decentralised chain of agricultural markets dissuaded Kerala dissuaded Kerala from opting for the APMC regime. The Prime Minister should have tried to understand this before asking why Kerala did not implement the APMC Act.” Consumer State Mr. Kumar observed that a consumer State like Kerala would be impacted if private monopolies were allowed to operate the procurement and marketing chain as per the new farm laws.  The State has a strong grassroots-level procurement system in place for paddy and copra
28 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||COVID cases spike, 4,905 cases reported||The case graph of new COVID-19 cases continues to show a spike in Kerala, with the State reporting 4,905 new cases on Sunday, when 46,116 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s burden of COVID-19 cases reached 7,40,516 cases. Test positivity rate is also climbing and touched 10.64% on Sunday. With 3,463 persons reported to have recovered on the day, the active case pool now stands at 65,169. Twenty five new deaths occurred in the past few days were added on to the official list. Kozhikode accounted for five deaths, Malappuram four, Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Kannur three each, Alappuzha and Kottayam two each, while Pathanamthitta, Thrissur and Wayanad reported one death each. Official bulletin put the number of critically ill patients requiring ICU care at 851. Of the 4,905 new cases reported, in 83 cases, a history of travel was reported while 4,822 are contact cases. In 471 cases, the source remains untraced while 44 are healthcare workers. Ernakulam reported the highest number of cases at 605, Kozhikode 579, Malappuram 517, Kottayam 509, Kollam 501, Pathanamthitta 389, Thrissur 384, Thiruvananthapuram 322, Kannur 289, Alappuzha 231, Wayanad 231, Palakkad 230, Idukki 81 and Kasaragod 37.
28 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSC employees union plea||The 47th State Conference of the Kerala Public Service Commission Employees Union has appealed to the civil society to reject the motivated propaganda against the PSC from some quarters. Even though the number of job notifications had witnessed an increase in numbers, the institution was being targeted using politically motivated propaganda, the conference observed. The conference passed resolutions demanding the implementation of the 11th Pay Commission.
28 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Woman killed in clash||A 52-year-old woman was killed following a clash that took place with her son-in-law in Vembayam on Sunday. Indira of Chirathalakkal in Vembayam sustained head injuries after being allegedly pushed to the floor by Sunil Kumar of Venjaramoodu. The incident occurred around 5 p.m. Sunil was taken into custody by the police shortly after the incident. Sunil had been separated from his wife Neethu. On Sunday, he went to Neethu’s house and demanded that she accompany him to his house. This led to an argument with Neethu’s brother Nitish that soon snowballed into a full-blown scuffle during which Sunil allegedly pushed Indira to the floor.
28 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||322 cases in capital||The district recorded 322 COVID-19 cases on Sunday as 4,352 people were subjected to testing during the last 24 hours, thereby registering a test positivity rate of 7.39. While 248 people recovered from the illness, the number of active cases stood at 3,536. Barring four imported cases, all others have been attributed to local transmission of the infection. Three health workers also tested positive. The district COVID-19 death toll stood at 644.
28 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Escaped convicts still on the run||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police continued to search for the elusive breakthrough in the search for the two murder convicts who jumped the Open Prison in Nettukaltheri near Neyyar on December 23. Rajesh Kumar of Veeranakavu and Sreenivasan of Kollemcode in Tamil Nadu have managed to evade detection despite efforts made by the police to nab them thus far. Considering their criminal antecedents and native places, the investigation team has also been exploring the possibilities of the duo having split up and headed for different directions. Police sources said that a team of the shadow police have been to various places in Tamil Nadu including Coimbatore and Tirupur in pursuit of Sreenivasan. He had previously remained in hiding in these places when he violated parole conditions and absconded for seven years in the past. The police have also ensured round-the-clock surveillance in Rajesh’s native place and nearby areas. “However, such efforts have remained futile so far. While tracking mobile phone locations often enable the police to locate several accused, such leads have been elusive in this case. However, we have been tracking the movements of those related to the duo,” an official said. Rajesh had been arrested in 2012 for raping and murdering a 15-year girl near Vembayam, while Sreenivasan was arrested for murdering a pregnant woman in Palakkad in 2004. Released Meanwhile, the Neyyar Dam police have let go of a local resident, Ravi, who had been taken into custody for questioning on suspicion of abetting the escape. While he was accused of handing over Rs. 28000 to Rajesh, the police now believe that the amount was what had been earned by the convict in the Poojappura Central Prison. The amount had been apparently sent to Ravi’s bank account.
28 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Spot admission to fill vacancies||Spot admission will be held at the district nodal polytechnic colleges from Monday to Thursday to fill vacancies in various polytechnic colleges in the State. Candidates need to appear in these district nodal polytechnic colleges for admission to all polytechnic colleges (including self-financing) in that particular district. For details, log on towww.polyadmission.org
28 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Elocution contest||The Kerala State Youth Commission will conduct EMS Memorial elocution contest for the youth in connection with National Youth Day on January 12. Participants should be between the ages of 18 and 40. The top three winners will get a cash prize of Rs.15,000, Rs.10,000, and Rs.5,000, respectively, and EMS Memorial Trophy. For details, 0471 2308630, 8086987262.
28 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth drowns||A youth was killed after drowning in a quarry pond near Kilimanoor on Sunday. The Nagaroor police identified the deceased as Vishnu, 27, of Nedumparambu in Nagaroor. The incident occurred after Vishnu had gone for a swim in the pond in Karavaram around 10 a.m.
28 December 2020||THRISSUR,KERALA||UDF rebel to helm Thrissur Corpn.||The LDF cemented an understanding with UDF rebel candidate M.K. Varghese to make him the Thrissur Mayor and retain power in the Thrissur Corporation. Mr. Varghese will be the Mayor for two years. Rajashree Gopan, the CPI(M) councillor representing Ramavarmapuram division, would be the Deputy Mayor, said A.M. Varghese, the district secretary of the CPI(M). Including the UDF rebel candidate, the LDF will have the support of 25 members in the council. The UDF has 23 members, and the BJP six.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||New chapters opening up for govt. ITIs||From providing vocational and apprenticeship training to students, government industrial training institutes (ITIs) in the State are evolving into production, sales and service centres. On Monday, Minister for Labour and Skills T.P. Ramakrishnan will inaugurate beauty solutions for women and children at Government Women’s ITI, Kozhikode; furniture manufacture at Government ITI, Areekode, Malappuram; and bakery unit and those for manufacture of sanitiser and hand wash at the Kollam Chandanthope ITI. These production and service centres are being started in the ITIs in the wake of the State government’s decision to enhance the students’ skills and employment opportunities. The institute management committees are spearheading the entry of students and teachers into these sectors. Starting with three ITIs, these production, sales and service units will be extended to all ITIs in phases. At Government Women’s ITI, Kozhikode, the only ITI in the State to provide the cosmetology trade, latest facilities have been arranged to provide beauty solutions to women and children under the name T-Charm. Four people can be accommodated here simultaneously. Wooden furniture manufactured at Government ITI, Areekode, will reach the market under the Industrial Training Department’s brand name T-Furnishings. Quality furniture needed by government, quasi-government, public sector and private institutions and homes will be produced here. With launch of a bakery-confectionery unit at the Chandanthope ITI, the manufacture of sanitiser and hand wash will be expanded. T-Bite, T-Fend, and T-Wash are the brand names.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In the saddle||
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||No sea change in attitude||
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Watercolours of nature||
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Noise as a tool||
28 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-MP, former HC judge hold govt. responsible for Snehalatha murder||The YSR Congress government is directly responsible for the murder of SBI outsourced employee Snehalatha at Dharmavaram recently, as it had not taken any action against the police lapses in this case and instead was supporting them, opined former Amalapurma MP G.V. Harsha Kumar and former High Court judge J. Shravan Kumar. After consoling the parents of Snehalatha at their house on Sunday, they said Snehalatha was a national hockey player but was not given any chance to work anywhere in the sports quota and had to work as an outsourced employee for Rs. 7,000 a month, said Mr. Shravan Kumar. “The government must get the death penalty for the two accused in the murder case within 21 days under Disha Act and take immediate action to suspend all the police officers responsible for the lapses in this case after her mother went to I Town police station and made a complaint,” Mr. Shravan Kumar said. He asked Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu to immediately bring out the Disha and Dial 100 call data and fix the responsibility on the policemen to take action against them and wanted a deadline from him for this action. ‘A clear case of discrimination’  Mr. Shravan Kumar and Mr. Harsha Kumar demanded immediate resignation of all the SC, ST Ministers and the Chief Minister for their failure to protect Dalits in the State and not paying a visit to the house of Snehalatha so far. After the AP Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha assumed office, atrocities on Dalits have increased and she did not deem it fit to pay a visit and the Chief Minister did not even make a public statement on this, they said. Terming this behaviour a clear discrimination against Dalits, Mr. Harsh Kumar said in Disha case in Hyderabad too police behaved in a similar way an the Telangana government immediately suspended them, but Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy seems to be encouraging attacks on Dalits.
28 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 killed after bike-lorry collision triggers fire||Two persons from Bhogalakatta village in Yadiki mandal were burnt alive when their bike collided with a lorry and burst into flames on National Highway No.67 at Engilibanda village on Sunday afternoon. The lorry, going from Tadipatri to Gooty, was also destroyed in the fire. Gooty circle inspector Ramu told The Hindu that Roshi Reddy, 25, and Narayana Reddy, 48, from the village were returning from a temple at Bachupalli when the mishap occurred. The vehicle slid under the lorry after the collision and its petrol tank broke, triggering the fire. The fuel tank of the lorry caught fire and the two stuck under it were burnt.
28 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land given||The district administration on Sunday handed over a government order sanctioning five acres of agricultural land to M. Lakshmi Devi, mother of the murdered SBI outsourced employee Snehalatha. Land was allocated at Siddharampuram in Bukkarayasamudram mandal.
28 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical experts advise use of face masks for a few years||Going by the emergence of new strains of COVID-19 virus and observations of various international medical studies, the public should adopt a lifestyle with emphasis on wearing face masks and following physical distance when they venture into public places for a few years to come, according to Indian Medical Association (IMA) district unit president and COVID-19 Special Officer P. Ravi Raju. Addressing the annual meeting of the Puttur Walkers’ Association at Puttur on Sunday, he said global studies showed that the speed of the virus spread was mostly due to high congregations at public places and commercial outlets by ignoring the guidelines. “Even after taking the vaccines when they come, the need of the hour is to follow the guidelines at least up to 2022. Those under the post-COVID regime should not neglect the rules as the anti-bodies could work to their protection for a period of six months and there is every possibility of their getting infected again,” Dr. Ravi Raju said. “Those under post-COVID treatment should concentrate on health and hygiene and nutritious food, besides regular exercises to boost their immunity levels,” he said. Dr. Amarnatha Reddy, chest specialist, Puttur Government Hospital, said self-medication and neglecting early detection of the virus had played the villain, resulting in several casualties. Medical and paramedical staff of government and private hospitals, senior citizens and youth took part in the programme.
28 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crime against women, children continues to rise||Crime against women and minor girls continue to rise in East Godavari district, in which as many as 833 cases were registered under the Disha Act alone, while the number was 642 in 2019. The district registered 154 cases till date this year under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO), according to a note -- Crime in East Godavari-2020 -- released by the East Godavari district police. Speaking to newsmen here, East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi observed: “Unlike earlier, women started approaching the police after the introduction of Disha Act which assures the victims of timely action. This leads to rise in the number of cases registered.” The district witnessed 54 murders, including three for gain in 2020 as against 50 murders in 2019. As many as six dowry deaths were reported this year. In 2019, the dowry deaths were ten. In road accidents, 504 persons lost their lives this year, while the number was 601 in 2019. Atrocities on SCs, STs There was a rise of 16 % in the cases of atrocities on the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. While the number was 203 in 2020, it was 153 in 2019. “A total of Rs. 73 lakh of compensation was offered to the victims in the atrocity cases in 2020,” said Mr. Nayeem Asmi. On Left wing extremism, Mr. Nayeem Asmi said that at least ten Maoist members surrendered to the police and three were arrested in 2020.
28 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work on Antarvedi temple chariot completed: Minister||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Sunday announced that the making of new chariot of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi village in East Godavari district was completed ten days ahead of the deadline. A sum of Rs. 1.10 crore was spent on it. The chariot was gutted on September 5 on the temple campus. The State government ordered an inquiry into the incident by the Central Bureau of Investigation that is investigating the case. Accompanied by East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna on Sunday inspected the chariot, which was built on the temple campus here. In an official release, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said: “The new chariot, made of teakwood brought from Bastar region in Chhattisgarh, was ready for use. The State government has proved its commitment to ensure that the chariot is built in time to be able to use it in the next Kalyanotsav in 2021." “We are gearing up to commission the new chariot on Ratha Saptami. The district officials have succeeded in meeting the deadline,” said Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna.
28 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||2020 leaves behind bitter COVID memories||The Year 2020 posed a big challenge for the authorities in combating the dreaded COVID-19 after a U.K. returnee tested positive for the viral disease in March. Then came the big surge of new cases when a group of infected persons returned from New Delhi after attending a religious congregation in April. Just when the district registered zero positive cases in May, came fresh cases with the return of infected traders from Chennai’s Koyambedu vegetable market to the coastal village of Kothapatnam. Coronavirus incidence peaked in August with migrants returning in large numbers to their native places. But the caseload drastically came down by December when a possible second wave of COVID-19 threatened to challenge the Prakasam district administration's capability to deal with the developing situation in the wake of the return of 93 persons from the U.K. to the district. From a peak of 229 casualties in August, the fatality has came down to just six in November and a mere one in December, says District Medical and Health Officer P.Ratnavalli, who took charge when coronavirus incidence was at its peak. As many as 578 patients succumbed to the viral disease in the district so far. The district administration's strategy of aggressive testing of primary and secondary contacts of the newly-infected persons and the judicious mix of hospitalisation of symptomatic and critical cases swiftly on one hand and treatment of asymptomptic cases in their homes has paid dividends, she says in a conversation with The Hindu . A large number of persons who were put in home qurantine were monitored 24 x7 by health workers under the overall supervision of medical officers and those requiring hospitalisation were shifted to hospitals in time. Now the number of active cases have come down to a little over 100 from a peak of over 18,000 cases in August, she adds with a sense of relief as the monitoring of blood oxygen level of persons at the grassroots level and shifting only those suffering from comorbidity condition and critical cases to designated COVID-19 hospitals has yielded positive results. As a result, the recovery rate is a high 98.86% as against the national recovery rate of 95.78%. As many as 61,288 of the 61991 patients were recuperated so far. Vaccination ''The worst is over now that vaccine is available. We are fully geared up to roll out the vaccination programme in New Year,', she says after overseeing the training of the health professionals for the inoculation of vaccine in January to start with to health workers in the first phase. COVID-19 warriors, including sanitary workers and police personnel, will be given the vaccine in the second phase and those above the age of 50 years and those suffering from comorbidity condition in the third phase, she adds.
28 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers stage novel protest against farm Acts||Coinciding with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio address, farmers staged a novel protest here on Sunday by beating plates in protest against the alleged ‘indifferent’ attitude of the BJP-led NDA government on the demand for repeal of the three farm Acts. Farmers under the banner of the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) came in a procession to the busy RTC bus stand centre shouting slogans against the Centre for ‘wasting time’ on the pretext of talks without scrapping the Acts and withdrawing the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, which was allegedly intended to phase out subsidies. They charged the Centre with not listening to the farmers who had been agitating since August. It was unfortunate that the Prime Minister had taken up cudgels for corporate firms without addressing the concerns of farmers, said AIKS Prakasam district president P. Hanumantha Rao. A.P. Rythu Sangham district secretary Vadde Hanuma Reddy demanded statutory backing to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism. Social forestry planters had a bitter experience as the paper mills failed to implement the tripartite agreement reached at the behest of the State government, he added referring to the market prices of subabul and eucalyptus crashing by more than 50%.
28 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dexterous hand draws ‘English’ Venkateswara for New Year||His hand has drawn hundreds of images of Lord Venkateswara so far, projecting him in new styles and manifestations every time. Ahead of New Year’s Day, B. Anand, a Tirupati-based artist working with the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), has released a set of images in which the Lord of Seven Hills has been drawn completely using English alphabets from A to Z. One in colour and the other in black and white, the images resemble any other portrait of the Lord in circulation, but a keen look reveals the alphabets in the limbs, garlands, crown, ornaments and so on. “Saint poet Tallapaka Annamacharya praying to Lord Venkateswara is common, but I have added Prahlada on the other side, who rendered the ‘Indugaladandhu ledani sandehamu valadhu’. This is to show His omnipresence and omnipotence,” Mr. Anand tells The Hindu . The lockdown perhaps gave a lot of free time for artists to explore the thoughts lingering in their minds. “I had thought of this concept for a long time, but found time only during the lockdown,” he adds. Mr. Anand shot to prominence by drawing similar portraits using the Telugu alphabets, when the World Telugu Conference was conducted in Tirupati in 2012 just ahead of State bifurcation. He also did a similar effort with Tamil alphabets, though not quite familiar with the language.
28 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four of 349 new cases are contacts of U.K. returnees||The State has reported two more COVID-19 deaths and 349 new infections, taking the toll to 7,094 and the tally to 8,81,061. The new infections included four contacts (three from Guntur and one from Nellore) of U.K. returnees, who had tested positive upon arrival recently. So far, six returnees tested positive. So far, 1,216 returnees and 3,282 contacts were identified and their samples being tested. Results of tests to identify the new strain were yet to be received. Meanwhile, the number of active cases came down to 3,625 as 422 patients recovered in the last one day. The recovery rate increased to 98.79% with a total of 8,70,342 recoveries. The death rate remained at 0.81%. Each of the two new deaths were reported in Chittoor and Krishna districts, which had the highest toll of 840 and 664 respectively. The positivity rate of the 46,386 samples tested in the last one day was 0.75%, and the overall positivity rate of the 1.16 crore samples tested so far was 7.58%. At 2.17 lakh, the tests per million ratio continued to be highest among the major States. Chittoor also reported the highest number of infections in the last one day. It was also the only district to see more than 100 new cases. Vizianagaram reported no new infection after several months. Infection tally The district-wise new infections tally was as follows: Chittoor (105), Krishna (67), Guntur (34), Anantapur (31), Visakhapatnam (28), East Godavari (27), Kadapa (17), Nellore (10), Prakasam (8), Srikakulam (8) and West Godavari (3). The overall tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,23,583), West Godavari (93,759), Chittoor (85,936), Guntur (74566), Anantapur (67279), Nellore (62,054), Prakasam (61,991), Kurnool (60,540), Visakhapatnam (59,054), Kadapa (54,915), Krishna (47,568), Srikakulam (45,913) and Vizianagaram (41,008).
28 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government gearing up to prepare annual budget||The Finance Department is gearing up to prepare the State annual budget for the financial year 2021-22. The exercise is likely to commence in the first week of January 2021. According to information, the officials will collect the department-wise proposals and discuss the same with the respective heads of departments. Later, Finance Minister B. Rajendranath Reddy will hold discussions with the Ministers concerned. Finally, the Finance Minister will apprise Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy about the proposals received from each department. This year too, the lion’s share of budget may be allocated to welfare as the government has been laying thrust on implementing the Navaratnalu schemes. In its first budget in 2019, the YSRCP government had focussed on the Navaratnalu — the nine welfare schemes covering farmers, women, medical and health, education, and Special Category Status (SCS), and had allocated Rs. 2.27 lakh crore for the purpose. In 2020, the government had presented the budget with a total outlay of Rs. 2.24 lakh crore, which was 1.40% less than the previous year’s outlay.
28 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beekeeping helps SHG women make some extra earnings||With a little effort, these women are scripting a ‘sweet’ success story. By taking up beekeeping, they are making an ‘impressive income’ from honey production and sales. Apiarists (beekeepers) like Selvi who recognised the demand and market potential for honey are earning more than Rs. 5,000 per month as additional income. Initially, it started with 500 beneficiaries. Later, the interventions were scaled up to 2,000-plus beneficiaries in a phased manner as farmers and SHG women have shown interest in beekeeping. According to information, the Department of Horticulture provides a subsidy of 40% on unit cost (six bee colonies) and the remaining 60% is met through SHG loans. The Department of Horticulture during 2019-20 extended support for beekeeping in a big way by providing financial assistance of Rs. 1.40 crore to 2,480 beneficiaries. In Chittoor district, the department implemented a model FPO concept project in coordination with the DRDA and TATA Trusts. Ms. Selvi made an initial capital outlay of Rs. 30,000 through subsidies from the department under the Mission of Integrated Development. “In a matter of six months, she is able to experience an increase in harvest, which increased her revenue from Rs. 2,500 to over Rs. 5,400 which is in addition to her regular income from other activities,” says a senior official.  ‘Aranya’ brand name The honey produced by these FPOs is being marketed with ‘Aranya’ (Chittoor) brand name and is available for purchase online. The total honey production is more than 20,000 kg of which 5,000 kg is being procured by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) through the Chittoor Honey MACS. The department is also closely working with Y.S.R. Horticulture University and providing capacity building to tribal farmers in Chintapalli and other areas. The KVK at Venkataramannagudem is fully equipped with a disease diagnostic lab, honey processing unit and a quality testing lab to meet the requirements of beekeepers.
28 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five universities to be upgraded into multidisciplinary research centres||In a further push to the multidisciplinary approach, the National Education Policy (NEP) suggests Multidisciplinary Education and Research Universities (MERUs) to create model institutions for holistic education on par with the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs). First phase The AP State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has set the ball rolling for grooming five universities in the State into MERUs in the first phase. They are, Andhra University, Sri Venkateswara University, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU)-Kakinada, JNTU-Anantapur, and Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT). Global standards “These institutions will be groomed in a manner that they will aim to attain highest global standards in quality education. The focus will be on research and innovation,” says K. Rama Mohan Rao, Vice-Chairman, APSCHE. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Rama Mohan Rao said, as part of the new scheme of things, even leading engineering institutions such as the IITs would move towards multidisciplinary education with more arts and humanities. Flexible curriculum To take forward the new approach, the council recently conducted workshops attended by representatives of the five universities, giving them tips on preparation of a strategic plan. “We have asked the universities to constitute committees that will plan the strategies to introduce policies that will usher in broad-based, multi-disciplinary, holistic education with flexible curriculum, creative combination of subjects and integration of vocation and education,” said Mr. Rao. In the second phase, Acharya Nagarjuna University, Guntur, and Sri Krishnadevaraya University in Anantapur district would be upgraded into MERUs, and in the third phase, the remaining universities in the State would be groomed to join the league of MERUs. Draft plan The draft plans prepared by the internal committees of the universities would be referred to a panel of experts before they were placed before the council. “We expect the plan to be ready by January and it may take three months to concretise the process,” said Mr. Rao.
28 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farm Acts aim at doubling ryots’ income, says Somu||BJP State president Somu Veerraju said on Sunday that the YSRCP and the TDP had supported the farm Acts in Parliament, but were making allegations outside to derive political mileage. The Central government had clarified all the doubts raised by the opposition parties on the new legislations and conceded certain legitimate demands of the farmers. The Acts were part of the reforms needed to revive the agriculture sector and double the farmers’ income, he asserted. ‘MSP will be ensured’ Participating as chief guest in a farmers’ convention organised by the party at Pedavadlapudi in Guntur district, Mr. Veerraju said one falsehood being spread was that the agriculture market committees in the States would become redundant if the Centre proceeded with the implementation of the Acts. The Central government had been doing large-scale procurement of agricultural and horticultural produce. Farmers were benefiting a lot from it as they were no longer at the mercy of the middlemen to sell their crops. Minimum support price would be ensured, the BJP leader stated. Mr. Veerraju further said the Centre had been cracking down on black marketers and brought out neem-coated urea, which curbs the menace of spurious fertilizers. Pesticides of substandard quality was another problem being tackled with all seriousness, he added. Role of FPOs Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao said nearly 10,000 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) were being set up to help the farmers in fetching remunerative prices. He stated that the Central government announced the augmentation of infrastructure in the agriculture sector at a cost of Rs. 1 lakh crore, of which Rs. 10,000 crore would be given to Andhra Pradesh in a phased manner. He said the incident in which hundreds of people fell ill in Eluru recently, apparently due to consumption of hazardous substances through food products, brought into focus the enhanced need for organic farming.
28 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APTransco to deploy AI and ML to forecast consumption, demand||AP-Transco is deploying an electricity forecasting model using Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) to forecast the next day’s consumption, including the day-ahead electricity demand, on every 15-minute basis. This enables it to take right decisions on electricity demand and supply, management of grid, and minimising power purchase cost. According to an official release, technology giant Google has offered to jointly develop the model with the Andhra Pradesh State Load Dispatch Centre (APSLDC). It will be a major step towards making Andhra Pradesh a preferred destination for cost-effective power. The model consumes different kinds of data, including climate data, holidays, seasonal information, and weather forecasts, flowing into the servers on a real-time basis and achieves a high degree of accuracy with an error of less than 3% in forecasting. According to the APSLDC officials, the AP-Transco also intends to develop four more forecast models for wind energy, solar energy, market prices, Central generating stations’ surplus, and frequency. Offer to start-ups Besides, the AP-Transco is developing a least-cost electricity despatch model, which will tell how much electricity should be despatched every 15 minutes the following day from each generating station. On the other hand, the APSLDC plans to transfer the knowledge about electricity demand forecasting to start-up companies willing to commercialise the product. Energy Secretary N. Srikant has stated that the government aims at building an efficient and financially robust power sector to address the future demand, and supply cost-effective power to the consumers with zero interruptions. Power generators and Discoms rely on price forecasting information to develop their corresponding bidding strategies.
28 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No permission for New Year celebrations as of now, says CP||Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu has said that there is no clarity on permitting New Year celebrations in function halls, hotels, guest houses and farm houses. Functioning of bars and liquor shops will be as usual during New Year celebrations and there would be no extension of timings. “We request the hotels, function halls, bars and liquor shop owners to follow the rules strictly,” said Mr. B. Srinivasulu on Sunday. “We have not received any applications for organising New Year bash so far. As of now, police are not giving permission for midnight celebrations on December 30, 31 or on January 1,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. However, police are waiting for clarity from the higher officials on according permission for New Year celebrations, the Police Commissioner said.
28 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vice-President arrives on a 3-day visit||Vice-President of India M. Venkaiah Naidu arrived here on Sunday on a three-day visit. He was received by Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas and Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney among others. Mr. Venkaiah Naidu will interact with the students of the Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology at Surampalli on Monday morning and participate in certificates' distribution programme at Swarna Bharat Trust at Atkur near Gannavaram later. The Vice-President will leave for Bengaluru on December 29, according to an official release.
28 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lit Expo concludes||The two-day ‘The Lit Expo’ organised by city-based LIT Flea has provided an opportunity for young and small-scale entrepreneurs with home-grown businesses to showcase their products. The expo concluded here on Sunday and was visited by hundreds, according to the organisers. The expo showcased products including home-made soaps, handcrafted gifts, nutrition supplements, jewellery, food, moulds and others exhibited in over 10 stalls. LIT Flea founder and organiser Prudhvi Kaja said that the idea of the expo was to introduce art into commercial space and focus was on small businesses that were hit by the pandemic.
28 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Axe falls on Vuyyuru Municipal Commissioner||Reacting to incident of garbage dumping on the premises of four banks at Vuyyuru by the municipal staff for denying loans, Municipal Administration Commissioner Vijay Kumar G. srkr suspended Vuyyuru Nagara Panchayat Municipal Commissioner (FAC) N. Prakash Rao with immediate effect. A order regarding the same was issued on Sunday. On December 24, as a ‘protest’, municipal workers dumped garbage in front of four banks that allegedly denied loans to them under various schemes.
28 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM betrayed senior citizens’||The government did not fulfil the promise of giving Rs. 3,000 as pension to the elderly in the State, senior TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu alleged on Sunday. In a tweet, Mr. Patrudu accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of betraying the senior citizens by not increasing their pension by Rs. 1,000 as per his election promise.  The TDP leader asserted that it was during the five-year TDP term that old-age pensions were increased by Rs. 1,750. “On the contrary, there was an increase in the amount by just Rs. 125 during the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy term,” he said, and added that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy increased the pension by just Rs. 250. YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy should clarify how his party could claim to be the champion of welfare politics, he said.
28 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Housing: ‘legal issues ignored’||TDP MLC B. Changalrayudu has accused the State government of giving house site pattas to the poor without following due legal and constitutional formalities. Addressing the media on Sunday, Mr. Changalrayudu questioned how Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy could go ahead with distribution of 30 lakh pattas without conforming to legal formalities. House sites on endowment lands would be illegal considering the fact that they were being given without the consent of the A.P. High Court. Similarly, many sites were being given in low-lying water bodies and tank beds in violation of the Supreme Court orders, he said.
28 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Candidate for teachers’ poll announced||The Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation (APTF) has fielded its State general secretary P. Panduranga Varaprasada Rao as candidate for the Krishna-Guntur Teachers’ constituency in the ensuing elections. In a statement here on Sunday, APTF State president K. Bhanu Murthy and MLC P. Raghu Varma said they would soon announce their candidates for East and West Godavari districts too. The announcement was made at a meeting of the State sub-committee organised in Vijayawada on Sunday.
28 December 2020||VIJAYWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijayawada sees 12.05% drop in cases||As many as 9,154 cases were reported in the limits of the Vijayawada Police Commissionerate in 2020, a 12.05 % drop when compared to the previous year, according to Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. Briefing this to the media here on Sunday, the Police Commissioner said 23 murders, 37 attempt to murder, 32 robbery, 197 house burglaries, 392 cheating, 57 sexual assault (rape) and 12 kidnap cases were registered this year. Of the total 9,154 cases, 1,080 were booked under special and local laws, he said. The percentage of property crime cases detected was 69.7 this year, which was 75.16 in 2019. In all, 831 cases of crime against women were registered in 2020, which were 944 in the previous year. With regard to the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 45 cases were booked this year, which was 42 in 2019, the city police chief said. Mr. Srinivasulu said 699 persons were convicted in different cases and the percentage of conviction was 55 during the current year, which was 50% last year. In all, 264 persons were killed and 948 suffered injuries in 967 road accidents.  Rowdy sheets  Police opened rowdy sheets against 79 criminals and 10 sheeters were externed from the city this year. Suspect sheets were opened against 233 criminals, KD sheets were opened on 26 persons and DC sheets opened on six criminals in 2020. “Instructions have been given to the Station House Officers (SHOs) to keep a tab on the movement of criminals regularly,” Mr. Srinivasulu said adding many sensational cases were detected this year. Police registered 17,000 cases under Motor Vehicle Act, 185, and 283 cases were booked for selling foreign cigarettes of different brands. Violation of COVID norms As many as 3,568 cases were booked against those who violated COVID-19 norms. Of them, 2,331 were solved in courts, while 433 were pending in different courts and 804 cases were under investigation, Mr. Srinivasulu said. As many as 385 police personnel were contracted COVID-19 and two constables -- A. Rama Rao and V.V.S.N. Raju -- succumbed to the virus. Vijayawada City Police received Skoch Award 2020 in ‘Police and Justice’ and ‘Governance Now Indian Police Awards-2020’ for innovations in technology in detecting crimes. The cyber crime police station was awarded ISO 9001:2015 certificaVtion, this year, Mr. Srinivasulu added. Deputy Commissioners of Police Vikrant Patil and D. Mary Prasanthi and other officers were present.
28 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Long weekend sees huge rush at tourist destinations||The long weekend due to Christmas had all the tourist destination in Visakhapatnam district teeming with tourists on Sunday. Almost all the destinations, especially those in the Visakha Agency witnessed huge rush. Borra Caves, Araku, Ananthagiri coffee plantations, Chaparai and Katika wateralls, Padmapuram gardens, Paderu, Kothapalle waterfalls have been receiving heavy footfalls since the last three days. The drop in the mercury levels at Lambasingi, the most favoured winter destination in the State, attracted tourists. Such was the rush that severe traffic congestion was witnessed near Lambasingi in the last two days. A number of tourists had to cancel their planned stay due to lack of accommodation as almost all the hotels have been booked. Hotels booked “We searched for rooms , but in vain. Finally, we got a tent accommodation near Ananthagiri. For a night, they charged Rs. 2 ,000 for two persons. They had arranged a campfire. We had a good time there,” said Satish Patnaik from Thatichetlapalem, who visited Araku with his friends . Borra Caves has been witnessing heavy rush since the beginning of Karthika Masam. “Borra Caves saw about 7,500 visitors on Sunday and generated revenue of Rs. 5.5 lakh. Last Sunday, as it was the last week of Karthika Masam, the caves received about 10,000 visitors,” said T.G Prasad Reddy, Divisional Manager of APTDC, Visakhapatnam region. According to Mr. Reddy, all the APTDC hotels in Visakhapatnam have been booked till January 1. Kailasagiri, Tenneti Park, Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP), Thotlakonda, Kambalakonda, local museums, and other tourist spots also received good footfalls. IGZP Curator Nandani Salaria said the zoo park received about 6,300 visitors on Sunday. Craft Bazaars at Shilparamam, Andhra University grounds also saw a huge rush.
28 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Verified auto service to help check late-night crimes in city||In an attempt to check crimes occurring at night, the city police have decided to introduce ‘verified night auto service’ by issuing identity cards to auto-rickshaw drivers to ply their vehicles in the urban limits in the late hours. In September, an auto-rickshaw driver was arrested on charge of robbing two women passengers under the Duvvada police station limits. In the same month, the police arrested another auto-rickshaw driver on charge of relieving a passengers of valuables under PM Palem police station limits. In several incidents, passengers had left their valuables in the three-wheelers after which the police had to track down the vehicles. Sources in the Police Department say that many crimes are occurring late in the night. “About 70% of auto-rickshaws operate in unorganised manner in the city while only 30% are affiliated to unions or associations. Night auto service is being run mostly by the drivers not affiliated to any association,” say a police official on the condition of anonymity. Information portal According to Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Ch. Adinarayana, unique identification numbers have been issued to auto-rickshaw drivers. The police have also created an auto-rickshaw information portal where details of vehicles, names of driver and vehicle owners, along with their other particulars are being updated. After verification of all the records submitted by the auto-rickshaw drivers, the identification number will be issued. “After the numbers are issued, we will collect applications from auto-rickshaw drivers who wish to operate their vehicles between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. We will scrutinise the applications and issue identity cards for the verified night auto service,” explains Adinarayana. The staff on the night beat and night patrolling officers will also check the auto-rickshaws plying in the late night and initiate action against those who operate without such a pass. Awareness meetings As part of community policing, the traffic police have been conducting awareness meetings with the auto-rickshaw drivers, with the support of trade unions and auto-stand members. The police say that the auto-rickshaw drivers can also help the police prevent crime by providing information about any suspicious movement of people.
28 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP leaders up the ante against Velagapudi||The Shirdi Sai Baba temple in East Point Colony witnessed a huge rush for the second consecutive day on Sunday, with the YSRCP leaders gathering there in response to the challenge given by TDP leader MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu. YSRCP general secretary and Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy had alleged that Mr. Ramakrishna Babu had grabbed lands in the city. The latter offered to take an oath at the temple and quit politics, if the YSRCP leader could prove his allegations. He also sought that Mr. Reddy should take an oath and quit his MP post, if he was proved wrong. In response, Mr. Reddy wondered as to how the TDP leader, who had grabbed lands could take an oath at the temple. Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath, YSRCP city president Vamsikrishna Srinivas and other leaders went in a procession to the temple on Sunday and waited for the arrival of the TDP MLA, but the latter failed to turn up. SIT report “The TDP MLA had grabbed land in the city and now, he is making wild allegations against Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy. The land occupied by the MLA at Rushikonda was recovered by the officials,” said Mr. Amarnath. The TDP MLA said that he had challenged Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy, not other YSRCP leaders. Hence, there was no need for him to take the oath at the temple. He declined to comment on the allegations made against him.
28 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagananna Colonies will have all basic amenities: Botcha||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana has said that the houses being provided to the poor in the Jagananna housing colonies will have all the basic amenities. At a meeting with the beneficiaries at the DLB grounds at Kailasapuram on Sunday evening, the Minister said that colonies would be constructed for the 2.7 lakh families in the outlying areas. “Houses will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 90 crore in 3,800 acres. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is fulfilling the promises he had made during his padayatra before the elections,” said MR. Stayanarayana. Speaking on the occasion, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that 27,000 beneficiaries would be given house site pattas in the north constituency and 4,120 TIDCO houses had also been sanctioned. Ration cards were given to eligible persons and unemployed youths were given jobs as volunteers in the village secretariats. He said that the city would soon get 24-hour water supply after the completion of the Godavari Water Supply project. ‘Navaratnalu’ Collector V. Vinay Chand said that houses were being provided to the poor under the ‘Navaratnalu’ programme and house site pattas were being issued in the name of women beneficiaries. The house sites being granted to beneficiaries in the city would cost between Rs. 5 lakh and Rs. 7 lakh. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said the sites could not be shown to the beneficiaries due to technical problems.
28 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||27 more U.K. returnees test negative for virus||The coronavirus test reports of 27 more United Kingdom (U.K) returnees came negative, in Visakhapatnam district. The Health Department is yet to receive the results of 18 other persons. The district officials have received information that 218 persons have returned to Visakhapatnam district from the U.K between November 23 to December 24. However, the officials, after scrutiny, found that only 199 belonged to the district and traced 191 of them. The officials collected samples from 191 persons and sent them for testing. By Saturday, of the 191 persons, reports of 151 persons were out and everyone tested negative. Again, five more persons were traced and their samples were also sent for testing. “As on Sunday evening, we received 27 more reports and all tested negative. We are yet to receive results of 18 more samples including the five new ones which were sent,” said District Medical & Health Officer, P. Surya Narayana. Contact tracing He also said that efforts were on trace to remaining three persons. “Samples of those who have tested positive will be sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune to ascertain whether or not it is the new strain. Their contacts will be traced. Even as they test negative, they need to remain under strict isolation for two weeks,” said Mr. P. Surya Narayana. Meanwhile, the health officials have been asked to keep a watch on the health condition of all U.K returnees for two-weeks.
28 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held, 440 kg ganja seized at V. Madugula||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials arrested two persons when they were allegedly transporting 440 kg ganja in a lorry, near Suravaram village in V. Madugula mandal of Visakhapatnam district on Sunday. The accused have been identified as A. Paradesh (30) and Nitin Shinde (39), both natives of Solapur district in Maharashtra. Acting on credible information, the SEB teams intercepted the lorry near Suravaram village at around 8.30 a.m. and seized the contraband. In an attempt to escape police checks, the accused had made a concealed storage space near the driver’s seat in which the contraband was hidden. Even as the value of ganja recovered from the accused is estimated to be around Rs. 15 lakh in the Visakha Agency, it is estimated to cost more than Rs. 40 lakh in some northern States. The seized contraband has been handed over to the V. Madugula police for further action.
28 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 suspects held for murder of rowdy-sheeter||The Arilova Police have reportedly taken three persons, including a minor, who are suspected to have links with the alleged murder of Korada Sai. Korada Sai (35), a rowdy-sheeter from Ravindra Nagar area, was allegedly murdered by unidentified miscreants at Arilova on Saturday night. The miscreants have allegedly intercepted his bike and slit his throat. Some locals shifted him to a hospital, but the doctors declared him brought dead. It is learnt that Sai had allegedly harassed the accused for which they killed him.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Validity of motor vehicle documents extended||The validity of fitness, all types of permits, driving licence and registration or any other documents, pertaining to motor vehicles have been further extended to March 31, 2021. The validity of the documents, which expired since the beginning of the lockdown in March, was initially extended till December 31. However, in view of the continuing threat of COVID-19 pandemic, the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways had advised the State governments to extend the validity further. “We have received the order this evening on extension of the validity of the documents,” said Deputy Transport Commissioner GC Raja Ratnam. The enforcement authorities have also been advised to treat such documents valid till March 31, 2021. This extension would enable citizens to avail transport-related services, while maintaining social distance.
28 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||13 teams to take part in 3-day volleyball tourney||A three-day mandal-level volleyball tournament began on an enthusiastic note under the aegis of the Dummugudem police at Laxminagaram village in Dummugudem mandal of Bhadrachalam Agency on Sunday. Bhadrachalam Assistant Superintendent of Police Dr. G. Vineeth inaugurated the tournament at K Regupalli Ashram school premises. An impressive march past by the participants marked the opening ceremony. As many as 13 teams are participating in the tourney starting Sunday. Circle Inspector of Police, Dummugudem, N. Venkateswarlu, and several local body elected representatives, were among those present. Police have given wide publicity to the tournament through posters to encourage youth from all over the border mandal to participate in the sporting event and showcase their talents. The winning team and the runners-up will get Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 5,000 cash prizes respectively. The tournament is being organised as part of the efforts to motivate youth from far flung areas of the border mandal to actively participate in sports activities and exhibit their talents, police said on Sunday. Charla police also organised a volleyball tournament for youth of the border mandal over a week ago.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Not possible to procure farm produce every time: govt.||A meeting presided by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on agriculture on Sunday was of firm opinion that the State government procured farmers’ produce right in their villages in the last season due to the COVID-19 pandemic out of ‘human touch’, but it was not possible every time. On withdrawal of regulated farming henceforth, the meeting discussed that the decision on growing crops be left to farmers going by local agro-climatic and market conditions. The government will not issue any guidelines on crops to be cultivated by farmers.  Restrictions on sale The State government had set up procurement centres in the villages to ensure that the farmers did not suffer losses due to COVID-19 restrictions coming in the way of sale of their produce, the meeting was told. However, the government was neither a business establishment nor a miller. Purchases and sales were not its responsibility. Therefore, it was not possible for the government to procure produce any more. Moreover, new farm laws envisaged that the farmers could dispose of their produce anywhere. A release said the meeting took note that the transactions of produce at local agricultural market yards must take place in a disciplined manner. The farmers should not shift their produce to market yards en masse, but instead take turns. Schedule for arrivals The farmers coordination committees, market committees and agricultural extension officers must draw up a schedule for arrivals village-wise. They should be given tokens indicating dates of their transactions.  The meeting also discussed the multiple functions of agriculture department due to expansion of farm sector. The officials have to monitor release of investment support to farmers under Rythu Bandhi scheme twice a year. Also, they must effectively implement the life insurance scheme for farmers, Rythu Beema. Annual premium The government was earlier paying an annual premium of Rs. 630 crore for the scheme. But, farmers resorted to splitting land holdings among their family members and registering them with a view to see that more members were covered by the scheme. This increased the strength of farmers and the premium amount payable by government went up to Rs. 1,144 crore. The agriculture officers also oversaw 24x7 free power to farmers, supply of genuine seed, fertilizers and pesticides and several other functions. Therefore, it was not possible to assume another role of trading.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rajinikanth discharged from hospital||Two days after admission at a hospital in Hyderabad, superstar Rajinikanth was discharged on Sunday afternoon. Besides one-week bed rest, the superstar was advised to avoid any activity that increases the risk of contracting COVID-19. The popular actor was admitted at Apollo Hospitals on Friday morning with severe hypertension and exhaustion. “Mr. Rajinikanth’s blood pressure has been stabilised and he is feeling better. In view of his improved medical condition, he is being discharged from the hospital today,” stated the hospitals’ management on Sunday afternoon. The actor was in Hyderabad in connection with a movie shoot. While a couple of people on the sets tested positive for COVID-19, Mr Rajinikanth was negative when a test was conducted on December 22. However, he suffered severe blood pressure fluctuations a couple of days later. After admission at the hospital, he was kept under close medical supervision and was treated by a team of doctors. Medical investigations were performed on him and nothing alarming was found in the reports. On Sunday morning, the hospital’s management stated that a team of doctors will evaluate him in the afternoon and take a decision on discharging him. And in the afternoon, they said that he is being discharged. “In view of his post-transplant status, labile hypertension and age, the following advice has been given in addition to the medications and diet: (1) Complete bed rest for one week with regular monitoring of blood pressure. (2) Minimal physical activity and avoiding stress, they stated, adding that in view of the above conditions, he has also been counselled to avoid any activity that increases the risk of contracting COVID-19.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Book on saint-poet out||A book on saint-poet “Annamayya Srikrishna Sammohanam” written by Annamayya scholar and commentator Venkat Garikapati was released at a function organised by State Bank of India’s Institute of Consumer Banking on Sunday evening. SBI managing director Challa Srinivasulu Setty, who released the book, praised the contribution of Mr. Venkat, who was in a senior position in SBI. A concert of Annamayya Sankeerthanas was performed on the occasion by noted singers. The Sammohanam was the 13th book of Mr. Venkat.
28 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman, two children found dead in lake||A woman and her two children were found dead in Chenpur lake at Jawaharnagar on Saturday evening. Police said that the woman Nagamani (25), who was disappointed that her husband didn’t take her out for Christmas shopping, resorted to the extreme step by jumping into the water with her five-year-old daughter and eight-month-old son. She hails from Prakasam district in AP and got married to one Nageshwar Rao in 2014.  Call +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdown.
28 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three killed in accidents||Two youngsters, Lakavath Naresh (22), a resident of Bhongir and Tanguturi Ganesh (20) from Pocharam, Ghatkesar were killed after their speeding sports bike rammed an earthmover at Uppal on Sunday. Both worked at a private company in Jeedimetla. The accident took place when they were returning home after shopping at a supermarket. “While the earthmover was taking a turn, the bike rider lost control and rammed it, as a result they died on the spot,” Uppal police said.   Hits flyover pier A 25 year-old man died after ramming the pier of a flyover at Shamshabad on Sunday. The victim, K Satish from Shamshabad village, lost control on the bike, hit the barrier and died on the spot. He was going towards Rajendranagar.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jambagh ex-corporator moves Election Tribunal||Former Jambagh corporator J Ravindra, who contested on All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen ticket in the recent Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections, has moved an election tribunal in the city civil courts, challenging the election of Bharatiya Janata Party corporator-elect Rakesh Jaiswal, alleging that he has violated the two-child norm. Mr Ravindra, by means of his counsel Khaja Aijazuddin and others, in an election petition stated that Mr Jaiswal has three children, and further claimed that this is a violation of Section 21 B of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Act. The petitioner also alleged that this aspect was suppressed and sought perjury proceedings against him. “A petition has been filed in the Election Tribunal-cum-Chief Judge’s court in city civil courts seeking an injunction order against the elected member Mr Rakesh Jaiswal, that he not be allowed to participate in the swearing-in ceremony as well. The case is likely to be heard on Monday. The respondents include the Telangana State Election Commissioner, Returning Officer and the GHMC Commissioner as well ,” Mr Aijazuddin said.
28 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||16 held for attack on Jawaharnagar inspector||Rachakonda police on Sunday arrested 16 persons in connection with the attack on Jawaharnagar inspector P. Bikshapathi Rao and for throwing chilli powder on police and other government officials. On December 24, as per the instructions of the Keesera RDO, the Municipal Commissioner along with his staff visited the area with police protection for removal of illegal encroachments on government land. The accused obstructed the officials and even threw chilli powder on them before throwing kerosene on Mr. Rao and setting him on fire.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM should apologise: BJP president||The Bharatiya Janata Party has demanded that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao tender an apology to the farmers of Telangana for trying to force them to raise crops of the government’s choice and welcomed his “change of heart” on this policy, which it claimed, had caused much loss to them. Party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, in a press statement, also claimed that KCR seemed to have changed his opinion on the Centre’s new Farm Acts and observed it was a good augury as the party has always been for giving ‘freedom’ for the farmers to raise the crops of his choice and sale price anywhere. “We are happy the Chief Minister has opened his eyes to the new Acts at last and has given sufficient indications about implementing them in TS also to ensure farmers incomes are enhanced. We also demand the Government to take more steps to improve the facilities for the farmers,” he said. The BJP leader wanted the State Government to immediately take up soil testing for which the Centre had already disbursed sufficient funds so that the farmers were more aware of the kind of crops to grow in their areas. Earlier, he unveiled the statues of former Union Minister G. Venkataswamy at Jallapally and Sultanabad.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two books presented to Chief Minister||Jwala Narasimha Rao, the Chief Public Relations Officer of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, on Sunday presented copies of two books written by him — Telangana district and land administration at a glance (which is a compilation of articles written by Rao)  and Srimadbhagawata kathalu to the Chief Minister.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||472 more test positive in Telangana||Telangana recorded 472 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total to 2,84,863. While 37,347 people were tested, results of 536 were awaited. Two more COVID-19 patients have died. The new 472 cases include 106 from GHMC, 45 from Medchal Malkajgiri, and 44 from Rangareddy. Only one case was recorded in Narayanpet, and two each in Jangaon, and Kumaram Bheem Asifabad districts. From March 2 to December 26, a total of 67,23,710 samples were examined and 2,84,863 tested positive. Out of the total cases, 6,579 were active cases, 2,76,753 have recovered, and 1,531 have died.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call for social protection for platform staff||Indian Federation of App-based Transport Workers (IFAT) has demanded that the Centre provide platform workers social protection irrespective of their age in the Draft Code on Social Security (Central) Rules, 2020. IFAT general secretary Shaik Salahuddin, along with the representatives of various labour unions, met parliamentarians, including MoS for Home G. Kishan Reddy and Hyderabad parliamentarian Asaduddin Owaisi and submitted a list of demands. The demands also include inclusion of all workers with nine classes of aggregators, including those working with ride sharing platforms, food and grocery delivery and logistics, as platform workers. Also in the list of demands are the need for clarity on how aggregators will have to contribute to social security schemes.
28 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Migrant activists demand rollback of wage circulars||The Emigrants Welfare Forum (EWF) has demanded that the Ministry of External Affairs immediately roll back the circulars on reduction of Minimum Referral Wages for Indian workers in West Asian countries. EWF president M. Bheem Reddy on Sunday said that a letter to MEA Minister S. Jaishankar was sent seeking a withdrawal of circulars which lowered the minimum referral wage for new migrant workers in West Asian countries such as Qatar, Bahrain, Oman and the United Arab Emirates. He said that as per the circulars, the new wages are $200 for workers going to Qatar, Bahrain, Oman and the UAE, $245 for those working in Kuwait and $324 for those in Saudi Arabia.
28 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Conference of chemical engineers begins||The three-day Chemical Engineers Congress (CHEMCON 2020), an annual event organised by the Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers (IIChE) in association with its Hyderabad Regional Centre, began on Sunday in virtual mode. Principal scientific adviser to GoI Prof. K. Vijay Raghavan was chief guest.
28 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||IIT-H to have autonomous test bed||The Indian Institute of Technology - Hyderabad (IIT-H) will soon have an Autonomous Navigation Test Bed that will be helpful in testing vehicles that can drive on their own. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said this during a video conference on November 29. Under the leadership of Prof. P. Rajalakshmi from the department of Electrical Engineering, IIT-H has received Rs. 135 crore grant for research on autonomous navigation. As part of the research, a test bed is being established on the campus over 2 acres of land to test both land-based and aerial-based autonomous vehicles, which is the first-of-its-kind facility in any academic institution in the country. To harness the potential of this new wave of technology and make India a leading player in CPS, the Union Cabinet approved the launch of the National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems (NM-ICPS) to be implemented by the Department of Science & Technology (DST) with a total outlay of Rs. 3,660 crore for a period of five years. As part of this mission, IIT-H was recently granted a Technology Innovation Hub on Autonomous Navigation and Data Acquisition Systems (TiHAN) with a total budget outlay of Rs. 135 crore. TiHAN is a multi-departmental initiative, including researchers from Electrical Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Civil Engineering, Mathematics, and Design, at IIT-H, with the collaboration and support from reputed institutions and industry. TiHAN will lay a primary focus on research and development of autonomous navigation technologies and data acquisition systems enabling the creation of valued applications, especially in the Indian context, under the following sectors: 1) Intelligent, Autonomous Transportation and Systems, 2) Agriculture, 3) Surveillance, and 4) Environmental and Infrastructure Monitoring. The development of these technologies requires testing in safer and real scenarios. Hence, IIT-H is taking a magnanimous effort in developing a unique, integrated state-of-the-art testbed for Autonomous Navigation Technologies for aerial and terrestrial vehicles. The testbed includes a simulation platform which allows for non-destructive testing of algorithms and prototypes. Also, a number of real-world scenarios can be emulated on the testbed. In the case of autonomous terrestrial vehicles, a few examples of these scenarios are operation and response at junctions with other vehicles, autonomous vehicle interactions with cyclists and pedestrians, wireless communication between an AV and a RSU (Road side unit), control handover between manual and autonomous operation, acceptability of driver-less vehicles with society. A mechanical integration facility is also planned where the components and sensors can be integrated to terrestrial and aerial vehicles. The drone testing facility includes airstrip, soft landing area, hangar for keeping drones, ground control station (GCS), and telemetry station. It is strongly believed that this testbed will be an enabler for global industries, R&D labs, and academia to drive collaborative research in autonomous navigation, thus making India a global leader in this technology.
28 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Public toilet constructed, only to be demolished||It’s a classic case of improper planning and execution and has resulted in Rs. 7 lakh going down the drain. The authorities had constructed toilets as part of providing amenities for those moving on roads. As part of that, one toilet was constructed adjacent to the national highway in Zaheerabad town. It took about six months’ time to complete the construction and finally it was ready for use. However, it has been obstructing the traffic flow and the police officials took the issue to the notice of the municipal authorities. It was identified that the structure is also obstructing the flow of drainage water . Finally, the officials demolished the structure without putting it for use even once. “The toilet was constructed there as no place was available. However, after construction it was identified that the toilet was obstructing traffic and flow of drain water. Hence it was demolished. It will be constructed at another place after identifying location,” said an official.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Contraband gold continues to glitter||Gold continues to shine through the contraband routes despite COVID-19 restrictions on international travel that had grounded airlines for a major part of the year. The glitter of yellow metal had lured the smugglers to bring over 35 kg valued at over Rs. 15.1 crore to Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad from Gulf countries so far this year with their time-tested modus operandi. Customs officials have registered 62 cases this year, while they booked 88 cases in 2019 seizing 58.145 kg of gold valued at Rs. 19.65 crore from the in-bound passengers. The constant spurt in gold demand in both the Telugu speaking States and neighbouring Karnataka is cited as one of the reasons for constant smuggling of gold through illegal channels. Sources in the Customs told The Hindu that carriers are devising innovative methods to smuggle the gold from abroad by risking their lives. They said that rectum concealment was the preferred mode of smuggling, apart from other methods including concealing the gold in clothes, electrical devices and trolley bags. “A few minutes before landing, the carrier goes to the lavatory to conceal the gold paste capsules in their rectum and hand over the same to the smuggler if they manage to escape from our radar,” the officer said. Everyday the smugglers try half-a-dozen techniques to sneak out the gold from the airport by not getting caught to the enforcement officials. While people who smuggle in the contraband in cash machines, vacuum cleaners, iron boxes, mixers, trolley bags, and other gadgets are mostly tourists who were lured by the smugglers in Dubai and other countries to carry out the ‘operations’. Those who get caught with ‘old-school’ techniques like hiding the gold bullion in undergarments, socks, shoes and trousers secret pockets are mostly individuals (migrant workers) who buy the gold at a cheaper price for their friends and family members or to sell it in the local market to make some profit. Recently, customs officials apprehended a man who concealed 12 cut pieces of gold weighing 71.47 grams inside the zipper of his jeans. While on Saturday, they booked a woman passenger who attempted to smuggle five gold bars weighing 1.42 kg and other jewellery weighing 583 grams in her baggage. Instances of smuggling gold in Vande Bharat Mission flights was also rampant, the officer added.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Holy cow! A baffling case of missing bovines||Two Opposition MLAs were in focus last week over the issue of missing cows in different ways. Congress legislator from Sangareddy T. Jayaprakash Reddy, popularly known as Jagga Reddy, has written to the Director General of Police over his half-a-dozen missing cows and sought his intervention to trace his beloved bovines. He explained that his six cows went missing in October when they were taken out for grazing. A police complaint was lodged then itself but no action was taken. He expressed fear that thieves could have sold them to slaughter houses since there have been several such instances in the district in the past. On the other hand, BJP MLA from Goshamahal, T. Raja Singh has alleged that cows from a ‘gowshala’ (cow shelter) run by a person from minority community at the pilgrim centre Srisailam were also going missing on a regular basis and blamed it on the local legislator for shielding the cow shelter operator.   The anxious wait of the State government employees and retired personnel for the implementation of the Pay Revision Commission recommendations continues. The wait has become all the more significant in view of the expiry of the December 31 deadline set for the commission to submit its report ending in just a few days. Speculations are rife among the employees over the quantum of the fitment benefit that will be announced and on the course that will be taken by the government on crediting the allowances due from July 1, 2018. A section of employees is, however, not so optimistic about the immediate benefits that will accrue even if the government announces some hike in the pay revision.     Much is being written about social media posts without verifying facts and Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao appears to be no exception to this. The comments allegedly made by the Minister against some officials during a review on arrangements for Sri Mallikarjunaswamy Jatara in Ainavolu went viral. The campaign became so extensive that the Minister had to issue a clarification. He had to reiterate that in his 40-year political career, he never made any adverse comments against the employees and in fact, it was their cooperation that ensured his long political career without a break.  (B. Chandrashekhar &  M. Rajeev)
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Net’ worth||
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||page 2 Reader's Mail||Heavy traffic from three main roads meets at new Bowenpally circle almost throughout the day. There are several public utility services near the circle like a bank, school, medical shops, a post office, an electricity office and even a police station. There are also four bus stops but no zebra crossing on any of these roads and indicators to guide pedestrians whether to cross the road or wait for clearance. I request the traffic police to provide zebra crossings and digital indicators for pedestrians’ safety. G Murali Mohan Rao New Bowenpally    The pandemic has disturbed customer service in the banking industry with some prominent public sector banks not updating passbooks even after ‘Unlock’. As a result, customers are put to severe inconvenience. This is the basic requirement in the customer service portfolio of any bank. Sometimes, even the passbook printing machines do not work. I request the bank managements to look into this issue with seriousness and issue necessary instructions to the staff. K. Durga Prasad Rao Hyderabad    I am a resident of West Venkatapuram of Alwal area. There is an ATM belonging to a top public sector bank near the last bus stand, but the maintenance is miserable with dust and dirt all over. More shocking is the fact that the doors do not close. I request the bank authorities to take note of this and do the needful. P. Balasubramaniam Alwal    The relentless efforts for the past four years to construct a bus stop at Lakadawala towards Shamirpet through this column and constant reminders to the Secunderabad Cantonment Board have been successful, as the bus stop was set up a month ago. I thank The Hindu for this. N.S.R. Murthy Macha Bolarum  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu.co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)
28 December 2020||Nagpur,||Saibaba denied woollen cap in Nagpur jail: lawyer||The lawyer of former Delhi University professor G.N. Saibaba, who is serving life term in Nagpur Central Prison for Maoist links, on Sunday alleged that the jail authorities refused to accept a woollen cap and several other items that his family sent for him. A senior official of the jail, however, said that although they had accepted all the necessary things that Saibaba required, they could not allow everything inside. Saibaba is wheelchair-bound with 90% physical disabilities. In 2017, a court in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli had convicted him and four others for Maoist links and indulging in activities amounting to waging war against the country. Since his conviction, Saibaba has been lodged in the Nagpur jail. Talking to PTI , Saibaba’s lawyer Aakash Sarode said that of the 34 different things that Saibaba wanted, the prison authorities accepted only 13 items when he went there three days ago to hand them over. “A month ago, Saibaba had consulted the jail authorities about the essential things that he required and which could be brought from outside. Subsequently, he made a list of the things and submitted an application to the jail authorities so that his family could send these articles,” Mr. Sarode said. “Accordingly, his family sent these things to me. On December 24, I went to the jail with all the material along with the list of items. I tried to hand over these things to the authorities. However, the jail staff refused to accept several things, which neither posed any security threat nor posed any danger of COVID-19 spread,” he said. Some of the things that the authorities refused to hand over to him were three books, a pack of 200 pages of blank white papers, a note pad, a copy of India Today magazine, and a wrist weight cuff of one kg that he needed as part of his physiotherapy, the lawyer said. “Similarly, a shampoo bottle, a woollen cap (monkey cap), a napkin, a handkerchief, a towel, and a white T-shirt were refused by the jail authorities,” Mr. Sarode added.
28 December 2020||Nagpur,||‘CBI should say if Rajput’s death was murder or suicide’||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday urged the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to reveal if Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death was a suicide or murder. He said the CBI should bring out its probe report on the case as soon as possible. “The people of Maharashtra and the country are eagerly waiting for the CBI’s report on its investigation into Rajput’s death case. People ask me about the status of the case...I request the CBI to reveal whether it was a suicide or murder,” Mr. Deshmukh said at a press conference. “Five to six months have passed since the case was handed over to the CBI. Hence, the agency should make public its report as soon as possible to clear whether it was suicide or murder,” he added. Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. Earlier, the Mumbai Police had filed an accidental death report and they were investigating the matter. On August 19, the Supreme Court had upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged by Rajput’s father at Patna against the actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting his suicide, to the CBI. The central agency had then taken over the probe from the Bihar Police. In October, the medical board of the New Delhi-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences had ruled out murder in the death of Rajput, terming it “a case of hanging and death by suicide”.
28 December 2020||Nagpur,||Recruitment of 5,295 constables soon: minister||The Maharashtra government will fill up 12,000 posts of police constables and orders to recruit 5,295 of them would be issued soon, State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Sunday. “A total of 12,000 posts of constables will be filled in the State police. As many as 5,295 such posts will be filled in the first phase very soon. Necessary orders will be issued to unit commanders,” Mr. Deshmukh, an MLA from Katol constituency in Nagpur district, told reporters. The minister said a horse-mounted police unit would be set up in Nagpur, which is the second capital of Maharashtra, on the lines of the Mumbai Police. He said police personnel would be given body cameras. When asked when more than 11,000 inmates of various jails in the State, who are currently on parole, would be sent back to jails, Mr. Deshmukh said the threat of the novel coronavirus was not over yet. The minister also said that the crime graph in Nagpur city had come down compared to 2019. “Against 90 murders in 2019, Nagpur city registered 88 murders. A total of 127 robberies were registered this year as opposed to 147 recorded last year. As many as 21 chain-snatchings were reported this year compared to 56 last year,” he pointed out. Similarly, the number of rape cases stood at 152 compared to 163 last year, Mr. Deshmukh added. He said the National Crime Records Bureau’s 2019 data showed a high crime rate in Nagpur per one lakh population.
28 December 2020||new delhi,||Raid on Pracha a very serious matter, lawyers tell Amit Shah||The Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) on Sunday wrote to Home Minister Amit Shah terming the raid on the office premises of advocate Mehmood Pracha “very serious”. The Council has demanded “immediate action” from the Home Minister. Mr. Pracha is the legal representative for many of the people accused in cases connected to the north-east Delhi riots that broke out in February this year. “There has been an understanding between the representatives of the Bar Association/Bar Council and the Delhi Police that in the event of any case against an advocate, the Bar Association/Bar Council representatives will be informed and taken into confidence,” the Council said. “This broader understanding is to maintain harmony and cordiality between the two wings of the Justice Delivery System,” read the letter signed by BCD Vice-Chairman Himal Akhtar, Member Rajiv Khosla and former BCD Chairman K.C. Mittal. “This understanding seems to have not been followed in the present case. While we do not want to go to various aspects of the matter, apparently the action of the Delhi police falls short on these aspects, which is a very serious matter as far as the legal community is concerned,” the letter said. “We notice anguish and anger in the legal community, primarily because it [the raid] goes to the very root and [disrupts] independent discharge of responsibility by an advocate, as provided under the Constitution of India being integral part of the Justice Dispensation System, the Advocate Act, 1961, and the Bar Council of India Rules,” the letter stated. Meanwhile, the Delhi High Court Women Lawyers’ Forum (DHCWLF) has written to the President of the Delhi High Court Bar Association expressing concerns over the alleged recent trend of intimidation of lawyers who are representing accused persons in the Delhi riot cases. ‘Deeply concerned’ “We write to you as a group of lawyers who are deeply concerned about the recent instances where the investigating agency has been arraigning lawyers as accused in criminal cases,” the DHCWLF said. “Though, on the face of it, the proceedings initiated against such lawyers are ostensibly independent of the matters being handled by the agency, but the pattern emerging from all such instances, where lawyers are being targeted, is hard to ignore,” it added. “Raids at Mr. Pracha’s office is the latest example of such intimidation by the Delhi Police. Mr. Pracha is representing several accused persons in the riot cases. The recent trend indicates that there are other lawyers too who are being intimidated and discouraged from representing their clients in these cases,” DHCWLF said. “The larger issue is lawyers who are vocal about defending civil liberties are being systematically targeted. This is an act of vindictiveness on the part of the investigating agencies whose actions are preventing lawyers from carrying out their duties,” it said.  Lawyers who are vocal about defending civil liberties are being systematically targeted Delhi High Court Women Lawyers’ Forum
28 December 2020||New Delhi,||Dip in hospitalised, isolated patients||The national capital recorded 757 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 6,22,851, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Sunday. Sixteen more deaths were also reported in a single day, taking the death toll to 10,453. Out of the total cases, 6,05,685 patients have recovered and there are currently 6,713 active cases.  The test positivity on Sunday was 1.01%, and the death rate — based on data over the last ten days — was recorded at 2.85%. The number of containment zones in the city currently stands at 4,931. As per Delhi government records, the recovery rate in the city is currently at 97.24% with as many as 939 patients having recovered in the last 24 hours. A dip was also reported in hospitalised patients and those under home isolation. With 91 more patients discharged from hospitals, there are now 2,621 infected people hospitalised. A total of 209 patients in home isolation also recovered, bringing the total number of such patients down to 3,335.
28 December 2020||new delhi,||Quota cannot be denied by invoking technicalities: HC||The Delhi High Court has observed that reservations cannot be given with one hand and taken away by another — through invoking technicalities, and forgetting the hardship and difficulties faced by such members in accomplishing the smallest of the things, including literacy and awareness. A Bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon made the remarks while directing the government to allow a Scheduled Tribe man to submit his height relaxation certificate for recruitment as Sub-Inspector in Delhi Police, Central Armed Police Forces, and Assistant Sub-Inspector in Central Industrial Security Force. Lekhraj Meena had cleared the Computer-Based Examination (Paper-I) and Physical Standard Test (PST) during the recruitment process. However, he could not produce his height relaxation certificate while undergoing the Physical Efficiency Test (PET). Height relaxation Mr. Meena was granted five days by the examiners at the Group Centre (CRPF) in Greater Noida to produce his certificate for height relaxation. He, however, took 10 days to submit the certificate, and the examiners declined to accept it. Taking note of Mr. Meena’s petition, the court directed the government to “permit the Mr. Meena to submit the certificate”. It also directed the government to allow Mr. Meena to be considered for recruitment if the certificate is in order and he qualifies in PST/PET. The High Court remarked that “members of the STs have been granted certain reservations/relaxations, not only legislatively but also constitutionally, and shows the need therefor". “The said need has to be fulfilled, not only by providing reservations/relaxations but also by providing relaxations in implementing the said reservations and benefits conferred on the STs,” the Bench observed. “The said reservations/relaxations are in admission of the disadvantages which the STs have suffered for generations and these disadvantages place them in an unequal position vis-a-vis other citizens,” the High Court noted. “Such disadvantages extend to all parameters of daily life, making it more difficult than for others,” it said.
28 December 2020||new delhi,||One dead, two injured in Delhi road accident||A 55-year-old man was killed and two others injured when a tempo and a truck collided in south-east Delhi’s Nehru Place on Sunday, said the police. Police found the mangled vehicles on the Nehru Place flyover going towards Kalka Ji temple. “Subedar, a resident of Neb Sarai, was found in the damaged cabin of the tempo. He was sent to AIIMS where he was declared brought dead,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) R.P. Meena. Jaichand and Samsher, who were also in the tempo were sent to the hospital in an injured condition. The police said the truck driver had parked his vehicle on the road in a negligent way, obstructing traffic and resulting in the collision. A case under relevant sections of the IPC has been registered based on the statement of an eyewitness.
28 December 2020||new delhi,||Police told to preserve footage of raid||A court on Sunday directed the police to preserve the video footage of the search conducted at the premises of advocate Mehmood Pracha, a lawyer representing some of the accused in the north-east Delhi riot cases. Duty Magistrate Udhav Kumar Jain, however, did not pass any order on whether to hand over a copy of the video to Mr. Pracha. The court directed its staff to preserve the entire video of the search with its seal and place it before the court concerned for necessary orders. The court was hearing an application by Mr. Pracha in which he has alleged that he was threatened by the Investigating Officer (IO)that a false case would be registered against him. The advocate further submitted that the entire search was videographed as per a court order and that he was entitled to a copy of the video footage.
28 December 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra reports 3,314 new cases; fatality toll nears 50,000||Maharashtra’s active cases continued to rise with the State reporting a spike of 3,314 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday as opposed to just 2,124 recoveries. As per the State Health Department figures, the active cases have surged to 59,214 while the total case tally stands at 19,19,550. As many as 66 fatalities saw the death toll climb to 49,255. The cumulative recoveries are 18,09,948 while the State’s recovery rate stands at 94.29%. “Of a total 1,25,02,554 laboratory samples tested thus far, 19,19,550 (case positivity rate of 15.35%) have returned positive with over 51,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality was 2.57%. Pune district reported over 550 new cases for the second consecutive day to take its total case tally to 3,70,635 while no deaths saw its toll remain constant at 7,725. As per the district administration figures, the active cases have dipped to 7,316 while its recovery rate is 95.56%. Mumbai city recorded 578 new cases to take its total tally to 2,90,914 of whom only 8,355 are active. Eight deaths saw the city’s toll reach 11,076. Nagpur district in Vidarbha registered more than 300 new cases, taking the district’s total cases to 1,23,911 of whom 4,793 are active. As many as 16 deaths pushed the fatality count to 3,194. In western Maharashtra, Satara logged two deaths to take its toll to 1,750 while 96 fresh cases saw the total number of cases rise to 54,305 of whom 860 are active. Neighbouring Sangli added 29 cases and no deaths as the district’s reported cases touched 50,055 of whom only 341 are active. Its fatality toll remains at 1,765. Kolhapur recorded just 18 cases and a single fatality as its total case tally climbed to 49,090 of whom 569 are active. The death count has gone up to 1,658. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 350 cases and eight deaths as its total cases reached 1,14,284 of whom 2,669 are active. Its death toll has touched 1,883. Jalgaon recorded 33 new cases and a single death as its total tally rose to 55,938 of whom only 694 are active, while its fatality figure stands at 1,437. Dr. Awate said that currently, 4,57,385 people across the State were in home quarantine and 3,323 were in institutional quarantine facilities.
28 December 2020||Pune,||NCP downplays suggestions on Parth’s name for vacant Pandharpur-Magalvedha Assembly seat||With the recent death of Bharat Bhalke, the sitting Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA from Pandharpur-Magalvedha in Solapur, speculation is rife that Parth Pawar — Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar’s son and NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s grand-nephew — may be put forward as the party’s possible candidate in the by-election to be held in the near future. A section of Parth’s supporters has even written to Mr. Sharad Pawar to recommend his name as a candidate on grounds that it would augur well for the development of the temple town of Pandharpur. However, when questioned on Sunday regarding Parth’s possible ‘second chance’ in politics, NCP State president Jayant Patil, who is also the State Water Resources Minister, denied there were any such discussions within the party at the moment. Earlier, Amarjeet Patil, a local NCP leader from Solapur, had written to the NCP chief, requesting that Parth be awarded the NCP candidacy for the now-vacant Pandharpur-Magalvedha Assembly seat. “The by-election to Pandharpur-Mangalvedha must be decided on the basis of development and not on emotions. If Parth does became a legislator, he will aid in expediting pending development works in Pandharpur,” Mr. Patil’s letter read. Mr. Patil and a section of the local NCP leadership apparently believe that Parth’s candidacy would not be opposed by Bharatiya Janata Party MLC Prashant Paricharak, an influential local leader from Pandharpur, thus paving the way for an easy win for Parth. Mr. Paricharak is the nephew of the late Sudhakar Paricharak, who was a four-time legislator and the chief rival of the late Bhalke who had died in a Pune hospital in November while undergoing treatment for post-COVID-19 complications. Bhalke, along with his political rival Sudhakar Paricharak, was an influential figure in the regional politics of Solapur and that of the temple town area of Pandharpur-Mangalvedha. Sudhakar Paricharak had passed away in August following COVID-19-related complications. Meanwhile, Parth’s cousin, Rohit Pawar — another of Mr. Sharad Pawar’s grand-nephews and the current MLA from the Karjat-Jamkhed constituency in Ahmednagar — said that a decision on this [Parth’s proposed candidacy] could only be taken by the NCP chief and Mr. Ajit Pawar in consultation with other senior party leaders. “Things don’t happen just because somebody writes a letter wishing something…while justice will surely be done to the people of Pandharpur by giving them a suitable candidate, a decision on this can only be taken by the top party brass,” said Mr. Rohit Pawar, who is often viewed as the more seasoned politician in contrast to his cousin. In the 2019 Parliamentary polls, Parth, the political neophyte, became the only member of the Pawar clan to lose an election after suffering an ignominious rout in the battle for the Maval constituency. Despite the strenuous efforts of his father Mr. Ajit Pawar, who was believed to have lobbied hard first for Parth’s candidacy, and then pulled out all stops to campaign for his son’s victory, Parth was trounced by a humongous three-lakh vote margin by Shiv Sena MP Shrirang Barne. Since then, Parth’s contrarian stance on a range of issues, including the Maratha quota, has embarrassed the NCP top brass, while triggering tremors of suspicion that all is not well within the Pawar family. In August, a vexed Mr. Sharad Pawar, in an uncharacteristic public admonishment of a family member, had slammed his grand-nephew’s contrarian stance in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, dismissing Parth as “immature”.
28 December 2020||Kabul,||Afghan peace talks set to resume in Doha: official||The next round of negotiations between the Taliban and the Afghan government will be held in Qatar from next month, a top official said on Sunday, despite President Ashraf Ghani’s recent calls for them to be moved home. Peace talks began on September 12 at a luxury hotel in Doha, but negotiations are currently on a break until January 5. “The second round of talks will begin on January 5 in Doha,” said Faraidoon Khwazoon, spokesman for Afghanistan’s High Council for National Reconciliation, which is leading the overall peace process in the country. “The leadership committee of the council... decided to hold the talks in Doha,” he tweeted, adding that many of the countries that had earlier volunteered to host the talks withdrew their offers because of COVID-19. In a separate statement, the presidency tweeted that Mr. Ghani and Abdullah Abdullah, who heads the council, held a meeting on Sunday. The two “discussed the venue for the next round of talks” after which Mr. Ghani announced the government’s support for a second stage of talks with the Taliban, the presidency said. Ghani for talks in Afghanistan Earlier in December, negotiators from both sides decided to take a break after months of often frustrating meetings, which were bogged down by disputes on the basic framework of discussions and religious interpretations. Meanwhile, Mr. Ghani and some other top Afghan officials immediately called for the next round of meetings to be held in Afghanistan. “It is not appropriate to insist on holding talks in luxurious hotels. It is necessary that the people see how the talks happen, which issues are focused on and why,” Mr. Ghani said soon after the break in talks was announced. The Taliban did not comment on Mr. Ghani’s call, but they have in the past always refused to hold the negotiations in Afghanistan.
28 December 2020||WEST PALM BEACH,||Lawmakers press Trump on relief Bill as jobless aid expires||Unemployment benefits for millions of Americans struggling to make ends meet lapsed overnight as President Donald Trump refused to sign an end-of-year COVID-19 relief and spending Bill that had been considered a done deal before his sudden objections. The fate of the bipartisan package remained in limbo on Sunday as Mr. Trump continued to demand larger COVID-19 relief checks and complained about “pork” spending. Without the widespread funding provided by the massive measure, a government shutdown would occur when money runs out at 12:01 a.m. on Tuesday. “It’s a chess game and we are pawns,” said Lanetris Haines, a self-employed single mother of three in South Bend, Indiana, who stood to lose her $129 weekly jobless benefit unless Trump signed the package into law or succeeded in his improbable quest for changes. Washington has been reeling since Mr. Trump turned on the deal after it had won sweeping approval in both houses of Congress and after the White House had assured Republican leaders that Mr. Trump would support it. Instead, he assailed the Bill’s plan to provide $600 COVID-19 relief checks to most Americans — insisting it should be $2,000. House Republicans rejected that idea during a rare Christmas Eve session. But Mr. Trump has not been swayed in spite of the nation being in the grip of a pandemic. “I simply want to get our great people $2000, rather than the measly $600 that is now in the bill,” Mr. Trump tweeted on Saturday from Palm Beach, Florida, where he is spending the holiday. “Also, stop the billions of dollars in ‘pork.’” President-elect Joe Biden called on Mr. Trump to sign the Bill immediately as the midnight Saturday deadline neared for two federal programmes providing unemployment aid. “It is the day after Christmas, and millions of families don’t know if they’ll be able to make ends meet because of President Donald Trump’s refusal to sign an economic relief bill approved by Congress with an overwhelming and bipartisan majority,” Biden said in a statement. He accused Mr. Trump of an “abdication of responsibility” that has “devastating consequences.” Lauren Bauer, a fellow in economic studies at the Brookings Institution, has calculated that 11 million people would lose aid immediately without additional relief; millions more would exhaust other unemployment benefits within weeks. Andrew Stettner, an unemployment insurance expert, said the number may be closer to 14 million because joblessness has spiked since Thanksgiving.
28 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chinese delegation in Nepal for dialogue with rival NCP factions||A high-level diplomatic team led by Vice-Minister of the International Department of the Communist Party of China, Guo Yezhou, arrived in Kathmandu on Sunday to hold a dialogue with the two factions of the Nepal Communist Party (NCP). The Chinese team will meet its counterpart in Foreign Affairs Department of the NCP, led by former Prime Minister Madhav Kumar Nepal, on Monday morning. “We have fraternal relationship not just with the Communist Party of China but also with the Communist Party of India (CPI), CPI(M) and Communist Party of Bangladesh. We maintain communication among ourselves as a matter of routine. Since there have been some upheavals in Nepal in the recent past, we may share some of our thoughts with the visiting delegation too,” Ram Karki, deputy Head of Foreign Affairs Department of the NCP, told The Hindu from Kathmandu. The Chinese team is in Kathmandu to try and broker a truce between the Oli and the Prachanda-Nepal factions, which appears like a challenging task in the backdrop of the dissolution of the Pratinidhi Sabha (House of Representatives). The visiting delegation is expected to meet with co-chair of the party Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda” and Prime Minister K. P. Sharma Oli, the two figures who are leading the two factions of the ruling Nepal Communist Party, respectively. Actions of the warring factions in the past few days have indicated that the divide between the two sides is more or less complete. Mr. Karki pointed out that the division in the party “is a matter of time unless Prime Minister Oli realises that he made a mistake by dissolving the Pratinidhi Sabha on December 20.” “Unfortunately, the affairs of the NCP have reached a point where no visiting delegation can really stop it (a split in the party),” said Mr. Karki, accusing Mr. Oli of following neo-liberal agenda despite being a communist party figure. “Given his history of authoritarian behaviour, it does not appear that he will realise his mistake and in that he is sharing tendencies that we see nowadays in several other countries of the world,” said Mr. Karki. During months-long tension between the two sides, it was Chinese Ambassador to Nepal Hou Yanqi, who played a key role in creating a stable channel of dialogue between Mr. Oli and Mr. Prachanda.
28 December 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lankan police seize 20,000 kg of turmeric||Sri Lanka police on Sunday seized 20,000 kg of turmeric smuggled by sea, reportedly from India, amid a shortage persisting since Sri Lanka banned imports to support local farmers in the pandemic year. Four Sri Lankan nationals were arrested, police said. “The consignment had been loaded to a fishing trawler mid-sea. We suspect it came from India. It was apprehended along the island’s southern coast,” police spokesman DIG Ajith Rohana told The Hindu . The pandemic, which hit Sri Lanka in March, has severely impacted its economy, prompting the government to restrict imports and pledge greater support to local farmers. Sri Lanka consumes an estimated 7,000 tonnes of turmeric annually — the ingredient is widely used across different cuisines in the island nation — and nearly 5,000 tonnes were imported from India until COVID-19 struck the country. Meanwhile, consumers are still finding it hard to purchase turmeric at reasonable prices in the capital and other districts, and point to a black market where a kg is sold for up to LKR 5,000 (roughly Rs. 1,940), though the government capped the maximum retail price of turmeric powder at LKR 750 (about Rs. 291) a kg. Agriculture Department officials had earlier indicated that local production may pick up by early 2021, but it remains to be seen how much of the local demand their produce can meet.    Earlier this year, Colombo-based traders wrote to the government, seeking the release of 1 million kg of turmeric, imported from India prior to the pandemic, and stuck at the Colombo Port, to ease the pressure in the local market. The consignment is yet to be cleared for sale in the local markets, sources said.
28 December 2020||Islamabad,||Pearl murder: Sindh govt. will not free four accused||Pakistan’s Sindh province government has decided not to release British-born al-Qaeda leader Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh and his three aides, accused of kidnapping and murdering U.S. journalist Daniel Pearl, in view of a Supreme Court order, according to a media report. In a surprise move, a two-judge Bench of the Sindh High Court on Thursday directed security agencies not to keep Sheikh and other accused under “any sort of detention” and declared all notifications of the Sindh government related to their detention “null and void”. The court observed that the four men’’s detention was “illegal”. The court, however, had clarified that the accused should not be released if there is a Supreme Court restraining order regarding their detention. Citing its sources, the Express Tribune newspaper said that the provincial government will not release these men in view of the Supreme Court’’s September 28 order. A three-judge apex court Bench headed by Justice Mushir Alam, which is hearing the appeal by the Sindh government, on September 28 noted that till the next date of hearing, the accused shall not be released.
28 December 2020||QUETTA,||Seven killed in attack in Balochistan||At least seven Pakistani security men were killed when a group of militants attacked a paramilitary checkpoint early on Sunday in a province rocked for years by an insurgency, a statement from Pakistan’s Army said. Officials say gunmen attacked the Frontier Corps post in the district of Harnai in Balochistan province. Senior police officer Shawli Tareen gave a slightly higher death toll than the Army, saying that six paramilitary troops and two private guards were killed. He said six other troops were critically wounded in the attack. The attackers fled the scene and made their way into the mountainous terrain before other security teams could arrive to assist. The attack on the Frontier Corps comes a day after a bomb exploded near a soccer field, killing two spectators and wounding another six in Panjgur district in southwestern Baluchistan. No group immediately claimed responsibility for either attack.
28 December 2020||TEHRAN,||ML--Iran-Avalanche||A series of avalanches in Iran killed 10 people in a mountainous area north of the capital, state TV reported on Sunday. The report said rescue teams were searching for a number of missing people after the avalanches struck in four different areas on Alborz mountain range. State TV aired footage of emergency crews using a helicopter to search for those missing and injured. The incidents happened on Friday following strong winds and snowfall a day earlier.AP
28 December 2020||NIAMEY,||AF-Niger-Elections||Niger is voting on Sunday in presidential and legislative elections that could see the West African country’s first democratic transition of power since independence amid a growing threat from jihadists in the region. Polls opened with a good turnout. Some 7.4 million Nigeriens are voting to elect legislators and the successor to President Mahamadou Issoufou. Attacks by Islamic extremists has affected local elections for weeks.AP
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Notes from a year of unease||The year 2020 was a debilitating one for much of the world, India included. India had more than its share of problems. As 2020 comes to a close, it might be worthwhile to take a hard look at these issues to ensure that 2021 does not become another wasted year. Pandemic and other issues The COVID-19 pandemic, which embraced every segment of Indian society and at a conservative estimate afflicted more than a crore of its citizens (leading to about 1.5 lakh fatalities), was the most insidious threat. News of the availability of more than one vaccine for treatment of COVID-19 has by no means changed the element of fatalism that has gripped society. Apart from the pandemic, 2020 witnessed other events that aggravated the sense of unease. Since April, India has confronted an unprecedented situation on the border with China in eastern Ladakh. Unprovoked Chinese aggression at several points even led to the death of a score of Indian soldiers. Ever since, the border has remained live; as of now there is no end in sight. Chinese intransigence has led to a grave hiatus in India-China relations. Internal problems such as Naxalite violence and Jammu and Kashmir endured during much of 2020. The resentment caused by the altered status of J&K and the incarceration of political leaders has yet to subside, even as J&K held elections to its District Development Councils. West Bengal is beginning to resemble a ‘war zone’ as it prepares for Assembly elections in 2021. Relations between Delhi and Kolkata are at their nadir today, and grave concerns exist about violence during the elections. The divide between West Bengal and the Centre is also mirrored in the relations between the Centre and other Opposition-ruled States, a grim commentary on the state of Centre-State relations today. Highly damaging from the point of view of any established democracy was the resort to populist demagoguery, mainly by the ruling dispensation intended to obscure ground realities, to achieve desired political ends. This has led to unprecedented levels of political polarisation. Linked to this is also a policy of engineering defections which has plumbed new depths. The recourse to vitriolic public discourse is again a sad commentary on India’s democracy today. Not entirely unrelated to this is the diminishing role and utility of Parliament as a platform for an honest exchange of views. The sanctity of Parliament was further undermined in 2020 with sessions being dispensed with under various pretexts. On other parameters as well, 2020 proved to be a bad year. The economy is in recession. India has slipped further down the scale in the Human Development Index. Slippages have occurred in the Global Economic Freedom Index. New items of legislation on social issues (a law against forced conversion by marriage, for instance) tend to aggravate an already divisive polity. The farmers’ agitation is another instance where official intransigence has led to a situation in which the Supreme Court had sought to intervene, though without tangible results. Challenges for the year ahead Restoring India’s image in 2021 will, hence, not be easy. The moot question is where to begin. For all the criticism, and notwithstanding a perceived decline on many parameters, three aspects in favour of the ruling dispensation stand out: a string of electoral successes for the ruling party; the personal popularity of the Prime Minister; and the absence of any serious competitor on the national stage. This provides the ruling party with a relative degree of freedom to undertake major changes, including structural shifts, provided it is not overly consumed by the euphoria that it has decimated the Opposition and faces no real challenge. Whether those in authority will display sufficient sagacity to recognise this is the key question that will decide the future of 2021. Winning elections is one aspect. Achieving an emotional connect is another. More critical, however, is the need to deliver on promises and understand the seriousness of newer challenges the nation faces. New thinking is a sine qua non if India is to bounce back from a situation that was catastrophic by any standard. It may need a total makeover of the decision-making process and the giving up of many entrenched ideas and concepts. More than anything else, the tendency of some in authority to indulge in rhetorical flourishes must be avoided; they must aim instead at achieving tangible outcomes. It is the ability of a government to deliver on current issues that matter in the final reckoning, and for this the government must demonstrate effective leadership. It might be best if the authorities begin by ticking off a list of problems left over from 2020, and consider how best to achieve results. In the realm of foreign policy, India must not remain content or satisfied with the current stand-off with China in the Ladakh sector. India should think of what better options are available to it to resolve a conflict that is certainly working to its disadvantage, and is enabling many of its neighbours to play China against India. If India is to be viewed as the only nation in Asia that can stand-up to the China challenge, it must come up with a whole new paradigm of ideas on which further actions can be formulated. Statements critical of China, even amounting to abuse in many instances, are hardly an answer to the most serious foreign policy challenge the country faces. The state of the economy should be next. Mere claims that the economy has rebounded hardly suffice. India must seek, in all honesty, to enhance its competitive advantage vis-a-vis other nations which, according to various global indices, appear to be performing better than India. Misleading concepts that an export-oriented economic strategy is damaging — implicitly suggesting that India should look inward rather than outwards to enlarge its economy — need to be rejected, and India should enhance its export capacity. India’s real strength flows from its diversity, and its ability to utilise all available opportunities. In 2021, we need to see India’s genius blooming in full measure. Side by side with this, all attempts to tamper with technological and academic excellence, as prompted in some quarters during 2020, need to be avoided. The other pressing challenge in 2021 would be job creation for the youth, who are India’s most abiding asset. The government must take urgent steps to set right the disruptions in the labour market caused by the pandemic and other contributory factors. Creating new jobs in new industries should be a critical requirement. Stimulating demand would ensure growth in job opportunities, and this should go hand in hand with this task. The importance of such measures must not be underestimated. Restoring confidence Next year must be the year in which a serious attempt is made by the government, and Delhi in particular, to restore confidence in constitutional proprieties, practices and principles. There is an impression amongst those who have differences or disagreements with the ruling dispensation at the Centre that the latter is violating the principles and rules sanctified by the Constitution, and that the Opposition’s rights are being steadily undermined. The intention, according to the latter, is to achieve single-party rule across the entire nation. It could well be argued that this is a total misunderstanding or misreading of the actions taken by the Centre, but it is apparent that there is a crisis of confidence which is affecting the body politic. In these circumstances, perceptions appear to have as much impact as facts. In 2021, this impression needs to be reversed. The starting point would be effecting an improvement in Centre-State relations, particularly between Delhi and States ruled by Opposition parties. 2021 could well be the make-or-break point as far as this delicate balance enshrined in our federal Constitution is concerned. As digital technology advances, other concerns that an unduly centralised Central government could use this to further reduce the independent authority of States will again need to be dispelled. Effective cooperation between the Centre and the States must be restored as early as possible to instil confidence about India’s democratic future. M.K. Narayanan is former National Security Advisor and former Governor of West Bengal
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The facade cracks for China||The Spring Festival is when the Chinese are at their sprightly best. The spectacular dragon and lion dances, music performances, and people sending out New Year greetings create a festive air. This year, however, the COVID-19 outbreak disrupted the revelry, forcing the government to order citizens to be sequestered in their homes. But in the aftermath of the world grappling with the contagion, China seemed to embody Winston Churchill’s saying: never let a good crisis go to waste. Hong Kong became one of the most significant arenas where the Communist Party of China came down with full might. The special administration region, which enjoys autonomy, had been on the boil since June 2019 over a legislation (which was later scrapped) that would allow the local government to extradite criminals to the mainland. Demonstrators had resorted to vandalism over the law, an act that the Communist Party of China saw as a challenge to its writ. The island had witnessed protests earlier in 2014, when demonstrators lay siege to parts of the island seeking reforms to the electoral process. This time round, the reprisals were swift and unflinching. On June 30, 2020, minutes before the anniversary of Hong Kong’s handover to China by the British, China’s legislature approved a new national security law for Hong Kong. While critics contend that the law essentially curbs dissent and civil liberties, China insists it will in help restoration of stability. Beijing backed up its efforts to bring to heel a recalcitrant opposition by passing another law that empowers the government to expel lawmakers in Hong Kong’s Legislative Council without recourse to judicial process. Following this, four legislators were disqualified over national security grounds, and the remaining Opposition resigned in protest. Beyond Hong Kong, China also took on Taiwan, challenged India along the Himalayan frontier, escalated tensions in the South and East China Seas, bullied European nations, and flexed its trade muscles vis-à-vis Australia. At a time when global multilateralism has been facing serious challenges, China’s manipulation of institutions like the World Health Organization has led to an even greater sense of disenchantment with the multilateral order. No room for dissent In the domestic sphere, too, there has been a clean-up even among the Party’s own ranks. Cai Xia, a former professor at the Communist Party’s Central Party School that grooms its top leadership, was expelled in August for calling President Xi Jinping a ‘mafia boss’. Ms. Cai, who has been a champion of political reform, is living abroad. Another comrade, Ren Zhiqiang, who obliquely criticised Mr. Xi’s management of the pandemic, received an 18-year jail sentence on bribery charges. Mr. Ren’s father had served as one of Mao Zedong’s vice-ministers; Ms. Cai’s parents had taken part in the 1949 Communist Revolution. Financial czar Jack Ma was left red-faced after his Ant Group’s $37 billion IPO was grounded ahead of its debut in November. China’s second-richest man had earlier slammed financial regulators at a conclave of bankers, and an expose in 2017 of a politburo member’s daughter in a newspaper controlled by Mr. Jack had not gone down well. Red ‘Princelings’ now know that the Communist Party is in no mood to brook any dissent. Businessmen may be the economy’s stars, but the message that the Party is the ship’s captain, is clear. For nearly four decades, China pursued an exports-led growth strategy called ‘international circulation’, entrenching itself into production networks. The economy is now charting a new course due to factors like bleak economic outlook of nations reeling from the pandemic, the U.S. imposing restrictions against Chinese technology firms, and its ‘decoupling’ push. Under the new strategy, China will make domestic consumption a bigger engine of growth, while also relying on international circulation. Mr. Xi announced at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit this year that the new policy will come into effect from 2021. During the Bund Summit, a conclave of regulators and bankers held in Shanghai, China signalled that it will improve financial ties with the world. The China Securities Regulatory Commission is building more channels for investors based abroad to put their money into capital markets on the mainland. The fine print of how China plans to execute the shift from an export-led growth strategy to bolstering its domestic market will become clearer once the 14th five-year plan is approved by its legislature in early 2021. ‘Wolf Warrior’ approach Cinema is a reflection of society — every nation likes to see its imagined persona on screen. The ‘Wolf Warrior’ series, in which the Chinese assume the onerous responsibility of “saving the world”, has undercurrents of the nation’s exceptionalism. These movies seem to be having an impact on an unlikely quarter — China’s diplomatic corps. Mr. Xi has repeatedly highlighted the need for developing a “fighting spirit” to breach the hurdles facing China. On a state visit to Nepal, Mr. Xi warned that a bid to divide China would end in “smashed bodies and bones ground to powder”. This aggressive posturing is far removed from Deng Xiaoping’s counsel to ‘keep a low profile’. Instead of building goodwill, China’s envoys used their official social media handles to push a theory that American military was the cause of COVID-19, and trolled Australia over alleged war crimes committed by its elite soldiers fighting in Afghanistan. Quizzed about the verbal bellicosity of its representatives abroad, Foreign Minister Wang Yi asserted that they would certainly push back against insults to national honour. The Trump Administration also took on China frontally, both bilaterally and in concert with other nations, even as the State Department released a comprehensive report which is being described as a potential blueprint for the U.S.’s response to China’s rise as an authoritarian superpower. By escalating a tariff war with China, U.S. President Donald Trump underscored the need for a potential economic decoupling of the world’s two major economies. During his election campaign, President-elect Joe Biden, too, took a hard line vis-à-vis China, and it is unlikely that his approach towards China would radically alter the trajectory of America’s China policy. And the more pushback Mr. Xi faces globally, the more aggressive his domestic and foreign policy agenda is likely to become. The muzzling of anti-establishment voices in Hong Kong, ‘wolf warrior’ diplomacy, and an aggressive pursuit of national interests have hurt China’s image. A survey by the Pew Research Center across 14 nations shows that a majority of the respondents have an unfavourable opinion of China. Today’s China aspires to be a global power but bristles at criticism, domestic or foreign. Many in China may see this year as one in which the country came into its own as a power dictating the global agenda, but for many around the world, this is also the year when China’s vulnerabilities, as well the challenges it poses to the global order, became all too apparent. Harsh V. Pant is Director, Studies at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF) and Professor at King’s College London. Kalpit A. Mankikar is Fellow with Strategic Studies Programme, ORF
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Towards an effective vaccination distribution policy||India plans to vaccinate 300 million people against COVID-19 over the next 6-7 months. The government plans to give priority to healthcare workers and other front-line workers, followed by everyone who is above 50 years of age. This will mean that roughly 20% of the population will be vaccinated by July or August 2021. Since all the vaccines that are currently in the spotlight require two doses, the government will have to acquire 600 million doses. Fortunately, Pune’s Serum Institute of India is the world’s largest producer of vaccines. There are reports that the government has already struck a deal with the Serum Institute to acquire 500 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine. Emergency authorisation for this vaccine is likely to follow soon. There are other vaccine frontrunners including Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and the Russian Sputnik V whose clinical trials in India are being conducted by Reddy’s Labs. So, provided that there are no last-minute setbacks, the government should have no problems in acquiring the required number of doses. A few issues are worth discussing. Perhaps the most important is the principle underlying the triage scheme adopted by the government. A different and somewhat contentious issue is whether the government will allow private players any space in the vaccination process. Who gets priority? The government’s strategy of giving priority to front-line workers and elderly people is in line with the practice being followed in the U.K. and the U.S., the two major countries that have been the leaders in the COVID-19 vaccination drive. The rationale for this is to protect those who are most likely to be infected in the future as well as those who are most vulnerable to the health consequences of the infection. However, a vaccination drive such as this should have two distinct objectives: one, providing protection to those vaccinated, and two, to minimise or at least slow down the speed and spread of the viral transmission. Ideally, a vaccine distribution programme should keep both these in mind. In some cases, there is no conflict between these two objectives. For instance, the priority given to healthcare professionals satisfies both objectives: these are individuals who have high levels of exposure and they also act as active disease vectors since they interact with large numbers of people. However, the priority given to older people may not actually minimise the total social and economic cost inflicted by the virus in the long run. The elderly are less mobile, have a lower level of social interaction, and are hence less likely to spread the virus. Obviously, a younger person who interacts with a larger number of people is both more likely to be infected and subsequently infect others. This suggests that densely populated areas — for instance, the Dharavi slum — should receive far more attention than they are likely to get under the current strategy. Of course, the point is that allocation guidelines must squarely face the trade-offs between the direct and indirect objectives. This is a difficult trade-off but one about which reasoned thought is essential.  Involving private hospitals The government’s procurement strategy seems to depend entirely on domestic sources. It also plans to rely entirely on public resources for distribution without involving private hospitals. Moreover, the government plans to bear the entire cost of vaccination. The latter is particularly important and appropriate since crucial health facilities should be accessible to all. But consider the following proposition. Suppose Pfizer or some other multinational pharmaceutical company approaches the government both for authorisation of a vaccine as well as for permission to import and sell (for a profit) to those who can afford it. Let us assume, in order to focus on the ethical issue, that the vaccine is medically safe and effective. What should the government do? Any approval from the government will enable the affluent to jump the vaccination queue. This will inevitably attract the charge that the government is catering to the interests of the richer groups in the population. But perhaps a more dispassionate analysis would suggest that allowing the private sector to provide additional supplies of the vaccine would not really be a bad policy decision after all — even when the interests of the poor are taken into account. The most important consideration that has to be kept in mind is that this would not decrease the availability of the vaccine to the poor. Of course, this assumes that the government will and should continue to procure all available domestically produced vaccines and supply them through its own distribution channel. In other words, it should follow its own distribution policies as if the additional sources of supply do not exist. It has to ensure that there is no reduction in the availability of the vaccine for the poor. In fact, there may actually be an increase in supply and hence less waiting time for the less affluent since some of the richer individuals in the target group will opt out of the government distribution system and prefer to get vaccinated at some private outlet. Another potential benefit accruing to the entire population is that the larger the numbers who get vaccinated, the lower will be the speed of virus transmission amongst the non-vaccinated. But is it all likely that private suppliers will request government permission to import and distribute the vaccine in India? Two recent headlines suggest that this is possible. The first is the news that the regulatory authorities have authorised the emergency use of the Moderna vaccine across the U.S. Several other vaccines are already conducting Phase 3 trials and there is a strong possibility that there will be a significant boost in the global supply of COVID-19 vaccines. The second is that a Belgian Minister has revealed very sensitive price information by tweeting the prices that the European Union has agreed to pay for leading COVID-19 vaccines. It turns out that these prices are substantially lower than the prices that Moderna and Pfizer, for example, have been quoting to other countries. For instance, the tweet reveals that Moderna will be charging $18 per dose while Pfizer’s price at €12 is even lower. In contrast, Indian newspapers have mentioned that Pfizer is contemplating a price of $37 per dose in India. Of course, the EU could get a very good deal simply because the large size of its market gives it a lot of bargaining power. But India too provides a large market even if the cost of vaccination is around Rs. 5,000. Of course, some centralised purchasing will be essential in order to exploit the bargaining power associated with the size of the market. But this should not be particularly hard to achieve. Bhaskar Dutta is Professor of Economics, Ashoka University
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Yearning for an end to impunity||Year-end commemorative columns have a common streak. They either tend to capture an encouraging trend or document a limiting reality that has gained ground. For the year 2020, the obvious choice would be the corrosive impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on journalism. A sobering report by Taylor Mulcahey ofIJNettalked about some of the changes that have taken place within journalism since the spread of the pandemic. She wrote, “Whether it’s burnout from working extra hours, layoffs at a local news publication, or misinformation spreading in WhatsApp groups, the health crisis has placed extra pressure on an industry already facing an uncertain future.” In some of my earlier columns, I have written about how the health crisis has led to remote reporting and news gathering and how that has hit one of the fundamental tenets of journalism — bearing witness. Shrinking space Despite these profound impacts, I am not going to dwell on the pandemic, but will look at some of the other factors that are chipping away at our democratic spaces and shrinking elbow room for dissent, difference and dialogue. This shift in the pattern of behaviour in the public sphere is nearly a decade old and clearly predates the pandemic. Many media scholars have pointed out that digital empowerment reached its peak around the Arab Spring. Irish writer Colum McCann described the moment: “The light from the Arab Spring rose from the ground up; the hope is now that the darkness doesn’t fall”. But, as Jessi Hempel of Wired points out, “the darkness has fallen”. It is no longer about digital empowerment — our concern has shifted to digital disruption and the rapid consolidation by Silicon Valley conglomerates. In the last decade, we truly entered an era where strongman leaders, to borrow a phrase from Toni Morrison, “spawned a thicket of new laws authorizing chaos in defense of order”. These laws are as restrictive, or indeed in many instances, more restrictive than colonial judicial orders. In the constant attrition between citizens and the state, the die is firmly cast in favour of the latter. Citizens are trying in vain to find ways to restore the balance in which their dignity will not be trampled upon with impunity. Responsible reporting Are there journalistic means to confront something as fantastic as “Annual Flat Earth International Conference” in the United States? Why are science-deniers given space in the media in the name of fair representation? Is it right to give space to those who misguide and invent a mythical past and present? Why are we using the term ‘alternative facts’ for outright lies? It is well-documented that misinformation is germinated, incubated and nurtured by those who wield power. What should be the nature of reporting that is socially responsible? We must remember that it is not only journalism, but journalists, too, who are facing existential questions. I have been following the painstaking documentation done by FreeSpeechCollective on the constant threat to a constitutionally guaranteed right. FreeSpeechCollective is an initiative by journalists, activists and lawyers to protect the right to freedom of expression and vigorously promote free speech and the right to dissent. Its “Impunity Indicator” tracks excesses against journalists and other democratic actors and documents the failures of various institutions — the executive, police and the judiciary — in protecting fundamental rights. Any reader who goes through the details put out by the collective will agree with its assertion that these details are indeed “a grim reminder of the tortuous, but dogged, resistance to the silencing of free speech, put up by families, friends and colleagues”. Their latest report, ‘Behind Bars’, that records the arrests and detentions of journalists in India in the decade 2010-2020, should galvanise everyone to act. The study points out how various laws — the Indian Penal Code, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, sections of the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act, and Section 144 of the CrPC — were used to silence critical voices. The report reads, “Seventy-three of the 154 cases documented in this study have been reported from BJP-ruled states. Another 30 cases were reported from states ruled by BJP and its National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Of the cases in BJP-ruled states, Uttar Pradesh led the pack with 29 cases.” I fervently hope 2021 ushers in a better environment for free speech and democracy. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||A costly deal for Sudan||The recent U.S. move to remove Sudan’s designation, which had been in place since 1993, as a state that sponsors terrorism could potentially come at a huge price that no sovereign nation should demand, or another acquiesce to. The Sudanese government’s recognition of the state of Israel — which looms as Khartoum’s trade-off for the terror delisting — should be the sole prerogative of the people of that country, not of a superpower such as Washington or any other to arbitrarily impose its will. Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok had himself articulated the dilemma that his unelected government should take upon itself the responsibility for such a pivotal decision to accord formal recognition to Israel, given the sensitive historical background. That goes back to the time when Khartoum played host to the Arab League gathering, which adopted the so-called “three nos” resolution to deny recognition, initiate negotiations and seek peace with Israel, in the wake of the 1967 Six-Day war. It would seem a stretch to assume that bilateral relations between the two countries were germane to a determination of Sudan’s status on the international stage. On the other hand, the factors that influenced the designation of Sudan as a sponsor of terrorism are relatively clear. They relate to the former military regime’s backing for the Palestine Liberation Organization, Hamas and Hezbollah, besides the harbouring of Osama bin Laden until 1996. Sudan is a rather different country now since the overthrow of the 30-year-long dictatorship of Omar Hassan al-Bashir in the popular uprising in 2019. The democratic transition that has been underway in the North African country since August 2019 is expected to lead to general elections in 2022. The ultimate objective of the mass uprising was, after all, to ensure that the military, which still shares power in the transitional government, returned to the barracks. The reintegration of Sudan into the global community via a renegotiation of its national debt and reopening of investment opportunities would be crucial ingredients for this overall endeavour. The country has suffered a crippling impact from the loss of vast oil reserves to South Sudan, which seceded in 2011. The COVID-19 pandemic and the worst floods in a century have compounded the problems of food shortages, skyrocketing inflation, and severe unemployment. The deal struck with the United States will provideSudancrucial access to global financial institutions, resume dollar-denominated transactions, and revive foreign investment after nearly three decades. Long in the making In fact, the stage had been set for the removal from the terrorism bracket with the easing of U.S. economic sanctions in 2017, which was followed by the exchange of ambassadors between the two countries after 23 years in 2019. Unfortunately, what has proved decisive in an appraisal of Sudan’s emerging status is President Donald Trump’s own electoral calculations and his several highly controversial interventions in the West Asian peace process. The transactional approach towards a matter that has implications for global security was perhaps too awkward for Washington. As such, for the record at least, the terror delisting has been treated as an outcome in exchange for a compensation payment of $335 million for the victims of the 1998 Al Qaeda attacks on U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. Sudan has, for its part, stopped short of a commitment to re-establish normal diplomatic relations with Israel, and opening of embassies is not part of the agreement. There is concern that the recent turn of events could ease the pressure on the military to hand over the former dictator, Mr. Bashir, to the International Criminal Court for investigations of genocide and war crimes. Apprehension on that score is only legitimate, given that the U.S., which is not a signatory to the Rome Statute that underpins the Hague Court, has sought to block its operations. The assertion of national sovereignty is integral to Sudan’s democracy. garimella.subramaniam@thehindu.co.in
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Limited partnership||The Congress-Left Front alliance for the Assembly election in West Bengal is notable for several reasons, though not unexpected. Both have been cooperating at the national level for several years now, and were partners in the recent Assembly election in Bihar. The CPI(ML), which was part of the ‘grand alliance’ in Bihar, is not part of the alliance in West Bengal. The Congress and the Left Front argue, and perhaps even believe, that the election will not be a straight contest between the AITMC led by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and the BJP. Both the Congress and the Left Front are staring at extinction in the State, caught in the crossfire of the intense battle between the BJP and the AITMC. The alliance is an effort to salvage what is left of their support base and consolidate their meagre resources. The downslide of the Left Front did not end with its ouster from power in 2011 after 34 years. Rising from the ashes of the Left Front was AITMC, but the shallowness of its politics was soon apparent. The BJP rose even more dramatically, winning more than 40% of the votes and 18 Lok Sabha seats in the State in 2019. An argument in support of the Congress-Left Front alliance is that those who rallied behind the BJP and the AITMC in recent years because they dislike the other more will have a new alternative now. However, that scenario of a return of voters and workers to the Congress and Left Front appears too optimistic. More likely, the impact of the alliance will be restricted to constituencies that have a considerable Muslim population. A second claimant for the anti-BJP votes in around one-third of the total 294 constituencies could significantly aid the Hindutva party’s bid for power.  The alliance leaders do not consider Ms. Banerjee any less an enemy than the BJP. An element of personal rivalry is evident, but the Congress and the Left Front may also be hoping to emerge as a viable anti-BJP platform in the State, following the eviction of Ms. Banerjee from power. At present, however, the alliance is more a sign of confusion than a strategy for resurgence for both the Congress and the Left Front. Cohabitation will not cure the structural and ideological disabilities of either or change the environmental factors. In fact, this alliance in West Bengal could aggravate the troubles for both in Kerala, where they will be principal opponents in the Assembly election. The BJP has made significant inroads in the State, which was evident in the recent local body elections. The geographically selective alliance of the Congress and the Left Front is difficult to implement on the ground, and might end up opening new avenues for the BJP.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Essential dry run||In the next couple of weeks, Phase-3 data of two COVID-19 vaccines tested by Indian manufacturers are expected to be submitted for emergency use approval. If even one of the vaccines gets the approval, a countrywide rollout to immunise the four high-risk groups starting with healthcare workers will begin soon thereafter. India has been vaccinating millions of young children with a variety of vaccines each year and hence has the entire system in place to roll out any new vaccine under the universal immunisation programme. But this is the first time a vaccine to be administered outside the programme and specifically for adults is to be rolled out. Since several aspects of the COVID-19 vaccination programme are new — vaccinating millions of adults belonging to specific groups, administering two doses of the vaccine a few weeks apart, and the process of enrolling the recipients and rolling out the immunisation programme — the government has rightly decided to undertake a dry run for vaccine administration. The dry run is expected to be initiated this week in four States — Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, and Punjab. It will allow the administrators to test the vaccination process and check the usage of the Co-WIN IT platform for management of the entire vaccination process including data entry, allocation of date and time and a drill of session sites with test beneficiaries. The linkages between planning, implementation and reporting mechanisms will also be tested. Since four high-risk groups have been prioritised to receive the vaccine, the first task is to register the recipients on the Co-WIN platform. Unlike vaccinating children under the universal immunisation programme, the COVID-19 vaccine will be administered to 100 adults at each designated site on a pre-defined date and time. Prior to vaccination, the bona fide of the registered adults are to be determined. The IT platform has to generate the date and time when people can receive the second dose. When more than one vaccine becomes available, it is essential to ensure that people receive the same vaccine twice. Checking and reporting of all adverse events immediately and days after the vaccination is essential, all the more as no COVID-19 vaccine has undergone long-term follow-up for safety during the trial. Both the vaccines that are at an advanced stage of testing in India do not require ultra-low temperature for delivery and storage. Hence, the existing facilities of the universal immunisation programme in most districts can be used for storing the vaccines. As the plan is to vaccinate 300 million people in the four high-risk groups, 600 million doses will be required. This exercise should therefore look at creating additional storage capacity at these facilities to store millions of COVID-19 vaccines, as facilities for vaccine storage cannot be dedicated to a single vaccine.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||President Dissolves the Lok Sabha Poll Completion by Early March||[New Delhi, Dec. 27] The Lok Sabha was dissolved to-day a year ahead of schedule to enable Mrs. Indira Gandhi’s Government to seek a fresh mandate from the people. A communique issued from Rashtrapati Bhavan to-night said that the President Mr. V.V. Giri had accepted the advice of the Union Cabinet to dissolve the Lok Sabha. The communique was issued after Mrs. Gandhi had called on Mr. Giri and conveyed to him the Cabinet’s decision to go in for a mid-term poll. The Cabinet held an emergency meeting this evening at short notice. The President signed the momentous order dissolving the Lok Sabha around 9 to-night. Informed sources said the election would be completed before March 8. While the communique did not make a reference to a poll, the Prime Minister in a broadcast to the nation to-night expressed the hope that mid-term elections to the Lok Sabha would be completed “in time for the Lok Sabha to assemble in March 1971, well before the end of the current financial year”.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping a watch on your financial health||The economic uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic led to widespread job losses, income disruptions, liquidity crisis and debt repayment failures for a large section of people. On the investment front, equity markets officially entered the bearish market zone during the months of March and April, creating panic among many investors while presenting a wealth creation opportunity for the more seasoned ones. With 2020 drawing to a close, it would be prudent to apply the lessons learnt for long-term financial fitness. Handling disruption Income disruptions and job losses caused by the pandemic have re-emphasised the importance of having an adequate emergency fund in place. These disruptions caused a large number of borrowers and credit card holders to opt for a moratorium on loan and credit card repayments. Only those who had adequate emergency funds prior to the pandemic were able to manage their expenses and make debt repayments despite the disruption. Those who did not have emergency funds to fall back on might have ended up liquidating their long-term investments and/or failed to repay their debt commitments. Hence, ensure that you create an emergency fund large enough to meet unavoidable expenses such as rent, daily living expenses, children’s education, EMIs, other debt repayment obligations, insurance premiums, utility bills, and monthly contributions towards crucial financial goals for at least six months. As financial emergencies can strike any time, park your fund in liquid instruments such as savings accounts to make instant withdrawals. Those comfortable with Internet or mobile banking can park their funds in high-yield fixed deposits offered by small finance banks and other scheduled banks. There could not have been a bigger wake-up call than the pandemic to help us realise the importance of having adequate health insurance. It served to remind us that a single hospitalisation bill could easily wipe out one’s life savings in the absence of health insurance. Hence, one of the most crucial financial steps to take in 2021 is to purchase adequate health and critical insurance policies to cover unforeseen medical expenses for you and your family. Even those covered under an employer’s group cover should buy a separate health insurance policy. Employer-provided health covers are often inadequate to deal with rising healthcare costs and would only be valid till the period of employment. Economic uncertainties also led to steep corrections in the equity markets in March and April. This resulted in the value in most SIPs, which had started in the last 3-4 years, turning deep red. Such a steep fall in returns resulted in many investors panicking and halting their equity SIPs due to fear of further losses. Allow no breaks However, what these investors failed to realise is that such losses are only notional and become real only when the investor redeems his/her investments at a loss. Equity markets had started to steadily recover from April as the government gradually began unlocking the economy, and market indices started to reach new highs from November. Hence, investors who continued with SIPs throughout the year purchased units at a much lower cost, averaged out their investment cost and would now be registering much higher returns vis-a-vis investors who halted their SIPs. The periods of steep market corrections similar to the one seen in March and April this year serve as an excellent opportunity for long-term wealth creation. As quality equities are available at very attractive valuations during such bearish market phases, mutual fund investors with investible surplus should exploit such market conditions by making lump sum investments in a staggered manner to top up their existing equity fund investments. Such moves would allow them to average out their investment cost at much lower levels and can even help them reach their set target corpus sooner than expected. However, while topping up equity investments during future market corrections, avoid using emergency funds or money set aside for short-term goals. Any financial emergency or the maturity of a short-term financial goal during a prolonged bearish market can force you to redeem your investments at a loss or seek loans to meet your fund shortfalls at higher interest rates.  (The author is CEO & Co-founder, Paisabazaar.com )    A crucial financial step for 2021 is to buy adequate health and critical insurance to cover medical expenses
28 December 2020||Ravikanth,||loose change||
28 December 2020||Melbourne,||Rahane century puts India in driving seat||Stand-in skipper Ajinkya Rahane rode his luck to hit a gritty unbeaten century as India built an ominous 82-run lead over Australia on day two of the second Test here on Sunday. Batting at four, he faced 200 balls for his 104 to steer India to 277 for five before rain ended play 15 minutes early. Ravindra Jadeja was batting on 40. Frustrating day The hosts took just four wickets during a frustrating day in the field as the match began to slip away with India zeroing in on levelling the series after losing the first Test by eight wickets in Adelaide. While Rahane was the hero, it was a gutsy team performance, with three 50-plus wicket partnerships. Debutant Shubman Gill chipped in with an impressive 45. On a steamy day, India resumed on 36 for one. The Australian attack consistently hit its line and length with Pat Cummins bagging Gill then Cheteshwar Pujara for 17. That brought Rahane to the crease and — first with Hanuma Vihari, then Rishabh Pant and Jadeja — he built half-century stands to put India in a strong position. He brought up his 12th Test ton in his 67th game, and his second in Melbourne, with a four off Cummins, but enjoyed some good fortune in the form of dropped catches. Starc’s 250, Paine’s 150 That brought the exuberant Pant to the crease. He scored a breezy 29 before becoming Starc's 250th Test victim, caught by Tim Paine for his 150th dismissal.
28 December 2020||Los Angeles,||McCollum stars for Trail Blazers||C.J. McCollum drained the game-winning three-pointer with 6.9 seconds left in overtime as Portland Trail Blazers edged James Harden and short-handed Houston Rockets 128-126 on Saturday. McCollum scored 44 points, with a career-high nine three-pointers, and Damian Lillard added 32 as the Trail Blazers withstood a 44-point, 17-assist performance by Harden. Christian Wood added 31 points for the Rockets. Rockets had just nine players in uniform — one above the NBA minimum of eight — after two players tested positive for COVID-19 and four more were listed as unavailable due to “health and safety protocols” after being declared close contacts of those with the virus. The Rockets’ scheduled season opener against Oklahoma City had been postponed when they could not field eight players. Harden was among those unavailable on Wednesday after he was deemed to have violated NBA protocols that ban players from attending indoor gatherings of more than 15 people. He was fined $50,000, in the latest instalment of the pre-season drama surrounding Harden, who turned up late to training camp amid reports he has demanded to be traded. Records A triple-double from Russell Westbrook and 39 points for Bradley Beal were not enough for Washington Wizards, who fell 130-120 to Orlando Magic. Westbrook joined another elite club with 15 points, 15 rebounds and 12 assists, becoming just the fourth player in NBA history — after Magic Johnson, Jerry Lucas and Oscar Robertson — to post a triple-double in his team’s first two games of a season. Philadelphia big man Joel Embiid scored 27 points and grabbed 10 rebounds in the 76ers’ 109-89 victory over New York Knicks. The Sixers’ win moved new head coach Doc Rivers into sole possession of 10th place on the NBA’s all-time wins list, his 945th victory in his 22nd season.  The results:   San Antonio Spurs 119 bt Toronto Raptors 114; New York Knicks 89 lost to Philadelphia 76ers 109, Portland Trail Blazers 128 bt Houston 126 (OT); Sacramento Kings 106 bt Phoenix 103.   Utah Jazz 111 lost to Minnesota Timberwolves 116; Chicago Bulls 106 lost to Indiana Pacers 125; Charlotte Hornets 107 lost to Oklahoma City Thunder 109.   Detroit Pistons 119 lost to Cleveland Cavaliers 128 (double OT); Washington Wizards 120 lost to Orlando Magic 130; Memphis Grizzlies 112 lost to Atlanta Hawks 122.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Travelling with the team has helped: Gill||Debutant opener Shubhman Gill, who got India off to a steady start on the second day, felt the time he spent with the Indian squad in the last few Test series helped him tackle the Australian pace attack on Sunday. “I have been travelling with the team for the last four or five Tests series and, it has helped a lot,” said Gill. “I have been able to settle into the team and to play bowlers like Bumrah, Shami bhai, Ishant or Umesh bhai in the nets is a huge confidence-booster for a youngster. So when I went in to bat, it did not feel that I was in a whole new place.” Disappointed Despite the good start, Gill was disappointed with his dismissal as he got out chasing a wide delivery from Pat Cummins, four runs short of a half-century. “When I came into bat, the ball was moving. There was something in the pitch and it was lively. I told myself that no matter what is happening on the pitch, I should play my natural game and with intent. “I am not satisfied with the way I got out. It was the last ball of Cummins’ spell and I should have seen it off. It was a loose shot at that moment,” he added. The 21-year-old felt he learnt a lot from the Ajinkya Rahane’s innings, especially on how to see off the tough phases. “This knock was all about patience. The way Ajinkya bhai played, it was a magnificent knock to watch from the outside,” said Gill.
28 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna loses after four draws||P. Harikrishna suffered his first loss in the $200,000 Airthings Masters online rapid chess tournament and with it, gave Anish Giri a chance to bounce back from the two first-day defeats. After finishing the first day winless but undefeated, much like his fourth-round rival Magnus Carlsen, Harikrishna was involved in a tactical battle in a complex middle-game of the fifth round. Calculating better, Giri foxed Harikrishna and emerged with an extra knight after 26 moves. Giri pressed home the advantage in 40 moves. Carlsen joins leaders By beating Daniil Dubov for his first victory, Carlsen joined four other leaders at three points.  The results:   Round Five: Anish Giri (Ned, 2) bt P. Harikrishna (2); Hikaru Nakamura (USA, 3) drew with Wesley So (USA, 3); Alexander Grischuk (Rus, 2.5) drew with Teimour Radjabov (Aze, 3); Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 3) bt Daniil Dubov (Rus, 2.5); David Anton Guijar (Esp, 1.5) drew with Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra, 2); Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus, 2) drew with Levon Aronian (Arm, 3).   Round Four: Harikrishna drew with Carlsen; Aronian drew with Nakamura; Dubov bt Anton; Radjabov drew with Giri; So drew with Grischuk; Vachier lost to Nepomniachtchi.   Round Three: Anton drew with Harikrishna; Grischuk drew with Aronian; Giri lost to So; Dubov drew with Vachier; Nakamura drew with Nepomniachtchi; Carlsen drew with Radjabov.   Round Two: Harikrishna drew with Dubov; Aronian bt Giri; Radjabov bt Anton; Nepomniachtchi lost to Grischuk; Vachier drew with Nakamura; So drew with Carlsen .
28 December 2020||Pune:,||Golden Era claims main event||Golden Era (Neeraj up) claimed the M.H. Ahmedbhoy Trophy, the feature event of Mumbai races held here on Sunday (Dec. 27). The winner is owned by Mr. Maloji Bhosale, Mrs. Rajlaxmi M. Bhosale, M/s. Jiyaji Bhosale, Rishikesh Bhosale, Kr Digvijay Singh Shekhawat rep. Jai Govind Stud & Agri Farm (PF) & Mrs. Magansingh P. Jodha. Adhirajsingh Jodha trains the winner. Jockey A. Sandesh rode three winners.  1. VIJAYS PRIDE PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: MENILLY (Sandesh) 1, Dashing Image (Malam) 2, Falconette (J. Chinoy) 3 and Little More (Kaviraj) 4. 6-1/4, 3/4, and 3-1/2. 59.07s. Owner: Mr. Jatin L. Trivedi. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  2. M.H. AHMEDBHOY TROPHY (2,000m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86: GOLDEN ERA (Neeraj) 1, In It To Win It (Malam) 2, Gloriosus (Sandesh) 3 and Square Moon (Santosh G) 4. 4-1/4, 2-3/4 and 6-1/2. 2m, 11.40s. Owners: Mr. Maloji Bhosale, Mrs. Rajlaxmi M. Bhosale, M/s. Jiyaji Bhosale, Rishikesh Bhosale, Kr Digvijay Singh Shekhawat rep. Jai Govind Stud & Agri Farm (PF) & Mrs. Magansingh P. Jodha. Trainer: Adhirajsingh Jodha.  3. BANGALORE TURF CLUB TROPHY (1,200m), Maiden, 3-y-o only: MARKET KING (Sandesh) 1, Isle Of Skye (T.S. Jodha) 2, Spanish City (Neeraj) 3 and Desert Fire (Kaviraj) 4. 8, 1 and Sh. 1m, 10.32s. Owners: M/s. Jatin L. Trivedi, Nitin H. Jain, Mrs. K.N. Sunderji & Mr. Aneil V. Lala. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  4. SIACHEN PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 46: THUNDERCLAP (C.S. Jodha) 1, Oui Sauvage (Santosh G) 2, Ellysia (Peter) 3 and Mikayla’s Pride (J. Chinoy) 4. 2-1/4, 1-3/4 and Nose. 1m, 10.27s. Owners: M/s. K.H. Vachha, Marthand Singh Mahindra & Ms. Ritu Puri. Trainer: Adhirajsingh Jodha.  5. M.M.T. PANDOLE PLATE (1,200m) , Cl. III, 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 66: EPIPHANY (T.S. Jodha) 1, Barack (Kirtish) 2, Red Carnation (Kaviraj) 3 and Agrami (Nazil) 4. 2, Lnk and Nk. 1m, 10.79s. Owner & Trainer: Ms. Nazzak B. Chenoy.  6. MRS PATMORE PLATE (1,600m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: MISS SCARLETT (Sandesh) 1, Take It Easy (Nazil) 2, Sachertorte (Vishal Bunde) 3 and Cristo Boss (Prasad) 4. 1/2, 2-1/2 and 1-1/4. 1m 42.64s. Owner: Mrs. Liane Luthria. Trainer: Imtiaz Sait.  7. VIJAYS PRIDE PLATE (Div. I) (1,000m) , Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: ENLIGHTENED (T.S. Jodha) 1, Exotic Queen (Peter) 2, Julio Cesaro (J. Chinoy) 3 and Warrior Clan (Malam) 4. 1-1/4, 2-1/4 and 3/4. 58.97s. Owners: Mrs. Bakhtwar B. Chenoy, Ms. Nazzak B. Chenoy & Mr. Neville H. Bilpodiwala. Trainer: Nazzak B. Chenoy.
28 December 2020||Dubai,||ICC’s teams-of-the-decade in Indian hands||Mahendra Singh Dhoni was on Sunday named captain of ICC’s ODI and T20 International teams-of-the-decade, while Virat Kohli was voted skipper of the Test team. Indians dominated the limited-overs teams by having three in ODIs and four players in T20Is, while England has four in the Test side. The 39-year-old Dhoni is one of three Indians in the ODI team-of-the-decade, the others being Rohit Sharma and Kohli. Dhoni has three compatriots in the T20I team — Rohit, Kohli and Jasprit Bumrah. Besides being named captain of the Test team, Kohli is the only player to figure in teams for all formats. R. Ashwin is the other Indian in the Test squad. The teams-of-the-decades were announced by the ICC ahead of the Awards-of-the-Decade ceremony, to be held in virtual mode on Monday. Among women, Harmanpreet Kaur and Poonam Yadav made it to the T20I team of the decade while Mithali Raj and Jhulan Goswami were picked for the ODI team.  Men’s teams-of-the-decade:   T20I: M.S. Dhoni (Capt.), Rohit Sharma, Chris Gayle, Aaron Finch, Virat Kohli, A.B. de Villiers, Glenn Maxwell, Kieron Pollard, Rashid Khan, Jasprit Bumrah and Lasith Malinga.   ODI: Dhoni (Capt.), Rohit, David Warner, Kohli, de Villiers, Shakib Al Hassn, Ben Stokes, Mitchell Starc, Trent Boult, Imran Tahir and Malinga.   Test: Kohli (Capt.), Alastair Cok, Warner, Kane Williamson, Steve Smith, Kumar Sangakkara, Stokes, R. Ashwin, Dale Steyn, Stuart Broad and James Anderson .
28 December 2020||NEW DELHI:,||Tarun, Ankit bat well||Tarun Bisht (91) and Ankit Kumar (85) helped Uttranchal Boys beat T.N. Memorial Academy by 90 runs in the S.N. Dubey (u-16) cricket tournament.  The scores: Uttranchal Boys 302 in 40 overs (Tarun Bisht 91, Ankit Kumar 85, Rohit Manori 28, Sujay Ishrani 4/52, Rishabh Rajpoot 3/36)   bt T.N. Memorial Academy 212 in 38.2 overs (Aaradhya Yadav 63, Ronak Kumar 36).
28 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Double for Chandra Bhushan||Chandra Bhushan clinched the over-55 singles and doubles titles in the Rs. 5 lakh Rajasthan Cup seniors’ tennis tournament at the Rajasthan Tennis Club here on Sunday. Chandra Bhushan, a coach with the Sports Authority of India at the National Stadium in Delhi, beat Shashi Bhushan Sharma 6-0, 7-5 for the singles title. He combined with Dilip Singh to beat Shashi Bhushan and Dipankar Chkravarty for the doubles crown. In the over-35 section, Kannan Sethu bagged the double. The organiser and father of tennis players Fardeen Qamar, Faisal Qamar and Farhat Aleen Qamar, Qamruddin Khan bagged the singles title in the over-45 event. ADGP M.N. Dinesh IPS, presented the trophies.  The results (finals):   Over-35: Kannan Sethu bt Narendra Choudhary 6-1, 6-2; Doubles: Syed Babar Zaidi & Kannan Sethu bt Riyaz Ahmed & Narendra Chaudhary 6-2, 4-6, [10-6].   Over-45: Qamruddin Khan bt Pritam Yashwant 4-6, 6-1, [10-3].   Doubles: Surendra Parekh & Praveen Mutha bt Avnish Rastogi & Vijay Verma 6-1, 6-4.   Over-55: Chandra Bhushan bt Shashi Bhushan Sharma 6-0, 7-5. Doubles: Chandra Bhushan & Dilip Singh bt Shashi Bhushan Sharma & Dipankar Chakravarty 6-4, 6-0.
28 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Clark working his magic with Indians||Todd Clark has played a phenomenal role in boosting Indian junior tennis for more than a decade. The genial coach, with a rich experience of five year stints each at the Harvest Academy in Ludhiana and the Ahmedabad Racquets Academy (ARA), will open a fresh chapter with another venture, Accelerate Tennis in Gurugram from January. “Our objective is to accelerate a player’s development with an overall aim to train elite juniors and help them achieve both domestic and international success,” said Todd, when contacted at his home in Sydney. “It will be a residential facility with five hard courts to start. We intend to develop the players by giving them the necessary skills to compete. It will cover technical, tactical, physical and mental aspects. Apart from being good players, we aim to assist them to grow into positive independent human beings with skills to tackle life challenges as much as those on court,” said Clark. With a session restricted to only four players per coach, and overall only 32 players, it will be an elite system. “The coaching team will able to focus on each player’s specific needs and goals. We need to give the players the attention they deserve,” he said. Having travelled with players both in India and around the world Clark appreciates the importance of short, medium and long term planning. “Planning fundamentally involves skill and physical development, and the right schedule of tournaments,” he said. Accelerate has already collaborated with Data Driven Sports Analytics, the Mind Studio and the Tennishub, to address various requirements. Clark is proud to have “adopted the best practices” at Harvest, “the best tennis infrastructure in India with a strong coaching team,” and “ARA, a multi sport facility that allowed different players to interact and train with each other.” “Having on site accommodation, a balanced coaching team, a healthy campus environment and touring coaches will give all players the best opportunity to reach their goals,” said Clark. Even though he emphasises the need for coaches travelling with players to tournaments, Clark has always tried to make players “independent and professional on Tour”. “Australia has locked the international borders, but I will be able to travel to India as I am a resident of India,” said Clark. Among the talented juniors with whom Clark worked, developed their all-round game and taught them the art of winning, Zeel Desai has stood out.
28 December 2020||BENGALURU,||Karun Nair chosen to helm Karnataka||Karun Nair will lead Karnataka in Manish Pandey’s absence in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy (SMAT) which gets underway at the Alur Grounds from January 10. Pandey suffered an elbow injury during India’s limited overs series against Australia and is out of the domestic T20 competition. Karnataka, the two-time defending champion, will also miss the services of frontline batsmen K.L. Rahul and Mayank Agarwal but the hope is that the duo would return after the Test series in Australia, in time for the knock-out stages (starting January 26) should Karnataka qualify. A 20-man squad for season-opener was announced on Sunday. “I would have said their absence will impact the squad if we didn’t know what it was to win,” said Fazal Khaleel, chairman of the selection committee. “This now gives our youngsters exposure. We are hoping for KL and Mayank to come for the knockouts and further boost our chances.” Wicket-keeper batsman K.L. Shrijith and bowling all-rounder M.B. Darshan are the new faces, rewarded for their good performances in the recently concluded Y.S. Ramaswamy Memorial and KSCA T20 tournaments. Speedster Prasidh Krishna and K.V. Siddharth, both of whom missed last season’s victorious campaign because of injuries, will look to leave a mark this time around. R. Samarth, who played a lone match last edition, doesn’t find a place.  The squad: Karun Nair (Capt.), Devdutt Padikkal, Rohan Kadam, Pavan Deshpande, K.V. Siddharth, K.L. Shrijith, B.R. Sharath, Anirudha Joshi, Shreyas Gopal, K. Gowtham, J. Suchith, Pravin Dubey, A. Mithun, Prasidh Krishna, Prateek Jain, V. Koushik, Ronit More, M.B. Darshan, Manoj Bhandage, and Shubhang Hegde .
28 December 2020||Anantapur,||Deepak returns 10-wkt. match haul in Anantapur’s big win||Left-arm pacer M. Deepak returned a 10-wicket match haul to help Anantapur drub Atmakur by an innings and 341 runs in the semifinals (two-day) of the Ananta Premier League (u-18) Twenty20 league. In the other last-four clash, Rapthadu was declared winner by virtue of the first innings lead against Kadiri.  The scores (semifinals):   Anantapur 510/9 in 90 overs bt Atmakur 36/9 in 7.5 overs (M. Deepak 7/3) & 133 in 38 overs (Sai Kumar 36, M. Deepak 3/47, N. Harinath 5/34).   Rapthadu 362 in 89.5 overs drew with Kadiri 76 in 35.1 overs (M. Sanaulla 38) & 236/6 in 59 overs (P. Arjun Tendulkar 64, Vignesh Dinakar 41, T. Amarnath Reddy 33, Sai Praneet 4/36).
28 December 2020||Hyderabad:,||Conscious Gift obliges in feature||Conscious Gift, ridden by Akshay Kumar, won the Crack Regiment Plate, the main event of Sunday’s (Dec. 27) races. The winner is owned by Mr. M. Ramakrishna Reddy & Miss Ameeta Mehra. L. D’ Silva trains the winner. Akshay Kumar rode two more winners on the day.  1. GALACTICA PLATE (1,200m), Maiden, 2-y-o only (Cat. II): ASHWA RAUDEE (Trevor) 1, Galwan (Suraj Narredu) 2, Baudelaire (Zervan) 3 and Lifes Song (Akshay Kumar) 4. Not run: Ashwa Pushkin. 2-3/4, 1 and 4-3/4. 1m, 13.92s. Rs. 22 (w), 7, 7 and 5 (p). SHP: 14, THP: 20, FP: 82, Q: 40, Tanala: 206. Favourite: Galwan. Owner: Mr. Ravinder Pal Singh Chauhan. Trainer: M. Srinivas Reddy.  2. ZURBARAN PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): KING ROGER (Akshay Kumar) 1, Castlerock (Ashad Asbar) 2, Just Incredible (Suraj Narredu) 3 and Amyra (Trevor) 4. 1-1/2, 1-1/2 and 2. 1m, 27.35s. Rs. 53 (w), 9, 9 and 7 (p). SHP: 14, THP: 41, FP: 209, Q: 231, Tanala: 976. Favourite: Just Incredible. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Farouq K. Rattonsey rep. Hyperion Bloodstock Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Sameer F. Rattonsey & Mr. Zaheer F. Rattonsey. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  3. SOLITAIRE PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): HORUS (Suraj Narredu) 1, Nova Scotia (Gaurav Singh) 2, Sun Dancer (Arshad Alam) 3 and Royal Pal (Nakhat Singh) 4. 5-1/2, Nk and 1. 1m, 40.79s. Rs. 8 (w), 5, 8 and 11 (p). SHP: 31, THP: 13, FP: 74, Q: 55, Tanala: 313. Favourite: Horus. Owners: Mr. Prabhakar Chowdary Tripuraneni, Mr. G. Raghunandan Chary & Mr. Alluri Ajay Kumar. Trainer: D. Netto.  4. ZURBARAN PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), Maiden 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): SAFFRON ART (Suraj Narredu) 1, Crazy Horse (A.A. Vikrant) 2, Look Of Love (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Forever Bond (Ajeeth Kumar) 4. 3/4, Nk and Nk. 1m, 27.70s. Rs. 9 (w), 5, 10 and 10 (p). SHP: 21, THP: 40, FP: 71, Q: 50, Tanala: 1,138. Favourite: Saffron Art. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  5. SOLITAIRE PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): FOREVER SPLENDOUR (Trevor) 1, Super Angel (Gaurav Singh) 2, Explosive (Irvan Singh) 3 and That’s My Star (Md. Ismail) 4. 3-3/4, 6-1/4 and Nk. 1m, 40.62s. Rs. 5 (w), 5, 5 and 5 (p). SHP: 10, THP: 8, FP: 11, Q: 12, Tanala: 11. Favourite: Forever Splendour. Owners: Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Vijay Kumar Gupta rep. Vijay Racing & Farms Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Susheel Kumar Gupta. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  6. CRACK REGIMENT PLATE (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): CONSCIOUS GIFT (Akshay Kumar) 1, Rhythm Selection (Afroz Khan) 2, Apollo (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Sporting Smile (B.R. Kumar) 4. 1-1/4, Hd and 2. 1m, 13.57s. Rs. 10 (w), 8, 117 and 7 (p). SHP: 242, THP: 31, FP: 520, Q: 256, Tanala: 1,708. Favourite: Conscious Gift. Owners: Mr. M. Ramakrishna Reddy & Miss Ameeta Mehra. Trainer: L. D’ Silva.  7. ZURBARAN PLATE (Div. III) (1,400m), Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): PEAKY BLINDERS (Akshay Kumar) 1, Beautiful Luv (Afroz Khan) 2, Chuckit (Irvan Singh) 3 and Moringa (Surya Prakash) 4. Not run: Queen Blossom. Sh, 1/2 and 2-3/4. 1m, 28.97s. Rs. 6 (w), 5, 30 and 9 (p). SHP: 71, THP: 46, FP: 145, Q: 143, Tanala: 386. Favourite: Peaky Blinders. Owners: Mr. Marthand Singh Mahindra & Mr. Jatin Laxmikant Trivedi. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 120 (884 tkts.) and 30%: 29 (1,537 tkts.). Treble: (i) 313 (36 tkts.), (ii) 49 (195 tkts.). Mini jackpot: (i) 971 (11 tkts.), (ii) 62 (107 tkts.).
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad FC goes down to Kerala Blasters||Kerala Blasters’ wait is finally over after the Kochi team posted its first win of the Indian Super League season at the GMC Stadium, Bambolim (Goa), on Sunday night, at the expense of Hyderabad FC. The 2-0 victory marked the end of an agonising streak of six matches without a win. Central defender Abdul Hakku and Australian striker Jordan Murray were the scorers. Hakku, starting a game for the first time this season, and Murray were two of the five changes effected by coach Kibu Vicuna, as Sahal Abdul Samad, Jeakson Singh and Sandeep Singh also took the field in a new-look Blasters team. Blasters has doubled its tally to six points, while Hyderabad is on nine. Though it was Hyderabad that threatened more in the early part, winning a corner in the eighth minute, the rebuilt Blasters’ defence stood firm. Hakku, put his team ahead with a superb header off a well-taken corner-kick by Facundo Pereyra. The Hyderabad players, though, believed there shouldn’t have been a corner-kick at all, as they pointed out to the referee that the ball had gone off Blasters’ Vicente Gomez. Hyderabad had opportunities to equalise in the opening half, including one in the 45th minute, when its leading scorer of the season, Aridane Santana, was put through by Mohammed Yasir at the end of a lovely move that beat the Kerala defence. The Spanish striker, though, failed to provide the finishing touch. The second half opened with Blasters creating several chances, but it had to wait for a long time for its second goal, which came off a fine move down the left by Rohit Kumar.  The result: Kerala Blasters 2 (Abdul Hakku 29, Jordan Murray 88) bt Hyderabad FC 0.   Monday’s match: Bengaluru FC vs Jamshedpur FC, 7.30 p.m.
28 December 2020||Manchester,||Cavani gives another dimension: Rashford||Manchester United striker Marcus Rashford believes that Edinson Cavani brings another dimension to the club. Rashford’s remarks came as Manchester United played out a 2-2 draw against Leicester City on Saturday. “He’s a top player, he has lots of qualities and I think he gives us another dimension that’s different to what we already have in the team. It’s good to play with him and to see him scoring and assisting is important for any forward and we need to keep up between us what we’ve been doing,” Rashford said. “For that goal, it was all the way from the back, I think it was Eric [Bailly] who stepped up and played a good ball through the lines. It was a great turn from Edinson and he drove at Jonny [Evans] who then he had a decision to make, whether to step out to him or stay back and let him shoot. Edinson played a nice pass and it was a good goal, but to concede and to throw it away is difficult to take,” he added. Manchester United is currently placed at the fourth spot in 2020-21 Premier League standings with 27 points from 14 matches. The side will next take on Wolves on Tuesday. “It feels like a loss in the changing room. I think we deserved to win the game and we had the chances to win the game, but we didn't quite get over the line. Now we just need to recover and go again in the next one,” said Rashford. Cavani had joined United on a free transfer on October 5.
28 December 2020||KOLKATA:,||Abhinansu, Yubrani reign||Second seed Abhinansu Borthakur prevailed over wild-card Akshat Agarwal 6-1, 6-3 in the final, to retain the men’s singles crown for the third straight year in the Calcutta hard court tennis at South Club. Yubrani Banerjee justified her top billing to beat unseeded Mekhala Manna 6-3, 6-1 to triumph in the women’s section.
28 December 2020||Leicester,||Really proud of Rashford, says Solskjaer||After playing out a 2-2 draw against Leicester City in the Premier League, Manchester United coach Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said that he is really proud of striker Marcus Rashford. In the match against Leicester, Rashford had scored the first goal for United and the second was registered by Bruno Fernandes. Leicester was able to get the equaliser and the match ended as a draw. Always a threat “Both as a player and person he has been absolutely brilliant. We are very proud of him as a person and a player. “He was always a threat. We create chances for him and he creates them for others,” Goal.com quoted Solskjaer as saying. Shoulder injury Rashford had appeared to damage his shoulder towards the end of the match against Leicester but Solskjaer is hopeful that it is not a serious concern. “He felt his shoulder a bit after one of the Leicester players tugged his arm but hopefully it won't be too bad as he completed a full sprint soon after that,” said Solskjaer. Speaking about Edinson Cavani not getting enough starts for United, Solskjaer said: “He has been out injured for a little while and played a full, physically-demanding game against Everton in midweek. We decided to have him on the bench and he made an impact straight away, with a great pass for the goal. It will have to be that way for a while as he gets used to English football and the demands of this season, but he made a great impact here and he has made a big impact in the squad,” he added.  We create chances for him and he creates them for others
28 December 2020||Mount Maunganui,||Williamson’s century takes NZ to 431||New Zealand was banking on a deteriorating pitch to defend the Kane Williamson-anchored 431 after reducing Pakistan to 30 for one on day two of the first Test here on Sunday. New Zealand’s innings was headlined by Williamson's 129, his 23rd Test century, with sizeable contributions from B-J. Watling (73) and Henry Nicholls (56) to go with Ross Taylor's 70 on the first day.  The scores: New Zealand 431 in 155 overs (K. Williamson 129, R. Taylor 70, H. Nichols 56, B-J. Watling 73, K. Jamieson 32, S. Afridi 4/109, Yasir 3/113) vs Pakistan 30/1 .
28 December 2020||CENTURION,||SA batsmen make merry||South Africa’s batsmen scored freely against a depleted Sri Lankan bowling attack as the host nation fought back on the second day of the first Test at SuperSport Park on Sunday. South Africa was 317 for four at the close in reply to Sri Lanka’s first innings total of 396. Dean Elgar (95) and Aiden Markram (68) put on 141 for the first wicket, while Faf du Plessis (55 not out) and Temba Bavuma (41 not out) added an unbeaten 97 for the fifth wicket.  The scores: Sri Lanka 396 in 96 overs (D. Chandimal 85, D. de Silva 79 retd. hurt, N. Dickwella 49, D. Shanaka 66 n.o., Sipamla 4/76, Mulder 3/69) vs South Africa 317/4 in 72 overs (D. Elgar 95, A. Markram 68, F. du Plessis 55 batting, T. Bavuma 41 batting) .
28 December 2020||Manchester,||Arsenal beats the Blues||Arsenal ended its seven match winless run in the Premier League with a surprise 3-1 London derby victory over Chelsea at the Emirates Stadium on Saturday. Everton moved into second spot with a late winner in a 1-0 defeat of bottom club Sheffield United while Manchester City moved fifth thanks to a 2-0 win over Newcastle United. Chelsea’s third defeat in four games drops it to seventh.  The Gunners took the lead in the 35th minute through an Alexandre Lacazette penalty. Nine minutes later, Granit Xhaka’s unstoppable freekick past Edouard Mendy made it 2-0. Arsenal sealed a timely win in the 56th minute when Bukayo Saka’s cross floated over Mendy and the ball went in off the post.  The results: Leeds 1 (Bamford 5-pen) bt Burnley 0.   Saturday: Aston Villa 3 (Traore 5, Hause 66, El Ghazi 76) bt Crystal Palace 0; Fulham 0 drew with Southampton 0.   Arsenal 3 (Lacazette 34-pen, Xhaka 44, Saka 56) bt Chelsea 1 (Abraham 85); Manchester City 2 (Gundogan 14, Torres 55) bt Newcastle 0; Sheffield United 0 lost to Everton 1 (Sigurdsson 80).
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The eternal atma||The main thrust of scriptural teachings is to make jivatmas aware of the presence of the atma within their physical body and also of its essential nature as sat-chit-ananda. The regard and awareness of the body in every jivatma is always strong and even eclipses the presence of the atma. In the text Laghu Vasudeva Mananam, the author shows with apt examples that the awareness of the atma is latent in all and that when this pervades one’s consciousness in toto, it leads to realisation, pointed out Sri R. Rajagopala Sarma in a discourse. The Sat swaroopa of the atma is present in the ‘sense of I’ that is central to all individual experience which is bound by the sarira and the attendant karma. The stream of karma and sarira is ‘anadi’, that is, its beginning cannot be traced. One cannot say for certain whether karma is the cause for the sarira or vice versa. This continues to be the eternal riddle of life like the primacy of the egg or the chick. But the sarira is necessary for one’s actions. It is the belief that one’s deeds good or bad, will determine one’s future birth. A bhakta thinks that his bhakti is owing to his past karma; a wealthy person thinks he is enjoying wealth owing to his good deeds in earlier births. One who is interested in Vedanta thinks that he has crossed over to this point and hopes to gain atma jnana. A mumukshu leads life in the hope that the ‘I’, the atma, would henceforth gain freedom from further birth. But the ‘sense of I’ is always existing in every jiva through every birth, past, present and future. So, the way to salvation is by dissociating the atma from sarira and karma. Srishti, stiti and samhara is for the prapancham and for the sarira and not for the atma at any time. The atma is eternal.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 08:08 IST,||Sudoku - December 28, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
28 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||The wrong call||After graduating from a college in Lucknow, Kunal (name changed) was searching for a job in Delhi when his friend told him about a job in a call centre where he “could earn around Rs. 35,000 to Rs. 40,000 per month”. Unable to turn down the “lucrative offer”, Kunal went for the interview and was selected. From day one, however, he was aware that he would be cheating people, but was assured that he would never be caught. The Delhi Police Cybercrime Unit has recently arrested 96 people and busted fake call centres involved in multi-crore frauds. The callers were impersonating law enforcement agency officials and had allegedly cheated over 8,000 foreign nationals, mainly from the United States. Most of the accused were graduates and had come to Delhi looking for a job. DCP (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy said that a few of the accused, including women, even had MCA, BCA or BTech degrees. By reference only All of them were aware of the fraud they were involved in. “They were lured with attractive salary packages at the time of joining. They were offered around Rs. 25,000 a month and were hired only based on reference from existing employees of the call centre, who were paid around Rs. 40,000 every month,” said Mr. Roy. Over the last three years, the fake callers managed to dupe two-three people every day. The highest amount duped from a single victim was around $45,000, he added. “The salary of the shift manager at the call centre was Rs. 75,000 per month. For every USD that a victim was duped of, the caller would get Rs. 2 and the team leader/closer got Rs. 4 as incentive. Moreover, all employees were paid holiday and annual bonuses,” said Mr. Roy. A police officer said that during the lockdown, the callers worked from home and were paid holiday bonuses for Christmas and New Year. “The details of the social security number were easily available but it could only be accessed through a U.S. IP address. They used a virtual private network to access U.S. websites and data, including mobile numbers and email addresses,” said the officer. Modus operandi The accused persons used to contact foreign nationals based in the U.S. and other countries. They would impersonate officials of various law enforcement agencies and other government agencies such as the Social Security Administration, the Drug Enforcement Administration, U.S. Marshals Service, etc., and tell the victims that their bank accounts and other assets were frozen as their details had been found at a crime scene. The victims were then told that there are bank accounts running in their names and that illegal transactions had been made to drug cartels in Mexico and Colombia. The callers then threatened the victims with “immediate arrest”. “Initial investigation has revealed that the owner of this call centre was managing the operations from Dubai, UAE. Further investigation is under way,” said Mr. Roy. He added that many such illegal call centres are operating from other cities in the country and that they have been keeping a tab on the activity of these centres.  The salary of the shift manager at the call centre was Rs. 75,000 per month. For every USD that a victim was duped of, the caller would get Rs. 2 and the team leader/closer got Rs. 4 as incentive. Moreover, all employees were paid holiday and annual bonuses Anyesh Roy DCP (Cyber Cell)
28 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi CM asks Centre to listen to farmers, end their struggle||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the Singhu border on Sunday and participated in the ‘Safar-e-Shahadat’ Kirtan Darbaar. The event was organised by the Punjabi Academy of the Delhi government at the Guru Tegh Bahadur Memorial in the memory of the martyrdom of four Sahibzaade and Mata Gujri Kaur ji.  Addressing the protesters, Mr. Kejriwal said over 40 people had so far died in the protest, which is a “fight for their survival”. The Centre should repeal the farm laws immediately, guarantee the Minimum Support Price system and end the struggle of the farmers, he added. “All of us are here today to worship Guru Gobind Singh Ji’s sahibzaade and Mata Gujri Kaur ji . I believe that we have never witnessed this level of martyrdom in the world. Our farmers from across the nation have gathered here at the Delhi border today and they are in distress,” he said. “Today, through this platform and at such a sacred place, I want to appeal to the Centre with folded hands to repeal the farm laws. These are our people. These are the people of our nation, listen to them, and end their struggle here. How many lives will you take?” he asked. Farmers, who he alleged had been betrayed for the last 70 years by “all leaders and political parties”, are being called terrorists and anti-national. “Before elections, political parties used to promise that they would waive farmers’ loans and give employment to farmers’ children but neither ever happened,” he added. The Delhi Chief Minister said that through the three farm laws, an attempt was being made to “take farming away from farmers” and hand it over to “big corporates”. ‘Who will benefit?’ “As for the benefits of these farm laws as counted by these leaders, they say that the land will not be taken away from the farmers. Is this a benefit? The MSP and the mandis of the farmers will not be revoked, is this a benefit? Why have you brought the Acts then? Instead of telling the benefits they are justifying that these laws will not harm the farmers. Who will benefit then if not farmers?” he asked. “The only benefit they told us is that the farmers will be able to sell their produce anywhere in the country outside of the mandis. If a crop is being sold at Rs. 800 per quintal in Bihar, where there are no mandis and the MSP is Rs. 1,850/quintal, where will farmers from Bihar and U.P. go to sell their produce for more than Rs. 1,850? This is not a benefit to the farmers but to the big companies and the rich,” he said.
28 December 2020||December 28 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Measures being taken to ensure fair prices for farm produce’||The cooperative sector in Rajasthan has been playing an important role in agricultural activities of farmers. The Congress government here has been working for farmers’ welfare since they are treated as the backbone of the State’s economy, says Cooperative Minister Udai Lal Anjana in an interview to The Hindu   Farmers across the country are agitating against the Centre’s agriculture sector laws. Rajasthan’s farmers are also staging a protest at the Haryana border. How concerned is the State government about their welfare? The Congress government in Rajasthan has been constantly taking measures for the farmers’ welfare since we treat them as the backbone of the State’s economy. Several new schemes and policies for farmers, introduced during the COVID-19 pandemic, are being implemented effectively in a transparent manner. Farmers are finding it increasingly difficult to sell their produce at remunerative prices. What efforts have been made in this regard? The State government has notified 550 village cooperative societies as well as agricultural cooperative marketing societies as mandi sub-yards for ensuring fair prices and expeditious payments to farmers. They can now sell their produce at one of the notified markets near their agricultural land and village. Open bidding has also fetched them better price. Over 19,200 farmers have benefited from the sale of 6.70 quintal of produce for Rs. 152.95 crore. The State government had recently assured low-interest loans to save farmers from forced selling. Has the scheme benefited the farmers? The State government has announced disbursement of loans against the stored produce of farmers at a nominal interest rate of 3% to ensure that they are not forced to sell the farm produce and are still able to meet their financial needs. Over 2,000 farmers associated with 840 cooperatives have availed of an aggregate loan amounting to Rs. 20.46 crore under the scheme. They held more than 1.14 lakh quintals of their produce worth Rs. 32 crore. A large number of farmers depend on loans to meet their agricultural expenses. Has the Cooperative Department taken measures to reduce their financial hardship? Efforts are being made to make expensive equipment available on lease at affordable prices. Village cooperative societies and agricultural marketing cooperative societies are being associated with custom hiring centres and Rs. 8 crore has been sanctioned for opening these centres at 100 cooperatives. New village cooperative societies have also been formed across the State. They will help the farmers access loans, purchasing fertlisers and other activities at their own village panchayat. The approval for 129 primary agricultural credit societies and 21 large area multi-purpose societies has associated 75,000 more people with the cooperative sector. Which crops are being procured on minimum support prices in Rajasthan? How are the procurement centres functioning? We have enhanced the limit for procurement of moong and groundnuts by 10%, providing the benefit to over 29,000 farmers. The 266 procurement centres for moong and 365 for groundnuts have so far purchased 30,638 metric tonnes and 7,253 metric tonnes of the two farm produce, respectively. The functioning of cooperative banks has often come into question in Rajasthan. Are some efforts being made to improve the process for loan disbursement by these? For the first time in the country, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot introduced an online registration and disbursement scheme for farm loans in 2019. This has done away with discrepancies in the distribution of loans. Biometric and Aadhaar-based verification, which helped in selecting genuine farmers, has led to the association of 12.72 lakh new members with the farm loan process.  Over 2,000 farmers associated with 840 cooperatives have availed of an aggregate loan amounting to Rs. 20.46 crore... Udai Lal Anjana Rajasthan Cooperative Minister
28 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘PM Modi must listen to our Mann Ki Baat’||Farmers protesting at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders banged utensils during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s monthly ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio show on Sunday. Last week, several farmer leaders had appealed to all citizens to bang utensils during the show to mark their protest against the three controversial farm laws. The protesters said they are using the same formula that was used by PM Modi during the pandemic to felicitate frontline workers. “We have come here not to hear PM Modi but to make him listen to us. He should listen to farmers’ maan ki baat . It has been over one month since we started protesting. He is the Prime Minister, he should address our issues,” said a protester from Gurdaspur, Amarpal Singh. “Why are they [government] imposing the laws that will destroy farmers? We are hopeful that the meeting with the government on December 29 will bring some positive news. But we won’t be leaving the site until the farm laws are repealed and an Act is introduced for MSP,” said Kuljeet Singh, a farmer from Ropar. “If the laws are not repealed then we will not allow this anti-farmer government to function. We will keep protesting at every level to make PM Modi listen to us. Banging utensils is just a symbolic protest,” said Ramandeep Singh, a farmer from Punjab. ‘I am a tea seller too’ The protesters was seen banging pans, plates, steel glass and tea kettles. Some of them shouted slogans against the Modi-led government. Harmeet Pal, a farmer from Patiala, said: “Modi used to sell tea before he became the PM. I am banging a tea kettle with the hope that PM Modi will listen to us as I am also a chaiwala .”
28 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||Arrest could hinder my aspirations of joining Army, says man held under new U.P. ordinance||A 21-year-old Muslim man from Bareilly, who was the first person to be arrested under the new ordinance against unlawful conversion in U.P., fears the case could hinder his aspirations of joining the Indian Army. Out on bail after serving three weeks behind the bars, Uvaish Ahmad claimed the charges against him were baseless and alleged that the police charged him under the ordinance in an eagerness to lodge the first FIR, barely 24 hours after the ordinance was promulgated. “My career and image are ruined. I have a police case against me now. I wanted to do a government job. I was preparing to join the Army. That was my main goal,” Mr. Ahmad told The Hindu on Sunday, three days after his release from district jail in Bareilly. On November 28, Mr. Ahmad was booked under Sections 3 and 5 of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, on charges of allegedly trying to coerce a 20-year-old married Hindu woman, who went to school with him, to convert her to his religion and marry him. The FIR was lodged at Deorania police station on the complaint of Tikaram Rathore, a resident of Sharifnagar village. Mr. Tikaram alleged that Mr. Ahmad wanted to “coerce, coax and allure her into converting”.  “The government should see why are they are falsely implicating me. Maybe because I am a Muslim,” Mr. Ahmad said. “Whatever there was, friendship or love, ended a year ago. We have not been in touch ever since she got married,” said Mr. Ahmad. Till last year, he was pursuing B.Sc when the kidnapping allegations forced him to abandon studies and relocate to Delhi where he got involved in scrap dealing. “I didn’t want to live in the village any more,” he said.
28 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Protester chains himself to show state of farmers||Kabal Singh from Punjab’s Fazilka on Sunday tied himself up with an iron chain to represent the “state of farmers in the county” after the imposition of farms laws passed by the Centre. “The chains on my body represent the state of farmers in the country. We are just slaves for the government. If we were important to them then they would have withdrawn the laws that have been forcibly imposed upon farmers,” said Mr. Singh, who has been protesting at the border for the past 20 days. Mr. Singh is the sole breadwinner for his family that includes his wife, 13-year-old son and 86-year-old mother. “My mother’s hip bone got dislocated when she was coming to Delhi in a tractor trolley. She had fallen from the trolley. She was taken to a hospital by a group of protesters but I stayed at the border and kept protesting,” he said. He said his son is taking care of his grandmother, Balbir Kaur. “She has undergone operation and is on bed rest at home,” he said, adding that he is waiting for the December 29 meeting between the farmers and the government. “After the outcome of the meeting, I will decide whether to stay or go back home,” he said. “I took Rs. 1 lakh loan from a local lender for my mother’s treatment. But here I am paying back the debt of my motherland. Farmers are always in debt and they spend their entire life in struggle for existence,” he said. Mr. Singh added he will free himself from the chains only when the government repeals the new laws. He hoped that his efforts to gain the attention of the Central government would not go to waste.
28 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘No community-based autonomy, assured Shah’||A conglomerate of civil society organisations in Manipur on Sunday said Union Home Minister Amit Shah has assured that the Centre would not approve community-based autonomy in the State. Non-Naga groups in Manipur are wary of reports that the Centre was contemplating a territorial council each in Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh as a solution to the protracted Naga political issue. Such a council is believed to be an alternative to the idea of a greater Naga homeland purportedly pursued by the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN(IM). Ethnic group Zomi has also been seeking a self-rule area in Manipur modelled on Assam’s Bodoland Territorial Council. “We made our position very clear to Mr. Shah on the issue of Manipur’s territorial integrity. He assured us that no autonomy will be granted to any community in our State,” said Khuraijam Athouba, leader of COCOMI.
28 December 2020||New Delhi,||BJP again invites CM to debate new farm laws||North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari and party president Adesh Gupta on Sunday said they will clear Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s “doubts” regarding the three farm laws at a place and time of his choosing. This came a day after Mr. Kejriwal didn’t turn up following Mr. Tiwaris invite to a debate. On November 23, Mr. Gupta said, Mr. Kejriwal’s government notified one of the three Farm Laws but he was now “trying to prove himself to be farmer friendly” by opposing the laws. Mr. Tiwari said the Chief Minister had challenged the BJP to explain what the benefits of the laws were and this was why he had invited Mr. Kejriwal in the first place.
