29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Befitting reply given to those coveting our territory, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday put out a strong statement on the ongoing stalemate between India and China in east Ladakh, saying that “the world has seen India’s commitment to protecting its borders and sovereignty. In Ladakh, a befitting reply has been given to those coveting our territory.” He said this in his monthly radio broadcast, Mann ki Baat , referring to the sacrifice of the 20 soldiers killed in the clash with Chinese troops on June 15 as one that the whole country paid homage to. ‘A question of character’ “India is peace-loving but if anyone casts an eye on our territory and sovereignty, we are more than capable of giving a befitting reply,” he said. Without mentioning China, he quoted a Sanskrit sloka that characterised for India what Chinese actions at the border revealed about that country’s character. “Vidya vivaad dhanam madaya, shakti pareshan paripeedanaya. Khalasya sadho vipareetam etat, gyaanaya, daanaya cha rakshanam(For crooked persons, knowledge is meant for arguments, wealth for ego, power for troubling others. The opposite is the case among noble souls. Knowledge is meant for wisdom, wealth for donation and power to protect the weak),” he said. Saying that the sentiments expressed by the family members of those slain lent courage to the entire country, he referred in particular to jawan Kundan Kumar’s father who has, despite losing a son, expressed a desire to see two of his grandsons serve the Indian Army. He also referred to a journalist from Assam, Rajani, who said that after the clashes in Ladakh, she was determined to buy locally made products. Mr. Modi said the challenges that 2020 had brought to the country, like COVID-19, Cyclones Amphan and Nisarga, and locust attacks, apart from the situation in Ladakh, should not weigh the country down.
29 June 2020||New Delhi,||Tense standoff continues along the LAC||A week after the Corps Commander-level talks in the wake of the June 15 Galwan incident when 20 jawans personnel were killed, both Indian and Chinese troops continue in “eyeball-to-eyeball” positions at all the friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. The China Study Group (CSG), headed by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, met on Saturday to discuss the prevailing situation along the LAC. The CSG is an informal group constituted in 1997, comprising the Cabinet Secretary, the Secretaries of Defence and Home, the Army chief and the Director of Intelligence Bureau, among others. The details of the meeting were not known. A senior government official told The Hindu that an analysis of the medical reports of the 20 men killed showed the cause of death in most cases was a “mix of head injury and drowning”. The bodies were retrieved from Galwan river. “As many as 15 deceased personnel had head injuries, one or two had injuries on the chest and remaining had shoulder and knee injuries. Their bodies were badly bruised as they had toppled into the river,” said the official. At least 75 personnel, who were injured in the incident, had “blunt injuries” on head, chest and back, inflicted by rods.  ‘Premeditated action’ The Ministry of External Affairs had issued a statement that the “Chinese side took premeditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties”. As reported earlier, the violent clashes took place on June 15 after Colonel Santosh Babu, who was commanding the unit, dismantled a tent erected by the Chinese and set it on fire. Col. Babu was among the Army personnel killed. Officials said the understanding to remove the tent in Galwan Valley was taken at a meeting on June 6 between the two armies. The official said after the tent was removed on June 15 evening, Col. Babu went to patrol the area with a small team. “When the team arrived there late in the evening, the violent reaction from the Chinese should have been anticipated and factored in,” the official said.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,||3,940 people test positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu||The daily COVID-19 case count touched a new high in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, with 3,940 persons, including 179 returnees, testing positive for the disease. An 18-month-old baby and a 17-year-old boy were among the fatalities, while 1,443 patients were discharged post recovery. A total of 31,505 persons were tested for the infection on Sunday. The number of active cases (including those in isolation) stands at 35,656. As of Sunday, the total number of people who had tested positive was 82,275*. As many as 45,547 persons, constituting 55% of those who had contracted the disease, had been cured and discharged, health officials said. Chennai’s count In Chennai, the daily case count rose to 1,992, taking the total number of positive cases in the city to 53,762. However, around 60% of those who had been infected had been cured and discharged, according to the health bulletin released by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. As of Sunday, 31,858 persons had been discharged after treatment. The number of active cases was 21,094. The case count was in triple digits in a handful of districts. Chengalpattu (183), Madurai (284), Kallakurichi (124) and Tiruvannamalai (114) recorded the most number of cases in the State on Sunday. Chennai continues to account for the largest number of deaths due to COVID-19 in the State. Till Sunday, 809 deaths had been recorded in the city, followed by 80 in Chengalpattu and 61 in Tiruvallur. Three passengers from Malaysia and one from the Maldives were among the returnees who had tested positive. A one-and-a-half-year-old boy from Tindivanam, who was admitted to the Villupuram Government Medical College and Hospital (VGMCH) on Friday, died on Sunday. According to the Health Department, the baby was hospitalised after developing breathing problems. His swab samples were lifted and the results returned positive. He died around 1 a.m. on Sunday. Hospital dean Kundavi Devi said the baby’s brain had not developed fully, and he died due to aspiration. “Coincidentally, the test results returned positive,” she added. However, the DPH’s statistics had recorded the baby’s death among those who had died due to the infection but had no co-morbidities. Of the 54 persons who lost their lives to COVID-19 on Sunday, eight had no co-morbidities. Ten persons died in private hospitals, while the others died in government hospitals. Among the deceased who had no co-morbidities was a 29-year-old man, who was admitted to a private hospital in Chengalpattu on June 16 with complaints of fever for three days, cough and difficulty in breathing for two days. He had also suffered a headache for three days. He died on Sunday. Health authorities said his death was due to respiratory failure. A 17-year-old boy from Tiruvallur, with vitamin D deficiency and hypo-parathyroidism, died at a private medical college hospital on Saturday. He was admitted to the facility on Friday with complaints of breathing difficulty for two days and a headache for three days. His death was recorded as having occurred due to type-I respiratory failure and cardiomyopathy.  (*Includes two deaths cross-notified to other States. One person died after turning negative for infection)
29 June 2020||SALEM/ THOOTHUKUDI,||CBI will investigate Thoothukudi deaths, says Palaniswami||The Tamil Nadu government has decided to hand over to the CBI the probe into the recent deaths of a father and son — Jayaraj and J. Benicks — at Sattankulam, allegedly due to torture in police custody, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said in Salem on Sunday. The government will inform the Madras High Court (Madurai Bench) of its decision when the case related to the deaths is taken up for hearing. In a related development, Sridhar, inspector of Sattankulam police station, where the father and son were allegedly subjected to third degree assault, was on Sunday suspended from service, pending an inquiry into the case. Action against 4 more The Chief Minister told journalists that Jayaraj and Benicks, who were running a mobile shop at Sattankulam, Thoothukudi, were arrested and remanded in judicial custody at the Kovilpatti sub-jail following an issue regarding closing their shop [during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown] and they died later at the Kovilpatti hospital. Earlier, the government suspended two sub-inspectors — Balakrishnan and Raghuganesan — and initiated a departmental inquiry against two head constables Muthuraj and Murugan. “The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has taken suo motu cognisance of the deaths and the government has decided to hand over the case to the CBI for probe. When the case is taken up for hearing, the government will inform the court about this decision and it will be handed over to the CBI with the court’s permission,” Mr. Palaniswami explained. Asked if he had advised the police on avoiding such incidents, the Chief Minister said, “I have already advised the police to behave cordially with the public and traders and take necessary legal action if there are any issues. I have advised the police not to cause any unnecessary trouble to the public.” Sources in Thoothukudi said on instructions from the government, inspector Sridhar had been placed under suspension and Bernard Xavier of Kanniyakumari district had been posted as inspector of Sattankulam with immediate effect. Mr. Sridhar had earlier been shifted from the station, but kept on compulsory wait.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Beware! You are under HAM operators’ watch||As the number of COVID-19 positive cases increases, so does the number of people under home quarantine. A special task force has been constituted in Bengaluru to ensure that citizens under home quarantine follow the prescribed protocol. Among those who have volunteered to help the task force are 260-odd HAM (amateur) radio operators in the city. They work in shifts, coordinating with booth-level and ward-level squad members to keep a watch on the home quarantined people. While most of them are operating out of their homes, three static centres have been set up in the Vasanthapura, H.B.R. Layout and Jayanagar localities. “We had earlier set up high frequency and very high frequency stations at the State war room. But we have decided to cut down on our movement considering the high risk involved. We are all keeping a watch in our neighbourhoods, apart from providing back-up communication to the squad and task force,” said S. Sathyapal, director of the Indian Institute of HAMS. Gautam Shantappa, a HAM volunteer, said operators in Bengaluru had been volunteering since the end of March. “We coordinated the distribution of food and ration kits to migrant workers. We also helped with [the process of] sending 1.8 lakh migrant workers home. A few of us are volunteering at the railway station and the airport, and helping with the quarantining of travellers,” said B. N. Umesh, another HAM operator. But the challenges in monitoring the home quarantined are vastly different, said Dr. Sathyapal. “We sometimes have to deal with aggressive behaviour and negotiate with violators, though we are not trained for it. We immediately transmit messages to the senior officials if we are not able to tackle the situation,” he said. With the availability of several fast modes of communication, including smartphone apps such as WhatsApp and Telegram, is HAM radio still relevant? Yes, Dr. Sathyapal and Mr. Shantappa concurred unequivocally. “HAM radio was the first social networking channel. With proper battery back-up, we can work even during power disruptions,” Dr. Sathyapal said.
29 June 2020||MANGALURU,||Three more COVID-19 deaths in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada reported three more COVID-19 deaths on Sunday taking the toll to 11. In a record single-day spike of positive cases, 97 persons tested positive. With this, the number of active cases rose to 238. Of those who passed away, two women died in private hospitals and a man died in the Government Wenlock Hospital. Earlier, the district reported two non-COVID-19 deaths earlier. According to a release, a 48-year-old woman from Bantwal with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) had been admitted to a private hospital in Deralakatte on Saturday where she tested positive for COVID-19. She died on Saturday night. A 51-year-old woman from Mangaluru taluk who was suffering from SARI had been admitted to a private hospital in the city on June 26. She died in the hospital on Sunday. Her throat swabs tested positive for COVID-19. A 31-year-old man from Mangaluru taluk with hypothyroidism, asthma, severe pneumonia and obesity had been admitted to the Government Wenlock Hospital on Friday. He died on Saturday night. He also tested positive.
29 June 2020||New Delhi,||India will win both battles, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said India will win the battles against the COVID-19 pandemic and the Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. Mr. Shah, in an interview with the news agency Asian News International (ANI), said, “We will win both the battles. I want to assure the people that under the leadership of Modi ji , we will win both the battles.” He said Parliament is about to convene, and he will discuss everything related to China that has occurred in the country since 1962. Accusing Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of indulging in “shallow politics”, Mr. Shah said the party should introspect why Pakistan and China were promoting Twitter hashtags initiated by its leader.
29 June 2020||New Delhi,||Tense standoff continues on LAC||A week after the Corps Commander-level talks in the wake of the June 15 Galwan incident when 20 jawans personnel were killed, both Indian and Chinese troops continue in “eyeball-to-eyeball” positions at all the friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. The China Study Group (CSG), headed by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, met on Saturday to discuss the prevailing situation along the LAC. The CSG is an informal group constituted in 1997, comprising the Cabinet Secretary, the Secretaries of Defence and Home, the Army chief and the Director of Intelligence Bureau, among others. The details of the meeting were not known. A senior government official told The Hindu that an analysis of the medical reports of the 20 men killed showed the cause of death in most cases was a “mix of head injury and drowning”. The bodies were retrieved from Galwan river. “As many as 15 deceased personnel had head injuries, one or two had injuries on the chest and remaining had shoulder and knee injuries. Their bodies were badly bruised as they had toppled into the river,” said the official. At least 75 personnel, who were injured in the incident, had “blunt injuries” on head, chest and back, inflicted by rods. ‘Premeditated action’ The Ministry of External Affairs had issued a statement that the “Chinese side took premeditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties”. As reported earlier, the violent clashes took place on June 15 after Colonel Santosh Babu, who was commanding the unit, dismantled a tent erected by the Chinese and set it on fire. Col. Babu was among the Army personnel killed. Officials said the understanding to remove the tent in Galwan Valley was taken at a meeting on June 6 between the two armies. The official said after the tent was removed on June 15 evening, Col. Babu went to patrol the area with a small team. “When the team arrived there late in the evening, the violent reaction from the Chinese should have been anticipated and factored in,” the official said. “The troops fought on the edge of a cliff where normally no more than two people can stand together; it had also become dark,” he said, adding that had it been a flat terrain, the deaths wouldn’t have occurred. After analysing the chain of events, officials believe that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) was also annoyed as India had constructed a helipad till the edge of Y-nallah at Galwan, not very far from the June 15 clash site. “A similar clash took place on May 5 in the Finger area near Pangong Tso (lake). The intensity of the Galwan clash was more or less similar but the terrain and the spiked batons the Chinese were carrying cost so many lives. It was the first occasion when a clash like this occurred after sun-down,” said the official. The entire stretch along LAC in Ladakh has witnessed “worrisome hardening of Chinese positions” since April-May, with China occupying a considerable area from Finger 4 to 8 near Pangong Tso (lake). After the June 22 Corps Commander level talks, China has neither vacated nor removed the prefabricated or semi permanent structures built since May in some of the disputed sites. However there has been a “noticeable thinning of presence of Chinese troops”, officials said.
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear plea on CA exams today||The Supreme Court will on Monday urgently hear a petition vital to the rights of nearly five lakh chartered accountancy (CA) students slated to take their exams between July 29 and August 16, amid the surge in COVID-19 cases. A virtual Bench, led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, will examine the petition filed by the India Wide Parents Association, which has primarily challenged the “opt-out” scheme announced by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) on June 15 and 20. The scheme allows students to opt out of the exam, which would be deemed to be cancelled. The petition said the scheme discriminates against students living in remote areas or containment zones. Due to the restrictions, they would be forced to opt out unlike their counterparts living in urban areas. Instead of the scheme, which is not pro-student, the petition said the ICAI should focus on increasing the number of exam centres. There should be one centre in every district. The petition sought greater COVID-19 safety measures to be put in place, including an increase in the number of examination centres so that students need not have to travel far and wide to take their exams. About 4.67 lakh students are scheduled to appear at 259 centres in India and five centres overseas. “Considering the fact that there are 739 districts, it is apparent that the ICAI is conducting examinations in about 30% of the districts... This means students from the other 70% districts would be required to travel distances,” the petition pointed out.
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear CA exam petition||The Supreme Court will on Monday urgently hear a petition vital to the rights of nearly five lakh chartered accountancy students slated to take their exams between July 29 and August 16, amid the surge in COVID-19 cases. A virtual Bench, led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, will examine the petition filed by the India Wide Parents Association, which has challenged the “opt-out” scheme announced by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India on June 15 and 20.
29 June 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal didn’t give data for job scheme: FM||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said West Bengal could not be made a beneficiary of the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan, as the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government had not provided any data on migrant labourers. Addressing a virtual rally for the people of Bengal, she slammed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for “her reluctance to allow Shramik Special train services in the State”. “The West Bengal government has been opposing all pro-people policies of the Centre...Six States have shared data on migrant workers, following their return. West Bengal, however, did not...,” Ms. Sitharaman said. “Our Prime Minister launched a scheme, which covers 116 districts in the country, but none from Bengal could be included as the TMC government didn’t bother to share any data with us,” she said. TMC leaders had criticised the Union government for not making the State a beneficiary in the job scheme.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Over 14% in Kolkata have antibodies, finds ICMR||A sero survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to estimate the sero-prevalence of the novel coronavirus infection in West Bengal reveals a higher number of antibodies in the population of Kolkata than in other districts. The sero-prevalence is the level of a pathogen in a population, as measured in blood serum. A June 26 letter, written by ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava to West Bengal Health Secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam, reveals that of the 396 samples in Kolkata, 57 tested positive, , taking the “unweighted prevalence” to 14.39% in the city.
29 June 2020||Pune,||Yet another single-day high of 5,493 cases||Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day surge in COVID-19 cases yet again on Sunday, with a staggering 5,493 fresh cases taking its tally to 1,64,626. Of these, 70,607 are active. Another 156 new deaths pushed the State’s death toll to 7,429. Of these, 60 were reported in the last 48 hours while 96 were from an earlier period, State Health Department officials said. This is the third consecutive daily increase of more than 5,000 cases reported in the State.As many as 2,330 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries till date to 86,575. With 1,287 new cases, Mumbai’s tally has reached 75,539, of which only 28,006 are active. With 23 more deaths reported on Sunday, the city’s death toll has risen to 4,371.
29 June 2020||Mumbai,||Don’t travel beyond 2 km of home, urge Mumbai Police||The Mumbai Police on Sunday urged residents not to travel beyond a 2-km radius of their homes for the purpose of exercise or visiting shops and salons. “Movement beyond 2 km is permitted only for attending office or medical emergencies,” a senior police official said. The police appealed to residents to follow personal safety and physical distancing norms, or else they will take strict action against offenders. Residents should ensure all outdoor movement is restricted to essential activities only, the official said. “While moving outdoors, wearing face masks is compulsory.” Shops and markets not following guidelines will be closed down.
29 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Active cases reach 2,000, 118 new cases||The State on Sunday reported 118 new COVID-19 cases and 42 recoveries. The number of patients currently undergoing treatment crossed the 2,000 mark on Sunday. The number of active cases now stands at 2015. What is significant is that amongst the new cases, 14 people contracted the infection from the community through local transmission and the source of infection remains unknown. This include two doctors and three nurses of a private hospital at Edappal in Malappuram district. They tested positive in the RT-PCR tests done amongst health workers as part of sentinel surveillance study. Four persons in Kottayam also contracted the disease through local transmission, putting several regions in the district on the hotspot list. The other "contact" cases are from Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Thrissur, Kannur and Palakkad.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Plan to tag those in home quarantine||In light of a large number of people in quarantine violating the rules with impunity and putting the community at risk of contracting COVID-19, the State government is working on tagging those in home quarantine. “We are creating a new app in which persons under home quarantine will be tagged. Officials will know the movement of these people,” Revenue Minister R. Ashok told presspersons on Sunday.
29 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Malls to open from July 1 in Gurugram, Faridabad||Shopping malls in Gurugram and Faridabad will reopen from July 1 and will be allowed to operate from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Cinema halls, gaming arcades and children play areas inside the malls will remain closed. Shoppers have been advised to instal the Aarogya Setu app.
29 June 2020||JAIPUR,||COVID-19 drug claim: FIR against Ramdev, 4 others||The police have lodged an FIR against yoga guru Ramdev and four others for allegedly conspiring to sell a fake Ayurveda medicine with the misleading claim to cure COVID-19 following clinical trials on some patients.
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||City sees 2,889 fresh virus cases, 65 deaths||Delhi reported 2,889 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 83,077, read the health bulletin released on Sunday. The death toll has risen to 2,623 with 65 deaths in the past 24 hours. There are now 27,847 active cases in the city.
29 June 2020||KALABURAGI,||One COVID-19 death each in Kalaburagi, Ballari||A 65-year-old male suffering from severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) who died in Kalaburagi on June 26 has posthmously tested positive for COVID-19. Kalaburagi district reported 34 new cases on Sunday. In Ballari, a 57-year-old male suffering from SARI died on Saturday, and his sample has tested positive for COVID-19. Ballari recorded 71 new cases on Sunday.
29 June 2020||HUBBALLI,||Dharwad records sixth COVID-19 death||Gadag district recorded 30 positive COVID-19 cases on Sunday, while Dharwad district recorded 18 new cases and one death. With 30 new cases, the tally in Gadag has increased to 170. After three deaths and 51 discharged patients, the district has 116 active cases now. Meanwhile, as a 48-year-old police constable attached to Dharwad Traffic Police tested positive on Sunday, the police station has been closed for the public. A 71-year-old woman (P-6,257) from Unkal in Hubballi died at KIMS Hospital on Sunday.
29 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Karnataka witnesses a record spike in cases||In an alarming rise, Andhra Pradesh reported 12 more COVID-19 deaths and 813 fresh cases on Sunday as 25,778 samples were tested. It was the biggest single-day spike on both counts. The toll mounted to 169 and the case tally to 13,098. Of the total, 7,021 cases were active and 5,908 patients had recovered. The tally of positive cases doubled since June 16. Deaths too doubled in 13 days. Six new deaths occurred in Kurnool, five in Krishna districts and one in West Godavari district. Of fresh cases, 755 were local, 50 were people from other States and five were returnees from abroad. So far 8.41 lakh samples were tested with a positivity rate of 1.56%, showing a slight increase. The recovery rate too slightly increased to 45.11%. The mortality rate was 1.29% and tests per million population 15,765. Kerala reported 118 new COVID-19 cases and 42 recoveries on Sunday. Active cases stood at 2,015. Among new cases, 14 were people who contracted the infection from the community through local transmission. This included two doctors and three nurses of a private hospital at Edappal, Malappuram district, who tested positive in the RT-PCR tests done among health care workers, as part of a sentinel surveillance study. Four persons in Kottayam district also got the disease through local transmission. The other “contact” cases were in Thiruvananthapuram, Alapuzha, Thrissur, Kannur and Palakkad. The Government decided to decongest Medical College hospitals, which were dedicated COVID-19 hospitals in the districts, by shifting all mild cases to first line treatment centres and keeping only patients with serious disease in MCHs. However, the centres had just become operational to accommodate in-patients in many districts. As the intake went up, the Government would provide round-the-clock care. Of the new cases, 68 were from abroad, and 36 from other States. The overall case tally was now 4,189 and recoveries were put at 2,150. The State had over 1.75 lakh people on surveillance and quarantine; 2,611 persons with mild symptoms were in hospitals.  Karnataka saw a further jump in COVID-19 cases with new cases on Sunday touching 1,267. Over 61% of these cases — 783 — were from Bengaluru. The number of fatalities too was on the rise with 16 more deaths reported on Sunday. While four deaths were from Bengaluru Urban, three were from Dakshina Kannada, two each from Tumakuru and Bagalkot and one each from Dharwad, Hassan, Mysuru, Ballari and Kalaburgi. The number of ICU admissions rose with 243 patients being added. The COVID-19 tally in Telangana touched 14,419 with 983 more testing positive. Four deaths were also reported. The fresh cases included 816 from Greater Hyderabad, 47 from Rangareddy and 33 from Mancherial. The number of persons testing positive in one day for COVID-19 infection touched a new high in Tamil Nadu on Sunday with 3,940 persons, including 179 returnees, being added to the tally. An 18-month old baby and a 17-year old boy were among those who died, while 1,443 patients were discharged post-recovery. A total of 31,505 persons were tested on Sunday. The number of active cases (including those in isolation) stood at 35,656 and total number of persons who tested positive was 82,275. In Chennai the number of persons testing positive rose by 1,992, taking total positive cases to 53,762.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai bureaus)
29 June 2020||New Delhi,||Modi has a ‘soft spot’ for China: Cong.||The Congress on Sunday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of having a “soft spot” for China, and listed out the firms that are fully or partially owned by Chinese companies which have recently donated to the PM CARES fund, instituted by the Prime Minister’s Office in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. On Saturday, BJP president J.P. Nadda had alleged that Rajiv Gandhi Foundation headed by Congress President Sonia Gandhi every year had received donations from the Chinese Embassy between 2005 and 2009. ‘Distraction from reality’ In a counter attack, the Congress on Sunday said the BJP has been targeting Congress to distract from the reality of Chinese transgressions in the Galwan Valley, Pangong Tso Lake area, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains up to Y-Junction. “Every time the Modi government is questioned on the Chinese transgressions of our territory, a deceptive Modi government and a paranoid BJP resorts to diversionary tactics and disinformation. Let them know that the Congress party will keep asking these questions in national interest,” Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi said. Mr. Singhvi, who tested positive for COVID-19, spoke via video conference from a quarantine facility. Mr. Modi’s statement of claiming no intrusion or occupation by the Chinese in Indian territory was the “greatest disservice to the nation”, Mr. Singhvi said. “As we all know the Prime Minister has a special soft spot for China. Even as Chief Minister of Gujarat, we saw his close association in his four Chinese visits. He is the only Prime Minister who has visited China five times,” he added. Mr. Singhvi said many Chinese firms and Indian firms which are partially owned or funded by Chinese companies including telecom giants Huawei (donated Rs. 7 crore), Xiaomi (Rs. 15 crore) and OPPO (Rs. 1 crore) had donated to the PM CARES Fund. PayTm which donated Rs. 100 crore to the Fund has 38% Chinese ownership. Similarly Chinese social media firm TikTok donated Rs. 30 crore. So far, as per the Central government, Rs. 9,678 crore had been collected under this fund. “No one knows how PM CARES is controlled or money given to it is utilised. The Fund is not even subjected to audit by any public authority, including CAG. PMO has gone to the extent of saying this Fund is not a public authority... PMCARES Fund is not even subjected to RTI. All in all, the Fund appears to be solely run by the Prime Minister in an opaque and secret fashion,” Mr. Singhvi said. Despite intrusions Later in a series of tweets, senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram said the PM CARES fund was set up after Chinese intrusions into Depsang (2013), Chumar (2014) and Doklam (2017). “Why did the PM accept funds from Chinese-owned funds, one of which has a deep connection with the Chinese Army,” he asked.  "PM-CARES fund was set up on 28-03-2020. Chinese-owned companies donated money from that date. Chinese troops began incursions into Ladakh in March-April 2020. Does it require great intelligence to discern China’s motives?" he said. The party asked Mr. Modi to explain why despite overt Chinese hostilities, he had received the money into the fund.
29 June 2020||Mumbai,||Lockdown will continue: Uddhav||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the COVID-19 lockdown will not be lifted post-June 30, but there will be a few relaxations. He said the State might witness a surge in the number of patients in the coming days. Mr. Thackeray said re-imposing the lockdown or allowing more relaxations would squarely depend on citizens as discipline has to be maintained. “We are not going to end the lockdown after June 30. But yes, we will offer a few relaxations. We have to realise that as more relaxations are given, more number of cases of corona have come up. We are walking on the edge. We are opening services only to revive the stopped economic cycle,” he said. Mr. Thackeray said the threat of the virus remains. “Come out of the illusion that relaxations mean corona threat is over. I am getting requests from local authorities about shutting down areas due to the rising number of cases. I have told them that they can impose lockdown locally if people continue to crowd on roads and cases are increasing.” Maharashtra is the worst-affected State in the country with 1,64,626 cases. “As we open up more and more activities, there is a possibility that positive cases may rise. But we are ready to take on the surge. We have increased our infrastructure and also testing facilities. Mumbai implemented ‘Chase the Virus’ successfully. This will be replicated in other parts of the State as well,” he said. ‘Donate blood plasma’ He appealed to the patients who have recovered to donate blood plasma for the Plasma Therapy. “Maharashtra has the largest use of plasma therapy. The success rate is good. I appeal to the recovered patients to contact government medical colleges and doctors to donate plasma.” Request to doctors Mr. Thackeray also requested senior doctors to join the anti-COVID operations, assuring them that their safety will not be compromised at any level. He acknowledged that senior citizens are at risk but “we need your experience”. “We are also using all available medicines, including Remdesivir. We followed up with the Central government and have received permission to use it. There will no shortage. We will make available these medicines free of cost at government hospitals. Soon stocks will be full.”
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Russia agrees to speed up defence deals||Russia has agreed to quickly address some urgent defence requirements sought by India and this was discussed during the recent trip of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, defence and diplomatic sources said. The long-pending deals for AK-203 assault rifles and Ka-226T light utility helicopters were also discussed in a review of the entire gamut of defence cooperation. India will present its requirements soon and Russia has agreed to address them within a few months, the sources said without elaborating. Mr. Singh was on a four-day visit to Moscow from June 21 for the 75th anniversary of the Victory Day Parade, during which he held talks with Russian Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov. The request comes against the backdrop of tensions with China along the Line of Actual Control and the large-scale mobilisation undertaken by the armed forces in response to the massive Chinese build-up. S-400 by 2021-end In a statement after the talks in Moscow, Mr. Singh said Russia had agreed that ongoing contracts would be maintained and “in a number of cases will be taken forward in a shorter time”. However, on the S-400 deal, the sources said the deliveries would start by the end of 2021 as scheduled and it was difficult to accelerate the deal any further. “No further acceleration is technically possible,” a diplomatic source said, while the Indian sources said the deliveries would be completed as per the contractual terms. There is some progress on the AK-203 assault rifle deal which has been held up over pricing, another diplomatic source said. The deal was for over 7.5 lakh rifles, of which one lakh would be imported and 6.71 lakh rifles manufactured by a joint venture (JV) Indo-Russian Rifles Private Ltd. (IRRPL) at Korwa in Uttar Pradesh. However, the deal for 200 Ka-226T utility helicopters remains stuck over the level of indigenisation. To reach the indigenisation percentage as specified by the tender, Russia and India are evaluating the possibility of using Indian aviation materials in the production in India, which will give the programme a new indigenisation angle and also an impetus to the domestic aero industry. “Another significant feature of the project is going to be the transfer to India of a number of crucial helicopter engineering technologies, including the unique coaxial scheme technologies,” two sources said, adding that India will have the choice to integrate domestic avionic and weapons. Of the 200 helicopters, 60 will be imported directly and the remaining will be manufactured by a JV between Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. and the Russian Helicopters (RH). Several MoUs have already been signed with domestic companies by RH for localising assemblies such as fuselage, blades, radio station and landing gear.
29 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||KCR hails Narasimha Rao’s reforms||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao hailed the late Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao as a reformist par excellence. “His reforms in education and land have changed Telangana’s landscape while his economic reforms changed India forever,” the CM said. Praising PV as a 360-degree personality, Mr. KCR said it was unfortunate that he did not get the respect and recognition he deserved and he would speak about it at an appropriate time as he didn’t want to politicise such a solemn occasion. “But the country will remember him for the economic reforms, the fruits of which we all enjoy today,” he said. ‘Created global India’ He said that PV’s life was like a personality development lesson and his contribution to the country was no less than Jawaharlal Nehru. “He created a global India.” Recalling PV’s contribution to education, Mr. KCR said that the first residential school in the country was started at Sarvail in Nalgonda district by him in 1971 that paved the way for Navodaya Vidyalayas in the country when he was the Union HRD Minister. “Our DGP Mahender Reddy is a product of that school and our government established 900 residential schools in the last five years with that inspiration,” he said. “On the international front too, he made his mark with his Look East policy when he was the PM, urging the West to realise the power of the Asian region,” he reminded. Mr. KCR added that PV’s contributions in creating a global India would be revived and passed onto all Indians throughout this year. As part of it, hoardings were being put up by the Telangana government in all metro cities and celebrations would be held in 51 countries. IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao is in-charge of celebrations abroad. Bharat Ratna for PV He assured that PM Narendra Modi, President Ramnath Kovind and former PM Manmohan Singh would be involved in the celebrations. “I will personally meet the Prime Minister to seek Bharat Ratna for PV,” he said. Similarly, a fitting memorial and museum would be established to ensure that future generations get inspired with his fabulous work. A national-level conclave in New Delhi with the theme “Remembering PV” would also be held. He said that PV’s bronze statues had already been ordered to be installed at his native village Vangara, in Hyderabad, Karimnagar and also at Telangana Bhavan in New Delhi. A picture of PV will be put up in the Assembly and efforts would be made for the same in Parliament. PV birth centenary celebrations committee chairman K. Keshava Rao, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and several Ministers earlier paid floral respects at Gyan Bhoomi along with the CM.
29 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||No extortion, only legitimate taxes levied, says NSCN (IM)||The Isak-Muivah faction of the extremist National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (IM), has said that the “legitimate taxes” it levies cannot be equated with extortion. The group has been on ceasefire mode since July 1997. In a statement issued on June 27, the NSCN (IM) said that it had the “inherent right of any sovereign people and nation” to collect taxes from the people and commercial establishments. The statement was in reaction to Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi’s June 16 letter to Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio, reported first by The Hindu , pulling up the State government for the collapse of law and order situation. The Governor said armed gangs were running Nagaland, questioning the sovereignty and integrity of the nation and challenging the constitutionally-established State government. Mr. Ravi is also Centre’s interlocutor for the peace process with the NSCN (IM) and other extremist groups in Nagaland and adjoining States. “Taxes have been the sources of sustenance that has brought the Naga political movement this far. This was legitimately acknowledged by the earlier interlocutors...” the NSCN (IM) said. ‘Not a gang’ “What has complicated the situation as seen today is the madness of ‘extortion’ being carried out by some groups in the guise of freedom fighters. NSCN did not and does not commit extortion at any point of time but levies legitimate taxes from the people,” it added. NSCN (IM) added that it was the recognised and legitimate national organisation of the Naga people, not a gang. Extremists groups are known to run parallel governments in Nagaland and collect an array of taxes to run such governments. The groups also prepare budgets in March and fix tax rates.
29 June 2020||Srinagar,||Kashmiris anxious over order to stock up LPG||Two separate government orders on stocking up LPG cylinders for two months in the Kashmir Valley and on vacating of school buildings for security forces in Ganderbal, adjoining Kargil, have triggered a fresh wave of anxiety among people, in the wake of the India-China face-off. Described as a “most urgent matter”, an Adviser to Lt. Governor G.C. Murmu passed the directions on June 23, “to ensure sufficient stocks of LPG in the Valley as the supply gets affected due to closure of the National Highway on account of landslips”. According to an order passed by the Director of the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumers, oil companies should make adequate stocks of LPG that can last up to two months. This is the first time that the administration has decided to stock up LPG cylinders at the peak of summer. Usually, such exercises are carried out in October-November when the harsh winter affects the highway traffic. Separately, the Ganderbal police have requested 16 educational institutions in the district, including ITI and middle and higher secondary schools, to vacate their buildings. “In view of the Shri Amarnath Ji Yatra-2020, these educational centres be made available for accommodation of Central Armed Police Force companies,” the order reads. Such build-up assumes significance as the coming yatra is likely to be a low-key affair due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Besides, Ganderbal adjoins Kargil in Ladakh, where India and China are engaged in a face-off over the Line of Actual Control. “We have been hearing jets hovering in the skies on a daily basis for many weeks now. Similar orders were issued in February and August last year,” said Nazeer Ahmad, a resident of Hawal. Ahead of the operation in Balakot inside Pakistan in February last year and the revocation of J&K’s special status in August 2019, the government had issued a slew of similar orders. National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah said, “Unfortunately, after all the lies and false assurances last year, even if and when the government explains these orders, hardly any of us will take the assurances at face value.” Simrandeep Singh, Secretary, Department of Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs, however, said the LPG stocking was discussed in the context of the monsoon. “The NH-44 highway closes intermittently during the rains. That’s all.”
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hackers get data of 80,000 COVID-19 patients in Delhi||The website of the Delhi State Health Mission ( dshm.delhi.gov.in ) was taken down temporarily on Sunday after a group of hackers exposed its vulnerability. They hacked the website and accessed personal data of more than 80,000 COVID-19 patients in Delhi. A senior police officer with the cybercrime cell said they had not received any police complaint so far. Data of more than 80,000 corona positive patients in Delhi, recovered and active, could potentially be at risk as a result of the hacking. The group has, however, claimed that it merely wanted to highlight the vulnerability of the data system. The Kerala Cyber Hackers group, in a social media post on Saturday night, claimed that it had hacked the Delhi government’s ‘Delhi State Health Mission’ website and accessed the data of all corona patients. ‘Unhappy with govt.’ The group took responsibility and claimed that the unsatisfactory approach of the Delhi government towards healthcare personnel is the reason. “We are not satisfied with the Delhi government’s approach towards the healthcare personnel ... Thus, to show our protest, we were on an errand to obliterate “Delhi State Health Mission” website. Gaining access to their server took us lesser than 10 minutes. We were appalled to witness sensitive data stored in these servers without any security,” read the post. “This is the server used by the Delhi government to investigate, report, and track the COVID-19 situation in Delhi. A hacker can edit, manipulate as well as misuse these data to make profits. The consequences can be the downfall of the entire Indian security. For instance, manipulating these data will cause miscalculations, and inaccuracy in tracking COVID-19,” the post read.
29 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Officer pens tale of Kerala’s ‘first custodial death’||In his police career spanning two-and-a-half decades, A. Nasim has been part of some of the most dogged assignments — cracking murder mysteries, chasing down criminals after long pursuits, and rescuing people in distress. But this gruelling, round-the-cock work has not stymied his passion for writing. The officer, who joined the Kerala Police as a sub-inspector in 1995, made his literary debut in 2002 with a book titled ‘Police Digest.’ On ‘101 murders’ Now an Additional Superintendent of Police in Kottayam, Mr. Nasim is fast becoming an authority on the history of crimes in Kerala. A crime historian who holds a doctoral degree in the custodial deaths in Kerala from 1956 to 2016, he has now completed a book on Kayamkulam Kochunni and has set out on another on the 101 murders that shocked Kerala, besides an Encyclopedia of Investigation — a 12-volume work. Years of labour “Kayamkulam Kochunni’s is arguably the first recorded case of custodial death in Kerala and I chanced upon the episode while researching the history of custodial deaths. I spent about three-and-a-half years on the subject, visiting the locations, interviewing people, and verifying archives to piece together the life of Kochunni, who was killed at the age of 41,” Mr. Nasim said. Context of crime In the book on the 101 murders, which will feature cases as recent as the Koodathayi serial killings, he has taken care not to sensationalise violence. The book aims at providing context to the crimes it analyses. The Encyclopedia of Investigation, on the other hand, will detail the criminal investigation process, from the First Information Report till the filing of charge sheets, and seeks to lay down a Standard Operating Procedure for different types of cases. “This is a six-and-a-half-year project involving in-depth analysis of cases, which helps one see how and by whom our laws are enforced. Each of the 12 volumes runs into about 1,200 pages,” he said. Writing, according to Mr. Nasim, has given him the counterbalance to the stress that stems from a demanding job.
29 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||BSNL’s 4G plans delayed||Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited’s tender for upgrading telecom equipment to 4G is set to be further delayed. The Central government constituted a committee last week to ‘refine technical specifications’ and make them more favourable to Indian companies. This move is seen by the BSNL Employees’ Union, which organised a nationwide protest on Friday demanding allocation of 4G to the BSNL, as another delaying tactic to favour private players. A tender was issued in March after much delay. However, a group called Telecom Equipment and Services Export Promotion Council (TEPC) objected to the tender saying it is not favourable to Indian companies and goes against ‘Make in India’ norms. One of the requirements was that the company should have previous experience of setting up a mobile network of at least 20 million subscribers. None of the Indian suppliers have that experience, as all major telecom players depend on foreign companies. Due to the TEPC’s objection, the tender was cancelled. The eight-member panel, now constituted to recommend technical specifications, is expected to recommend core domestic network components that can be deployed in the BSNL network. Due to the recent issues on the Indo-China border and the push against Chinese companies, another project for upgrading 2G and 3G towers that was awarded to Chinese company ZTE in May now hangs in the balance. “The TEPC is a paper organisation meant to delay BSNL’s 4G plans. All private players began 4G deployment in 2016. A key component of the Centre’s revival package announced in October last year was the provision of 4G for the BSNL. After the delayed tender call in March, it was cancelled and now a committee has been formed to set norms. During this pandemic period, when students are depending upon faster connections for online classes and people are all working from home, the BSNL is being prevented from providing a faster 4G experience,” says C. Santosh Kumar, Kerala Circle secretary of the BSNL Employees’ Union.
29 June 2020||Kolkata,||‘Over 14% in Kolkata have antibodies’||A sero survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to estimate the sero-prevalence of the novel coronavirus infection in West Bengal reveals a higher number of antibodies in the population of Kolkata than in other districts. The sero-prevalence is the level of a pathogen in a population, as measured in blood serum. A June 26 letter, written by ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava to West Bengal Health Secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam, reveals that of the 396 samples in Kolkata, 57 tested positive, taking the “unweighted prevalence” to 14.39% in the city. In South 24 Parganas, only 10 of the 400 samples tested positive, indicating a prevalence of 2.5%. In districts such as Bankura and Jhargram, only one of the 400 samples tested positive. Four and three samples were found positive in Alipurduar and Purba Medinipur, respectively. Experts say the study shows that the infection is rising in Kolkata at a higher pace than in other districts. Kolkata accounted for a third of all cases in the State and about 57% of the deaths. Of the 16,711 cases and 629 deaths reported till June 27, in the State, Kolkata accounted for 5,402 cases and 359 deaths.
29 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||192 U.P. teachers under scanner over duplicate PAN numbers||The Education Department in Uttar Pradesh is verifying the records of 192 teachers in the State after officials found duplicates of PAN numbers and bank accounts used for drawing salaries. This comes at a time when the police is investigating the “Anamika Shukla” controversy in the alleged recruitment of “fake teachers” across districts under the aforementioned identity. Vijay Kiran Anand, Director General of School Education-U.P., has written to the district Basic Shiksha Adhikaris (BSA) to check the records of the 192 cases in which identical PAN cards and bank details have been recorded under different teachers. “When we checked the database of all the teachers whose salaries are being drawn, in some instances, we found duplicates of the PAN. Now we are verifying whether the data feeding was done correctly or there is actually a problem,” Mr. Anand told The Hindu . The official clarified that it was not a case of a single PAN number being used in the 192 cases but there were multiple cases of duplicates with different details. Further action would be taken after the BSAs submitted their reports, he added. 11 cases in Ballia One such district where details are being collected is Ballia, where eleven cases of duplicate details have been found, said officials. The district BSA has asked the Block Education Officers (BEO) to direct the 11 teachers to appear in person on Monday with their documents proving their details. BEO of Belhari in Ballia, Narendra Kumar, hinted that some of the faulty entries could have been due to the transfers of teachers from one district to another, leading to documentation at both places.
29 June 2020||Srinagar,||Kulgam woman held for posing with gun, terror recruitments||The police in Kashmir have arrested a woman for posing with a gun, alongside her militant son, and “playing a role in recruitment of two locals” into militancy. Naseema Banoo, from Kulgam’s Rampora Qaimoh, was arrested on June 20. “In the photo, the arrested woman is toting an automatic weapon and posing next to her son, who was an active terrorist [killed later in an encounter],” the Kulgam police said in a statement. “She is involved in much more serious offences and her role has surfaced in recruiting at least two youth into terrorist ranks, arranging arms and ammunition, communication and logistics for terrorists and terror organisations,” the police added. Ms. Banoo, mother of slain Hizbul Mujahideen commander Touseef Sheikh, was arrested in 2018 under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. It is not clear if she was evading arrest or was on the run since 2018. “Just because she happens to be a woman or the mother of a killed terrorist does not make her immune to arrest. It is the prime duty of the police to arrest criminals to safeguard the people... ” the police said. Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, told The Hindu, “She was evading arrest (since 2018).” “Banoo is the sister of active Hizbul Mujahideen commander Abbas Sheikh, who joined militancy in 2015 and is categorised as an 'A plus plus' militant,” he said.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||SC dismisses review petitions challenging verdict on adultery||The Supreme Court has refused to review its 2018 judgment which decriminalised adultery. A five-judge Review Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, upheld a September 2018 Constitution Bench which had struck adultery out of the penal statute book. “We have carefully gone through the review petitions and the connected papers filed therewith. We do not find any ground, whatsoever, to entertain the same. The review petitions are, accordingly, dismissed,” the Bench said in a short order recently. The original judgment was by a Constitution Bench, led by then chief justice Dipak Misra, which found that Section 497 (adultery) of the Indian Penal Code cannot “command” married couples to remain loyal to each other for the fear of penal punishment. Two individuals may part if one cheats, but to attach criminality to infidelity is going too far, Justice Misra had observed in his separate opinion. Justice Misra was replaced by Chief Justice Bobde on the Review Bench, while the other four judges on the original Bench — R.F. Nariman, A.M. Khanwilkar, D.Y. Chandrachud and Indu Malhotra — continued on to the Review Bench. The original judgment in 2018 was based on a writ petition filed by a Kerala resident, Joseph Shine, represented by advocate Kaleeswaram Raj. The court had reasoned that there was no data whatsoever to support claims that abolition of adultery as a crime would result in “chaos in sexual morality” or an increase of divorce. Section 497 treats a married woman as the commodity of her husband, the Bench had held. Adultery is not a crime if the cuckolded husband connives or consents to his wife’s extra-marital affair. Section 497 treats a married woman as her husband’s “chattel”.
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Church moves SC, seeks to intervene in Sabarimala case||Members of the Malankara Jacobite Syrian Church in Kerala have approached the Supreme Court for permission to intervene in the Sabarimala review case before a nine-judge Constitution Bench. The nine-judge Bench is poised to decide “larger questions” of what constitutes religious freedom under Article 25 of the Constitution. The Bench will also determine whether the court can examine religious practices across multiple faiths and decide if they are really essential or not. The Jacobite Church members, represented by advocates Haris Beeran and Pallavi Pratap, said what is integral to a faith should best be left to the discretion of the religious denomination. Judicial review into religion should remain limited. “The applicants submit that the extent of judicial review with regard to religious practices with regard to Article 25 is very limited and therefore the religious denomination should have the right to determine whether a particular practice is integral part of a religion. It should be left exclusively to be determined by the head of the section of such religious group,” the application said. The members said the immediate need to protect their religious freedom and beliefs has arisen from the recent appointments of vicars to their parish churches. “Priest/vicar of the parish church was someone who has got kaiveppu [laying of hand on the head and through consecration] from the Patriarch of Antioch and who believes in the spiritual supremacy of the Patriarch of Antioch. The kaiveppu and recognition of the spiritual supremacy of the Patriarch of Antioch are essential to the religious belief .” However, the priests appointed now do not believe in the supremacy of the Patriarchnor the need for consecration.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Beware! HAM operators are watching you||As the number of COVID-19 positive cases increases, so does the number of people under home quarantine. A special task force has been constituted in Bengaluru to ensure that citizens under home quarantine follow the prescribed protocol. Among those who have volunteered to help the task force are 260-odd HAM (amateur) radio operators in the city. They work in shifts, coordinating with booth-level and ward-level squad members to keep a watch on the home quarantined people. While most of them are operating out of their homes, three static centres have been set up in the Vasanthapura, H.B.R. Layout and Jayanagar localities. “We had earlier set up high frequency and very high frequency stations at the State war room. But we have decided to cut down on our movement considering the high risk involved. We are all keeping a watch in our neighbourhoods, apart from providing back-up communication to the squad and task force,” said S. Sathyapal, director of the Indian Institute of HAMS. Gautam Shantappa, a HAM volunteer, said operators in Bengaluru had been volunteering since the end of March. “We coordinated the distribution of food and ration kits to migrant workers. We also helped with [the process of] sending 1.8 lakh migrant workers home. A few of us are volunteering at the railway station and the airport, and helping with the quarantining of travellers,” said B. N. Umesh, another HAM operator. But the challenges in monitoring the home quarantined are vastly different, said Dr. Sathyapal. “We sometimes have to deal with aggressive behaviour and negotiate with violators, though we are not trained for it. We immediately transmit messages to the senior officials if we are not able to tackle the situation,” he said.
29 June 2020||MANGALURU,||Class 10 student from Udupi tests positive||A 15-year-old Class 10 student from Padubidri in Karnataka’s Udupi district tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. She will write the remaining papers of the SSLC examination as a fresher in the supplementary examination. Sheshashayana K., Deputy Director of Public Instruction, Udupi, said the throat swab samples of the student were tested after her father tested positive on Saturday. The samples were taken after she had returned home after writing the mathematics examination. Mr. Sheshashayana said the room in which the student wrote the examination had been sanitised and closed. Other students who were in that room would write the science paper on Monday in another room. As each student was seated with adequate distance between them, there were no chances for the spread of the infection, officials said. However, the students will be kept under observation.  Relief to students In a relief to Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) students writing their examination, the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has decided to allow them to write the remaining exams even if their peers at the exam centre or in the same classroom test positive.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Befitting reply given to those coveting territory’||Mr. Modi said the challenges that 2020 had brought to the country, like COVID-19, Cyclones Amphan and Nisarga, and locust attacks, apart from the situation in east Ladakh, should not weigh the country down. “We must face the challenges and use them to march ahead,” he said. He added that India had transited from the lockdown phase of fighting COVID-19 to the unlock phase, which would require more alertness and care. Taking the point further to highlight recent reforms his government had undertaken, the Prime Minister said, “India is unlocking, be it sectors like coal, space, agriculture and more” and that it was time “to work together to make India self-reliant and technologically advanced.” He pointed out that before Independence, India had an edge in defence production which it lost subsequently, and that it was time to regain that edge. Pays tribute Mr. Modi also paid fulsome tributes to late Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao, whose centenary year celebrations are being kicked off on Sunday. He referred to Rao as one of the most experienced leaders of modern India, a polyglot and someone who steered India through a very delicate phase in its history. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet in Hindi, wondered when we will talk about national defence and security. The Congress said Mann Ki Baat was 33 minute long, but there was not a single reference to China or the conflict on the Line of Actual Control. “Why are you so scared of China?” said Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala. It was time for the Prime Minister of a strong nation like India to act strongly. “Don’t fear China and please stand by our armed forces,” he said.
29 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Chennithala alleges graft in e-mobility consultancy||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Sunday added a multi-crore e-mobility consultancy contract awarded to PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) to his litany of corruption charges against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. Mr. Chennithala said the surreptitious move to contract the PwC at a high cost under the pretext of seeking expert counsel in procuring 3,000 electric public transport buses at an estimated cost of Rs. 4,500 crore was the latest in the chain of corrupt deals authored by the administration during the COVID-19 crisis. He said that those in power had perfected a systematic approach to amass wealth through fraudulent means. The political executive announced non-viable mega projects to pull the wool over the eyes of the public. It then cynically used the quixotic schemes as an excuse to engage global consultancies for sizeable backhanders camouflaged as brokerage. The hiring of KPMG, a global consultancy, to guide the Rebuild Kerala Initiative, a non-starter, was a striking example of the government’s ‘deception’, Mr. Chennithala alleged. He said the government had followed the same modus operandi in the Sprinklr deal, KSEB Transgrid Scheme, K-Fon project, Kochi-Palakkad industrial corridor, BevQ application and the removal of sand from the Pampa. Mr. Chennithala alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was the architect of the State’s dubious arrangement with the PwC. Mr. Vijayan had “pushed ahead” with the consultancy contract ignoring cautionary advice from eminent jurists and watchdog agencies. Moreover, the government had contracted the PwC arbitrarily and as per the terms dictated by the company. It had not floated any global tender for the consultancy work so as to pave the way for the back door entry of PwC. Mr. Vijayan had kept the Cabinet in the dark about the hiring. Mr. Chennithala demanded an anti-corruption inquiry. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran told reporters in Kozhikode that the government had not decided to purchase 3,000 electric buses as stated by Mr. Chennithala. UDF meeting The Jose K. Mani faction in the Kerala Congress (M) was yet to heed the arrangement the United Democratic Front (UDF) had brokered with the party chairperson P.J. Joseph. The coalition would decide the future course of action soon after consulting other stakeholders.
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Meetings being held in India to unseat me: Oli||Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli of Nepal on Sunday said meetings were being organised in India to topple his government. Addressing a gathering at his official residence to mark the 69th birth anniversary of the late communist leader Madan Bhandari, Mr. Oli said his government enjoyed a parliamentary majority and plans to oust him would fail. “There is news coming from Delhi about this. Look at the meetings being organised in India against Nepal’s decision to amend the Constitution to place the revised map of the country in the national emblem,” said Prime Minister Oli, alleging a plot to overthrow his government. The Lower House of Nepal’s Parliament unanimously passed the Second Constitution Amendment on June 13, which gave constitutional status to the new map of the country which included the disputed Limpiyadhura-Kalapani-Lipulekh region in Uttarakhand. The Bill was signed by President Bidhya Devi Bhandari on June 18. ‘Unthinkable scenario’ Mr. Oli said India was upset by Nepal’s territorial assertion. “Nepal’s nationalism is not so weak. We have changed our map, and if the Prime Minister of the country is deposed, then that will be unthinkable to Nepal,” he said. Hinting at India, he said some people considered the new map of Nepal a “crime”. He also hinted at an external plot against his government in 2016 and recollected that the government fell at that time because he had reached out to China and signed transit agreements which reduced dependence on land connectivity through India. “I clearly remember that I was toppled when I signed transit agreement with China,” he said. “You must have heard that the Prime Minister will be changed in 15 days. If I am removed at this time, no one will dare to speak in favour of Nepal because that person will be dismissed immediately. I am not speaking for myself. I speak for the country. Our party, our parliamentary party will not fall into such traps,” Mr. Oli said. Fissures emerge Despite the popular and emotive move on the new map, Mr. Oli has been criticised by colleagues from the faction of Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ in the ongoing meeting of the powerful Standing Committee of the ruling Nepal Communist Party. The hostility between the two factions was evident on Friday when Mr. Oli did not attend the Standing Committee’s meeting. The members of the committee have been critical of the Prime Minister's handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is understood that of the 44 members in the committee, some 30 are with co-chair Prachanda, considered a challenger to Mr. Oli.
29 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Over 9.26 lakh displaced in Assam floods||Two more people drowned on Sunday and more than 9.26 lakh people displaced as 23 out of Assam’s 33 districts reeled under floods. Landslips at six places in Guwahati also killed a girl while another woman, trapped in debris two days ago, succumbed to her injuries. Altogether 43 people have died in flood and landslips since May 22. “Incessant rainfall has made the situation grim with personnel of the National Disaster Response Force and other agencies rescuing 9,303 people,” a spokesperson of the Assam Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said. According to ASDMA’s update, 2,071 villages and localities have been flooded across 23 districts — two more than on Saturday. The number of displaced people almost doubled to 9,26,059 in less than 24 hours. COVID-19 challenge “We have readied 193 relief camps in the 12 worst affected districts where 27,308 people have taken refuge. Maintaining social distancing due to COVID-19 protocols has been a challenge at these camps... ” the spokesperson said.  Officials of the Water Resources Department said the Brahmaputra and most of its tributaries were flowing above the danger mark.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||India will win both battles, says Amit Shah||Mr. Shah was asked about the hashtag #surrendermodi, which was spurred by Mr. Gandhi’s tweet, in which he sought to know the “expanse of territory occupied by the Chinese”. “Parliament will convene, come there, we will have a one-to-one discussion. From 1962 till now, let’s discuss, no one is afraid of discussions. But when jawans are struggling ( sangharsh ) at the border and government has taken a stand, is taking firm action, then to raise issues that make Pakistan and China happy is not done,” he said. Mr. Shah also spoke at length on various measures taken by the Centre and the Delhi government to control the spread of the coronavirus disease in the national capital.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Tense standoff continues on the LAC||At least 75 personnel, who were injured in the incident, had “blunt injuries” on head, chest and back, inflicted by rods. The Ministry of External Affairs had issued a statement that the “Chinese side took premeditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties”. As reported earlier, the violent clashes took place on June 15 after Colonel Santosh Babu, who was commanding the unit, dismantled a tent erected by the Chinese and set it on fire. Col. Babu was among the Army personnel killed. Officials said the understanding to remove the tent in Galwan Valley was taken at a meeting on June 6 between the two armies. The official said after the tent was removed on June 15 evening, Col. Babu went to patrol the area with a small team. “When the team arrived there late in the evening, the violent reaction from the Chinese should have been anticipated and factored in,” the official said. “The troops fought on the edge of a cliff where normally no more than two people can stand together; it had also become dark,” he said, adding that had it been a flat terrain, the deaths wouldn’t have occurred. After the June 22 Corps Commander level talks, China has neither vacated nor removed the prefabricated or semi permanent structures built since May in some of the disputed sites.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||SC to hear plea on CA exams today||The scheme allows students to opt out of the exam, which would be deemed to be cancelled. They would lose their chance. The petition said the scheme discriminates against students living in remote areas or containment zones. Due to the restrictions, they would be forced to opt out unlike their counterparts living in urban areas. Instead of the scheme, which is not pro-student, the petition said the ICAI should focus on increasing the number of exam centres. There should be one centre in every district. Greater safety measures The petition sought greater COVID-19 safety measures to be put in place, including an increase in the number of examination centres so that students need not have to travel far and wide to take their exams. About 4.67 lakh students are scheduled to appear at 259 centres in India and five centres overseas. “Considering the fact that there are 739 districts, it is apparent that the ICAI is conducting examinations in about 30% of the districts... This means students from the other 70% districts would be required to travel from their homes for long distances to appear in the examinations. This will put their lives in immense threat,” the petition pointed out. The parents have also sought free transportation and accommodation for students as well as e-passes for aspirants coming from the containment zones. They said the ICAI should ideally postpone the exams till the situation becomes normal. The CA exams were originally scheduled for May but postponed due to the lockdown. The exams are held in two cycles in November and May. They are recognised in India and abroad. Those who qualify can practise both in India and abroad.
29 June 2020||MYSURU,||My book will not affect BJP govt.: Vishwanath||Former Minister A.H. Vishwanath on Sunday reiterated his trust in Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s promise and clarified that his book on the developments in Mumbai, which he had begun writing before the change in government in Karnataka last year, will not destabilise the BJP government in the State. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Vishwanath said the book Bombay Days will be shortly released in New Delhi in three languages. The book will provide a detailed account of the behind-the-scenes political developments when the coalition government, headed by H.D. Kumaraswamy, in the State was replaced by the BJP government in 2019. The former Minister, considered to be one of the architects of the change of government in Karnataka, said emotions and trust played a crucial role in the country’s politics. He said he had trust in Mr Yediyurappa’s word and described him as the only leader in the State who lived by his word. Mr. Vishwanath, who lost the bypolls to the Assembly from Hunsur last year and also saw his his candidature for the Legislative Council polls rejected by the central leadership, is now hoping for a nomination to the Council in his capacity as an “author.” He had claimed that Mr. Yediyurappa had assured him of making efforts to nominate him to the Legislative Council. He, however, said he was not asking for a Ministerial berth and added that it was left to the Chief Minister’s discretion.
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre unveils new rules to regulate exotic animal trade||The Environment Ministry’s wildlife division has introduced new rules to regulate the import and export of ‘exotic wildlife species’. Currently, it is the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade, Ministry of Commerce, that oversees such trade. Under the new rules, owners and possessors of such animals and birds must also register their stock with the Chief Wildlife Warden of their States. Select animals Officials of the Wildlife Department will also prepare an inventory of such species and have the right to inspect the facilities of such traders to check if these plants and animals are being housed in salubrious conditions. Additionally, stockists will have six months to declare their stock. The advisory, issued earlier this month, also says ‘exotic live species’ will mean animals named under Appendices I, II and III of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) of Wild Fauna and Flora. It will not include species from the Schedules of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972. The CITES is part of a multilateral treaty that includes plant, animals and birds under varying categories of threat of extinction and which will be jointly protected by members of the International Union for Conservation of Nature. India is a signatory to this. According to World Wildlife Crime Report 2016 of the UN, criminals are illegally trading products derived from over 7,000 species of wild animals and plants across the world. ‘Global threat’ In its first global report on the illegal wildlife trade, released last week, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) described wildlife trafficking as a “global threat”, which also has links with other organised crimes such as modern slavery, drug trafficking and arms trade. The illegal trade is estimated to generate revenues of up to $23 billion a year. India continues to battle wildlife crime, with reports suggesting that many times such species are available for trade on online market places. The Wildlife Crime Control Bureau is an organisation that is tasked with monitoring illegal trade.
29 June 2020||New Delhi,||PTI was just doing its duty, says IWPC||Expressing concern over state broadcaster Prasar Bharati’s “threat to review its subscription to the Press Trust of India (PTI)”, the Indian Women’s Press Corps (IWPC) and Press Association, in a joint statement, said it was ironical that the government chose to crack down on the news agency hours after marking the 45th anniversary of Emergency when the press was heavily censored. The statement said the PTI was only doing its professional duty. “At a time when the Chinese have intruded into Indian territory, it is the job of the journalist to ask the ‘other side’, in this case a representative of the Chinese government, why this is happening. The interview made all the news — in fact, the Chinese Ambassador even conceded, for the first time, that there had been some casualties on the LAC,” it said.  Though the broadcaster’s letter to PTI didn’t mention any particular report or interview, sources confirmed that the provocation was primarily the two interviews of Indian Ambassador to China and the Chinese Ambassador to India conducted and circulated by PTI. “By describing PTI’s ‘recent news coverage’ as being detrimental to ‘national interest and undermining India’s territorial integrity’, it seems the authorities have failed to appreciate the meaning of a free, objective and unbiased media...,” the statement said. The Indian Association of Foreign Affairs Correspondents also slammed Prasar Bharati for trying to “arm-twist” PTI.
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses to stay Rajasthan Board exam||In a special Sunday hearing, the Supreme Court dismissed a plea made by the mother of a student to stay the Rajasthan government from conducting Class X exams on June 29 and 30 amid a surge in the COVID-19 cases. A three-judge virtual court Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, which assembled at 6.30 p.m., allowed the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education to go ahead with the scheduled exams, which were postponed due to the pandemic and lockdown. Maghi Devi, whose son is taking the exam, had failed to convince the Rajasthan High Court.
29 June 2020||STAFF REPORTER New Delhi,||Sanjay Baru duped in online scam||The Delhi police arrested a man for allegedly duping policy analyst Sanjaya Baru of Rs. 24,000 on the pretext of online delivery of liquor, the police said on Sunday. The accused Akib Javed, a resident of Kaman, Bharatpur, was nabbed from his home town after a search on Saturday. Efforts are being made to nab his absconding associates. The police said the matter came to notice on June 2 after they received a complaint from Mr. Baru, who was media adviser to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. In his complaint, Mr. Baru alleged that while he was shopping for liquor online, he found the purported online store ‘La Cave Wines and Spirits’. When he contacted on the number provided to place his order, he was asked to pay online. After making a payment of approximately Rs. 24,000, the seller switched off his mobile phone, the police said. After analysing transaction details and mobile numbers used to avail banking alerts, the accused was traced to Kaman.
29 June 2020||Kozhikode,||Rider hits wild boar, succumbs to injuries||A motorcycle rider who sustained serious injuries on his head after hitting a wild boar on the national highway at Malapuram, near Puthuppadi, on Sunday succumbed to his injuries on the way to the Government Medical College Hospital here. The deceased has been identified as Mohammed Ali, 50, a native of Vendekkumchal. Mohammad Ali was proceeding to a nearby market in the morning when the wild boar suddenly appeared on the road. The two-wheeler overturned after he hit the boar and he sustained serious head injury. Local residents said many similar accidents had occurred on the stretch earlier also with the increase in the population of wild boars. Many had also come under attack from the animals, they said. Boar killed Forest Department officials said empanelled farmers had started exercising their right to kill wild boars that entered their farms. On Saturday night, a wild boar weighing about 85 kg was shot dead in Kodenchery panchayat and it was the first such killing of the animal complying with the State government’s order, they said. Officials said the service of five empanelled farmers with gun licence would be available in Kodenchery panchayat for killing crop-raiding wild boars.
29 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Reimposition of lockdown in Hyderabad likely soon||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said the State government will take a final call in three to four days on proposals to reimpose lockdown in the limits of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation to check the spread of coronavirus. The government will closely monitor the situation for two to three days and, immediately thereafter, convene a meeting of the Cabinet, if needed, to discuss proposals to reimpose lockdown in GHMC limits or other alternatives to tide over the crisis, Mr. Rao told a high level meeting on Sunday that went into the steep rise in coronavirus cases in the city.  Mr. Rao, however, warned that reimposition of lockdown was going to be a big decision, which required gearing up the public and government machinery, particularly the police. It will also require Cabinet taking a look and gathering opinion of all sections of people. He referred to proposals by Health Department to reimpose lockdown in Hyderabad for a period of 15 days. The same was done in Chennai while several other cities in the country also considered following suit. “With a population of one crore, it was natural for Hyderabad to go the way of other cities in view of the wide spread of virus across the country. The spread was due to movement of people after lifting of the earlier phase of lockdown,” a release quoting the Chief Minister said. The meeting on Sunday was held solely to discuss the steps taken to check the spread of coronavirus, treatment extended to positive patients and future strategies. The situation in Hyderabad was discussed in detail. Health Minister Eatala Rajender brought to the Chief Minister’s notice the request of health officials and experts to reimpose lockdown in Hyderabad for 15 days to contain the spread.  Another press release issued later said Mr. Rao was credited with the view that several factors will have to be considered to impose the lockdown totally and effectively. A day-long curfew with one or two hours of relaxation for buying provisions will have to be planned. Air and train services must be suspended and the government must make all arrangements. Therefore, the government will take appropriate decision after examining all aspects in depth, Mr. Rao said. Mr. Rajender said Telangana was no exception to the fast spread of coronavirus in the country. However, the mortality rate in the State was less than the national average. There was no need for alarm as treatment was given to everyone who tested positive and thousands of beds were kept ready to admit patients in government and private hospitals, he added. Serious patients were admitted to hospitals while asymptomatic persons were treated at home. The latest report of Principal Health Secretary A. Santhi Kumari was perused on the occasion. It said the mortality rate in the State was 1.52% while it was 3.04% at the national level. In his response, the CM allayed all fears about the threat from virus merely because the State recorded high positive cases on a daily basis. The meeting was attended by Ministers K.T. Rama Rao and V. Prashant Reddy, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and health officials.  Lock and key Lockdown in Telangana came into force initially from March 23 to 31 with ban on all types of activity and night curfew from 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. It was extended till April 14 and then up to April 30 It was again extended till May 6 but liquor shops were allowed to reopen from May 7 When the lockdown was extended from May 7 to 29, Telangana became the first State in the country to continue imposing restrictions beyond the May 17 extension announced by the Centre Unlock began in the State from May 29 allowing all types of shops, except malls, to reopen Shops were allowed to stay open till 8 p.m. but night curfew continued from 9 p.m. to 5 p.m.
29 June 2020||Patna,||Bihar Minister, wife test positive||Bihar’s Backward and Extremely Backward Classes Welfare Minister Vinod Kumar Singh and wife tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday and were admitted to an isolation ward at a city hospital. Contact tracing and testing is being conducted, Katihar District Magistrate Kanwal Tanuj said.
29 June 2020||Jaipur,||FIR filed against Ramdev on COVID-19 cure claim||The police have registered a First Information Report against yoga guru Ramdev and four others for allegedly conspiring to sell a fake Ayurveda medicine with the misleading claim to cure COVID-19. The others named in the FIR were Acharya Balkrishna, CEO of Ramdev-promoted Patanajali Ayurveda Limited, Patanjali employee Anurag Varshney, and Balvir Singh Tomar and Anurag Singh Tomar, chairman and director, respectively, of the National Institute of Medical Sciences & Research.
29 June 2020||New Delhi,||8 Vande Bharat flights from Australia sold out in 3 hours||Air India on Sunday opened bookings for eight flights from Australia under the Vande Bharat Mission, but many passengers were left disappointed after all seats were sold out in less than three hours. Late on Saturday, Air India announced on Twitter that it would operate four flights each from Sydney and Melbourne between July 1 and July 14. The total number of seats booked are estimated to be 2,048.
29 June 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab postpones all exit exams till July 15||The Punjab government on Sunday announced postponement of exams for the exit classes in all universities of the State till July 15. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said in a statement that the final decision on the issue will, however, be subject to the new directions and guidelines expected to be released by the University Grants Commission soon.
29 June 2020||New Delhi,||New normal in AC trains, breathe in OT like fresh air||Air conditioned trains will now have operation theatre-like fresh air pumped into coaches, replacing the circulated air which raises the chances of spread of infections, Railway officials said. The experiment, which started with 15 pairs of air conditioned trains being run by the Railways on the Rajdhani routes since May 12, will be replicated in all AC trains as part of the national transporter’s preparations for post-COVID operations.PTI
29 June 2020||Chandigarh,||Fully prepared to deal with any locust attack: Haryana govt||The Haryana government is fully prepared to deal with any locust attack, State Agriculture Minister J.P. Dalal said on Sunday, as he credited officials for a timely response to tackle an infestation of the short-horned grasshoppers in Rewari district. He also said the Rewari district administration will conduct a survey to assess the damage caused to crops by locusts. “We have sufficient stocks of insecticides, pesticides, machinery to deal with locust attacks. Our officials swing into action as soon as these insects settle down on vegetation, trees, soil,” he said.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,||KSRTC’S AC services find very few takers||Though inter-district air-conditioned (AC) bus services resumed on June 25, there are not many takers. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) had planned to resume the services by operating 20 buses on different routes, but the poor response has forced it to scale down operations and run only around five to six buses. Even in routes served by non-AC buses, there has been a drop in passengers to districts including Bengaluru, which have seen a spike in COVID-19 cases. “We are hoping that patronage may increase in the coming days. On certain routes we have operated only one bus. On the Bengaluru-Mysuru route, we are running two buses for the time being and the number of services will be increased as per the demand,” said a KSRTC official. An increasing number of positive cases in several districts has impacted the ridership of non-AC buses. According to the official, the number of people travelling in KSRTC buses had crossed over 3 lakh, but over the last few days, it has come down to 2.5 lakh. “The travelling patterns of people are related to the rise or fall in the number of COVID-19 positive cases. Till last week, we had seen a gradual increase in the ridership but now it has considerably reduced.” The number of people travelling to Bengaluru from various destinations has reduced. On June 25, the KSRTC resumed the services after a gap of over three months. Private bus operators, who are operating intra-State services from Bengaluru, are suffering huge losses. Nataraj Sharma, chairperson of Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association, said, “Prior to the lockdown, around 1,600 buses were operated between Bengaluru and various destinations within the State. Now, hardly a few buses are running. Even on weekends, buses are running empty.” On Saturday, a few night services were operated between Bengaluru and Mangaluru, but the operator did not find even eight passengers per bus. “We had resumed services to boost confidence among the public, but a poor patronage means huge losses,” Mr. Sharma added.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||13 zones report over 1,000 COVID-19 cases||As many as 13 of the 15 zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation have reported more than 1,000 COVID-19 cases. Only Manali and Perungudi have reported less but even those are inching closer. Royapuram zone, with more than 7,500 cases, continues to register the highest number of cases. At least 128 residents from the zone have died of COVID-19. The number of deaths has also crossed 100 in Tondiarpet and Teynampet. With a rise in the number of cases, many residents have reported difficulties in getting patients admitted to hospitals. Private hospitals have reported to civic officials and public health officials that they have fewer than 10 beds for COVID-19 patients. Major government hospitals, such as Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), have maintained around 200 to 300 beds for COVID-19 patients in the past few days to handle emergencies. A corporation employee who tested positive for COVID-19 said he had symptoms but was unable to get admitted to a private hospital. Corporation doctors advised the employee to isolate himself at home. Case mortality rate Meanwhile, the case mortality rate in Chennai has crossed 1.5%. The Corporation has been maintaining that the case mortality rate was only 0.7% for many weeks but the rate started to climb in the past few weeks. The number of COVID-19 patients who were hospitalised was higher than those who recovered in zones such as Tiruvottiyur and Alandur. The case mortality rate crossed 2.1% in Tiruvottiyur. At a press meet, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said, “Testing infrastructure is limited. But we have increased the number of tests to 10,000 per day. We have tested 2.6 lakh residents. Over 56% of COVID-19 patients have been cured.”
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Liquor sold in T.N. conforms to FSSAI specifications: Tasmac||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) on Friday told the Madras High Court that the State government was “more sensitive” to the issue of maintaining public health and hence the corporation took utmost care to sell liquor conforming to Indian Standards (IS) and Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) specifications. The State-run corporation, holding monopoly over wholesale as well as retail sale of liquor across the State, also asserted before the court that price lists had been displayed conspicuously in front of all liquor shops run by it and that stringent action was being taken against staff if they indulged in Maximum Retail Price (MRP) violations. Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy were told by Tasmac Managing Director R. Krilosh Kumar that the corporation purchased liquor from 11 Indian Made Foreign Spirit (IMFS) manufacturing units and seven breweries possessing licences issued by the Prohibition and Excise Commissioner with the approval of the State government. Excise supervisory officers in the rank of Deputy Collectors had been posted in all the manufacturing units along with supporting staff to monitor all their day-to-day activities. “At the initial stage, the spirit to be used for manufacture of liquor is tested by the Forensic Sciences Laboratory, Chennai, before blending.” “After receipt of a fitness certificate from the forensics laboratory, the spirit is allowed for blending (production). After production and before bottling, once again the excise supervisory officer takes the sample of blended liquor (final product) in respect of each batch and sends the same to the forensics laboratory indicating the batch number.” “The forensics sciences laboratory issues a certificate indicating the batch number and date of manufacturing as to whether the samples conform to the IS and FSSAI specifications or not. Only on receipt of the fitness report, the excise supervisory officer releases the blended liquor of the particular batch, stored in a particular vat, for bottling,” the MD said. After this process, brand labels and holograms are fixed on the bottles before despatching them to Tasmac’s wholesale depots. Mr. Kumar also told the court that all Tasmac retail outlets had obtained licences under the Food Safety and Standards Act of 2006 and that all the liquor manufacturing units too, possessed such licences. As far as MRP violations were concerned, Mr. Kumar told the court that 4,664 instances with respect to violations below Rs. 10 and 4,655 instances regarding violations above Rs. 10 had been detected between April 2019 and March 2020 and that action was initiated against all those who were involved. He said revised price lists had also been displayed in all shops since May 7. The submissions were made in a counter affidavit filed in reply to a public interest litigation petition complaining about rampant MRP violations in liquor shops. After taking the counter on file, the judges adjourned the case by two weeks.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Transferring Sattankulam case to CBI, not enough’||Human rights activists have demanded that a murder case be registered against police personnel responsible for the deaths of traders P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, instead of the State government merely transferring the probe in the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The move to transfer the case to the central agency came amidst a national outrage over the death of the traders, who were taken into custody over an issue relating to closure of their shop during the lockdown. They died as remand prisoners in the Kovilpatti Government Hospital on June 22. The Kovilpatti Sub-Jail records had confirmed that both the father and son had bleeding injuries in the gluteal region when the Sattankulam police had taken them for remand on June 20. Time-bound probe Human rights activists are of the view that transferring the case to another agency was a mere eyewash. Referring to the “slow” progress of CBI probe in the Thoothukudi police firing in which 13 anti-Sterlite protesters died two years ago, rights activists demanded a time-bound probe under court’s supervision. People’s Union for Civil Liberties national general secretary V. Suresh charged that the State was only trying to pass on the buck by transferring the case to the CBI. “We are seeing the slow pace of the CBI probe in the Thoothukudi police firing case. All that we want is to register a case of murder offence against the police personnel and also the Inspector of Sattankulam police station for criminal negligence,” he said. Dr. Suresh said that the Judicial Magistrate, who ordered the remand of judicial custody, and the duty doctor, who gave the certificate of fitness, should also be implicated in the case on charges of dereliction of duty. Judicial scrutiny The Supreme Court had ruled on several occasions that remanding magistrates were not a post office of the police to unthinkingly accept the police remand report but should exercise their judicial mind to the case and also examine the accused brought before them. The reasons of arrest as submitted in the remand report should be judicially scrutinised. “This is a case of dereliction of judicial function on the part of the Magistrate who remanded the father and son,” he alleged. Henri Tiphagne, executive director of People’s Watch, a human rights organisation, said that he would never take the position that the CBI was a better investigation agency than others, more so against the backdrop of the investigation into the Thoothukudi police firing case. The State should first alter the cases to that of murder under Section 302 of IPC and arrest the accused police personnel. “The case can then be transferred to a Special Investigation Team (SIT) comprising senior police officers for a time-bound investigation under court’s supervision. Even after a year-and-a-half, the CBI has not named a single accused in the Thoothukudi firing case…Tamil Nadu should not use a central agency to cover up its lapses,” Mr. Tiphagne said. In a Facebook post, senior IPS officer and Additional Director-General of Police M. Ravi said that beating suspects to extract the truth from them could prove counter-productive since innocent people might admit to a crime unable to bear the pain. Police should depend more on scientific methods of investigation to detect cases. Uniform should never be a symbol of power, ego or arrogance, he said.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘More lockdowns may sound death knell for MSMEs’||Already on a slide over the past few years, the MSME sector has been hit hard by successive lockdowns since late March. While the inability to get e-passes has cut down production during the current lockdown, another shutdown could sound the death knell for the industry, stakeholders say. “Many units have started to lose out on orders to north Indian vendors, as OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) have either threatened to move away from Chennai-based vendors or have initiated action for long-term import of parts from their parent company. This will result in a serious loss of business,” said Hariharan Ramamoorthy, national vice-president, Laghu Udyog Bharati - Tamil Nadu, an all-India organisation of micro and small industries. The past week has been a nightmare for MSMEs in and around Chennai. Many unit owners and their immediate supervisors/managers have not been able to visit their premises due to the non-availability of e-passes. “Only 20% of our members were able to receive e-passes, and the operations of many MSME units have been crippled. Some units have had to shut due to the non-availability of supervisory staff. Only one e-pass has been provided for each company, and this has raised the risk of deviation from safety and quality standards and systems and procedures,” Mr. Ramamoorthy said. K.E. Raghunathan, immediate former president, the All India Manufacturers’ Organisation, said, “We are groping in the dark, and only assurances have been put forth as solutions. In Chennai alone, order cancellations at Ambattur, Guindy, Gummidipoondi, Irungattukottai, MEPZ and other estates have reached Rs. 6,800 crore in the last five days, as customers wanted early deliveries, but we couldn’t assure them of any confirmed schedule.” Of the 370 units at the Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate, only 20 have got passes and are operating at the moment. “Despite having obtained an e-pass, some unit owners have been keeping their factories closed for want of orders,” said R.G. Chakrapani, secretary of the Thirumazhisai Industrial Estate. Manufacturers’ woes A.N. Sujeesh, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association, said that the Secretaries of various government departments had been helpful, but the situation was getting worse. “If the lockdown continues, we will start losing orders. It takes five years to establish a customer,” he said. Around 25-30% of the products made at the Ambattur Industrial Estate are exported, and this market has been badly hit. “The earlier lockdown had already sapped the energy of MSME units, and just when they were limping back to normalcy, the second lockdown was brought into force, putting a question mark over the survival of the units,” said K. Baskaran, secretary of the Kakkalur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association. “Since all auto majors and their tier-I units in several regions of Tamil Nadu and across the country are working, they require supplies of components and parts. But MSME units are handicapped due to the following issues — restrictions on the provision of e-passes and prevention of the movement of goods vehicles,” he noted. Many MSME loans sanctioned earlier are yet to be disbursed due to the requirement of the extension of the memorandum of deposit (MOD). The units have requested the MSME Secretary to advise the Commercial Taxes and Registration Secretary to waive the MOD charges for these COVID-19 loans and provide three months’ time for the registration of MOD.
29 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu Power Finance sees four-fold increase in deposits||The Tamil Nadu Power Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (TNPF and IDCL), wholly owned by the government of Tamil Nadu, has seen a four-fold increase in new deposits to Rs. 100 crore during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown period, thanks to launch of its online services. The company is registered with the RBI as a deposit taking Non-Banking Financial Company. It mobilises funds through various fixed deposit schemes and provides financial assistance to infrastructure projects. “We launched the online services from March 20, which could be accessed through web portal and our Android app. Even though it was a soft launch, it has been a huge hit among consumers through word of mouth. In the offline mode, we collected Rs. 25 crore and now we have seen a huge jump online,” said a senior official. Through online services customers can open new deposits, renew deposits, update contact details, nominee details and submit tax forms. “We have seen about 97,000 transactions being done online. We have also introduced video KYC,” the official said. He also said because of the launch of online services, the company has been able to attract deposits from dozen of other States. “Now a customer can open deposits within five minutes and renew a deposit within a minute,” the official said. He said with banks reducing deposit rates, the rates offered by Tamil Nadu Power Finance is 2-3% higher than banks. For senior citizens, deposit rates stand at 8.75% for a 3 year deposits. As on September 12, 2019, the company had around 10,02,310 deposits worth Rs. 27,422 crore, including government schemes. Of these, active retail (individuals and trusts) deposits stood at 1,26,142 in number and were worth Rs. 5,526 crore. The official said senior citizens account for 34% of their deposit base and one of the key challenges is that some of them are not tech savvy and are not able to use the online facility. To address this challenge, the company is planning two initiatives. “One of it is Interactive Voice Response or IVR facility, which we will launch in a week. The other one we are considering is door step services for a fee,” the official said. The company is planning to launch a chatbot facility.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stung by lockdown, schools focus on conceptual learning||With schools shut since mid-March, students, teachers and parents are waiting for the authorities concerned to announce the reduced syllabus for the academic year 2020-21. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced early in June that it would announce pruned syllabus, keeping in mind a shortened academic session and the loss of classroom time, in a month. In Tamil Nadu, the School Education Department has constituted a committee, which would look into how the syllabus could be tweaked to suit the loss of classroom time during the lockdown. In anticipation of a reduced syllabus, many schools, which are holding online classes, have prepared a lesson plan to cover important concepts. “The syllabus reduction will be planned keeping in mind when schools might reopen since a fair idea is needed on how much classroom time we will have for the academic year,” said Vishnucharan Panneerselvam, correspondent, Shree Niketan Group of Schools. “Lessons and concepts should be chosen based on whether students can understand them well through online classes. Not every concept might lend itself to online teaching and this needs to be considered carefully,” he said. Concepts identified M.S. Jayasri, principal, Sir Siva Swami Kalalaya Senior Secondary School, said that the school had gone ahead with online classes based on important concepts identified from the curriculum. Many schools were doing the same — by starting online classes with lessons and concepts that have continuity and find a place in the subsequent years as well. At the Everwin group of schools, teachers have created a lesson plan for Classes I to IX with emphasis on mathematics and science for online classes. “For English and other languages, we are focusing on communication and language development, grammar and writing skills instead of teaching prose, since these are aspects we feel will not be omitted if the syllabus is reduced for CBSE and State Board students,” said B. Purushothaman, founder and principal. A recent participatory review conducted by the Forum for Child Friendly Schools (FCFS) and UNICEF, which covered over 3,000 teachers from the State, had 89% of them saying that the syllabus for all subjects should be reduced for this academic year.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fourth MLA from DMK tests positive for COVID-19||One more DMK MLA — K.S. Masthan, representing the Gingee constituency — has tested positive for COVID-19 and has been admitted to a private hospital. He is the fourth DMK MLA to test positive for the infection. Vasantham Karthick, representing the Rishivandhiyam constituency, and R.T. Arasu, from the Cheyyur constituency, have already tested positive and are undergoing treatment. Earlier this month, the DMK suffered a jolt when its Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni legislator, J. Anbazhagan, died days after testing positive for COVID-19. A few days ago, the party’s former north Chennai unit secretary L. Balaraman, who had also tested positive for COVID-19, had died. The DMK has been reaching out to people through its scheme, Ondrinaivom Vaa (Come, let’s unite), and has been distributing relief, besides setting up community kitchens. But its efforts have come under criticism from the Chief Minister, who has blamed DMK leader M.K. Stalin for the spread of COVID-19. Rejecting the charges, DMK MLA and former Chennai Mayor Ma. Subramanian said it was “unbecoming of a Chief Minister” to level such baseless and blatant allegations. “The Chief Minister is not able to accept the scale of relief work done by the DMK. In fact, he is responsible for the spread of the virus. If he had listened to our leader [M.K. Stalin] and adjourned the Assembly, convened an all-party meet, given special attention to the two zones [in Chennai] with severe infection and kept Tasmac liquor outlets shut, the infection would not have turned uncontrollable. He is blaming the DMK only to divert attention from his failure,” Mr. Subramanian told The Hindu . He said that the MLAs were victims of “community spread”. “Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar has said that there is no community spread in Madurai [implying, unlike in Chennai],” Mr. Subramanian said.  The Chief Minister is not able to accept the scale of relief work done by the DMK Ma. Subramanian Former Chennai Mayor
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK’s novel strategy to counter Stalin||In a conspicuous development, the AIADMK government has been fielding one Minister after another, some of them ranked lower in the pecking order in the Edappadi K. Palaniswami Cabinet, to respond to issues raised by Leader of the Opposition and DMK president M.K. Stalin on the COVID-19 front. While it is understandable for Ministers to counter an Opposition leader on issues concerning their respective departments, it is becoming a trend, since the outbreak of the pandemic, that even Ministers whose portfolios are not linked with their assigned subjects have been rebutting the views of Mr. Stalin. Even though this can be explained away by saying that there is nothing wrong under the Cabinet form of government, the trend is uncommon to Tamil Nadu. Incidentally, the strategy has been employed after Mr. Palaniswami, who has stoutly refused to convene an all-party meeting on COVID-19 contending that it is purely a public health issue, had in mid-April said that there was no need to respond to the Opposition leader’s criticism on the government's handling of the pandemic. While Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar has on many occasions countered the DMK leader since it was his subject, the government even chose to respond through Tamil Official Language and Culture Minister Ma Foi K. Pandiarajan. However, Mr. Pandiarjan insists that the AIADMK does not seek to demean the position of the Leader of the Opposition. At the same time, it does not want to provide Mr. Stalin an opportunity for creating an “unnecessary sense of panic” among the people. Apart from Mr. Pandiarajan, a few other Ministers, including R. Kamaraj (Food) and K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji (Dairy Development), have rebutted the criticism of Mr. Stalin on the way the government is tackling the crisis arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. Minister defends CM On Wednesday, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, in a statement, defended Mr. Palaniswami. Asked about the rationale behind the Ministers replying to issues raised by the DMK leader, Mr. Pandiarajan, who is also looking after Zone 4 (covering parts of Tondiarpet and Old Washermenpet) of the Greater Chennai Corporation, says it is part of “collective responsibility” of the Cabinet that the Ministers are giving an account of the government’s policies and measures on COVID-19 management. Besides, the Chief Minister has been making statements on all matters and issues of public importance. “We follow complete transparency,” he points out, dismissing the suggestion that the Chief Minister is evading responsibility in replying to the issues raised by Mr. Stalin. “Has he [the DMK leader] ever appreciated any of our work? In fact, it was he who made the demand for assigning Ministers for COVID-19 related work. When the Chief Minister has deployed his colleagues in different zones of the city, did Mr. Stalin greet him?” the Minister asks. Accusing the DMK leader of being “irresponsible,” Mr. Pandiarajan contends that even during the lockdown period, the State government’s performance on development has been better than many other States. Two examples can be cited — laying the foundation stone for Tidel IT Park project in Avadi [which is represented by Mr. Pandiarajan] and signing MoUs with 17 companies. The DMK has fielded some of its second line leaders like T.R. Baalu or first-time legislator P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarjan to take on the government. On the AIADMK’s strategy, an office-bearer of the DMK, who does not want to be identified, says that Mr. Palaniswami, being the Chief Minister, should reply to each and every issue raised by Mr. Stalin, even though, in terms of stature, he is “no match” for the latter. When Ministers give their responses, the DMK is thinking of asking its office-bearers of the respective districts to join issue with them.  Has he [the DMK leader] ever appreciated any of our work? In fact, it was he who demanded assigning Ministers for the COVID-19 work  Ma Foi K. PandiarajanMinister for Tamil Official Language and Culture
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Robbed of livelihood, folk artistes work as daily wage labourers||C. Gopalakrishnan, an artiste playing the ‘pambai’ — a folk percussion instrument — was left without any source of livelihood in the wake of the COVID-19 lockdown. He now works as a daily wage labourer at a brick kiln and tile manufacturing unit in Panakudi, Tirunelveli district. “I know I cannot continue in this job after a week. I am not able to tolerate the heat of the oven and have burnt my fingers and palms while removing the tiles. For a daily wage of Rs. 340, I work from 8.30 a.m. to 6 p.m.,” said Mr. Gopalakrishnan, one of the many folk artistes whose earnings have dried up due to the lockdown. ‘Thavil’ player Murugan, who went with Mr. Gopalakrishnan, left the work place before afternoon. “Since childhood, we have been trained only in playing musical instruments, and we cannot do any other work,” said Mr. Murugan, who is part of a naiyandi melam group. March, April, May and two weeks of June — corresponding with the Tamil months of Panguni , Chithirai and Vaikasi — are busy months for folk artistes in the southern districts. Festivals — Kodai — in the temple of folk deities are held during these months. Artistes performing naiyandi melam , kaniyan koothu , thappu , karagam and villupattu normally have a tight schedule. “All the festivals have been cancelled. We can think of earning a decent income only next year,” said nagawaram player Panakudi Siva, who leads a naiyandi melam troupe. Many artistes have taken up menial jobs such as construction work. Cancellation of marriages or marriages held in the presence of very few relatives have also robbed naiyandi melam players of income. Organisations like Parivadhini and singer T.M. Krishna have distributed assistance to folk artistes.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Leather exports slide 10.89%; order cancellations bother traders||Exports of leather and its products have been severely affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic, said Aqeel Ahmed Panaruna, chairman, Council for Leather Exports. As per provisional data from the Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, the exports declined by 10.89% to about $5.07 billion in 2019-20 from $5.69 billion in 2018-19. “Only about 10% of exports could be effected in March 2020 due to COVID-19. For combined April and May, we achieved only 17% or $128.52 million in exports when compared to $757.11 million in April-May 2019,” Mr. Panaruna said. “Our major markets in Europe and the U.S. [to which 70% of our exports are directed] have been severely affected by COVID-19. Many buyers are filing bankruptcies, which is a huge concern, leading to cancellation of export orders,” he added. Mr. Panaruna said that exporters were facing difficulties on account of order cancellations because insurance offered by the Export Credit Guarantee Corporation (ECGC) was not extended to pre-shipments. Hence, there is a need to evolve an ECGC policy, extending coverage to pre-shipment losses caused by the pandemic and other natural calamities, he said. Mr. Panaruna said that while the export of leather, leather products and footwear stood at $442 million in June 2019, only 35% or $155 million was expected in June this year, due to the continuing lockdown. “In July 2020, we will be able to achieve 50% of exports, as compared to the same period last year, provided there is an exit from the lockdown. However, if the lockdown continues, there will be a further decline in exports,” Mr. Panaruna said. Mr. Panaruna said that exports were likely to return to normal from September, adding that despite the current setback, there was still a huge opportunity for the sector, as India was now a preferred sourcing destination for major markets in the U.S. and Europe. The Council for Leather Exports (CLE) will be signing memoranda of understanding (MoU) with Footwear Distributors and Retailers of America and the U.S. Fashion Industry Association to further strengthen and enhance its presence in the U.S. market, he added. “I am confident that we will be able to reach $5 billion exports in the financial year 2020-21,” Mr. Panaruna said.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police must not hit people: Commissioner||Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan on Sunday reminded the police personnel that they must refrain from hitting people. He was addressing mediapersons after inspecting the enforcement of the complete lockdown, under the Washermenpet police station limits on Sunday. “There are guidelines from the courts on how to treat people who are arrested and taken to the police station. They should not be tortured or assaulted. In the Greater Chennai Police limits, we have been insisting that the police not hit people. We have also instructed personnel to not even indulge in verbal abuse,” Mr. Viswanathan said. Pertaining to the lockdown, he said to date, a total of 52,234 vehicles had been seized and 60,331 cases registered for violating Section 144 and 23,704 cases booked against people for not wearing masks. “A total of 58 vehicles have been seized for using fake e-passes. Many had pasted an ‘essential services’ sticker in order to move around,” the Commissioner explained. He said a total of 1,065 policemen had tested positive for COVID-19 and of them, 410 had recovered and joined duty.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers walk 20 km to reach airport||At 5 a.m. on Sunday, seven men from Kumananchavadi packed their bags and began walking toward the airport. Seven hours later, they reached their destination, drained and starving. They were there to board a flight to Kolkata. Once there, it would take a day-long bus ride for them to reach their village. “We have exhausted all the money we had saved to book our flight tickets. We didn’t have anyone to help drop us at the airport because of the intense lockdown. We knew there was no other option and hence, decided to walk all the way,” said 22-year-old A. Badirul, who has been working at a construction site in the city for the past year. Since construction work has been disrupted, they were not paid for the last three months. “We have been spending money on buying water and food. And each of us paid Rs. 5,000 for the flight fare and saved some for the bus ticket too. So we didn’t have any money to get to the airport,” he said. Abdul Mateen, 22, also from West Bengal, said they were living in fear, wondering if they would be able to return home at all. “Our employer was not keen on us going back. One or two days, we can survive without food but beyond that, what do we do? Our money was slowly running out and on most days, we had just one meal,” he said.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IOC urges consumers to switch to online mode of payment||Oil major Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) has urged cooking gas customers to switch over to cashless payment modes when they pay for liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) refills. The company’s request comes in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic when handling of cash is being avoided. At present, on the delivery of refills, most consumers pay cash to the delivery personnel. Online payments can be made while making bookings or using a link in the confirmatory message sent by the company. Some delivery personnel also carry point-of-sale card machines. Though there has been a marginal increase in online payments since COVID-19 broke out, many still pay by cash. Lakshmi, a consumer in Anna Nagar, said that she and her husband are paid in cash, which is why all their transactions are in cash. A distributor said the lack of helplines to resolve payment issues was a problem. "There have been instances of consumers making the payment, the cash being debited from their account but the transaction doesn’t reflect in our system.” For clarification, consumers can call Indane Customer Service Cell from 9.30 a.m. to 5.15 p.m. on all working days. For Chennai it is 044- 24339236 / 24339246, Madurai it is 0452-2533956, Tiruchy it is 0431-2740066 / 2740880 and Coimbatore - 0422-2247396 / 2240696.
29 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Handling the burials of pandemic victims||Volunteers of religious and political organisations have been handling burials of people dying of COVID-19, as multiple factors have made it difficult for families to perform the last rites. M. Nagoor Meeran, State secretary of the Popular Front of India, said that after coming across a recent incident where the body of a Chennai resident was dumped in a burial pit in Puducherry, the organisation approached the authorities in the Union Territory to undertake the burial, if the relatives were unable to do so. “We have received calls from some hospitals in Chennai as well for the burial of such bodies. We have undertaken the burial of 63 bodies in Chennai and 11 in Puducherry,” he said. Those engaged in burials follow safety guidelines prescribed by the World Health Organisation and the State Health Department. In some cases, family members have approached the volunteers for a decent burial of a deceased kin, following which the body is taken from the hospital to the burial ground. The volunteers sometimes follow the mortuary van, from the hospital to the burial ground, where the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) workers dig a pit. After performing rituals, the volunteers, clad in personal protective equipment (PPE), lay the body on a large piece of cloth and lower it into the pit, ensuring that they do not come in contact with the body, even accidentally. “Rituals are sometimes performed according to the beliefs and customs of the relatives of the deceased. Our job is to lower the body into the pit and close it properly with assistance from GCC workers. As per guidelines, the pit has to be 12 ft deep. We have buried 69 bodies and have cremated two,” said A.K. Kareem, a co-ordinator of the SDPI. M.S. Kursheed Hussain, a coordinator of the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam, said, “Everything is done for free. We are serving the people, irrespective of their religion. Giving a decent burial amounts to serving god.” He said that the TMMK had handled the burial of 86 bodies in Chennai.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Despite slashed rates, no takers for rental houses||With many residential rented properties in Chennai lying vacant for the last three months, house owners are approaching real estate brokers saying they are ready to further slash the rent. Even then there were no takers, brokers said. Shankar, who has been in the real estate business for over 20 years, said there were instances where owners slashed rental prices by 10-20% and yet there were no takers. “In the case of big apartments, even if owners agree, the other tenants don’t want anyone new coming in to even inspect the houses,” he said. According to him, many houses in T.Nagar, Alwarpet and Teynampet are lying vacant for over three months now. V. Veera from Kodambakkam, who has been in the house brokering business for 18 years, said earlier he used to get 10-15 calls per day from people looking to rent a house. “Post lockdown, I hardly get one call a week,” he said. Real estate brokers pointed out that there were instances where people living in rented houses paying Rs. 40,000 and above were now looking for houses with a budget of Rs. 25,000. “We have got calls from regular clients, who are looking to reduce their budget after their salary cut,” said Manikandan, a real estate agent in T. Nagar. Real estate agents have indicated that this situation is likely to continue for the next few months and rentals could fall by 10-15%.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Constable placed under suspension for social media post||An Armed Reserve constable has been placed under suspension for his alleged social media post on the allegedcustodial deaths of a father and son-- Jayaraj and Bennix -- in Sattankulam, Thoothukudi district. According to police, Sathish Muthu is an armed reserve constable in Chennai district. He had posted some remarks on his social media account on the Sattankulam incident. As the remarks would bring disrepute to the entire police force, he was summoned for an inquiry. He claimed that his friends had posted the remarks without his knowledge, as he had shared his account login and password with them. As he had behaved irresponsibly and brought a bad name to the department, he has been placed under suspension, police said. In a video message, Additional Director-General of Police (Crime against Women and Children) M. Ravi has asked the police to practise restraint and not hit the public.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Action taken is insufficient: Kamal Haasan||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Sunday said that the government's decision to suspend two police officers [now three] in connection with the recent deaths of a father and son, due to alleged custodial torture in the Sattankulam police station, is insufficient. He demanded that all those who were “supportive” and stood as silent spectators should also be punished. Mr. Haasan, in a statement, charged that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was trying to conceal his inability to control the spread of COVID-19 by relying on the policeman’s lathi. He asked if the government thinks that it is enough to merely suspend police officers in this case. “Is it possible for two sub-inspectors to transfer two persons (victims Jayaraj and his son Benicks) from the police station to the jail? How many departments should have supported them? How many people would have been with them? Does the government not understand that ‘name-sake’ decisions, without understanding the complete truth, are not useful?” asked Mr. Haasan. “All those who are responsible for the murders should be punished — those who are responsible for the murder, those who aided it, those who watched it happen with folded hands and those who tried to cover it up,” said Mr. Haasan. He asked what the State government is going to do to reform the police force that has the “blood of the father and son in their hands”. Meanwhile, actor Rajinikanth called the family of P. Jayaraj and Benicks over phone and expressed his condolences. Actor Suriya and director Hari on Sunday also condemned the custodial deaths in Sattankulam. In a statement, Mr. Suriya said that he hoped “systemic violence” does not continue to take place in the police department and that the State government, the judiciary and senior police officers implement suitable reforms to ensure that such incidents don’t happen in the future. Director Hari, who wrote and directed the famous Singam movies, said that the culprits responsible for the two deaths should get “highest possible” punishment. “I feel sad that I made five movies in praise of the police department,” he said. ‘Blot on police dept.’ Tamil Nadu BJP president L. Murugan on Sunday said that only an impartial and fair probe and adequate punishment to the accused, would wipe away the blot on the State police department. Expressing his condolences to the family, Mr. Murugan said the BJP would stand by the family till justice was delivered. “No amount of monetary compensation will equal the loss the family has had to endure. The Sattankulam incident is a blot on the image of the police department,” he said. Mr. Murugan said that with the High Court stepping in, people have got the confidence that the probe would be conducted in a fair manner. “We cannot consider these deaths lightly. The way the police look at crores of traders is evident through this incident. The government should take strict action against the accused,” he said.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Meat seized in various parts of the city||Civic officials on Sunday seized huge quantities of meat and fish transported for sale, in violation of the complete lockdown. For instance, more than 400 kg of meat and fish were seized by officials in Kodambakkam early on Sunday. Officials said meat was sold illegally at various localities after the Greater Chennai Corporation ordered the closure of meat shops and fish stalls during this phase of lockdown. Officials said the traders did not oppose the move to close meat shops as crowds were increasing the risk of infection. However, residents reported that traders continued to sell meat at double the price during the lockdown.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister threatening Madurai MP: CPI(M)||CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan on Sunday took exception to Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar’s allegation that Madurai Lok Sabha MP Su. Venkatesan was creating panic about COVID-19. In a statement in Chennai, Mr Balakrishnan said Mr.Venkatesan had written a letter to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami that coronavirus spread was 7.9% in Madurai and at this rate a total of 7,883 people would be infected by July 21. “Mr.Venkatesan was citing only the Union Health Ministry’s report. But the Minister has accused him of creating panic. He also threatened to take action under Disaster Management Act against those who create panic,” Mr. Balakrishnan said. Letter written He said as a member of Parliament, Mr Venkatesan had written a letter only to save the lives of people in his constituency. “Can anyone accuse him of creating panic? Will the Minister, who is distorting the views of a people’s representative, listen to the people themselves,” Mr.Balakrishnan asked. He also recalled Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar’s statement that efforts were being taken to prevent a Chennai-like situation in Madurai. “But Mr.Udhayakumar is s threatening an MP,” he said.
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM diverting attention from crisis: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday charged that the spread of COVID-19 had increased because Chief Minister Edappdai K. Palaniswami had paid attention only to a few constructive suggestions. Reacting to the Chief Minister’s allegation that Mr. Stalin was issuing only political statements and had not offered any constructive suggestions to the government, the Leader of the Opposition charged that Mr. Palaniswami had sought to divert attention from the pandemic. “I do not know what I can offer him? I have been expressing my views since March 16 and have issued more than 50 statements. They are in the public domain and the Chief Minister should read them,” he said in a statement. He said the Chief Minister should increase testing and isolate infected areas.
29 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Commuters delighted over new bus shelter on Big Bazaar Street in Coimbatore||A few yards towards west from Koniamman temple on Big Bazaar Street is a new bus shelter that has been drawing attention. The well-lit shelter with seating arrangements for children and adults has three display boards facing the in-coming commuter. Two of those are LED screens. The one of the left displays time, temperature and pollution level. The one on the right has Central and State governments’ schemes scrolling across the screen. It also alternately scrolls their achievements. The middle one helps the commuters with bus routes. The shelter is tile-floored and the roof has a plaque that says that Coimbatore South MLA ‘Amman’ K. Arjunan has sponsored its construction from his constituency development fund. Atop, a solar panel powers the lights and screens. Sources close to Mr. Arjunan say he allotted Rs. 9 lakh for the shelter so that it becomes a model shelter for the city. Under his guidance, the Coimbatore Corporation engaged a construction company in Erode that constructed the bus shelter as a prefabricated structure, transported it to the city and merely installed it after giving the proper foundation. The sources say it took around a month for the company to construct and install the shelter. The feedback has been so good that commuters have started writing and texting the MLA to provide drinking water and a few other facilities, the sources say and add that he has planned to install another one near the Coimbatore railway junction. But the bus shelter is one among the nearly 10 shelters on the street, both to the east and west of Eswaran Kovil Street. And, a few of those are illegal shelters that the Coimbatore Corporation has allowed. Sources familiar with the illegal bus shelter issue say that to favour advertisers the civic body had allowed the illegal shelters that are over and above the number that the district Collector as the regional transport authority had permitted. The new bus shelter that the MLA had funded and plans to fund should only be those that the Collector has permitted. The sources also say that one of the reasons that the Corporation took over the maintenance of the shelters is to bring about a uniformity in design of shelters across the city. If what the MLA has done has had a favourable feedback, the civic body should consider replicating the design.
29 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: Guidelines issued for blood transfusion services||The National Blood Transfusion Council of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare issued the second interim national guideline for blood transfusion services in the country in the light of COVID-19 pandemic which stresses on safe functioning of blood transfusion services. The guideline covers various aspects of blood transfusion services, including the functioning of blood banks and volunteering of donors. The guideline directs blood banks for exclusion of donors, who are in the risk category to maintain safety. As per the guideline, blood from a person, who tested positive and recovered from the disease, can be collected only after 28 days of the discharge from the hospital or 28 days after the end of the home isolation. Individuals should be deferred from donating blood for 28 days with the last possible close contact exposure to a person who is confirmed/suspected case of COVID-19, including those under quarantine. Similarly, individuals should avoid donating blood for 28 days after the date of departure from a country with COVID-19 transmission in the community and areas as notified by Government from time to time. Blood banks have been asked to avoid mass gatherings such as camps involving more people and strictly follow physical distancing. In order to maintain and ensure safe supply of blood and components, the guideline recommends to continue in-house blood donation as well as outside blood donation by strictly following norms of physical distancing, infection control measures and biomedical waste disposal rules. The guideline says that testing of the blood supply for COVID-19 is not recommended in the light of the risk of transfusion transmission being theoretical or lack of demonstrated infectivity of the SARS CoV-2 virus in blood collected from asymptomatic persons. However, blood banks should follow routine practices of infectious disease testing for transfusion transmissible infections as done earlier. Sources with the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital said that stocks at the blood bank saw a decrease since the lockdown started as in the case of other blood banks in Government and private sectors. One of the main reasons behind the decline in voluntary blood donation was closing of colleges, students of which used to be 90% of the total donors. Employees of various companies, members of voluntary organisations, non-governmental organisations, fan clubs, political parties, relatives of patients, political and religious organisations used to form the remaining 10 % of donors. As mass camps are not conducted, blood banks were collecting blood from relatives of patients who volunteer to donate blood with adequate screenings done, said an official from CMCH.
29 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation fines bus conductors, seals shops||Continuing its action against COVID-19 safety guidelines violators, the Coimbatore Corporation had, over the weekend, fined bus conductors, members of the public and shut shops. According to sources, officials in the West Zone sealed a bakery and restaurant near Saibaba Colony on Saturday after the owners were found flouting the guidelines. They fined two shops in Vadavalli on Sunday for similar offence. The officials also took up with the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation the behaviour of a conductor, who argued with the officials for not ensuring physical distance in his bus. In Central Zone, the officials fined a private bus conductor on Sunday and two conductors on Saturday as it came to light during inspection that they failed to ensure physical distance among passengers. zThe Corporation had slapped Rs. 1,000 each on the three conductors, the sources said. The South Zone officials too had fined Rs. 500 for similar offence. Meanwhile, the Corporation officials declared more areas as containment zones after they saw COVID-19 positive cases. On Saturday, the Corporation had imposed restriction on movement of people in Highways Colony, Marudhakutti Street and Sundaram Street – both in Rathinapuri – Uppara Street, Kembatty Colony and Perumal Kovil Street, Kottaimedu. The Corporation sources said over the weekend medical teams lifted samples from the containment zones and also from areas it had identified vulnerable – MGR Wholesale Vegetable Market, Ukkadam Fish Market and a few other areas. As of Sunday evening, the Corporation had lifted 67 samples from Coimbatore Railway Junction, 70 from Ganapathy, 538 from Anna Retail Vegetable Market, 256 from B.K. Pudur (Kuniamuthur), 185 from fish market in Ukkadam, and 152 from Gandhipark – 1,268 in all, the sources added.
29 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Textile units seek loan restructuring package||Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF), with members from across the textile value chain, has appealed to the Union government to announce an one-time loan restructuring package. Prabhu Dhamodharan, covener of the Federation, told presspersons recently that according to a study that the ITF commissioned nine months ago, in which 1,800 companies were covered, it was found that many units needed one-time restructuring package. “Now, in the current Covid situation, we feel that this one-time restructuring will help at least 30 % to 40 % of the companies.” Further, the Rs. 3-lakh crore relief package announced by the Union Finance Minister last month for MSMEs specifies that only industries with maximum loan of Rs. 25 crore can benefit from the package. Textiles is a capital-intensive industry and there are units with Rs. 250 crore turnover but with Rs. 30 crore to Rs. 50 crore loan. Hence, the debt ceiling should be increased to Rs. 100 crore, he said. The average capacity utilisation across the value chain is 40 % and with drop in textile consumption, the manufacturing units are expected to see only a gradual improvement in orders. Hence, the units need more financial support. The demand currently is better for low cost and value-for-money products and for goods sold online. On the export front, order enquiries are healthy for the next quarter or so, mainly for home textiles and apparels. The industry should now focus on the man-made fibre (MMF) sector, he added. The ITF has initiated a cluster project where about 50 units have come forward to dedicate their production facilities to Japanese customers, if the Government can provide market link to them with a cluster in Japan. Japan has a huge market and Indian textile and clothing sector has just 1 % market share now, Mr. Dhamodharan said.
29 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||More samples to be tested from populated areas||The Health Department has decided to test more random swab samples from populated areas in Coimbatore district. Sources with the Department said that swab samples of people, who work at places such as vegetable and fish markets in the district, were lifted to check community spread of the disease. On Thursday, four people from MGR market and Anna market on Mettupalayam Road tested positive for the disease which highlighted the presence of the disease among traders in the district. On Friday, a 46-year-old man from MGR market tested positive. According to an official with the Health Department, swab samples from main markets across the district were collected to check community spread of the disease in the last few days. “Results of the random samples will show whether the spread of the disease is present in populated parts of the district,” said a person who was part of the sample collection and tests. With more fresh cases reported from MGR market, the Department has categorised it as a COVID-19 cluster.
29 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man dies, police register case||A 36-year-old man from Kuniyamuthur died under suspicious circumstances on Friday. The deceased has been identified as V. Sivakumar of Itteri Street near Sugunapuram, Kuniyamuthur. The police said the man was admitted to a private hospital at Kuniyamuthur with complaints of stomach pain 10 days ago. On Friday, he was discharged. However, he became unconscious while being taken home. He was taken to the hospital from where he was referred to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital where he was declared brought dead. A case of unnatural death has been registered.
29 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Brief reports||The offices of the Executive Engineers of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation are receiving applications from agriculturists for additional electricity load to existing agriculture services. Consumers can register their willingness for taking up to a maximum load of 15 HP either directly or through their representatives before June 30. If there is no name transfer involves, there is no need for any document. An one-time payment of Rs. 20,000 per HP should be paid.   Nearly 16 tonnes of cargo, mostly perishables, were airlifted from Coimbatore International Airport to Sharjah by SpiceJet flight on Sunday. This is the fifth SpiceJet flight moving cargo from Coimbatore to Sharjah during the lockdown, according to sources.   The National Child Labour Project and Sathya Sai Maruthi Trust distributed relief material worth totally Rs. 3 lakh to families of 500 rehabilitated child workers in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts.   Vanjnath Govindadass was elected president of Entrepreneurs’ Organisation for 2020-2021 at a virtual annual meeting held recently. Mr. Govindadass is director at Coimbatore Cotton Concepts and Designs, which is primarily into designing and exporting of home textiles and woven Garments. Rishab Gupta, managing partner at Sahulwala Flour Mills, has taken over as vice-president of the chapter. He is also the chair - learning at EO, Coimbatore. Entrepreneurs’ Organisation (EO), a global, peer-to-peer network with 196 chapters in 62 countries, is completing a decade of activities in Coimbatore this year. EO Coimbatore organises 12 learning events a year on an average. This year, EO will take up several activities to promote entrepreneurship here, according to a press release.
29 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Tomato price shoots up to Rs. 40 per kg||Following drop in the arrival of tomato to the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market, the wholesale price of the vegetable has increased to Rs. 40 a kg. Traders said that tomato arrives from Talavadi and Andhra Pradesh to the market everyday and on an average 4,500 boxes, each weighing 15 kg, had arrived in the past three months. The wholesale price of finer quality tomatoes was less than Rs. 20 a kg in the past months while the second quality was sold less than Rs. 10 a kg. They said that rain in Talavadi for three weeks and transportation issues led to drop in arrival of tomatoes to the market. Traders said that continuous rain had damaged the crops while lockdown issues also add to the increase in price of tomato. Since marriages were not conducted and many hotels and eateries were closed, the demand dropped in the past three months. “Many farmers had moved to alternative crops after tomatoes were sold for even Rs. 1 a kg”, they added. They said that the rainy season will further lead to increase in the price of tomatoes in the coming days.
29 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Spike in number of fresh cases in Madurai||In Madurai district, 284 patients tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total tally to 1,995. All cases were indigenous according to a State Health bulletin. The district was second only to Chennai in terms of the highest number of positive cases on Sunday. The Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) recorded six deaths: five from Madurai and one from Dindigul. All patients developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia, apart from having comorbidities. Fatalities A 34-year-old man with diabetes from Dindigul, who was admitted to the hospital on June 20, died on June 26. From Madurai, a 68-year-old man with diabetes, who was admitted to GRH on June 23, died on June 28. Similarly, a 55-year-old man with diabetes was admitted on June 22 and died on June 26. A 65-year-old man, who was admitted on June 26, died 45 minutes after admission. An 82-year-old man, who was admitted on June 25, died on June 27. A 71-year-old man with diabetes was admitted June 26 and died the next day. The death toll in Madurai stood at 25. The district also had the third highest number of active cases (1,379), after Chennai (21,094) and Chengalpattu (2,326). There were 43 discharges as on Sunday. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district recorded the highest single-day jump of 61 positive cases on Sunday, taking the total to 363. Most of them were contacts of Chennai returnees. The number of imported positive cases stood at 101. For the first time in recent days, the number of active cases admitted in various hospitals outnumbered discharged patients. While the active cases stood at 183, those discharged was 175. So far, the district has registered five deaths. Meanwhile, Collector R. Kannan said a COVID-19 special maternity ward had been opened in Virudhunagar Medical College Hospital. The ward had eight pregnant women. “Since pregnant women are more prone to infection, they need special care, which will be provided through close monitoring.” Tirunelveli Tirunelveli district reported 21 fresh cases on Sunday, taking the total number of active cases to 744. A State medical bulletin showed six deaths till date. Active cases stood at 208. An official of an insurance company in Palayamkottai tested positive. Likewise, two young doctors from a neighbourhood hospital tested positive. A life convict from Kanniyakumari district, who was serving jail term in Palayamkottai Central Prison since 2000, tested positive and died on Sunday, prison officials said. Thoothukudi In Thoothukudi, the number of new cases stood at 34, taking the total to 866. Officials at Government Medical College Hospital here said that all were indigenous cases. A number of locations in urban areas had been identified as containment zones. Steps had been taken to curtail the growing number of cases by imposing fines against violators who failed to wear facemasks. Forty patients were discharged after successful treatment. Kanniyakumari In Kanniyakumari district, about 25 villages, including Thoothur, Manakudi, Agastheeswaram and Reethapuram, were declared as prohibited areas for outsiders. Health officials said that over 70 had symptoms of COVID-19 in Thoothur alone. In a bid to contain the spread of infection, a number of stringent measures was being implemented. Meanwhile, over 200 patients were convalescing at an isolation ward in Asaripallam Government Medical College Hospital. After a doctor tested positive in a private hospital at Thuckalay, close to 70 people, who had either visited the hospital or were in-patients, were tested. After a senior citizen turned serious at the hospital, she was rushed to GH. Tenkasi In Tenkasi, district officials recorded 29 fresh cases. While a majority of the cases were indigenous, three persons — one each from Maldives, Andhra Pradesh and Punjab — were among those who tested positive. Instead of targeting any specific locality, the district administration had instructed all municipal commissioners and block development officers to carry out disinfectants in their jurisdiction at regular intervals. A 77-year-old man from Sivagiri in the district, who recently gave his samples for testing, died two days ago. Though his relatives performed the last rites, health authorities informed them that the aged man tested positive. As a precautionary measure, all family members and those who attended the cremation were tracked for testing. Ramanathapuram In Ramanathapuram district, the number of fresh cases stood at 94, taking the total positive cases to 742 on Sunday. Officials intensified screening and maintained that the numbers might be looking upwards till mid-July. Twenty-three persons were discharged from the government hospital. After a police officer in Paramakudi station tested positive, the premises was shut and disinfected. Theni In Theni, 62 persons — 39 men, 21 women and two children — tested positive. They hailed from Cumbum, Andipatti, Bodinayakkanur, Chinnamanur, K Myladampurai, Periakulam, Theni Town and Uthamapalayam. The district had been carrying out intensified sampling. With tighter restrictions, officials hoped to see the numbers falling in the coming days. Already, entry points at all check-posts, including on Kerala border, had been tightened. Police nabbed a car driver from Thanjavur bearing a fake e-pass, which was issued to a traveller to Bengaluru, an officer at the check-post said and added that a case was registered. Five persons were discharged from the government hospital. Dindigul In Dindigul, one case was reported and six persons were discharged. Sivaganga In Sivaganga, there were 11 fresh cases. All patients had both travel history and contacts with people who were ailing with symptoms of COVID-19. The district, according to officials, had a number of returnees from other districts and States. Hence, after cross-notification, the number of active cases remained at 168 and the number of persons discharged fell from 71 on Saturday to 62 on Sunday.
29 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||No cots for 50 patients at COVID-19 wing||Shortage of cots has forced around 50 patients to lie on the floor on the third floor of the COVID-19 speciality wing of Government Rajaji Hospital here. They have been given just a bed sheet. Two patients, who were admitted on Friday, said fans also do not work and they shared the room with eight others. One of them, a civil engineer, said he did not have any major symptom. He got himself tested in a private lab after developing fever and came to the COVID-19 wing, hoping to get treatment for two weeks and go home. “When I was brought here, I was asked to go to the third floor and wait for bed allotment. All of us are sleeping on the floor. We do not get proper details from the staff nurses. Doctors never visit us,” he said. Another man, who travelled from Delhi to Madurai, tested positive on Friday. “As a member of the military police, I’ve seen and experienced many bad places and conditions. But this place is something else. There are not only cots but the toilets too are stinking. Nobody cleans the toilets though hundreds use them. Ironically, there are 10 cots kept in a room. They could be given for the aged patients, at least,” he said. A GRH official said the hospital had 525 beds but 575 patients had been admitted till Sunday. Even a pregnant staff nurse who tested positive on Saturday had to wait for a few hours to get a bed. Dean J. Sangumani said 200 of the asymptomatic and mild COVID-19 cases are to be shifted to COVID Care Centres such as Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur.
29 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A silent Sunday on a deserted Madurai||The total lockdown in Madurai on Sunday saw most of the arterial roads and streets completely deserted. Except for a handful of motorbikes and cars, the city’s roads were free of all types of vehicles. Only ambulances and corporation water tankers criss-crossed the city. All shops and commercial establishments, including petrol pumps, remained closed. Not even street vendors selling vegetables and fruits were found anywhere on the city and outskirts. Police personnel were posted at important road junctions and barricades were placed on the roads. With no autorickshaws plying, the movement of people was, by and large, restricted. Many cars and taxis remained parked on the roadside. But Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation special buses meant for government employees, especially hospital staff were operated. Less than 100 passengers each boarded the Madurai-Villupuram and Nagercoil-Tiruchi intercity express trains that left Madurai in the morning, according to a railway source. Both the train services have been cancelled from Monday.
29 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Now, monitored home isolation strategy||District Monitoring Officer for COVID-19 B. Chandra Mohan on Sunday said Madurai district would soon be rolling out a monitored home isolation strategy. Speaking toThe Hindu, the monitoring officer said patients displaying symptoms of COVID-19 would have to go either to a private facility or a government fever clinic, have themselves tested and determine if they have the disease. If the result was positive, they would be categorised under mild/moderate/severe, based on their condition. “When they have only mild symptoms and no comorbidities, they will be asked to quarantine themselves at home after being explained the concept clearly. Patients will also be given detailed pamphlets. Local health workers from the corporation and the district administration will be in touch with the patient and regularly monitor their progress,” he said. Patients would be provided with proper prescriptions for treatment and a medical kit. They must isolate themselves and caregivers would have to ensure that the patient was provided separate living space. “Representatives from telemedicine centres will also call to check in on the patient. In case the symptoms aggravate, ambulances that are on standby will be pressed into service. The patient can immediately be moved to the COVID-19 speciality hospital at Government Rajaji Hospital or any private hospital,” he said. The officer added that 80% of cases in Madurai district had mild symptoms. “The move will help in ensuring that treatment in hospitals can take place for those with moderate and severe conditions,” he said. Dr. Chandra Mohan added that they were also partnering with private institutions to increase treatment capacity. “It is important to recognise that the pandemic may not disappear soon unless a vaccine is found. To protect oneself, we must wear masks, ensure personal distancing and wash hands frequently. One cannot become lax. Anyone with signs of COVID-19 must visit a fever clinic instantly,” the monitoring officer stressed.
29 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Total lockdown helps health workers to do more testing||With the total lockdown on Sunday keeping people indoors, health workers utilised the opportunity to step up testing for COVID-19 cases across Madurai. Deputy Director of Health Services Priya Raj said the lockdown since June 24 had provided health workers the space and time to contain, incubate and trace COVID-19 cases in a better manner. Although cases were on the rise, the spread will be contained when people stayed indoors. “We use our manpower judiciously as workers go door-to-door in urban and rural areas where people tested positive and check for fever cases. We are not limiting the exercise to the Corporation area but the municipalities of Melur, Tirumangalam and Usilampatti which are not under the lockdown. This way we hope to keep the surge under check,” the official added. Testing had risen significantly in the last two weeks with a minimum of 1,200 samples being collected each day. The lockdown had been helpful as we could plan and act in a better way, she said.
29 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||65-year-old man jumps off first floor in Madurai||A 65-year-old COVID-19 patient jumped off the first floor of a COVID Care Centre in Tirupparankundram on Sunday late evening. The man from Palanganatham, who was admitted on Saturday, sustained head injuries and was rushed to the GRH.
29 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Directive to private hospitals||Private hospitals must provide daily reports of positive patients under treatment to the control room of the district administration, Monitoring Officer B. Chandra Mohan said on Sunday. The Monitoring Officer, who was in Chennai, addressed private hospitals in Madurai city via video conferencing. Collector T.G. Vinay and Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan participated in the meeting. Dr. Chandra Mohan said all private hospitals must have a separate outpatient wing to screen and treat patients displaying symptoms of COVID-19. They had to follow protocols issued by the government for treatment. Late referrals of such patients to government hospitals must be avoided. Details regarding the number of beds available and status of treatment must be regularly updated with the district administration. Also, private hospitals must allocate additional beds for treating positive patients. All hospitals must have sufficient wash basins with running water and soaps in front of their hospitals. They must also regularly disinfect the premises, the officer added.
29 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Swab samples to be lifted from UPHCs||Madurai Corporation will start collecting swab samples at all 31 UPHCs in the city from Monday. Till now, samples had been collected in 12 UPHCS. Samples will be lifted from high-risk areas, primary and secondary contacts of positive patients and those with travel history. They will also be lifted from all symptomatic persons with comorbidities, who have been identified through fever camps. Everyday fever camps will be held at UPHCs between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. The centres will also continue to treat outpatients.
29 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CoP warning||Commissioner of Police, Madurai City, S. Davidson Devasirvatham has warned police personnel, who tested positive, against coming out of hospital or home. The warning came after complaints that some police personnel admitted to COVID-19 ward in Railway Hospital were leaving the facility for morning stroll. The CoP said their action posed danger to medical staff and general public. It was the responsibility of every police personnel undergoing treatment or quarantined to follow the guidelines and protocol strictly. “If any violation of treatment protocol by police personnel comes to notice, they will face disciplinary proceedings.”
29 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Petitions can be sent through WhatsApp’||District SP N. Manivannan has appealed to residents of rural areas to make use of WhatsApp services of the rural district police to file petitions with the SP. People have to travel to the District Police Office to hand over their petitions. “Instead, they can write their petitions and send soft copies of the same through WhatsApp number 77088-06111,” the official said in a release.
29 June 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Sardine fish caught with banned nets auctioned for Rs. 4.56 lakh||The Fisheries Department on Sunday auctioned forRs. 4,56,400 seven lorry loads of sardine that were confiscated while crossing the Veppur check-post due to prohibitive fishing practice of netting the catches by mechanised boats. The fishes that were caught using purse seine nets in violation of Tamil Nadu Marine Fisheries Regulation Act 1983 were confiscated. Three of the lorries were loaded with fishes caught by Nagapattinam fishermen and the rest by Karaikal Fishermen. The money was deposited in government account, Joint Director of Fisheries, Nagapattinam District, R. Amal Raj, said. The district administration had formed a team comprising officials of Marine Enforcement Wing, Coastal Security Group, Fisheries Department, and Revenue Department, for checking the banned fishing practice. On Friday, the team comprising Fisheries Inspectors T. Karthikeyan and N. Artheeswaran, and Marine Enforcement Wing Inspector P. Rajagopal confiscated three lorries transporting 8,250 kg of sardine. The fish catch was auctioned for Rs. 2.06 lakh.
29 June 2020||Natham,TAMIL NADU||Spate of robberies reported in Natham||Utilising the lockdown, unidentified miscreants decamped with cash, valuables and articles from as many as six shops here on Saturday. Police said as the market road was deserted, the robbers gained entry into some of the outlets and escaped with cash and other valuables. The miscreants had also disconnected the CCTV camera near the area by switching off the power line. Fingerprints have been lifted from the scene of crime.
29 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy undergoes RT-PCR test||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy underwent an RT-PCR test on Sunday after a staff attached to his office tested positive for COVID-19 the previous day. The office of the Chief Minister had been shut for disinfection following this. The results of the test are awaited. This is the second time Mr. Narayanasamy is taking an RT-PCR test after undergoing a throat swab evaluation in April as a precautionary measure after having been to several public places to monitor the administration’s COVID-19 response.
29 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||1 more death takes toll to 11 in Puducherry||The death of a 61-year-old former constable at JIPMER took the COVID-19 toll in Puducherry to 11 on Sunday. Meanwhile, 29 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the UT, including 28 in Puducherry and one in Yanam. According to a Health Department press note, the new cases were confirmed during RT-PCR tests conducted on 512 samples (positivity rate of 5.7%). There are now 385 active cases, which includes 347 in Puducherry, 35 in Karaikal GH, two in Yanam GH, one in Mahe GH and two cases each in the government hospitals in Cuddalore and Villupuram. The IGMCRI has under its fold 209 patients, JIPMER 97 and COVID care centres are treating 37 patients. Samples tested As of Sunday, 15,225 samples have been tested, of which 14,380 were negative, and the test results of 191 are awaited. The tally is 11 deaths, 385 active cases and cumulative total of 648 cases with 252 discharged.
29 June 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Bedi seeks stricter policing||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi has called for stricter policing to ensure that COVID-19 safety norms are followed in public places. Ms. Bedi, while reviewing the number of cases that had been booked across regions for violating the rules under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, noted that the prosecution record was poor in some municipal and police jurisdictions.
29 June 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Cauvery-Gundar river link project proceeding swiftly’||The Cauvery-Gundar river link project in Pudukottai district was being carried out swiftly with funds sanctioned for executing the first phase, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said here on Sunday. The implementation would enable reach of water to around 760 ‘kanmois’ and help in irrigating 17,066.38 hectares, Mr. Vijayabaskar said while reviewing the progress of the project at the Collectorate here. Stating that the project was to be executed at a total cost of Rs. 7,677 crore, Mr. Vijayabaskar said the State government had allocated Rs. 700 crore for implementation of the first phase. He said that instructions had been given to the officials to speed up the first phase, and added that the project, once implemented fully, would turn Pudukottai into a fertile district. Collector P. Uma Maheswari, Aranthangi MLA E.A. Rathinasabapathy, District Revenue Officer P.V. Saravanan, Special District Revenue Officer (land acquisition) Ramya Devi and other officials participated in the meeting. The Minister inaugurated the new office of the Special District Revenue Officer (land acquisition) for the Cauvery-Gundar river link project in Pudukottai Town.
29 June 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Strategy to identify positive patients early: Minister||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday said that the State government had adopted the strategy of stepping up the pace of testing through mobile health department teams and by conducting fever camps to curb spread of COVID-19. The strategy was to identify COVID-19 positive patients early, isolate them in order to prevent the spread of the disease, and provide comprehensive treatment for them in an effort to bring down the mortality rate, Mr. Vijayabaskar told reporters here after reviewing the measures being taken in Pudukottai district with officials to curb the spread of the viral disease At a time when developed nations were struggling hard to combat the spread of the disease, the Tamil Nadu government, in the face of many challenges, had taken effective steps in protecting the lives of people, he said. Appealing to the people not to get panicky about COVID-19, the Minister, however, urged them to remain extremely cautious by steadfastly adhering to the guidelines issued by the government. Stating that the State government was taking all out efforts to curb the spread, he said the cooperation of the general public was equally imperative by ensuring personal distancing and remaining vigilant. The COVID-19 patients were being given counselling and provided with a healthy diet, he said and pointed out that over 44,000 patients had got discharged across the State till yesterday after providing required care and treatment to them. All district administrations were in a state of readiness to face the challenges and that manpower strength had been increased in the health department. The number of tests being done in Tamil Nadu was the highest in the country, he said.
29 June 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Man kills son, ends life||Balachandran, 54, allegedly murdered his son, Arun Pandian, 26, and ended his life by hanging in their house at Melnilaipatti village near K. Pudupatti in the district on Friday. Police said Balachandran who had been working as a cook in Chennai had returned home and was under quarantine. His son who was employed in Singapore earlier had returned and was without any job. The sources said Arun Pandian used to consume alcohol leading to problems in the family. Aggrieved over Arun Pandian's behaviour, his mother Indira Gandhi went to stay in her mother's house. This led to a verbal quarrel between the father and son. Police said Balachandran attacked his son with a stick on his head killing him on the spot. Thereafter, he ended his life. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
29 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||CM to hold meeting with experts today||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will on Monday hold a meeting with the medical experts’ committee to decide on the future of the COVID-19 lockdown in Tamil Nadu. Responding to a question from a journalist in Salem on the possibility of the lockdown being extended beyond June 30, he said that a decision would be taken after the meeting with medical experts at the Secretariat. The decision of Southern Railway to cancel the special trains within Tamil Nadu till July 15, citing a “request” from the State government on account of the rising number of COVID-19 cases, had triggered speculation over the likelihood of the lockdown being extended. Maintaining that the government would act as per recommendations of medical experts, a senior official said, “A smart containment strategy, with focused testing, will ideally be preferred, but without hearing what the medical experts have to say, it will be too premature to say anything.” Earlier in the evening, after inspecting construction of the Advanced Institute for Integrated Research on Livestock and Animal Sciences in Thalaivasal in Salem, the Chief Minister accused Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin, again, of politicking over the pandemic. “He [the DMK president] is issuing only political statements through the media every day. Has he said anything about controlling the spread of the disease? He has only been issuing statements criticising the State government and the Chief Minister, on a daily basis, as he is just remaining in his house,” Mr. Palaniswami charged. “Has he stepped out? He went out for a few days and projected himself as providing relief to the people. Unlike them, the Deputy Chief Minister, the Ministers, other public representatives and I are involved in providing relief to the affected people and preventing the spread of the disease, as far as possible,” the Chief Minister contended. He reiterated that the ratio of the number of deaths to the number of positive cases was less in Tamil Nadu, compared to other States, and this was due to the “right action” taken by the State government. ‘Govt.’s responsibility’ Healthcare workers have been treating COVID-19 patients in accordance with advice from medical experts. “As far as the government is concerned, it is its responsibility to save the patients and the entire government machinery is striving towards it,” he said. The government had provided cash relief and free rations even to migrant workers, he said. Mr. Palaniswami said that several companies had requested permissions to bring back migrant workers, as they were ready to return. He also laid the foundation for pipeline-relaying works for the combined water supply scheme to Attur and Narasingapuram municipalities and 20 town panchayats in Salem district.
29 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister lays foundation for drinking water scheme||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday laid the foundation for re-laying of drinking water pipelines for combined water supply scheme at Mettupatti near Attur. The scheme would be implemented at a cost of Rs. 19.17 crore. According to officials, under the combined water supply scheme, water is being supplied to Attur and Narasingapuram municipalities, 20 town panchayats and 12 panchayats. However, 600 mm diameter cement pipelines were used for the supply of drinking water under the scheme. Under the scheme 40 lakh litres of water would be supplied to beneficiaries.
29 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||109 fresh cases reported in Salem||As many as 109 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem district on Sunday. Health officials said that 55 positive cases were reported within Salem district (this included five postgraduate students of the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital) and 24 patients had travelled to Salem from Chennai, Theni, Dharmapuri and Kallakurichi districts. About 30 persons have returned to Salem from Karnataka, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, New Delhi, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. In Namakkal, two men, who returned from Tiruchi and Kancheepuram, tested positive. A 30-year-old Sub-Inspector at the Pallipalayam police station tested positive and is undergoing treatment at the Tiruchengode government hospital. The station premises has been disinfected.
29 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Action against shops violating protocols||The Salem Corporation has warned of stern action against commercial spaces violating COVID-19 protocols. Corporation Commissioner R.Sadheesh said in a release that commercial establishments must strictly follow all COVID-19 safety protocols as advised by the government, else legal action would be taken through police and shops would be sealed. According to a release, commercial spaces are advised to ensure proper hand sanitation facilities for customers before entering the shop and all staff should wear mask. Physical distancing norms must be practised and furniture and premises should be disinfected at regular intervals. As on Sunday, there are 17 containment zones in the Corporation limits and action is being taken against persons entering the Corporation limits without e-pass. According to city health officials, unlike earlier, the zones are restricted to particular streets where positive cases have been reported. The streets are completely cordoned off and no person is allowed to exit and enter from the zones. All shops and offices in the area are shut. The residents are given kabasura kudineer and other immunity building concoction. The containment zones would be active for 14 days. The Corporation officials said control rooms had been set up at all zonal offices and the public could contact them for essential goods.
29 June 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Auto driver's death sparks allegations of custodial torture||The death of an autorickshaw driver in Tenkasi on Saturday night, nearly 20 days after he was picked up by the police in connection with a property dispute, triggered allegations of custodial torture. Tension prevailed in the town on Sunday when his body was handed over to his relatives. Members of opposition parties and the advocate fraternity in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts demanded a judicial probe into the death. The auto driver Kathiresan, in his mid-twenties, hailing from Veerakeralampudur, died at the Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital where he was admitted on June 10. About 20 days ago, a Sub Inspector from Veerakeralampudur Police Station in Tenkasi district had taken him for questioning in connection with a complaint submitted by one Senthil, over a property dispute. Kathiresan's family members alleged that he was beaten up during the police interrogation and had sustained bleeding injuries. On June 10, when Kathiresan complained of uneasiness and had vomited blood, the family members took him to Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital where he succumbed on Saturday night. After the post-mortem was conducted on Sunday, the family received the body and left for their home at 2 p.m. Police pickets were deployed in Tenkasi to ensure that there were no untoward incidents. CPI (M) Tirunelveli district secretary K G Baskaran told reporters that the incident, which came against the backdrop of the custodial deaths of a father and son in Thoothukudi, raised doubts about police torture. The State government should direct the Tenkasi police to register a murder case against the Sub-Inspector of Police and a police constable and arrest them, he demanded adding that compensation be provided to the family. The auto driver's father has sent a petition to the Chief Minister's cell and Tenkasi Superintendnet of Police seeking registration of murder case against the police, an advocate said.
29 June 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Police torture alleged in auto driver’s death||The death of an auto rickshaw driver in Tenkasi on Saturday night, nearly 20 days after he was picked up by the police in connection with a property dispute, triggered allegations of custodial torture. Tension prevailed in the town on Sunday when his body was handed over to his relatives. Members of opposition parties and the advocate fraternity in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts demanded a judicial probe into the death. The auto driver Kathiresan, in his mid-twenties, hailing from Veerakeralampudur, died at the Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital where he was admitted on June 10. About 20 days ago, a Sub Inspector from Veerakeralampudur Police Station in Tenkasi district had taken him for questioning in connection with a complaint submitted by one Senthil, over a property dispute. Kathiresan's family members alleged that he was beaten up during the police interrogation and had sustained bleeding injuries. On June 10, when Kathiresan complained of uneasiness and had vomited blood, the family members took him to Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital where he succumbed on Saturday night. After the post-mortem was conducted on Sunday, the family received the body and left for their home at 2 p.m. Police pickets were deployed in Tenkasi to ensure that there were no untoward incidents. CPI (M) Tirunelveli district secretary K G Baskaran told reporters that the incident, which came against the backdrop of the custodial deaths of a father and son in Thoothukudi, raised doubts about police torture. The State government should direct the Tenkasi police to register a murder case against the Sub-Inspector of Police and a police constable and arrest them, he demanded adding that compensation be provided to the family. The auto driver's father has sent a petition to the Chief Minister's cell and Tenkasi Superintendent of Police seeking registration of murder case against the police, an advocate said.
29 June 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Minister consoles suicide victim’s kin||Only if a person dies in police custody, it is called ‘lock-up’ death, Minister Kadambur Raju said said on Sunday. He was here to console the family members of Ganesamurthy, a worker, who committed suicide died two days ago after he was interrogated by police at Ettayapuram. Ganesamurthy was riding his bike in an inebriated state last week, when he was intercepted by police, who advised him to go home on foot. They asked him to collect the bike from the police station the next day. However, apprehending trouble, he ended his life before collecting the vehicle. Demanding compensation, the family members squatted on the road. Compensation After the issue was taken up with the government, local political functionaries offered Rs. 4 lakh as compensation. The family then received the body after post-mortem. In 1996, the Minister told reporters, when the DMK was in power, two persons died in a police station in the district. In the case of Ganesamurthy, the victim never stepped inside one. Instead, he was advised by police to go home by foot in his own interest. Thus, it would be incorrect to describe the incident as custodial death. On the Sattankulam incident, Mr. Raju said the State government, in the interest of the family, suspended the police personnel. The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court had taken suo motu cognizance of the case. The government and all officers would abide by the court’s direction and there was nothing to hide. The Minister took a dig at DMK MP Kanimozhi for giving a wrong picture that the trader and his son died in police custody. The two were produced before a Magistrate and sent to judicial custody. “It is there in record, we have nothing to hide,” he said.
29 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Scaling up testing vital to fight COVID-19’||Though districts in the central region of the State have stepped up testing to prevent spread of COVID 19 pandemic, much more needs to be done, say experts, citing the data of test results released by the Directorate of Public Health and the Health and Family Welfare Department. According to the data released on June 19, Tamil Nadu fares better in testing than the national average but individual districts need to further strengthen their testing strategies, the experts say. The national average is 4,657 tests per million (tpm) while Tamil Nadu’s average is 8,666 tpm. Of the eight districts in the central region — Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Karur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai, the data show that all districts test higher than the national average but most test below Tamil Nadu State average. Thanjavur is the only district in the central region to test higher than the State average – 9,125 tpm. Karur is testing at a rate of 8008 tpm and Tiruvarur at 8,205. It is 6,788 tpm in Perambalur, 6,417 tpm in Ariyalur, 6,164 tpm in Tiruchi, 5,963 tpm in Nagapattinam, and 5,105 in Pudukottai. Official sources in Tiruchi said that while cases are on a steady rise due to many travelling to the central region from Chennai, the spread of the virus is controlled since the travellers are being stopped and checked at check-posts, railway stations and airports. M. Geetharani, Deputy Director of Health Services, Perambalur, said that along with the testing guidelines provided by the Indian Council of Medical Research, the Chief Secretary to the Government of Tamil Nadu issued an instruction on June 25. According to the instructions, patients suffering from any one of the symptoms – fever, cold, cough and sore throat will be tested. “Until now, we were testing only if the patient showed at least three of the four symptoms. Now, we will be testing patients with the slightest symptoms,” she said. K. Kolandaswamy, former Director of Public Health, said that Tamil Nadu is the first State in the country to test more than one million samples for COVID-19. While the State is in the right direction, there are some improvements which could be taken in this “prolonged war” against COVID-19, he said. Testing vulnerable groups such as cancer patients, those over the age of 60 and dialysis patients must be made compulsory, especially before hospitalisation. Dr. Kolandaswamy also said that while many districts are unofficially testing pregnant women, the State must include them in their strategy. Meanwhile, although testing centres are now present at all government medical college hospitals, the testing equipment must be upgraded. “Even district headquarters hospitals must have the best equipment,” he said. Testing methodology too could be upgraded to Multiplex testing, which could provide results within two hours. However, Dr. Kolandaswamy was of the opinion that although testing strategies could be changed from time to time, the public must continue to wash their hands regularly, clean surfaces from time-to-time and ensure they wear facemasks whenever in contact with others. “They must also ensure that they maintain innate immunity but consuming healthy, nutritious food,” he said. The people must also understand that if they test negative once for COVID-19, it is not a “permanent negative,” you could get infected tomorrow, Dr. Kolandaswamy warned.
29 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Yatri Nivas made available to quarantine asymptomatic patients||Against the backdrop of rising numbers of COVID-19 positive cases, the administration of Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam has made available its “Yatri Nivas” to quarantine asymptomatic patients. The move is perceived as a “compassionate and much needed” step in protecting the lives of people against COVID-19 that continues to surge in Tiruchi as elsewhere in the country. However, the temple administration has allowed only limited access of the Yatri Nivas by providing accommodation to the patients, who are in need of quarantine care. As per the arrangement, it has opened up a portion of the facility to the district administration if it is required to accommodate patients. Family cottages and deluxe rooms would continue to be kept closed. Only the dormitory block is allowed for quarantine facility. “Now is the time to rise up to the occasion to help the affected people on compassionate ground. The Yatri Nivas will be open for asymptomatic patients and those who needed quarantine facility,” M. Jayaraman, Joint Commissioner, Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple, Srirangam, told The Hindu . He said that the temple administration had extended its help to the district administration, which had identified a number of government controlled educational campuses and hotels in its efforts to scale up beds to accommodate asymptomatic patients in the wake of rise in number of cases. “The humankind is facing an unprecedented crisis. Opening of the lodging facility of the temple to the needy people is a service to God,” Mr. Jayaraman observed. The facility at the Yatri Nivas had not been used yet. The district administration had kept it as a standby to use if the need arose. It was learnt that it would be used if the other COVID care centres overflowed, Mr. Jayaraman added. The Yatri Nivas, built at a cost of Rs. .47 crore on 6.40 acres on Panchakarai on the banks of Kollidam river, was declared opened by the late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa in 2014. It can accommodate 1,000 devotees. The facility has 612 single rooms, 98 double rooms and 24 family cottages. It was aimed at providing budget accommodation to the devotees visiting Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple from different parts of the country. The Yatri Nivas became an instant hit as it provides better accommodation to the devotees at cheap and best rate. The facility has been kept out of bounds of devotees since the closure of the temple ever since the lockdown took effect from the last week of March. A section of residents had opposed the district administration’s decision to make use of the accommodation facility at Yatri Nivas a few days ago. They claimed that it was built for providing accommodation to devotees.
29 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway cancels special trains running in State||Southern Railway has announced that the following special trains running within the State would be cancelled from June 29 to July 15 as per the request of the State government in view of the increase in the number of COVID-19 positive cases: Tiruchi - Chengalpattu - Tiruchi (Train No. 02606/02605) Superfast Intercity daily special via Vriddhachalam; Tiruchi - Chengalpattu-Tiruchi daily special (Train No. 06796/06795) via Mayiladuthurai; Coimbatore - Mayiladuthurai- Coimbatore Jan Shatabdhi special (Train No. 02083/02084) running six days a week; Tiruchi - Nagercoil - Tiruchi Superfast Intercity daily special (Train No. 02627/02628); Madurai - Villupuram - Madurai Superfast Intercity Special daily (Train No. 02636/02635); Coimbatore - Katpadi - Coimbatore Superfast Intercity special daily (Train No. 02680 / 02679) and Arakkonam - Coimbatore - Arakkonam Superfast Intercity Special daily (Train No. 02675/02676). A press release here said full refund would be given to passengers who had made reservations. Passengers who had booked online would be refunded automatically. Counter tickets could be refunded any time up to six months from the date of journey.
29 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||207 persons test positive in central region||In a further jump, 207 persons tested positive for COVID 19 infection in the central region on Sunday, as against 160 on Saturday. Tiruvarur saw a major spike in cases with 87 people testing positive while 43 tested positive from Tiruchi, 23 from Thanjavur, 14 from Nagapattinam, three from Ariyalur and one from Perambalur. Pudukottai, too, saw the biggest single-day spike yet with 36 new COVID-19 cases. In Tiruvarur, of the 87 patients who tested positive, nine are imported cases from outside Tamil Nadu. These patients have all been admitted to the Government Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital. In Pudukottai, a total of 22 men and 14 women tested positive for the viral infection. The patients, all of who are those who returned from Chennai, and their immediate contacts in Pudukottai, have been admitted to the Ranee’s Government Hospital. The total positive cases in the district are now 167, of which 117 are active cases. Of the 117 patients are 64 male patients, 43 female, and 10 children. A total of 43 patients, mostly hailing from containment zones in Viralimalai, Thuraiyur, Manapparai, Malaikottai, Puthur, K. K. Nagar and Bheema Nagar tested positive. The patients are admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Meanwhile, a total of 28 patients, including 21 from Tiruchi, two from Perambalur, one from Tirunelveli, two from Cuddalore, one from Tiruvarur and one from Cuddalore, have recovered from COVID-19 and have been sent to their homes on ‘108’ ambulances. In Thanjavur, 23 people tested positive for the viral infection. They have been admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Of the 14 patients who tested positive in Nagapattinam are two doctors, a man and woman both aged 29 and both posted in the COVID-19 ward of the Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital, and a staff nurse of the Nagapattinam GH. Of the 14 patients, three returned from Chennai while the remaining are all those who came in contact with people who tested positive earlier. In Ariyalur district, one patient returned from Tiruchi, one from Maharashtra while the third person travelled from Chennai. The three patients have been admitted to the Ariyalur Government Headquarters Hospital. The addition of these three cases increases the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district to 461. However, 400 patients have recovered from the infection and returned home. A total of 41patients are undergoing treatment at the Ariyalur GH, 14 are at the Tiruchi GH, three are admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and one each are admitted to the Tiruchi SRM Medical College Hospital and a private hospital in Chennai. A total of 164 new samples have also been lifted and sent for testing. The sole patient who tested positive in Perambalur was a man who had been working at a vegetable market in Hosur. The 60-year-old man who hails from Murukankudi in Perambalur had returned to the district on June 24, when samples were lifted from him. He was shifted to the Tiruchi MGMGH, official sources here said.
29 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for creating fake e-pass||Two persons — a car driver and a man running a computer centre — were arrested on the charge of making a fake e-pass for inter-district travel. A police team was conducting vehicle checks near the MIET check-post. The e-pass with the driver of the car to Tiruchi from Pudukottai was found to be fake. The driver A. Murali of Tiruvanaikoil and M. Srinivasan (37) of Srirangam were held. The driver used fake pass to drop some people at Devakottai. He was on his way back.
29 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The level at Mettur dam stood at 92 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 822 cusecs and the discharge 10,000 cusecs.
29 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||MP inspects Smart Cities Mission works in Tiruppur||Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan and Tiruppur South MLA S. Gunasekaran inspected the Smart Cities Mission works undertaken by Tiruppur Corporation recently. Accompanied by Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar, they visited Old and New Bus Terminuses along with Daily Market where the works are under way. Mr. Subbarayan told presspersons that Mr. Gunasekaran and he inspected the works as they were the members of the Tiruppur Corporation Smart City Board Committee. A detailed press conference will be arranged later regarding the Smart Cities Mission in Tiruppur Corporation limits, he said. Mr. Sivakumar said that Rs. 1.1 lakh were collected in the past three days as the total fine amount from the public for not wearing masks in public places. Those not wearing masks while venturing outside will be imposed a fine of Rs. 100, he said.
29 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Walkers not allowed: Collector||Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan announced on Sunday that the public would not be allowed inside the Collectorate premises for walking to ensure personal distancing. From Monday, they would be allowed only to make “essential requests”. All gyms across the district would be closed from Monday. Action would be taken against gyms that remained open as well as those who entered the Collectorate unnecessarily.
29 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man crushed to death at workplace||A 42-year-old man was crushed to death after he was sucked into a stone crusher machine near Dharapuram in Tiruppur district on Saturday. The deceased, L. Karuppasamy, was working in a private stone crusher firm at Vellavavipudur near Dharapuram. At around 4.15 p.m., his right hand got stuck in the belt of the machine and as he attempted to pull out his hand, his whole body was sucked inside the machine and was crushed to death, the police said. The man’s colleagues and the Mulanur police retrieved the body from the machine and sent it to Dharapuram Government Hospital for autopsy. The stone crusher machine was owned by Jaishankar and was leased to three persons namely Raja, Mahendran and Thangasamy, police said. Mulanur police have registered a case against four persons (the owner and the three to whom the crusher was leased out) under Sections 287 (Negligent conduct with respect to machinery) and 304A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. However, no arrest was made as of Sunday.
29 June 2020||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||‘COVID-19 test result negative for HR&CE Minister’||Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister Sevoor S. Ramachandran and his three family members underwent swab test on Friday, and the results were negative. The Minister had to switch cars midway during a journey after he learnt that his driver had tested positive for COVID-19, after which he and his family went for testing. Mr. Ramachandran told The Hindu , “I am adhering to all preventive measures as stipulated by the Health and Family Welfare Department. On reaching home, I submitted myself to testing and have quarantined myself. I asked my wife, son and daughter-in-law also to undergo swab test. All the results have come negative.”
29 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Loans for owners of shops damaged in fire||Following a fire that destroyed 81 shops at the Udhagamandalam Municipal Market, the district administration helped in the sanctioning of loans for the owners whose shops were gutted in the blaze. In a press release, the district administration stated that 41 beneficiaries were given loans of Rs. 50,000 each, amounting to Rs. 20.5 lakh, in the first phase of relief. The shopkeepers had already been struggling with losses due to the shutdown of the market till recently due to the COVID-19 pandemic and also due to other factors. From April of this year, the Nilgiris district central co-operative bank has sanctioned loans amounting to Rs. 9 crore for self-help groups, Rs. 7 crore for agriculturalists and farmers, and also for businessmen and traders, the district administration said. The loans for the shop owners at the market too were sanctioned by the central co-operative bank, officials said.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||MGR Wholesale Vegetable Market traders will have to wait for an alternative place||Traders at the now-closed MGR Wholesale Vegetable Market, it appears, will have to wait for a few more days before the Coimbatore Corporation provides an alternative place to resume business. The Corporation had on Friday partially closed the market and on Saturday sealed the entire premises, including the Mettupalayam Road Bus Stand, where it had housed a few traders to ensure physical distancing in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak. It had to seal the market because three from the place and another trader from the Anna Retail Vegetable Market had tested positive for COVID-19. The market sources said the Corporation that had provided alternative places at the Ramalingam Chettiar Higher Secondary School on Alagesan Road for the traders at the Anna Retail Vegetable Market, the Devanga Highter Secondary School for flower vendors and the Singanallur Bus Stand for farmers selling their produce at the farmers’ market on Trichy Road should have provided them one as well. The traders at the market bought and sold 1,000 tonnes of vegetable a day. They bought vegetables from Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab and sometimes Delhi as well and sold most of it– nearly 900 tonnes – to Kerala. The sources said the traders sold the remaining 100 tonnes to traders from Coimbatore. The Corporation shutting down the market hit hard those traders who had placed orders a day or two earlier and whose vegetables were in transit. They sold their vegetables on the Market-Kavundampalayam stretch of the Mettupalayam Road, amid threat from police to seize the goods, the sources added. But not all traders did so as a few managed to forward the vegetables to their buyers in Kerala or took their goods to places elsewhere in the city. The traders said while they appreciated the Corporation’s swift action shutting the market with around 100 traders they looked forward to an alternative location, as it had been only a few weeks since they saw the business to almost pre-COVID-19 days. Sources in the Corporation said the civic body had begun levelling the ground at the old dump yard in Kavundampalayam – Eru Company – where the traders could resume business. The Corporation would provide only the place but it was up to the traders to create the necessary infrastructure.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||More people test positive across districts||The districts in the region saw more people testing positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. Coimbatore district reported 46 cases, Tiruppur three, Erode 10 and the Nilgiris five cases. Among the 46 cases in Coimbatore, 18 were from Periyar Colony and one from Balan Street near Peelamedu, a new cluster identified with the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Three cases each were reported from Olympus near Ramanathapuram, Murugan Nagar near Thudiyalur and Addis Street. On Sunday, 16 persons - seven women, three men, five male children and one female child - recovered from the disease and were discharged from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. As of Sunday, the total number of persons who tested positive for COVID-19 touched 460 in Coimbatore district. As many as 274 persons were undergoing treatment in the district. With three new cases, the Tiruppur district’s tally increased to 150. Of the three, two were from Palladam block, according to sources from the Health Department. A 56-year-old man from Ganapathypalayam with a travel history to Krishnagiri and a 44-year-old man from Thiruvalluvar Nagar with a travel history to Thanjavur tested positive. The third case was a 43-year-old man from Veerapandi in Tiruppur Corporation limits, the sources said. Currently, there are 32 active cases in Tiruppur district. Ten persons tested positive in Erode district on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 124. Health officials said that new cases were reported in Chithode – 4, Bhavani – 3, Corporation – 2 and Perundurai – 1. A total of 3,742 houses were quarantined, they added. Eight persons in Rajajipuram in Karungalpalayam area tested positive and were admitted to the hospital at Perundurai on Sunday afternoon. Corporation officials said that a person in the area had recently tested positive and was admitted to the hospital. Swab samples were taken from residents in the area in which eight persons tested positive. They said that their count would be added to the district tally on Monday. Five more persons have tested positive in the Nilgiris on Sunday. Of the 71 people who tested positive, 35 have recovered. Three of those who tested positive on Sunday are secondary contacts of a Public Relations Officer at a private firm in Yellanalli.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||3,940 people test positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu||Till Sunday, 809 deaths had been recorded in the city, followed by 80 in Chengalpattu and 61 in Tiruvallur. Three passengers from Malaysia and one from the Maldives were among those who had tested positive. A one-and-a-half-year-old boy from Tindivanam, who was admitted to the Villupuram Government Medical College and Hospital on Friday, died on Sunday. According to the Health Department, the baby was hospitalised after developing breathing problems. His swab samples were lifted and the results returned positive. Hospital dean Kundavi Devi said the baby’s brain had not developed fully, and he died due to aspiration. “Coincidentally, the test results returned positive,” she added. However, the DPH’s statistics had recorded the baby’s death among those who died due to the infection but had no co-morbidities. Of the 54 persons who lost their lives to COVID-19 on Sunday, eight had no co-morbidities. Among the deceased who had no co-morbidities was a 29-year-old man who was admitted to a private hospital in Chengalpattu on June 16 with complaints of fever for three days, cough and breathing difficulty for two days. Health authorities said his death was due to respiratory failure. A 17-year-old teenager from Tiruvallur, with vitamin D deficiency and hypo-parathyroidism, died at a private medical college hospital on Saturday. He was admitted to the facility on Friday with complaints of breathing difficulty for two days and a headache for three days. His death was recorded as having occurred due to type-I respiratory failure and cardiomyopathy.  (*Includes two deaths cross-notified to other States. One person died after turning negative for infection)
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on research||Ramco Institute of Technology, Rajapalayam, organised a two-day webinar recently to promote research among students and scholars. Institute chairman P.R. Venketrama Raja, in his address, said the initiative was aimed at providing a platform for scientific deliberations. Prof. Sebastian Kot from Czestochowa University of Technology, Poland, Prof. Yusri Bin Yusof from Universiti Tun Hussein Onn, Malaysia and Prof. S.K.Ramesh from California State University, USA, shared their insights on emerging technologies that would revolutionise the industry and people’s lives across the globe. Around 243 students, faculty members and scientists presented their papers in the event that attracted participation of 2,357 students and scholars from around the world.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘No shortage of masks, sanitisers in Ramnad’||Clarifying that there was no shortage of face masks, gloves, sanitizers and disinfectants at the government hospital and in Primary Health Centres, District Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao said that in fact, every patient, who tested positive for COVID-19, was given 10 face masks at the hospital on arrival, for daily use. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Rao said that two months ago, there were some reports of a shortage, but now, adequate numbers were in stock. Teams at the block levels were also monitoring this. “As and when there is a need, the Deputy Director (Health) issues them. We have triple layer face masks, gloves and sanitizers with us...” he said, and said he would verify again when told that there were a shortage at a PHC in Rameswaram two days ago. Asked about the sudden rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district, he said that the administration has devised a containment plan and attributed the rise in numbers to intensified tests being carried out in pockets like Keelakarai, Sayalkudi and Vellaiahpuram in Thondi block. “By screening people in advance, the spread has actually been contained. Otherwise, people may have suffered from cough, cold and fever and rushed to the hospitals very late,” he said. The containment plan was a multi-pronged approach, he said. The civic body, public health and police officials were constantly monitoring, and the hyper-active handling would bring down the cases soon, the Collector hoped and appealed to the people to wear face masks and ensure physical distancing while stepping out. To another query, he said that because of the containment plan, in some pockets in Yemeneswaram in Paramakudi, the number of cases, high last month, had come down now. This was mostly due to tests being carried out on a mass scale. The people in the pockets were also aware about COVID-19 and hence stayed indoors, which helped the officials in handling the situation swiftly. He also said that from just three streets in a locality in Keelakarai, 30 persons tested positive two days ago, which was found only after examining the spot in an intense manner. There was no need for panic as the district administration was fully geared. Close to 2,500 beds were available.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar district grapples with limited testing capacity||With the number of positive cases increasing every day in Virudhunagar district, the need to step up testing has become inevitable. The RT-PCR testing equipment in Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital can test only a maximum of 280 samples a day. Meanwhile, the district recorded more than 25 patients for four consecutive days till Friday. However, no positive case was recorded on Saturday. CPI(M) district secretary K. Arjunan said many were forced to wait for five to six days to get results, causing anxiety. The district had a backlog of over 1,900 tests, after it started taking swab samples of around 600 people daily over the last few days. Before Virudhunagar got the RT-PCR testing equipment, the district was sending samples to Theni, Madurai and Tirunelveli medical college hospitals. “Now, all these hospitals are doing more tests of samples from their own districts and cannot take up those from ours,” said Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan. Still, the district administration would explore the possibility of sending samples to other districts wherever it was possible, he added. “One more RT-PCR equipment will help us in a big way. But the equipment is not immediately available in the market. Efforts are on to procure the equipment at the earliest,” Mr. Kannan said. Meanwhile, the district was ready with 760 beds to treat positive patients. At present, patients were admitted in Virudhunagar, Sivakasi, Aruppukottai and Rajapalayam government hospitals. “Beds in Sattur government hospital are also available. The number of active is only around 150, but we are gearing up to provide as many beds as possible,” the Collector said. Besides, 4,300 beds were ready in various hostels, which could be converted into COVID-19 care centres. All asymptomatic patients could be admitted to the centres. Doctors and paramedical staff were adequately available, Mr. Kannan added.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ganja seized, one held||Thudiyalur police on Saturday arrested a 28-year-old man on charges of possessing ganja. N. Chandrababu, a resident of Dharma Sala Kovil Street in Coimbatore, was arrested with 1.2 kg of ganja from a place near Vellakinar. The man was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A dangerous move||
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||Till June 28   Coimbatore district  Persons tested +ve so far: 460 Domestic cases: 445 Imported cases: 15 Persons recovered: 184 Death: 1 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala) Active cases: 274  Tiruppur district  Home quarantined: 2,969 Positive: 150 (Three fresh cases on Sunday) Discharged: 117 Active cases: 32 Death: 1 (Yet to be officially declared)
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||READERS MAIL||The stretch between P. Maniapatti and Peramangalam has turned unmotorable causing inconvenience to motorists, particularly farmers transporting their produce. A bus operated by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation between Chathiram bus stand and Puthanampatti passes by the little over two-km damaged stretch. Villagers using two-wheelers are the most affected. It would be in the best interests of people if the local body responds promptly with a tangible action. Saravanan Natesan, Puthanampatti.     The risk of COVID-19 spread is high due to the habit of spitting by people consuming tobacco and betel leaves, and those suffering from respiratory tract infections. It has been established scientifically that respiratory droplets released while spitting causes rapid spread of the contagion. Unless people maintain cleanliness and hygiene, the pandemic cannot be curbed. One has to be conscious about bringing about putting an end to the habit as the situation is very risky now. M.A. Aleem, Tiruchi.      While the lockdown with relaxations is in force, it is necessary to thoroughly disinfect every passing vehicle at the check-posts on the district border. Vehicles for essential services and emergency purposes are still moving about with e-passes. But, the two-wheeler riders who disregard social distancing protocol need a tough approach. Bus passengers should be tested with thermal scanners and instructed to wear masks necessarily. M. Sainithii, Cantonment.   Decisions taken at the higher level for safety of the public need to be implemented with seriousness, particularly with respect to wearing of face masks, hand hygiene and personal distancing. While motorists are fined for not wearing face masks, customers at the vegetable markets are not taken to task. Surprise checks have to be undertaken and those flouting the safety protocol must at the least be detained for a few hours for bringing about a deterrent effect. Kanagaraj Arthur, Ramalinganagar South Extension.    Public cooperation for controlling COVID 19 pandemic has not been sufficient. The behaviour of people in town buses, share autos,tea shops,and tasmac outlets apart, and the arrival of infected people from other districts have been the main cause for the steady spread of the pandemic. Dimple R. Mohan, Sangiliyandapuram.      A need has arisen for starting of medical shops under Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Kendra scheme at towns that are easily accessible to rural parts, in the interests of senior citizens. The senior citizens have been facing difficulties to travel for long distances to purchase medicines for age related ailments such as hypertension and diabetes, due to the COVID 19 lockdown restrictions. M. Sheik Abdullah, Budalur.    The seriousness with which people followed the basic rules of containing spread of COVID 19 at the beginning is now on the wane. People are no more serious about social distancing, self isolation and other precautions, perhaps, with an illusion that things are normal. This is the time for authorities to enforce the safety protocol in market places, town buses and other commercial places as ‘Prevention is better than cure.’ Vetrivel, Tiruchi.    Thirumanjana Cauvery is not only polluted but also encroached upon. A proper survey of all encroachments made by dwellers on either side of this rivulet must be surveyed and the encroached portions must be retrieved in full measure. It is surprising that no action has been taken on the land-grabbers. The encroachment of Sri Krishna Mandapam near the bridge along the rivulet is a case in point. It is time the Corporation acted firmly to put an end to the anti-social activities. T.M. Ranganathan, Srirangam.     Various types of face masks are available in the market, but only some serve the desired purpose. Use of disposable face masks by the people is understandable, yet there is no information to the public on safe disposal of face masks. Against the backdrop of a spike in COVID 19 positive cases, all measures to curb the pandemic must be taken. S. Raghavan, Cantonment.   Bus passengers waiting near the over bridge roundabout in Thiruvarur suffer in the absence of a shelter. The discomfiture is excessive during the summer season. The travelling public expect the municipal authorities to respond promptly on this issue. V. Dharmadoss, Tiruvarur.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||40% of COVID-19 victims did not report co-morbidities||As of June 25, about 40% of the 78 patients in the city who died of COVID-19 are among those who did not report any co-morbid conditions. However, in its analysis of the war room data, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) noted that this also includes patients who may have had co-morbidities that were not recorded at the time of hospitalisation or patients who were unaware of underlying conditions. “Either they did not tell the staff or it was missed. It may also include people who did not know that they have hypertension, diabetes or heart disease,” said Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, BBMP War Room special officer. She also pointed out that some of the patients in this category could also include those who were infected with a very high dose of the virus. A further analysis of the fatalities shows that 85% of the total deaths took place after June 1 when Unlock 1.0 was initiated and restrictions were eased considerably. As many as 66 patients died between June 1 to 25. Prior to this, ever since the first case was reported in March to May 31, only 12 deaths were reported. However, although there has been an increase in the number of deaths since lockdown, the data shows that the number of deaths in Bengaluru is far lower than major metropolitan cities such as Mumbai, New Delhi, Chennai, and Kolkata. As of June 28, the total number of COVID-19 deaths in Bengaluru was 89. A doctor in a State-run hospital in the city who is on COVID-19 duty pointed out that this data should urge people to immediately call the Apthamitra helpline and get a test done if they experience slightest of symptoms. “ If patients are brought to the hospital quickly, we will have adequate time to treat them. When people come in the last stages, it is difficult to help them beat the disease.” An analysis of the data by age reveals that 50% of the patients who succumbed to COVID-19 were above 60 years. In keeping with international data trends, the mortality rate is higher among men: 60% of those who died were men. “In around 99% of the cases, the people died within 14 days after being tested positive. Only one COVID-19 patient succumbed after 28 days,” said a BBMP official.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State government now allows online classes||After a blanket ban on any form of online classes [live or pre-recorded], the State government has come out with an order stating that educational institutions can conduct online classes. However, it will be followed only until an expert committee submits its report. The order, which came on Saturday, comes with some riders. It states that online classes [synchronous] can be conducted for 30 to 45 minutes not exceeding two periods per day. Classes must be conducted on alternate days [only three days in a week]. Interestingly, the order allows educational institutions to conduct 30-minute online classes for LKG and UKG kids under parental supervision. It also states that students studying in classes 6 to 8 can have 30 to 45 minutes online classes [two periods] not exceeding five days a week. For students of classes 9 to 10, the limit is set to 30 to 45 minutes of classes, not exceeding four periods per day. Online classes can be conducted five days a week for them. This is an interim arrangement and will be in force till the government comes out with guidelines based on the report of the expert committee. The committee has already conducted two meetings on the issue. The educational institutions have also been directed not to charge an extra fee for providing online education. Mansoor Ali Khan, general secretary of the Management of Independent CBSE Schools in Karnataka, said, “Earlier, the State government had banned online education till class 5. Now, they have come up with some temporary arrangements. This will lead to a lot of confusion among parents. The State government should have come up with a comprehensive order based on the final report of the expert committee report”. Nagasimha G. Rao, director of the Child Right Trust, said, “The order does not serve any purpose. The State government should come out with policy which will address various issues. There is a huge digital divide among students studying in rural and urban areas. Poor families cannot afford smartphones and internet packages. The government has not addressed these issues.”  Fact sheet  Pre-primary classes: For under 30 minutes, once a week, under parental supervision Classes 1 to 5: In 30-45 minute slots, maximum two per day, not more than thrice a week, on alternate days Classes 6 to 8: In 30-45 minute slots, maximum two per day, not more than five times a week  Classes 9 to 10: In 30-45 minute slots, maximum four per day, not more than five times a week
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP on its toes as cases go up to 783 in one day||Over the past week, the number of COVID-19 cases reported from the city has touched triple digits. On June 28, Bengaluru reported a new high of 783 cases, a jump of 187 in one day. On June 27, 596 positive cases were reported. With a majority of cases being reported in South zone, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar admitted that these areas were worst affected and that there appears to be community spread of the pandemic. The BBMP has been analysing the numbers and revising strategies to check the spread. Hephsiba R. Korlapati, in charge of BBMP War Room, said: “The opening up of economic activities has led to an increase in mobility and interactions. The spike in cases is a reflection of this. Over the past few months, there has been no defined pattern. We have seen multiple plateaus that are not uniform across the city. We are expecting small plateaus of dispersed growth in the coming days.” The BBMP has also increased testing. According to Mr. Anil Kumar, testing has doubled to 4,500 a day. This increase in testing has also contributed to the rise in positivity rate. Ms. Korlapati added: “At the end of May, the positivity rate was at an average 1.2%. Over the past week, the same has reached 2.8% to 3%.” With strategies being evolved on a weekly basis to tackle the spread, she said standard operating procedures (SOPs) for identification and shifting of patients in ambulances had already been put in place. “We are also developing an index application for all activity points. That apart, a bed allocation mechanism that will have real-time updation is also being developed,” she said. Hospital bed capacity The hospital bed capacity is being increased, with the setting up and identification of Dedicated COVID Hospitals, Dedicated COVID Health Centres and COVID Care Centres. “With unlocking of economic activities, cases are bound to increase. Where we stand apart from other cities is in the formation of a special taskforce, ramping up testing and bed capacity and constantly evolving strategies based on the situation on ground,” she added. Mr. Anil Kumar warned that unless people follow the rules, cases will increase.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Emphasis on wearing of masks, social distancing||Despite the rising number of COVID-19 cases, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials and the police have observed that not all are following the rules. Strict enforcement of the triad of precautionary measures — use of masks and sanitisers and following social distancing — in public spaces has become a priority. “There seems to be a complacency that has set in among shopkeepers and the public about the precautionary measures to be followed to check the spread of the virus. We cannot afford to slip at this moment. We have started a strict enforcement drive,” said R. Ashok, nodal Minister for COVID-19 affairs, Bengaluru. Limited customers  He added that supermarkets and other shops should allow only a limited number of customers into the premises at a time. “Social distancing is key and we shall enforce it,” he added. At the same time, Mr. Ashok urged citizens not to panic or spread rumours. “While there is no need for the panic that electronic media is fanning, resulting in stress and fear psychosis in the society, we also cannot become complacent. There will be no lockdown. We need to adapt to the new normal, take necessary precautions and be safe,” he said. The city police carried out a special drive across the city on Saturday and booked nearly 2,000 cases, for violation of the triad of precautionary measures. “Shops, malls, banks, hotels, offices, and establishments — all of you are already aware of precautions to be taken, If you do not implement mask wearing and ensure safe distance, the city police will initiate legal action. This has already started,” tweeted Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao. N. Shashikumar, DCP (North), while booking cases and shutting down shops that were violating precautionary measures, also distributed roses to shopkeepers who were diligently following them. Over Rs. 5 lakh in fine BBMP marshals, too, have been levying fine on offenders. To date, the civic body has registered 2,511 cases and collected a little over Rs. 5.02 lakh from people not wearing masks or following social distancing rules. However, the bulk of cases are related to not wearing masks. In some zones such as Mahadevapura, Yelahanka and Dasarahalli, not a single case has been filed against people for violating social distancing norms. ( See box ) Mr. Rao has called upon the people to enforce wearing masks and social distancing in public spaces. “It is like smoking. You can be affected if the other person is smoking near you. Likewise, you can be affected if the person next to you is not wearing a mask or not maintaining social distance. It is everyone’s business,” he said speaking to The Hindu . He urged citizens to enforce mask wearing and social distancing. “If people argue call 100, we are ready to respond to your calls,” he tweeted on Sunday morning. While the police are presently only warning people for violations, he said “criminal cases will follow”.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. working on mechanism to tag those in home quarantine||In light of a large number of people in quarantine violating the rules with impunity and putting the community at risk of contracting COVID-19, the State government is working on tagging those in home quarantine. “We are creating a new app, which can also become a model for the country, in which persons under home quarantine will be tagged. Officials will know the movement of these people and will be alerted if the tag is cut or tampered with,” Revenue Minister R. Ashok, who is also in charge of handling COVID-19 for Bengaluru, told presspersons on Sunday. The tag will be tied around the person’s wrist and the app to monitor it is being developed and will be available to be implemented in a few days, he said. “There have been large-scale violations by those in home quarantine. Such people left their phones at home when they stepped outside. There have been cases of those in institutional quarantine going out by scaling compound walls,” he added. Lung condition The Revenue Minister also said the State government was in talks with a company to provide technology to understand the condition of the lungs better and give results in about two minutes. “The lungs are scanned quickly and those with over 80% lung congestion can be sent for further COVID-19 testing. It has been done on an experimental basis in Yelahanka. A demonstration was given to the Chief Minister on Saturday, and now it has been referred to an expert committee. This can be fitted into any X-ray machine and is claimed to have had a 95% accuracy,” he said. Mr. Ashok also said that 2,000 to 3,000 beds were being mapped and a chart was being prepared. “Each bed in a particular hospital will be given a permanent number. We do not know when COVID-19 will go away. But as long as it is there, the beds will also have a permanent number. A nodal officer will be appointed in the next two or three days and the BBMP Joint Commissioners will have information on their fingertips about the availability of beds. They will have powers to allocate patients to the beds available,” he said. ‘Immunity booster’ Stating that an alternative system of medicine has been implemented in other States, especially in Kerala, in their fight against COVID-19, the Minister said that an “immunity booster” would be distributed to the public in Bengaluru. He said that a demonstration on this was given by a team of doctors from a hospital in Basavangudi to the Chief Minister on Saturday.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fuel price hike will push up cost of essentials||The price of both diesel and petrol have been increasing almost every day in June. While that of diesel has shot up by 13.72%, petrol has increased by 11.37% since June 1 in Bengaluru. This is expected to have an impact on the prices of several commodities, especially foodgrains and other perishables, as the freight rates are only expected to rise. The Congress is planning to stage a protest on June 29 opposing the hike in fuel prices. G.R. Shanmugappa, president, Federation of Karnataka Lorry Owners and Agents Association, said the freight business had already taken a severe hit with the lockdown and COVID-19. The fuel price hike is only adding to the losses. “We will be left with no other option but to hike freight rates. The hike in diesel prices is unprecedented, by over 13%, which we cannot absorb. If we hike our rates, it will lead to inflation in the economy. The only way to avoid it is for the Union and State governments to reduce taxes and give a toll holiday for the next six months,” he said. He predicted that unless the government intervenes, prices are expected to go further north. Traders are already bracing themselves for a Domino effect, which will be reflected in the prices of most essential commodities in the coming weeks. “The fuel price hike is substantial. We expect a revision of freight rates in the coming week. The price of most foodgrain and other perishables will shoot up,” said Ramesh Chandra Lahoti, chairman, APMC Committee, Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The prices of vegetables are also expected to rise as many farmers are bearing the burden of bringing their produce to the city. “With K.R. Market sealed, the vegetable market has been shifted to near Electronics City, which is adding to the transport cost. We expect the prices to shoot up over the next few days,” said a procurement official of a leading retail chain.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five more care centres notified||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has notified five more COVID-19 care centres in the city where asymptotic patients and those with mild symptoms can be monitored. This brings the total number of centres to seven. The five new facilities will have 1,600 beds in total and each will have a dedicated medical team, essential facilities, including ambulances, and adequate security. The existing two centres — one at Haj Bhavan and the other at Sri Sri Ravishankar Ashram — have around 400 beds each. A centre is currency being readied at the indoor stadium in Koramangala. According to a civic official, many beds at the existing two centres are occupied. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said that bigger spaces like Palace Grounds, Bangalore International Exhibition Centre on Tumakuru Road, Karnataka trade Promotion Organisation in Whitefield, Kanteerava Indoor Stadium, and a venue in Bommanahalli have also been short-listed and will be converted as and when demand arises. Another senior BBMP official said that they are also looking at hostels of engineering colleges. “Inspection of hostels in a few colleges has already been done,” said the official.  University of Agricultural Sciences, GKVK, hostel - 600 beds College of Horticulture, GKVK, hostel - 400 beds Government Ayurvedic Medical College - 200 beds Hotel City Centaur International near Majestic - 200 beds The Chancery Pavilion, Residency Road - 200 beds
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mandya farmer receives praise from PM||Octogenarian farmer Kame Gowda from Dasanadoddi village in Mandya district found his name referred to by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Mann Ki Baat programme on Sunday. Mr. Gowda, who has dug 16 ponds over the past few decades, also spoke to Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Sunday. The humble shepherd has dug ponds with his savings and converted a barren hillock in Dasanadoddi village of Malavalli taluk into a bed of lakes. On Sunday, Mr. Modi referred to him as one of the “water warriors” in the country. Terming Mr. Gowda an “ordinary farmer with an extraordinary personality”, Mr. Modi said he had achieved a feat that would leave anyone awestruck. “Mr. Kame Gowda, aged 80 to 85 years, takes out his animals for grazing, but at the same time he has taken it upon himself to build new ponds in his area. He wants to overcome the problem of water scarcity in his area and is engaged in work on constructing small ponds. Today, the entire area has got a new lease of life on account of these ponds,” the Prime Minister said.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gymnasium owner hacked to death||A gym owner was waylaid in the compound of his house by eight to 10 assailants who hacked him to death on Saturday night. The deceased Subramani, 30, owned a gym in Chandra Layout and was residing in ITI Layout nearby. On Saturday, around 9.30 p.m., as he got down from the car to open the gate of his house, the gang armed with lethal weapons attacked him. According to the police, he ran into the house and climbed the stairs to the first floor, but the attackers gave chase and cornered him. The Annapoorneshwari Nagar police, who have registered a case, are analysing CCTV footage from around the area to identify the assailants.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ASI collapses and dies; tests positive for COVID-19||A 57-year-old assistant sub-inspector attached with Whitefield Police Station who died at his residence on Friday had contracted COVID-19, that went undetected. The ASI, being over 55 years old, had started working from home from June 10. His family members found him unconscious in the bathroom Friday night and immediately rushed him to a private hospital, but he was declared brought dead, M.N. Anucheth, DCP (Whitefield) said. Swabs test positive Swabs taken from his body were tested for COVID-19 and reports have now confirmed that he had contracted the infection. The ASI is survived by his wife and daughter. “All three family members recently had a bout of fever. The ASI had not reported this to the department. But he had taken medication and the fever had abated. Now his family is also being tested for COVID-19,” a senior police official said. Meanwhile, with the number of police personnel contracting COVID-19 steadily rising, the city police are sending more police to work from home. Till date, all personnel above 55 years were asked to work from home, but from Saturday personnel above 45 years of age with co-morbidities will be asked to work from home.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Curfew on 4 Sundays||The Sunday curfew, announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday, will be effective for four Sundays from July 5 to August 2. On these days, only essential services will be allowed. The order was issued by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar on Sunday. Apart from the lockdown on Sundays, night curfew will be imposed from 8 p.m. to 5 a.m. Earlier, night curfew was in place between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. The order also stated that all govern-ment offices, including boards and corporations, will be closed on all Saturdays from July 10 to August 8. However, government offices offering essential services will be open.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Farmers’ groups meet Chief Minister||The government’s lack of response over the fears expressed on the misuse of farm land after the amendment to the Land Reforms Act, 1962, is a cause for concern, a delegation of farmers’ groups has told Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Fears have been expressed that the amendment will help industries and the real estate sector, and that the government has not taken any stand in favour of farmers, representatives of Bharatiya Kisan Sangha, Swadesi Jagaran Manch, and Krishi Prayog Parivar told the Chief Minister during a meeting with him. A press release stated that it was difficult to understand why the government headed by Mr. Yediyurappa, who had fought for the rights of farmers and farm labourers throughout his life, had taken a decision to amend the Land Reforms Act without taking farmers into confidence. The delegation said a committee of subject matter experts should be constituted and its opinion sought on the matter before deciding on the amendment.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: State govt. hasn’t been transparent, charges Siddaramaiah||Demanding a White Paper on the measures and expenditure incurred in fight against COVID-19 under various heads, the Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Sunday said that the State government has not been transparent, resulting in suspicion and insecurity among people of the State. Warning of resorting to protests if the State government continued to “behave irresponsibly”, he urged the Chief Minister to release a white paper on the expenditure and instil confidence among the people of the State. There are allegations, he pointed out, that there have been irregularities in purchase of medical equipments worth over Rs. 3,300 crore, and that Finance Department has flagged the issue. Accusing the Departments of not providing adequate information on these, he said, “Despite writing several letters seeking details about these, departments have not provided response adequately. Not only denying information to me is violation of privileges, but also raises suspicion about the functioning of the government. I demand that all these details be placed before the people.” The former Chief Minister said that over the last three months, the State Government spent time in imposing and withdrawing the lockdown guidelines, and that the COVID-19 positive numbers have gone up from 26 before the lockdown to 11,923 now. “What was restricted to district centres and Bengaluru is now spread to villages. The State government did not make any preparations and has wasted three months time irresponsibly. People are losing faith in the government and are anxious,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. “If about 9,200 ventilators are needed, only 1,500 are available. Centre has sent just 90 ventilators against the request of 33,000 ventilators. The requirement for oxygenated ventilators is 20,000 and availability is 7,000,” he said.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Private hospitals cannot deny or refuse treatment’||Private medical establishments in the State cannot deny or refuse treatment to COVID-19 patients or those with related symptoms. Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar issued an official order in this regard on Sunday. According to the order, such refusals will amount to violating Section 11 of the Karnataka Private Medical Establishment Act, 2017, which mandates that every private medical establishment should actively participate in the implementation of all national and State health programmes. “Private medical establishments shall actively participate in the implementation of all national and State health programmes in such manner as the State government may notify,” the order stated. The Chief Secretary said it is also the statutory duty of all private medical facilities to prevent the spread of communicable diseases and adhere to the Patient’s Charter.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New task forces||Two task forces have been formed to monitor the treatment and availability of beds of COVID-19 positive cases in private hospitals. One task force headed by T.K. Anil Kumar, Secretary of Department of Medical Education, will coordinate with private medical teaching hospitals with regard to setting up of treatment centres and organising adequate number of medical and paramedical staff. The other task force headed by M. Jayaram, chairperson of BWSSB, will coordinate with private hospitals and ensure that beds are available.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man killed||A man was stabbed to death in Byatarayanapura on Saturday night. The deceased Ramesh Kumar Khatri, 40, hailed from Rajasthan and worked at a readymade garments shop before losing his job during lockdown. According to the police, he had started working at a hardware store in Chickpet. He was was walking home after work when four assailants stabbed him in the chest before fleeing. The police said his mobile phone and wallet were in his pocket suggesting it was not murder for gain.
29 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Norms changed||The State government has changed quarantine rules again making 14 days home quarantine compulsory for all returnees except those coming from Maharashtra. Earlier, the State had imposed 3-day institutional quarantine followed by 11 days home quarantine for those coming from Delhi and Tamil Nadu. For those coming from Maharashtra, the 7-day institutional quarantine rule followed by 7-day home quarantine stays, stated that an order by N. Manjunath Prasad, Principal Secretary, Revenue Department (Disaster Management).
29 June 2020||Bengaluru/Hassan/Bagalkot,KARNATAKA||SSLC students can write remaining papers even if peers test positive||In a relief for Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) students who are writing their examination amid the COVID-19 pandemic, Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has decided to allow them to write the remaining exams even if their peers at the exam centre or same classroom test positive. This is provided all the precautions and safety protocols are followed. This comes after a student in Hassan district, two in Bagalkot, and one in Gadag tested positive after the exam started on Thursday. There was confusion among officials, parents, students, and the general public regarding the quarantine norms in such cases for the other students who sat in the same classroom or centre. According to a circular issued by the KSEEB, the decision follows the opinion of an expert committee of the Health and Family Welfare Department. The committee has said, “Since the SOP (thermal screening, physical distancing of over one metre, use of face mask, sanitiser use, etc.) is strictly followed at the examination centre, the other students in the hall cannot be considered contacts.” Henceforth, if such cases occur, the room will be closed and disinfected using 1% sodium hypochlorite solution, and will be used the next day. “In such rooms, there will be a gap of at least six feet between the two desks and all the students shall be provided with N-95 masks,” the circular read. The circular also stated, “In March 2020, there is a precedence of a PU student (close contact, exposed to COVID-19 case at home, father) being permitted to write the examination at a health centre, and she remained healthy even thereafter.” Meanwhile, all 18 students who wrote the SSLC exam along with a COVID-19 positive student at Mallipatna in Arkalgud taluk of Hassan district on Saturday have tested negative. The invigilator in that classroom also has tested negative, but has been relieved from examination duty. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar said the expert committee had advised to test students for COVID-19 only if they develop symptoms during the examination. However, all 18 students were subjected to the test to rule out asymptomatic cases. Admitted At Kaladagi in Bagalkot, two SSLC students who tested positive for COVID-19 were not allowed to appear for the maths paper on Saturday. They have now been admitted to the designated hospital for treatment. The two students were among the nine from a containment zone who appeared for the English paper on Thursday. “As a precautionary measure, separate arrangements for students appearing for the exam from containment zones were made. That apart, their nose and throat swabs were taken for testing. While seven students tested negative, two tested positive,” Shreeshail Biradar, Deputy Director of Public Instruction, Bagalkot, told The Hindu . “While the two students were not allowed to sit for the exam, the other seven were allowed to do so with all precautionary measures in place.” The teacher who served as invigilator for the English exam has been home quarantined as a precaution.
29 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Construction near Halebid sites stopped||The Belur taluk administration, on Saturday, stopped the construction of two private buildings close to archaeological sites at Halebid and seized the construction material. N.V. Natesh, tahsildar, S. Siddarameshwara, circle inspector, and other officers visited the spot and seized cement bags and other material, stopping the construction. Maddure Gowda and Malleshappa, residents of Halebid, had begun the construction and the taluk administration issued them notices.  The Hindu had carried a report on June 15 on illegal constructions coming up near Jain temples at Bastihalli in Halebid. Based on the report, the tahsildar visited the area on June 16 and submitted a report to the Deputy Commissioner the next day. In his report, the tahsildar said that three residents had taken up construction within the restricted area of the archaeological monuments. The officer had ordered to stop the construction. It was noticed during the spot inspection on Saturday that two persons continued with the construction.
29 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 positive woman dies in hospital||A 65-year-old COVID-19 woman died in hospital here on Sunday. The woman, a native of Hassan, had returned from Maharashtra on June 17. She was admitted to hospital the next day as her sample tested positive for the infection. With this, two patients have died of COVID-19 in the district. Meanwhile, 31 people, including five municipal workers and three hair-cutters, tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of such cases to 360. Among them, 120 have been discharged. There are 238 active cases.
29 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 care centres in Ayurveda colleges||With Dharwad district registering an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, the district administration has taken steps to designate Ayurveda hospitals in Hubballi as COVID-19 care centres. On Sunday, Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar visited the Sanjivini Ayurveda Hospital and Heggeri Ayurveda College where COVID-19 care centres have been set up. Giving details about the arrangements, Dharwad Deputy Commissioner Deepa M. said that asymptomatic COVID-19 patients would be taken care at these COVID-19 care centres. The designated COVID-19 hospital in Dharwad district, the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi, has a 250-bed facility for coronavirus patients and 35 ventilators were available at the hospital. Ms. Deepa said that patients with severe symptoms of the pandemic and other health issues would be treated at KIMS. The Minister was accompanied by Chief Minister’s Legal Advisor Mohan Limbikai, MLA Arvind Bellad, HDUDA Chairman Nagesh Kalburgi, District Health Officer Yashwanth Madeenkar and others.
29 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Compensate farmers for poor quality seeds’||Minister for Agriculture B.C. Patil has said that punitive action would be taken against seed companies if they fail to provide compensation to farmers for supplying poor quality seeds. Speaking to presspersons here on Sunday after holding a review meeting with officials, the Minister said that he had directed the officials to ensure that irrespective of the seed company involved, compensation should be provided to farmers, if they had incurred loss due to poor quality seeds that had failed to germinate. Admitting that there were problems with regard to soyabean seeds in Dharwad district, he said that steps would be taken to ensure that farmers were compensated. He, however, said the district had required stock of fertilizers. Defending the “Sunday Lockdown” decision as a necessary one, Mr. Patil said that he was, however, against a complete lockdown in the present scenario. This depended a lot on the people’s cooperation. Mr. Patil said that while the State government was taking steps which it considered as good for the public, citizens should behave responsibly and follow the guidelines issued by the government. The Minister defended the rates fixed for private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment and said that during this period of crisis, private hospitals should cooperate with the government in the fight against coronavirus. “However, if they don’t cooperate, then the government will be forced to take punitive steps,” he said. Earlier, during the meeting, the Minister sought details on sowing and allied activities, availability of seeds and fertilizers from the officials.
29 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Widespread rainfall in Kalaburagi district||Several parts of Kalaburagi district received moderate to heavy rainfall with Kalaburagi city recording the maximum of 52 mm during the 24 hour period ended at 8.30 a.m. on Sunday. As heavy rain lashed the district, almost all major towns and villages,including Narona in Aland taluk (51 mm), Andola in Jewargi taluk (49 mm) and Shahabad town (48 mm), received the highest quantum of rainfall in the early hours of Sunday. The district recorded 20 mm rainfall against a normal of 4 mm. Shahabad taluk recorded 48 mm rainfall against a normal of 3 mm, followed by 36 mm in Kalaburagi taluk, 35 mm rainfall in Kamalapur taluk and 29 mm of rainfall in Jewargi taluk. Afzalpur taluk received the lowest rainfall of 5 mm against a normal 4 mm rainfall on Sunday.
29 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Dakshina Kannada credit plan pegged at Rs. 18,000 crore||Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel has released the District Credit Plan for 2020-21 with a credit outlay of Rs. 18,000 crore that included priority sector lending of Rs. 13,399 crore. Among the priority sector, agriculture was given a target of Rs. 7,498 crore, MSMEs Rs. 3,716 crore, Housing Rs. 1,300 crore and education Rs. 154 crore. These targets were allotted to all nationalised banks, commercial banks, cooperative banks and the regional rural bank in Dakshina Kannada based on their performance and potential. Though the total banking business the previous financial year stood at Rs. 77,049.96 crore with a growth of 4.17 %, the priority sector lending (Rs. 28,209.88 crore) during the period showed a negative growth of 1.28% year-on-year. Deposits stood at Rs. 48,840 crore as on March 31, 2020, indicating a growth of 7.61 % year on year. Credit to deposit ratio stood at 57.76 %, a decrease of 5.2 % from the corresponding credit to deposit ratio of 62.96 % as on March 31, 2019. However, achievements under agriculture, education and housing by banks in the district were above the State-level achievements. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer R. Selvamani, Canara Bank General Manager Yogish Acharya, NABARD Deputy Regional Manager S. Ramesh, District Lead Bank Manager M.P. Praveen and others were present.
29 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Wenlock to offer in-patient service soon||Dakshina Kannada district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary has said that the administration will facilitate in-patient treatment at the District Government Wenlock Hospital soon. Presiding over the COVID-19 management meeting here, Mr. Poojari said that out-patient as well as in-patient services in the hospital were stopped as it was declared a designated COVID-19 hospital. Patients were being directed to private medical college hospitals for treatment at government expenditure. Since there was much demand for treatment at the Wenlock Hospital itself, the out-patient facility was opened and over 250 people are getting medical services every day. Steps are being taken to facilitate in-patient treatment for at least 100 people, Mr. Poojari said. The Minister said that the district has four private and one government laboratories providing COVID-19 tests. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said that COVID-19 positive patients could directly get treatment from identified private hospitals at their own expense. Those getting treatment under Ayushman Bharat scheme too could get treatment at private hospitals through recommendation from the Health Department. District Health Officer Ramachandra Bairy said that private medical college hospitals in the district have come forward to treat COVID-19 positive patients and soon, over 800 beds would be available in those hospitals. Also, a few other private hospitals have offered to provide treatment. MLAs Umanath Kotian and Y. Bharath Shetty were present.  Booked for violation The authorities concerned have booked cases against 54 persons for violating the quarantine procedure in the district. A release said that FIRs were filed against violators as they were found roaming around. While 10 cases pertained to Puttur taluk, the rest belonged to Mangaluru taluk. Quarantine rules were being strictly enforced in the district and officials were involved in the exercise.
29 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Public entry to corporation office banned||Entry of public to Mangaluru City Corporation office has been banned for a week from June 29, according to Mayor Diwakar. He said in a statement here on Sunday that it is to ensure social distancing in view of the increasing COVID-19 positive cases in the district. Meanwhile, the district reported 97 new positive cases on Sunday which is the highest single-day spike.
29 June 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||South-west monsoon remains moderate to weak in parts of south Karnataka||The south-west monsoon has remained moderate to weak in parts of south Karnataka and Malnad, including Kodagu district which is the catchment area for the Cauvery. Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Shivamogga districts have received 32% less rain than the long-term average for the region. As against a normal of 310 mm for the period June 1 to 27, the region has received a cumulative rainfall of 210 mm, according to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). Though the advent has been timely and the monsoon has covered the State, it has still not been vigorous in certain parts and there have been periods of weak activity. In Kodagu, the monsoon activity has been marked by a period of light drizzle, followed by moderate rain. The pattern is uniform across the district which has received 294 mm, for June 1 to 27, against the normal of 453 mm [35% deficit]. Similarly, the shortfall is 29% in Shivamogga, 32% in Hassan, and 36% in Chikkamagaluru. The scenario is no different in Mysuru which has received 54 mm as against the normal of 85 mm for June 1 to 27 [36% deficit]. However, Mysuru city and parts of the district received heavy rain on Sunday evening. Not withstanding the rain deficit in the catchment area of the Cauvery and its tributaries, the water level at the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS), the Hemavati and the Harangi reservoirs, in the Cauvery basin, is higher than the 10-year average calculated for the period June 18 to 24. It is only lower in case of the Kabini reservoir, but this year’s water level at Kabini is more than what it was during the corresponding period last year, according to KSNDMC. The higher water level at the KRS is also owing to the surplus which was the result of the floods that hit Kodagu in 2018 and 2019. The rain during the last four weeks further increased the water level. According to KSNDMC, the water level at the KRS was around 96.52 ft., against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 124.8 ft. On the same day last year, it was 79.72 ft. The live storage in the reservoir as on Saturday was 15.8 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft). Hemavathi has 9.75 tmcft, Kabini 4.16 tmcft, and Harangi 3.48 tmcft, respectively. The cumulative live storage across the four dams was 33.19 tmcft as on Saturday.
29 June 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain leaves a trail of devastation||Heavy rain between 11.30 p.m. on Saturday and 5 a.m. on Sunday that lashed Shahapur city and most of parts of Yadgir district has left a trail of devastation. Low-lying areas, most bridges and culverts in rural areas and also in the city have been inundated by rainwater. Electricity poles and trees have been uprooted and a few houses have partially collapsed, while several houses are surrounded by rainwater. The officials concerned are yet to come out information on damage caused by rain. Rain accompanied by thunder lashed Shahapur city and the Bidar-Srirangapatna National Highway 150(A) was blocked between Shahapur and Bhimarayanagudi for more than an hour. Basaveshwar Nagar, Bapugouda Nagar and the degree college area were the worst affected and the newly constructed Town Hall and Basaveshwar Circle were surrounded by three-four feet of rainwater. The bridge on the stretch from the old Bus Stand to the court was inundated and people were unable to use the road from either side, till water receded on Sunday morning. Shops on both sides of the road from Mochigadda to Basaveshwar Circle suffered damage after water from a storm-water drain gushed into them. Streams that receive water from the ancient Mavinakere and Nagarakere are overflowing. “A clogged drainage system has been causing damage whenever it rains. But, none from the City Municipal Council has taken steps to correct it,” an angry shop owner, who was throwing rainwater out, said. Agricultural fields were affected and farmers are now facing a threat of loss again. Joint Director of Agriculture Department R. Devika told The Hindu that the heavy rain has led to an apprehension of crop damage among farmers. However, there will be no damage to buds if fields dry up, she added. According to official sources, Shahapur received the highest of 153 mm rainfall, followed by Bhimarayanagudi 89 mm, Gogi 41 mm, Doranahall 70 mm, Hayyal (B) 30 mm, Wadagera 45 mm and Hattigudu 124 mm.
29 June 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Eight of family rescued from house||A family of eight was rescued from a small house that got surrounded by overflowing water from a stream near Bapugouda Nagar in Shahapur in the early hours of Sunday. Section Officer (in-charge) of GESCOM, Shahapur, Iqbal Lohari, heard alarms raised by the family when he was leading a team to check electrical lines after receiving complaints of power cut in Bapugouda Nagar at around 3.30 a.m. on Sunday owing to heavy rainfall. “I could only hear voices but was not able to trace from where they were coming because of darkness and heavy rain. I finally traced the eight persons stranded in the house which was surrounded by overflowing water from the stream. I immediately brought Fire and Emergency Services personnel to the spot who rescued all the stranded members,” he told The Hindu over phone. All the rescued members are now stationed in a government hostel. Shahapur Tahsildar Jagannath Reddy said that “all the rescued people are hale and healthy. Medical aid and food were provided to them. They will be in the hostel till the water in their area recedes.”
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Sunday special||
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||It is routine for the residents of Tota and Kasba Bengre (two islands across Mangaluru Fishing Harbour) to use the ferry service for coming to the city and returning after work. So, Education Department officials of the district were surprised when they received a call from the office of Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar(in picture)about 27 class 10 students from Kasba Bengre using a boat to get to their exam centre on Thursday. What was unusual about students taking the ferry, they asked. And the officer from the Minister’s office explained, “When the Kerala government can take publicity for providing a boat for a student, we should speak aloud about the service provided for 27 students.” He asked the official to get a photo of the students arriving in the ferry. The district official told the Minister’s office that these 27 students from the government school were among the 1,000-odd class 10 students who had used the ferry service. Buses were arranged from the harbour to take the 27 students to the exam centre and drop them back. The official pointed out that this is a “routine activity”. Yet, the Minister spoke at length about how the 27 students reached the examination centre during his press conference on Thursday.   It was presumed that former Minister and JD(S) MLA G.T. Deve Gowda’s(in picture)sympathies lay with the BJP whenever he displayed camaraderie with leaders of that party and hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. But Mr. Gowda, who swears by political neutrality, also publicly identified himself with Congress leaders, including his bête noire and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, when the BJP government recently announced that it would appoint administrators for the gram panchayats after their terms ended instead of holding polls. More recently, Mr. Gowda sat alongside farmers, protesting against the proposed amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, in Mysuru by holding aloft a Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha placard condemning the State government for the “anti-farmer” changes it was planning to introduce. Running with the hares and hunting with the hounds appears to be a new definition Mr. Gowda is giving to political neutrality.   Minister for Kannada and Culture and Tourism C.T. Ravi(in picture)has become a brand ambassador of sorts for “Swadeshi”. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave a call for “vocal for local” and for building “Aatma Nirbhar Bharat”, the Minister has decided to turn his Facebook page into a platform for the promotion of various desi  products. On June 22 — the first day of his campaign — he posted photos promoting Panduranga Coffee, a local brand of Chikkamagaluru launched in 1938. The Minister has also appealed to the public to send information about local brands of automobile, consumer electronics, and apparel so that he can promote them. He has posted also photos supporting brands such as Mysore Silk and Blue Star. Raghava M. Laiqh A. Khan Sathish G.T.
29 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Ten test positive in Alappuzha||Ten more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Alappuzha on Sunday. Among the patients, seven came from abroad, two from Delhi, and one person contracted the disease through contact. One of the patients, a young man hailing from Punnapra, came from the UAE on June 10. Two persons, a 61-year-old man native of Chunakkara and a young man from Muthukulam, reached the district from Saudi Arabia on June 20. A 47-year-old man from Cheruthana came from Kuwait on June 15. The fifth patient, a young man hailing from Muthukulam, reached the district from Oman on June 24. A 49-year-old man, native of Cheppad, came from Kuwait on June 13. The seventh patient, a young man from Cheriyanad, came from Oman on June 21. A 10-year-old boy and a seven-year-old girl hailing from Chengannur came by a plane from Delhi on June 13. A 55-year-old woman from Chengannur contracted the disease through contact. Her husband, a Gulf returnee, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on June 23. Of the patients, nine have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha. The Chunakkara native was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, after he showed symptoms of the disease on arrival. Containment zones The government has declared ward no. 14 in Chennithala and ward no. 1 in Aroor grama panchayats as containment zones. Meanwhile, five people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 have been tested negative for the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 169. Following a spike in COVID-19 cases in the district in recent days, authorities have decided to initiate measures to tackle the spread of the disease. Officials said that the number of COVID-19 tests would be increased to 400 per day from the present 200. More mobile labs will be set up in two days. District Collector A. Alexander said that two private medical facilities — Elemecs Hospital, Kayamkulam, and Century Hospital, Chengannur, had been taken over for setting up COVID-19 first-line treatment centres.
29 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||1.42 lakh tonnes of puncha paddy procured||The Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) procured 1.42 lakh tonnes of paddy from farmers in Alappuzha in the recently concluded puncha (first) crop season. Officials said there was a dip in harvest in the puncha season compared to the corresponding period last year. In the previous first crop season, the Supplyco had procured 1.93 lakh tonnes of paddy in the district. “In the 2018-19 season, floods had washed out the additional (second) crop in its entirety. However, the following 'puncha' season yielded a bumper crop and the procurement stood at 1.93 lakh tonnes. Although the yield was less this puncha season compared to last year, the overall production (two crops- additional and puncha crops combined) during the 2019-20 season is almost on par with 2018-19. This year, 1.75 lakh tonnes of paddy was procured, including 32, 977 tonnes during the additional crop season,” said an official. Rajeshkumar S., paddy marketing officer, Supplyco, Alappuzha, said Rs. 377.81 crore had so far been disbursed to farmers as procurement price for the puncha season. “We have already disbursed 88% of the total procurement price. The rest of the amount will be given by June 30,” he said. Farmers had undertaken paddy farming in more than 27,500 ha in the district, a major portion of which was in Kuttanad, during the puncha season. The procurement price offered this season was Rs. 26.95 a kg. This includes the minimum support price of 18.15 and the State incentive bonus of Rs. 8.80.
29 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Kin hand over Mahesan’s letter to police||The Mararikulam police on Sunday recorded the statement of Usha Devi, wife of Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam Kanichukulangara union secretary K.K. Mahesan, who was found dead last week. Sources said the family had handed over a letter written by Mahesan to the police in which he noted that he was insulted and attempts were made to frame him in cases related to the Yogam’s controversial microfinance scheme. Mahesan’s family has already demanded a probe into the role of Yogam leaders and others in his death.
29 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Four cases in Idukki||The district recorded four COVID-19 cases on Sunday. A resident of Nedumkandam who reached from Dubai; a Kodikulam resident who came from Saudi Arabia; an Udumbanchola resident who came from Italy; and a child who came with grandparents from Delhi to Nedumkandam were those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Six persons were cured of the infection on Sunday. There are 47 active cases in the district. Forty-two non-resident Indians arrived on Sunday. Of them, 20 are in home quarantine and 22 in paid quarantine centres and in corona care centres.
29 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Generator’s trial run begins at Moolamattom||Trial run has been started on generator number one that was under repair at the Moolamattom Power House of the Idukki hydroelectric project. The process will continue till Wednesday. The repairs were delayed since the representatives of the Chinese company contracted for the work could not travel to the State because of COVID-19 crisis. However, the company’s representatives in the country continued the works with guidance from the parental company. A KSEB official said the trial run was going on from June 25. From July 2, it would start normal functioning. The average power generation at Idukki has been increased to 10 mu. Also, there is no chance of opening the shutters of Idukki reservoir in the current situation. With poor monsoon on the catchment areas, the reservoir has a water level below the new rule curve level as per the Central Water Commission revision. An official level meeting on July 1 would decide if there was a need to further increase the power generation level, the official added. Only the three generators installed at the time of commissioning the project have been upgraded in three years. The upgrade of three more generators are expected to be completed by 2025.
29 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Subsidy to promote coffee cultivation||The Coffee Board has launched a slew of steps to promote coffee cultivation by offering subsidies to coffee farmers in the State. The board would provide subsidies for works such as digging ponds and open wells, installing drip and sprinkler irrigation systems as well as replantation of coffee plants by farmers who possess upto 10 hectares of land during the 2020-21 fiscal, M .Karuthamani, deputy director (extension), Coffee Board, said. Apart from this, the board would also provide subsidies for marketing coffee and organic certification for coffee plantations for small scale farmers, Dr. Karuthamani said. The farmers who wish to avail of the subsidy should submit their applications to the Coffee Board liaison officers in their area prior to starting the works, he said. As the subsidies were provided on the basis of the funds allocated, they would be given on a first-come-first served basis, Dr. Karuthamani said. For more details, farmers may contact the liaison officers in their area, he said.
29 June 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Owners resist move to turn flat complex into treatment centre||The decision of the district administration to occupy an apartment building to convert it into COVID-19 First Line Treatment Centre (CFLTC) faced strong resistance from owners and local residents on Sunday. Following shortage of beds in hospitals and treatment centres, and with more people expected to arrive from abroad and other States, District Collector T.V. Subhash issued an order under Sections 34 and 63 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and relevant provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, to take over the building, Z Plus Apartment, near the Kannur District Hospital. It has 48 apartments. However, when officials arrived, a few owners and local residents resisted the move to take over the building, claiming that the district administration was not proceeding in accordance with rules, and that it had not informed the owners or occupants about the procedure. P. Balamani, a resident, said there was no prior information from the district administration. Officials turned up with the police and started unloading beds and cots, she said. “I had sold my property and just started living here, while there are others who have done interior work and planning to resettle,” she added. It is not certain as to how long the building will be occupied if it is converted into a COVID-19 treatment centre, said Ramachandran, an advocate, who spoke to the officials on behalf of the owners. The situation remained tense as locals also joined the owners to protest against the district administration’s decision.  Meanwhile, District Medical Officer K. Narayan Nayak said there were four designated COVID-19 hospitals in the district. Considering the rising number of cases, four CFLTCs will be opened, and patients will be shifted to the new facilities, once the number of patients in designated hospitals touches 60% capacity, he explained.
29 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Missing tiles, loose slabs on footpaths put walkers at risk||Footpaths along Banerjee Road and M.G. Road have become largely unusable, with slabs over drains either non-existent or badly laid, endangering the lives of pedestrians. The Kochi Corporation, which removed tiles laid by Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) over footpaths and drains along M.G. Road in May, has not restored them. They include tactile tiles laid to guide visually-challenged people. Corporation officials said they had no other option but to deploy excavators to remove the tiles in order to desilt drains, with the result that many broke in the process. It would take a while before the footpaths were restored, they said. But sources at KMRL and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) countered the claim, saying that the footpaths were designed in such a way that manholes located every few metres could be opened and the drains beneath cleaned. “We had also demonstrated to civic officials an easy method using ropes, to lift slabs if need arose. But Corporation personnel chose to mechanically scoop the tiles, leaving debris on the footpath,” they said. They pointed out how the road, footpath and drains beneath the metro corridor was returned to the Public Works Department (which owns Banerjee Road and M.G. Road) in 2017, following the metro’s commissioning on the route. “Our defect-liability period expired in 2019. The onus is now on the PWD to ensure upkeep of the roads and footpaths, while the Corporation must maintain the drains,” they said. The risk posed by open drains and undulated slabs and footpaths extends to other roads too. Most drains, including the ones on Banerjee Road and Civil Line Road (maintained by the PWD), on the Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass maintained by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the GCDA-owned Kaloor-Kadavanthra Road, have no slabs over them, endangering the lives of pedestrians and motorists. Precast drains Corporation’s works standing committee chairman P.M. Harris said officials of Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) were in consultations with the civic agency’s engineers to ensure that precast drains that they laid had proper gradient and did not choke existing drains from side roads. Improper gradient at many other places are being corrected. Pipe culverts at many places on the metro corridor would have to be replaced with concrete ones in the long run to enable pre-monsoon cleaning. A comprehensive study must also be commissioned so that incorrect drains were rectified, he added.
29 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||785 enrol as lawyers via videoconferencing||As many as 785 candidates were enrolled as lawyers through an online function organised by the Bar Council of Kerala (BCK) on Saturday. The council took to the online mode through a videoconferencing portal in view of the restrictions on public gathering that are part of steps to contain the spread of COVID-19. BCK chairman K.P. Jayachandran administered the oath to candidates who joined the function via videoconferencing. Advocate General C.P. Sudhakara Prasad delivered a special address. The enrolled candidates will be issued certificates by post, says a BCK press release.
29 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Containment zone in Broadway area||The area within 100-metre radius of an electrical shop at Market Junction in the Broadway area of the Ernakulam market was classified containment zone after a 20-year-old driver attached to the shop tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. The area is close to the Ernakulam main retail and wholesale market as well as Broadway, falling within Division 67 of the Kochi Corporation. Police personnel are standing guard at the entrance to the street where the shop is located. The road has been blocked even as shop owners even beyond the 100-metre radius downed shutters voluntarily as a precautionary measure on Sunday morning, said Market Stall Owners’ Association member N.H. Shameed. He added that no other area had been affected or cut off from the rest of the Broadway area and the Ernakulam market. Business at the Ernakulam market under Division 67 continued as usual on Sunday. A communication from the district administration said the primary contacts of the 20-year-old from Thrissur district who was tested positive were being prepared. As many as seven persons in his contact have been identified. Samples have been collected from four persons who worked with him and sent for tests.
29 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Uncertainty grips MSMEs: bank CEO||Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the State are facing more than shortage of funds. There is so much disruption on the scene that entrepreneurs are gripped by a sense of uncertainty. Some of the old opportunities may disappear and new ones would emerge, P.S. Rajan, chief executive officer of Kerala State Cooperative Bank (Kerala Bank) said on Sunday. Entrepreneur confidence had been shaken, he said. For example, he said, online marketing and door delivery of goods and services were growing in strength. The old concept of hotels and eateries in this sense was rapidly changing. Priority area He said Kerala Bank too had MSMEs as a priority area lending at a rate at which the bank did not make a loss or profit. It may be recalled that the State government had come out with the ‘Vyavasaya Bhadratha’ scheme to support MSMEs in the wake of the pandemic. Agencies such as Kerala Financial Corporation and Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation too are extending a hand to MSMEs. Mr. Rajan said that at the Central level, programmes such as the Rs. 3-lakh-crore emergency credit line and the grievance redressal platform CHAMPIONS would help. Meanwhile, the Kerala Bank held its first customer meet in Kochi last week.
29 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A yeoman’s service by school counsellors||With SSLC and higher secondary exam results around the corner, the counsellors attached to government schools in Ernakulam have ramped up counselling to assuage the anxieties of students. The district has 65 active school counsellors under the Integrated Child Development Scheme of the Department of Women and Child Development. These counsellors started reaching out to students from the second week of this month with the larger goal of covering all students in government schools by the time the results were announced. “We have set an order of priority in offering telephonic counselling. The initial focus was on intellectually-challenged students and their parents followed by the more anxious students of which we have collated a list at the time they appeared for the exams. The least tensed of the lot are being rang up as last priority,” said Mahitha Vipinachandran, one of the psychosocial school counsellors. The counselling has revealed widespread anxieties about the future of their education among a large section of students who are from poor families and whose parents have been rendered jobless under the economic impact of the pandemic. “Other than that, the frustration of having been restricted to their homes for months has emerged as the most common concern, with the anxiety about exam results per se taking a back seat,” said Ms. Vipinachandran. School counsellors undertake home visits of students found to be in need of extended counselling sessions with the help of ward councillors and Anganawadi teachers. Parents also seek out the service of these counsellors about disturbing behaviour patterns of their wards, thus often broadening the scope of the service beyond the anxieties of exam results. The exam-related counselling was the latest addition to numerous tasks being assigned to the school counsellors since the outbreak of the pandemic. They had already been reaching out to quarantined people under the District Mental Health programme since March. These 65 counsellors collectively make calls in the range of 700-800 a day to the quarantined people over and above the calls to students awaiting results.
29 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam-Angamaly churches to reopen||Churches under the archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly will reopen from July 1, but with stringent conditions. The number of participants, including the celebrant and those serving the mass and the choir, is being restricted to 25. In a more significant change, communion will be served in the hands of devotees with the mandate that the receiver keeps a distance from the one serving the communion. It has been the norm so far to serve the consecrated host on the tongue. Those attending the mass must wear masks, and record their names and addresses in a registry. Participants must keep six-feet distance from each other. Those below 10 and above 65 years have been barred. Metropolitan vicar of the archdiocese Antony Kariyil said in his circular that all prescriptions by the government must be followed.
29 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Naval ship returns after relief mission||Indian Naval Ship INS Kesari arrived in Kochi on Sunday after 55 days of deployment to the southern Indian Ocean region as part of ‘Mission Sagar’. The ship that was deployed on a special COVID-19 Relief Mission made port calls at Male (Maldives), Port Louis (Mauritius), Antsiranana (Madagascar), Moroni (Comoros Islands), and Port Victoria (Seychelles) for delivery of 580 tons of food and essential medical supplies to the local authorities. A 14-member Naval Medical Assistance Team was also deputed to Mauritius and Comoros for 20 days each. India’s role The shipment of essential medicines and the Naval Medical Assistance Team reaffirms India’s role as a preferred security partner in the Indian Ocean Region.
29 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Collector inspects NGO quarters||District Collector S. Suhas, who made a surprise inspection of the quarters of government servants (NGO Quarters) at Kakkanad on Sunday found around 70 quarters lying vacant. The check was conducted following complaints about misuse of government quarters, said a release.
29 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Child’s condition improves||The condition of a two-month-old child who sustained injury to her brain a week ago after her father assaulted her has significantly improved. She was conscious and did not face any seizure after last week’s surgery, said a medical bulletin issued by Kolenchery Medical College on Sunday. phase.  Abhimanyu murder The police team that is probing the murder of Abhimanyu M, a degree student of Maharaja’s College here in 2018, searched the portion of the Vembanad Lake near the Venduruthy overbridge, in a bid to recover the weapon used to stab him to death.
29 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam sees ten COVID-19 cases||Ten persons, including a couple from Thazhava, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. While eight persons are from abroad, other two had travelled from Mangalapuram and Delhi. Among the patients, four came from Muscat, two from Nigeria, and one each from Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. The new cases are from Mangad, Kundara, Thodiyoor, Kunnathur, Thevalakkara, Neendakara, SR Puram, and Perinad. At present, the district has 184 active cases, 217 persons in medical isolation, and 9,584 persons under surveillance. While the district has seen no contact cases, 12 recoveries were reported on Sunday. The 46-year-old Thazhava resident and his 34-year-old wife had arrived from Muscat on June 20 and were in home quarantine. Another person from Muscat who tested positive is a 23-year-old Mangad resident who reached the district on June 19. The third person is a 55-year-old Perinad resident who arrived on June 25. Though his TrueNat test was negative, he later developed symptoms.  RT-PCR test On his way to Kollam, he was taken to Government Medical College, Parippally, for RT-PCR test and he later tested positive. Among those from Nigeria, the 49-year-old Kundara resident who arrived on June 18 was in home quarantine while the 26-year-old Thodiyoor resident was in institutional quarantine. The 40-year-old Thevalakkara resident had travelled from Saudi Arabia on June 14 and the 50-year-old Kunnathur resident had arrived from Kuwait on June 18. While the first was in home quarantine, the other was in institutional quarantine. Those from other States include a 32-year-old Neendakara resident who arrived from Delhi on June 17 and an SR Puram resident who arrived from Mangalapuram on June 19. Both were in home quarantine when they tested positive.  12 recoveries reported on Sunday; 184 active cases and 9,584 under surveillance
29 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Free food kits for elephants, cattle||As many as 37 captive elephants in Kottayam received the free ration kits from the State government. At a function held here on Sunday, Thiruvanchoor Radhakishnan, MLA, inaugurated the project in the district by handing over a food kit to tusker Kiran Ganapathi. The project envisages offering assistance to the elephant keepers who are finding it difficult to feed the pachyderms in the absence of temple festivals. As part of it, each animal was allotted food grain and fodder worth Rs. 400 a day for a period of 40 days. Each kit comprises rice, pulses, green fodder and palm fronds, among other things. Besides pachyderms, cattle feed kits worth Rs. 2,800 have been handed over to 892 livestock owners in Kottayam, who are under home isolation. Made available by the Kerala Feeds Ltd., these were distributed through veterinary hospitals. The project, funded by the Department of Animal Husbandry (DAH), is being implemented in the district at a cost of Rs. 30.89 lakh.
29 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Five more fresh cases in Kottayam||The district on Sunday reported more cases of COVID-19 with five persons, including the relatives of a female patient from Pallikkathodu, being tested positive for the disease. At the same time, six persons who had been undergoing treatment for the disease at various hospitals here were reported to have recovered from the infection. According to officials, the 37-year-old husband of the woman from Pallikkathodu, her two girl children aged three and six, and her 67-year-old mother-in-law have been tested positive for the disease. The woman, an employee at a private hospital in Ponkunnam, and her 70-year-old father-in-law were tested positive last week. Unknown source The officials are yet to confirm the exact source of infection for the family, raising concerns about the possibility of a local transmission. The fifth person to be tested positive during the day was a 26-year-old woman from Karkattoor, who returned from Mumbai on June 19. Earlier, her husband too had been tested positive for the virus. Six persons — a 32-year-old woman from Thrikkodithanam who had returned from New Delhi; a 24-year-old woman from Kuravilangadu who had returned from Hyderabad; a 34-year-old Paippad native who had landed from Qatar; a 10-year-old boy and his six-year-old sister who had landed from Riyadh; and a 34-year-old Changanassery native who landed from Abu Dhabi — were discharged after being tested negative. Of the total 120 active cases in the district, 44 are undergoing treatment at the Pala general hospital while 35 are admitted to the District General Hospital. The Government Medical College has 36 patients while the remaining five persons are at Manjeri and Kochi respectively.
29 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Policemen irked over directive ignoring safety measures||The latest directive of the State Police Chief to intensify vehicle checking to crack down on erring motorists has irked policemen as it allegedly ignores safety measures to be adopted, including maintaining physical distancing, during such drives. They have expressed their concern against the backdrop of rise in COVID-19 cases in the State. The District Police Chief has issued an order reinforcing the need to implement the State Police Chief’s directive. Stringent action It calls for stringent action against helmetless ride and reluctance to wear seat belts and masks. However, nothing has been mentioned about how to register such cases by maintaining physical distance. Many of them have communicated their concerns to their immediate superiors apart from taking to social media to vent their ire. Some of the policemen under Kozhikode North Zone said there was no sufficient number of masks, face shields, gloves and hand sanitisers. Many a time, policemen had to bring them on their own for their safety. “During checking, policemen will be asking questions to motorists and travellers, which is a risky thing now because of COVID-19,” they said. Freak accidents Meanwhile, a senior official attached to the traffic wing said checking was intensified owing to the increasing number of freak accidents. He also said the shortage of masks and other safety materials would be addressed soon.
29 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Medical students oppose exam plans||A section of the medical students have opposed the Kerala University of Health Sciences’ (KUHS) move to hold practical exams for second year undergraduate students in the first and second weeks of July. Members of the students’ union of Government Medical College, Kozhikode, claimed on Sunday that students would have to travel from other States and between districts to reach the exam centres. It would be dangerous for a large number of students to assemble at medical colleges at a time when the number of COVID-19 cases were going up in the State. Security arrangements were minimal at many places. It was unclear how the students would be put up at medical colleges, most of which were functioning as COVID-19 hospitals. Students’ hostels were being used to quarantine health workers too, the union leaders said. They claimed that the students had left behind their books at hostels and retrieving them would be difficult in the current scenario. Silent carriers Pointing out that there could be silent carriers of the virus among the community, the union leaders urged the university to set up strict security measures at medical colleges to avoid transmission. Students and parents were concerned about unidentified patients spreading the infection.
29 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||A notebook full of gratitude to health workers||The children of a primary school in the district have exhilarated thousands of health workers fighting the COVID-19 pandemic in the State with their unique tribute. They brought out notebooks with the covers saluting the work of the health workers. The front and back covers of the notebooks prepared by the students of T.R.K.A. UP School, Vengad, near Valanchery, portrayed the dedication of the State’s health workers in fighting the pandemic. A painting by artist O.C. Martin on schoolchildren giving flowers to health workers has made it to the front cover of the notebook. The back cover has been dedicated to Lini Puthussery, the nurse who became a hero by sacrificing her life during the fight against the Nipah virus. Earlier too “Our school has always been in the forefront of responding to social issues of topical interest,” said school headmaster P.K. Subhash. When the agitation against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) rocked the country a few months ago, the school had responded in a unique way by displaying the children’s commitment to pluralism. The 1,000-odd children of the school celebrated the New Year by writing their names on the school compound wall. They had made their imprints within the letters that read India Ente Rajyamaanu (India is my country). Similarly, when the floods devastated the State, the children made a unique experiment with tiny houses made of paper and cardboards. Conservation message “That experiment could well drive home the message of conserving our nature, especially the land,” said Mr. Subhash. T.A. Ahamed Kabeer, MLA, got the first copy of the notebook at a function held at Moorkkanad grama panchayat office. Panchayat president K. Rajagopalan released the notebook.  A painting showing students giving flowers to health workers and a sketch of sister Lini have made it to the front and back covers.
29 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Tighter measures in Edappal area||The district administration has decided to tighten the lockdown in Edappal and Vattamkulam areas where half a dozen health workers were found to have contracted COVID-19 from their contacts. The positive results in the sentinel surveillance have made the administration to impose tighter measures to check a possible community spread of the virus. Edappal, Vattamkulam, Alankode and Maranchery panchayats were declared containment zones in the district. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said here on Sunday that even when tight measures were being imposed, efforts were also being made to get the test results faster. He said efforts were on to find out all persons who had come in contact with the positive cases in containment zones. Tests would be conducted on those having symptoms. Those without symptoms should go into room quarantine for four weeks. Shops selling essential items will function between 7 a.m. and 1 p.m. in containment zones. Restaurants will be allowed to offer parcel services till 8 p.m.
29 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta has three cases||The district that became the epicentre of the second spell of COVID-19 pandemic in early March reported three more cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection on Sunday, taking the total number of active cases in the district to 171. A 36-year-old man who came home to Kidangannur from Oman on June 25, a 30-year-old woman who came to her native village of Kumbazha from Telengana on June 17, and a 24-year-old woman who came home to Kadapra, near Thiruvalla, on June 17 were the three persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. As many as 184 persons, both patients and those having symptoms of COVID-19, have been admitted to the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district as on Sunday evening. Of this, 69 persons are at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, 10 at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, one person at the General Hospital in Adoor, 65 persons at the Firstline COVID Treatment Centre at Menanthottom Hospital in Ranni, 30 persons at the Firstline COVID Treatment Centre at Archana Hospital in Pandalam, and nine others at various private hospitals in the district. Since March, the district has had a total count of 276 COVID-19 patients including the ones who recovered, according to an official bulletin released here. A total of 104 persons have been cured of the virus infection in the district. The district had witnessed one COVID casualty, so far, the bulletin said. 5,762 quarantined As per the bulletin, 5,762 persons have been placed under quarantine in different parts of the district as on Sunday evening. A total of 2,959 people among them are those who have come from various other States and 2,430 people were those who came from abroad, while 373 others are contacts of the infected persons. As many as 1,344 quarantined people were sent to 136 COVID care centres opened in different parts of the district, the bulletin said. Throat swab samples The bulletin said a total of 257 nasal and throat swab samples sent from the district to the virology laboratory in Alappuzha tested negative for COVID-19 on Sunday. So far, 12,995 throat swab samples sent from the district to the virology laboratory tested negative while 272 samples tested positive for COVID-19 as on Sunday. Test results of 799 throat swab samples are awaited from the virology laboratory, according to the bulletin.  Since March, the district has had a total count of 276 COVID-19 patients, including the ones who recovered
29 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nine positive cases in capital||Nine people, including a 50-year-old woman and an Army officer who came from Jammu and Kashmir, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. The rest seven came from abroad during the last few weeks. The woman who tested positive is the wife of the Puthenpalam native and retired employee of Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre (LPSC) who was diagnosed with the disease a few days ago. She had figured in the primary contact list of her husband and is known to have visited multi-brand shopping complexes in Chakka and East Fort between June 14 and 20. She also underwent treatment at a private hospital near Chakka. Dropped colleague The Army officer is a 32-year-old from Dalumugham who reached New Delhi from Jammu and Kashmir on June 20 and travelled on a flight to Thiruvananthapuram on the same day. Picked up by his brother from the airport, the soldier reached his native place after dropping a colleague who tested positive on Saturday. The others who tested positive include a 43-year-old Kilimanoor native and a 52-year-old Kallambalam native both of whom came from Dammam on June 26 and 20 respectively, a 63-year-old Pallipuram native who returned from Muscat on June 25, a 26-year-old Powdikonam native and 60-year-old Neyyattinkara native who came from Oman on June 25, a 39-year-old Nedumangad native who came from Saudi Arabia via Kochi on June 22, and a 37-year-old Vallakadavu native who also came from Saudi Arabia on June 20. Meanwhile, the City police booked a Nagercoil native for violating home quarantine in Elamkom lane in Kannettumukku under the Museum police station limits. With this, the number of people who are facing legal action in the city for the offence has gone upto 15. Two Kannur natives were also booked by the police for entering the Attukal ward, which has been designated as containment zone, without authorisation. The Fort police have registered a case against themunder the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. 81 charged Eighty one people were charged by the City police for violating lockdown norms. As many as 163 people were also fined for failure to wear masks. The police have also intensified patrolling as part of enforcing night curfew between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m.
29 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||P-Hunt culminates in 47 arrests||A covert cyber-surveillance operation code-named P-Hunt culminated in the arrest of 47 persons across the State on Saturday on the charge of having peddled child sexual abuse material, including photographs and videos. Additional Director General of Police and Nodal Officer, Kerala Police Cyberdome, Manoj Abraham, who headed the operation, said the accused had used social media handles and video and photo sharing applications such as Instagram to share child sexual abuse material furtively. A team led by IG, Crime Branch, S. Sreejith, coordinated the raids, which resulted in the seizure of mobile phones, modems, laptops, hard discs, memory cards, and desktop computers. The officers found vast cache of videos and pictures of minors in various States of undress. The accused ranged from youngsters to senior citizens. The police found a large number of candid snaps of children in swimming pools, on beaches, nurseries, playgrounds, water theme parks, shopping malls, and resort hotels. Investigators said the predators, equipped with mobile phones, had generated some of the images locally and traded them on various platforms. The investigators used software provided by the Interpol to track persons who obsessively uploaded, swapped, and traded child sexual abuse content on instant messaging platforms, restricted chat rooms, and other encrypted platforms and in groups restricted by the membership. The police reportedly used digitally marked prurient images of children for tracking their download and circulation to individual IP addresses. The police relied on forensic software tools to impose digital signatures on child abuse material to track their circulation across the internet and allied communication platforms. The police investigators backed by IT resource persons hunched for weeks in front of computers to infiltrate child porn groups. Deception as tool The investigators used social engineering techniques and deception to gain access to peer-to-peer child porn sharing groups. Some also insinuated themselves into the secret groups by evincing interest in child porn by creating and running fictitious social media identities. Investigators said it was worrying that child sex predators increasingly used data destruction software to shield themselves from the law. State Police Chief Loknath Behera supervised the operation.
29 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||17.5 acres on Killi banks reclaimed||The movement to save the Killi River which successfully cleaned up and revived 22 kms of the shrunken, waste-filled river has marked another success in its latest phase with the reclaiming of 17.5 acres of land on either side of the river, which have been occupied by private parties for decades. The reclamation work led by the Nedumangad block panchayat was carried out over the initial 22-km stretch of the river beginning from Karinchathimoola, the origin of the river in Panavoor panchayat, till Vazhayila bridge. “Once the clean-up activities on the stretch were completed, we started measuring the land on either side of the river nine months ago. Some of these land have been in private hands for the past few decades. Initially, there was some resistance to the whole process, but later most of them agreed as they had seen the positives of the mission, after the river cleanup. All the panchayats managed to get back the surveyed land without any dispute,” says Nedumangad block panchayat president B. Biju. The survey team went to the individual owners, looked at their sketches, measured the land and reclaimed the remaining land, adjacent to the river by laying stones. Most of the reclaiming has been done in the Nedumangad municipality, which reclaimed 10 acres and Karakulam panchayat, which reclaimed 7 acres. Clean-up drive The movement to revive the Killi river began in April 2018, with ‘Killiyar Oruma,’ a mass clean-up drive along the entire 22 km stretch. In addition to the regular sanitation workers and volunteers, the cleanup drive witnessed major participation of the public living on either side of the river banks. Even the 31 canals and over 50 rivulets which flow into the river along this stretch were also cleaned during the drive. The programme was part of the larger Killiyar Mission, which the Haritha Kerala Mission is carrying out with the local bodies in the area. As many as 1,200 waste outlets from houses and institutions on either side of the river were sealed following the cleanup drive, thus reducing the waste outflow into the river considerably. According to Mr.Biju, the Ground Water Department’s tests in February this year have shown a drastic reduction in bacteria content in the water. “Now people have again begun taking bath in the river, since it is now visibly clean, unlike the blackish water some years ago. Now, the block panchayat has submitted an 8.75 crore project for fencing, check-dam and parks on the river banks,” says Mr.Biju.
29 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Authorities mull extension of lockdown restrictions||The district administration is mulling the extension of stringent lockdown restrictions to further parts of the capital city amid widespread concerns over the increasing incidence of COVID-19 with unknown sources of infection. Thiruvananthapuram Mayor K. Sreekumar said that the restrictions that have been imposed in Chala and Palayam markets will be extended to Peroorkada and Kumarichantha markets following complaints of crowding in such places. The identification of primary and secondary contacts of the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) employee who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 remained a tall order, even while the district authorities on Sunday issued a detailed ‘route map’ that traces his movement during the last few weeks. The 41-year-old patient, who hails from Manacaud, used to travel for work from his rented house in Thrikkanapuram. He also used to frequently travel to his house in Manacaud and wife’s house in Killipalam. Prior to developing symptoms on June 15, he is known to have taken part in his neighbour’s house-warmingand visited the SBI’s Kazhakuttom and Thumba branches. Since he began to display symptoms including fatigue and cold, he has had an extensive travel history that included the East Fort branch of an internet service provider, Chala market, Chala branch of Indian Bank, shops in Aryasala, Killipalam, a private school in Vazhuthacaud to purchase his daughter’s textbooks, the Thirumala branch of the KSEB to pay his bill as well as the residence of a KWA employee in Puthenkotta to submit an application and also that of a VSSC junior engineer in the same locality. He has also made frequent visits to a Milma outlet in Poojappura. ‘Careless’ Terming ‘unfortunate and careless’ the lack of restraint shown by the patient since developing symptoms, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran urged the public to utilise online facilities as much as possible to minimise travel. Despite maintaining that there was no cause to impose a total lockdown across the city, the Minster said that the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases with unknown sources of infection posed a complex scenario that is worrisome. The city currently has eight containment zones. The route maps of the retired employee of LPSC who hails from Puthenpalam, near Vallakadavu, and the shop owner in Manacaud have also been released.
29 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. keeps an eye on rise in caseload||The Health Department is keeping a close watch on the steady increase in the number of people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 and requiring hospitalisation. The government has already taken a decision to de-congest medical college hospitals (MCHs), which are the dedicated COVID-19 hospitals in districts, by shifting all mild cases to COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (CFTCs) and keeping only those patients with serious disease at the MCHs. However, the CFTCs have just become operational to accommodate in-patients in many districts. But as the intake of patients steadily increase, the government will have to improve the facilities for round-the-clock care, including deployment of more health-care staff, on a war footing in all these centres. New cases Of the 118 new cases on Sunday, 68 cases were found in persons who had returned from abroad and another 36 in persons who had travelled in from other parts of the country. The new cases reported in districts are as follows: Kannur (26), Thrissur (17), Kollam (10), Alapuzha (10), Thiruvananthapuram (9), Ernakulam (7), Kozhikode (7), Kasaragod (6), Kottayam (5), Malappuram (5), Wayanad (5), Idukki (4), Palakkad (4) and Pathanamthitta (3). The case tally of the State since the outbreak began is now 4,189. The total number of recoveries is 2,150. The State has put over 1.75 lakh people on surveillance and quarantine, of whom, 2,611 persons with mild symptoms have been isolated in hospitals in various districts. The number of samples tested in the past 24 hours is 5,406. The total number of samples tested so far in various categories is 2, 20,821. This is apart from the 45,592 samples tested from amongst priority groups in the population as part of sentinel surveillance study. Thirteen new regions in Kottayam, Malappuram, Alappuzha and Ernakulam districts entered the State’s hotspot list. The total number of hotspots in the State now is 124.
29 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Approval for rehabilitation package for LPSC expansion||The Land Revenue Commissioner has approved a rehabilitation package for the acquisition of land for the expansion of ISRO's Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre (LPSC) at Valiyamala. The Rs. 1.3 crore package submitted by the District Collector will benefit 28 families in Nedumangad taluk who stand to lose their land for the expansion, according to a June 11 decision of the commissioner. As per the order, one member each from the evicted families will also be eligible for employment in work contracts that may arise in the LPSC in future. The LPSC is acquiring, in all, 67.68 acres of land adjacent to its 260.50-acre Valiyamala campus in Karipur village in Nedumangad taluk as part of its expansion plans.  Social impact assessed Rajagiri Outreach, the professional service arm of the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, had assessed the social impact of the proposed acquisition. In March 2019, a seven-member expert panel headed by L. Tarabhai, Prof (Retd.), Department of Sociology, Madurai Kamaraj University, had given the go-ahead for the acquisition of the 67.68 acres pointing out that it is vital to the growth of the ISRO facility and national progress. Responsible for the development of liquid propellants for the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), LPSC evolved from the Liquid Propulsion Project and the Auxiliary Propulsion Systems Unit in the 1980s. The two units merged to form the Liquid Propulsion Systems Unit (LPSU) and, subsequently, expanded to the LPSC.
29 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Move to get more houses to use waste bins||The city Corporation is planning to get more number of households in the city to use the kitchen bins as part of its measures to promote waste treatment at source. Mayor K. Sreekumar, in a press release issued on Sunday, said the Corporation would be providing kitchen bins (costing Rs. 1,600 each) free of cost to those who wish to place it in their houses. The only charge they would have to pay would be the monthly service charge of Rs. 200 for the inoculum and maintenance. The three-layered kitchen bins could be used to treat biodegradable waste of a family of five for an average of two months at a time. The service provider in the respective ward would be providing demonstration for those who wish to install the facility. Those wanting to register could do so through the Smart Trivandrum mobile application or contact the Health Inspector or residents’ association office bearers.
29 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Guidelines for paying migrants’ expenses||The government has come up with detailed guidelines for the payment of expenditure of institutional quarantine and relief expenditure of migrant labourers in the State during COVID-19. The expenditure of institutional quarantine and relief expenditure of migrant labourers will be met from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and PM Cares Fund as per the guidelines issued under Section 18(2) (d) of the Disaster Management Act. The migrant labour relief expenditure incurred by Local Self Governments (LSG) for food, water,  provisions and health care, has to be certified by the Assistant Labour Officer and Secretary of the LSG concerned. In the case of expenditure of migrant labour welfare such as food, accommodation, medical care, water and sanitation, the expenditure incurred should have to be compiled by the Deputy Director, Panchayat/Urban and submitted to the Deputy Collector, Disaster Management. The statement should be submitted within 15 days. The expenses for the migrant relief measures should be met from the SDRF and those for the migrant labour relief from the PM Cares account. Limited to 14 days As financial support for accommodation units, payment for an individual case will be limited to 14 days or the number of days the individual stayed in the facility, whichever is lower.
29 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MLA calls for more tests||V.S. Sivakumar, MLA, has called for stepping up COVID-19 tests in the containment zones in the city. He pointed out that while the State average of the rate of contact transmission stood at 11.2%, the corresponding figure was considerably higher at 14.6% in Thiruvananthapuram. He also demanded round-the-clock testing facilities in the Government MCH and the General Hospital.
29 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||July 1 to be observed as Sufferance Day||Government doctors, under the banner of the Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA), is observing Sufferance Day on July 1, which is the Doctors’ Day, to protest against the failure of the administration to take pro-active steps to boost the morale of government doctors who have been fighting as front-line warriors against COVID-19. The KGMOA leaders said here that doctors would protest by working an additional hour on July 1. One of the demands of the KGMOA is that health workers be spared from the salary challenge.
29 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Briefly/Cash counter to remain shut||The cash counter at the Thirumala section office of the KSEB will remain closed until further notice. The Thrikannapuram resident who tested positive for COVID-19 had visited the section office. The premises had been disinfected on Saturday, a pressnote said.
29 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Kannur witnesses another spike with 26 cases||Kannur continues to witness spike in the number of COVID-19 cases with 26 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. Among the infected, 14 returned from abroad and 11 came from other States. A 59-year-old resident of Elayavoor panchayat contracted the virus through contact. Those who returned from abroad included a 60-year-old Panur resident; a 40-year-old Chengalayi resident; a 56-year-old Pinarayi resident, a 30-year-old resident of Kuthuparamba, a 32-year-old resident of Kottayam (Malabar), a 53-year-old resident of Kathirur, a 50-year-old resident of Kollayad, a 37-year-old resident of Kannur, a 40-year-old from Muzhappilangad, a 37-year-old from Irrity, a 30-year-old from Kollayad, a 36-year-old from Pappinesseri, a one-year-old child from Irrikur and a 37-year-old resident of Kuthuparamba. Those who came from other States included a 48-year-old resident of Kathirur and a 40-year-old lorry driver who is a resident of Mokkeri. The district has so far reported 431 COVID-19 cases, of which 264 got cured of the disease. There are now 20,911 persons under observation. In Thrissur COVID-19 was confirmed for 17 more persons, including a councillor of Chalakudy Municipality, in Thrissur district on Sunday. Of them, 10 persons arrived from abroad while six came from other States. Five persons recovered from the disease on Sunday. The 39-year-old woman councillor is suspected to have contracted the disease from the municipal workers who had tested positive earlier. Currently, 154 persons are under treatment at various hospitals and 210 have been discharged so far. Seven persons from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. In all, 18,875 persons are under observation. In Ernakulam As many as seven persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Sunday. The confirmed cases included those who arrived from Kuwait, Qatar, Chennai, and Mumbai. At the same time, a 28-year-old from Kottayam was discharged after being cured of the infection on Sunday. The person was under treatment at INS Sanjeevani. A total of 1,061 persons in the district have been brought under home observation, and 783 completed their observation period. The total number of people under observation now is 13,651. Of them, 11,895 are in home quarantine. As many as 173 persons are under treatment. Of them, 169 are at the Medical College Hospital at Kalamassery and Adlux Centre at Karukutty near Angamaly. A total of 198 samples have been sent for tests, while 229 results (seven positive) were received on Sunday. Ward No. 8 of Parakkadavu panchayat in the district has been declared a hotspot. In Kasaragod Six more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod district on Sunday. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said while five persons returned from abroad, one person came from Maharashtra. Those who came from abroad include a 38-year-old Uduma resident and a 33-year-old Karaduka resident who arrived from Kuwait on June 12; a 33-year-old Karaduka resident who came from UAE on June 13; a 43-year-old resident of Kanhangad who arrived from Kuwait on June 14; and a 69-year-old Ajanur resident who arrived from UAE on June 16. A 34-year-old Chemmanad resident who arrived from Maharashtra by train on June 12 is the other infected person. With this, the number of COVID-19 cases reported in district rose to 122. Hotels closed down Kasaragod District Collector D. Sajith Babu on Sunday issued an order to close down three hotels for seven days after it came to light that expatriates from Mangaluru, who arrived at the Kannur International Airport, stayed here in violation of rules. Cases have been filed against the hotels based on the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance. District Police Chief Shilpa Dyavaiah said about 150 persons who were heading to Mangaluru were given rooms in the hotels in violation of rules. They had arrived at the airport on Saturday, she said. “The hotels should not have allowed the facility without permission. Cases have been filed against them for violating rules,” she added. In Kozhikode Seven persons, including a seven-year-old girl, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode, while as many recovered from COVID-19 in the district on Sunday. The new patients are from Nanmanda, Thuneri, Balussery, Meppayyur, Ayanchery, Thamarassery, and Valayam, said a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree. Those recovered are from Nanmanda, Kizhakkoth, Olavanna, and Palakkad, including a couple aged 38 and 30. The total number of active COVID-19 cases in the district is 90. Among them, 45 are at the first-line treatment centre set up at the Lakshadweep Guest House, and 40 are at the Government Medical College Hospital. Others are at hospitals in Malappuram, Kannur, and Ernakulam districts. The number of people under observation is 18,724, among whom 10,686 are expatriates. In Wayanad Five more positive cases of COVID-19 were reported in Wayanad district on Sunday, taking the district’s total figure to 96. According to Health Department sources, three of the patients returned from abroad, while the others reached the district from Bengaluru and Mumbai. Of the 96 cases reported in the district so far, 49 have been cured. In Malappuram Five more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Malappuram district on Sunday. All of them were infected through local contacts. In Palakkad In Palakkad district, four persons were tested positive. Three of them were returnees to the State. One person was infected through contact.  (With inputs from Thrissur, Ernakulam, Kozhikode, Kasaragod, Malappuram, Palakkad, and Wayanad bureaus)
29 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Conductor tests positive, RTC depot shut||Following a conductor attached to the Guruvayur depot of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, the depot was closed on Sunday and services have been cancelled. The conductor, from Edappal in Malappuram district, tested positive on on Saturday. He was on duty on two KSRTC buses, which operated between Guruvayur and Palakkad and Guruvayur and Vyttila on June 15, 22 and 25. According to the Health Department, he was on duty on bus number RPC 108, which operated between Guruvayur and Palakkad on June 15 and 22. On these days, the bus began service from Guruvayur at 8.30 a.m. and reached Palakkad at 11 a.m. It returned from Palakkad at 11.45 a.m. and reached Guruvayur at 2.15 p.m. The second trip from Guruvayur started at 3 p.m. and reached Palakkad at 5.30 p.m. It started back from Palakkad at 6 p.m. and concluded the trip at Guruvayur at 8.30. p.m. The conductor was also on duty on bus number RPC 718 on June 25 that conducted service on Guruvayur-Vadanappally-Thrissur-Vyttila route. The bus started from Guruvayur at 8.45 a.m. and reached Vytilla at 12 noon. It started back from Vytilla at 12.30 p.m. and reached Guruvayur at 3.30 p.m. The bus conducted another service at 4.25 p.m. on the Guruvayur-Kunnamkulam-Angamaly route and reached Angamaly at 6.30 p.m. It started back from there at 6.45 p.m. and reached Guruvayur at 9 p.m. Health advisory After the conductor was diagnosed with COVID-19, the District Medical Officer has asked the people who had primary contact with him, including passengers and colleagues, to contact the health workers in the respective areas and to enter in home quarantine. For more details, contact the Health Inspector at Primary Health Centre, Pookkode. Phone: 94005 41374. Edappal hospital Meanwhile, people from Kadavallur panchayat who had visited the General Medicine and Paediatrics Departments of Edappal Sukapuram Hospital from June 5 have been asked to contact the Primary Health Centre. Health workers, including doctors, at the hospital have been diagnosed with COVID-19. Call: 94479 19241, 97454 59261, 94960 46027.  He was on duty on Guruvayur-Palakkad and Guruvayur-Vyttila services on June 15, 22 and 25.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Troubled waters||
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Helping hands||
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Splash of colours||
29 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three control rooms set up to monitor situation in Anantapur||Anantapur district administration on Sunday established three control rooms to monitor the functioning of COVID Care Centres, implementation of the lockdown in 25 containment zones in Anantapur city and Hindupur town. With the tally in the district touching 1,600, of which 1,371 are local cases and remaining from other States, the district has occupied the second position, behind Kurnool. Authorities called for a stringent implementation of the lockdown measures and changed the containment strategy. The death toll stands at 33. Review meeting Meanwhile, Anantapur District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu and District Medical and Health Officer K.V.N.S. Anil Kumar on Sunday held a detailed review meeting with 25 nodal officers appointed for the 25 containment zones. Testing to be ramped up In Anantapur city alone, there are 20 containment zones and special testing drive has been taken up in those areas along with five areas in Hindupur. “We have tested 60,000 samples so far and from Wednesday, 3,000 samples would be collected from those falling in the bracket of 60-year-old and above in containment zones,” Anantapur Collector said. Appeal to people Nodal officers will head a team of doctors, paramedics, sanitation personnel and other essential items suppliers to administer the containment zones and ensure that none moves out of these zones or enters unless there was an emergency. The SP appealed to the people to cooperate with the police personnel and not move on the streets without emergency. While more than 800 cases are being treated in five COVID Care Centres and four COVID Hospitals, in addition to a small number in home isolation in Anantapur, Kurnool district has so far registered 2,586 cases. Out of these, 1,787 are local cases and 464 from other States with 1,300 patients getting discharged and 58 patients succumbing to the disease. Currently, 770 patients are being actively treated in hospitals and care centres in the district, District Collector G. Veerapandian said.
29 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Operator modifies bus to meet COVID norms||The pandemic has hit hard private bus operators with no business for more than three months, but a small city-based private bus operator Munirathnam Travels has shown the determination to keep afloat by modifying two of his buses to ensure social distancing among passengers. “Passengers’ safety is utmost on our minds and with the fight against the pandemic likely to stretch into next calendar year, we decided to reduce the number of seats from 40 to 29 in two of our buses that used to run on the Anantapur - Hyderabad route,” owner N. Munirathnam Srinivasulu said on Sunday. Buses used to have 2 + 2 seating patterns earlier, but now an entire column of the seats has been removed and there is only one seat in the middle with enough space to walk in between two window seats. While the front row will have seat belts, the ones behind them have been provided with footrest and a handle to keep the balance especially in the middle seats, he pointed out. Now, the goal of ensuring safety could have been achieved even without him having to get the seats removed, but Mr. Munirathnam decided to spend Rs. 2 lakh on each of the two buses because he anticipated passengers would flout the norms and occupy the empty ones in the event of unavailability of seats. Hike in fares Bus services between A.P. and Telangana were to be resumed from last week, but in view of rise in the number of cases, permission has not been given yet. “There could be a hike in the fares (Rs. 50 to Rs. 100 per ticket) to compensate for the loss of revenue due to reduced number of seats,” he explained.
29 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Case against TDP supporter||The IV Town Police here registered a case against Prakash Naidu, former chairman of A.P. Meat Development Corporation, following a complaint lodged by his wife Krishnaveni that he was harassing and threatening her at the behest of another woman. The police registered cases against Prakash under IPC Sections 498, 323 and 505. Prakash Naidu had launched an outfit called ‘Chandradandu’ in 2004, bringing together youth to work for the victory of the TDP.
29 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reckless public mood slowly gives way to fear in Chittoor||A 30-year-old woman of V. Kota mandal, who got discharged from the Government COVID Hospital in Chittoor, told the officials who counselled her on guidelines: “I don’t know how I got the virus. I took all the precautions while moving out, but three members of my family have been affected. Now, the amount of Rs. 6000 given to us will alone help us for the next one month.” Chittoor district, which recorded close to 1,200 cases so far since April first week, is on the edge with a number of red and containment zones. The virus attack which initially shook the pilgrim town of Srikalahasti had gradually engulfed the entire district, not leaving even the remote villages. People, who remained at ease and were reckless while on errands during the relaxation period, are now shuddering at the idea of venturing out without a valid reason. The sudden spurt in the cases since a month, coupled with six deaths in the last one-and-a-half month, has instilled fear among them. Source unknown A majority of the infected persons, barring the frontline workers, are still clueless on how they picked up the virus. The alarming rise of cases in Tamil Nadu, particularly Chennai, is also sending jitters among people of the border areas. When a 60-year-old man returned home at Gate Puttur locality in Puttur municipality after a three-week-long isolation, he faced stiff resistance from his neighbourhood. Hostile neighbours The intervention of police had later settled the matter. “What frightens us more is the stigma associated with the infected persons and hostile nature of the neighbours. When a red zone is declared, the household from where a positive case emerges becomes a target for neighbours,” he said. The reasons why fear is reigning in the minds of people are: In case of death, the COVID patient would be stripped off dignity and cremated like a destitute; the virus attack will render a patient vulnerable to life-threatening ailments even after discharge; women worry that they have to forgo motherhood; parents worry that the faculties of smell and taste in their children would be impaired. ‘Unfounded fears’ These fears, though unfounded, have forced people to change their outlook towards the problem, said District Medical and Health Officer P. Penchalaiah. “It is a welcome sign that the people are voluntarily wearing masks, using sanitizers and maintaining social distance. But, absolutely there is nothing to worry, because the death rate is negligible and the recovery rate is very impressive.”
29 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grameena bank registers growth in business||The business of the Sapthagiri Grameena Bank Board has improved from Rs. 11,470 crores as on February 31, 2019 to Rs. 12,681 crore as on March 31, 2020 and recorded 10.57 percent growth rate, according to the bank’s chairman M. Mahesh Babu. During the same period, deposits improved from Rs. 5,750 crores to Rs. 6,523 crores and advances from Rs. 5,719 crores to Rs. 6,158 crores. Gross profit has increased from Rs. 230 crores to Rs. 283 crores, with 23% growth rate. The net profit posted a hike from Rs. 101crores to Rs. 130 crores with 29% growth rate. Gross NPAs were reduced from Rs. 95.26 crores to Rs. 93.54 crores. The Gross NPA level is now 1.52% of the total advances, and net NPA level continued to be at zero level. The CRAR level improved from 12.76 to 14.10 .
29 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auto drivers take to the streets||Drivers in the city on Sunday took out a massive rally of an autorickshaw from Pedda Market Auto Stand to lodge a protest against the steep hike in the petrol and diesel prices, demanding that the prices that prevailed before 15 days be brought back. Auto Union president P. Mohammed and Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) general secretary Vijay said the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) government at the centre was not coming to the rescue of commonman, but was burdening them with additional taxes and price hikes benefiting those who had cheated public sector banks of crores of rupees. They also demanded immediate rollback of the insurance premium for the vehicles and field prices. A massive agitation is scheduled for June 30 in front of the Secretariat and other district headquarters, said Mr. Vijay at the rally, where auto drivers tied ropes to an auto and pulled it for a kilometre symbolically as though it was dead. He gave a call to all the drivers to participate in all programmes in big numbers. A human chain would be formed in the city on July 3 starting at Raj Vihar Centre , said Auto Union secretary Ravi Kumar.
29 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chirala’s handloom weavers struggling for survival||B. Shyam Sundar Rao, a Gen-X weaver in Devangapuri near Chirala, has adapted himself to changing times and even began marketing his exquisite handloom products, including saris, online to customers far and near to stay afloat. Now, he is clueless on eking out a living in the wake of prolonged lockdown imposed to combat coronavirus as Chirala turned out to be a COVID-19 hotspot with unabated new positive cases emerging every day. So is another weaver D. Kanakaiah, who is unable to get his quota of silk yarn from Bengaluru as there has been no inter-State movement of vehicles since March when lockdown was first imposed and later extended from time to time. “We are groping in the dark on the way to clear the stocks,” say members of the Indira Cheynetha Abhyudaya Society, who yearn for normalcy to return. Partial relief The Rs. 24,000 provided to them under the YSR Nethanna Nestham Scheme has come as a solace to some 7,000 weavers in and around Chirala, which derives its name from the word Chira (sari). “Usually four to five weavers work on a loom and all of them have not been covered,” they lament. The financial assistance is not at all sufficient to address the ‘huge problem of idling stocks on the one hand and lack of access to inputs such as yarn and dyes on the other hand, they say. “By taking an advance from traders for purchase of inputs, we have been weaving the products. Stocks worth Rs. 5 lakh each are lying in each weaver’s home for over four months,” explains yet another weaver P. Venkateswarlu, who is clueless on clearing the stocks in the near future as the shopping malls in Chirala and other places have not opened in view of the stringent lockdown. Seek govt. intervention “Yet we cannot remain idle. Hoping for better days, we keep producing cheaper varieties of cotton shirts and dress material,” adds J. Srinivasa Rao, who earns less than Rs. 150 per day as against Rs. 500 during normal times. They want the Union and State governments to lift the unsold stocks worth about Rs. 300 crore with them.
29 June 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 judicial officers among 54 infected in Prakasam||There was no let-up in COVID cases as 103 persons- 54 in Prakasam and 49 in Nellore district tested positive for the viral disease in the last 24 hours. With this, the number of cumulative cases went up to 736 in Nellore district and 500 in Prakasam. Ten of the 54 new cases came from the judicial officers’ quarters in Ongole, according to a report compiled by the health authorities. All routes leading to the Court Centre were sealed as some judicial officers also got infected. Lockdown was enforced strictly by the police in Ongole, which witnessed in all 18 new cases, including two from Ram Nagar, as also in Markapur with 10 new cases, Chirala with six fresh cases and Pamur with four cases. A 83-year-old woman from Ongole and a 72-year-old man from Chirala were among those who contracted the disease. Vehicles of those undertaking unnecessary travel were seized by the police. The disease continued to spread to far-flung areas in the district. Remote villages like Chinapavani, Chinnanandipadu, Dasarivaripalem, Kondepi, Singarayakonda, Darsi, Cumbum and Talluru reported fresh cases. 28 discharged In Nellore district, the active cases came down 264 as 28 persons were cured of the disease and discharged from the hospitals. Civic staff under the overall supervision of Administrative Officer Rama Rao sanitized the Collectorate on Sunday as a woman employee got infected. Nellore city accounted for 15 fresh cases, including four each from Ramji Nagar and Vengal Rao Nagar. Sullurpeta, 80 km away from Chennai, reported 10 new cases, while Kavali reported 12.
29 June 2020||PEDANA (KRISHNA),ANDHRA PRADESH||Kalamkari artwork bats for nature conservation||A textile artwork, Tree of Natural Life, has been created by a group of Kalamkari artisans with 204 wooden blocks at Pedana town in Krishna district, showcasing rural and wildlife on fabric with colours extracted from natural sources. A group of 20 artisans toiled for nearly 120 days to bring out the 115X165 CM creation on fabric. Pedana-based K. Gangadhar and his brother K. Narasaiah, recipients of the President’s Award, led a team of 15 artisans, including six from Delhi, who carved the wooden blocks. The theme was developed by Kalamkari artisans Pitchuka Srinivas and his son P. Varun Kumar of the Syamala Arts and Crafts, Pedana. “As wooden block makers, our challenge was to ensure that each of the 204 blocks are carved out from teak wood in the given size with the exact motif without any changes in any feature,” says Mr. Gangadhar, talking to The Hindu . Composition “In the entire artwork, one could notice 16 species of birds and animals like tiger, lion and deer. The lower portion of the work depicts rural life - women, cattle, a traditional hut and farm workers,” explains Mr. Gangadhar. Says Pitchuka Srinivas: “Our project attempts to highlight rural life, conservation of wildlife and nature through textile art. All the colours used in the project are natural, extracted from various sources.” Mr. Srinivas and Mr. Varun led a group of five artisans who printed the theme with wooden blocks on a fabric. “Giving shape to the 204 wooden blocks on the fabric needs total involvement by the printer,” remarks Mr. Varun, a third-generation artisan from his family. Pat from UK “The composition and placement of animals and birds in relation to the size and tree form needs a better understanding of the traditional art and composition. The effort to combine many elements to form the natural world, humans and dwellings is commendable,” says Meera Curam over the phone. Ms. Meera Curam is the Director, Textile Design Course, Birmingham City University, UK.
29 June 2020||SINGANAPALLI (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Helium balloons to alert boats on danger spots in Godavari||In order to prevent boat accidents, the police proposes to use helium balloons to demarcate the whirlpools and danger spots for sarungs (boat drivers) who venture into the Godavari. The tribal people living in the villages on the shore have been asked to keep a watch on the boats moving in the river and help police in preventing mishaps. Boat tragedy On September 15 last year, around 26 local tribal youth jumped into the river at Kachluru and saved 20 tourists struggling in the swirling waters soon after the Vasista Punnami Royal tourist boat, carrying 77 persons, capsized. Fifty-one tourists died in the mishap. The West Godavari district Superintendent of Police (SP), K. Narayan Naik, visited Vadapalli, Singanapalli, Kachluru and other hamlets on Sunday and directed the police to demarcate whirlpools and danger spots in the river using red helium balloons as a danger sign, to prevent mishaps. “Nineteen villages are located on the river bund in West Godavari district. Most of the tribal population here depends on traditional fishing in the river using country boats,” Polavaram Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) M. Venkateswara Rao said.  Visits control room  Mr. Narayan Naik also visited the boating control room at Singanapalli and interacted with the staff. He told the police to be alert as the flood water in the river was rising. The government had set up nine control rooms for safe boating operations in the State, Mr. Narayan Naik said. Crowd management “The staff in the boating control room will verify the capacity of a boat and crowd management, note the arrival and departure of boats, coordinate with the revenue, fire, irrigation and other officials concerned and also the other control rooms to prevent boat mishaps,” Mr. Naik said. “The police should ensure life jackets for passengers and prevent people from carrying inflammable material and liquor in boats. They should explain the dos and dont’s to passengers for a safe journey,” said Mr. Narayan Naik.
29 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic robs the dead of their dignity in Srikakulam||The COVID-19 pandemic has not only delivered a blow on life and livelihood, but also seems to be haunting people even after death. The fear of contracting the infection so palpable that be it a COVID death or a natural one, people are shying away from giving a respectable adieu to those departed. Forget about the near and dear ones, even the family members are hesitating to attend the funerals. Case in point is the recent death of a 70-year-old COVID positive patient in Palasa municipality of Srikakulam district. His body was towed away in an earthmover after his family members and kin refused to perform the last rights. Officials warned The incident led to the suspension of six officials including the Municipal Commissioner and sanitary inspector. Collector J. Nivas also warned of stringent action against officials who failed to ensure decent last rights to the people who died of the virus. As many as six persons died of the virus and around 200 persons have died of natural reasons in the last two months. Even as the government has permitted 20 people to participate in funerals, hardly ten persons are not coming forward to perform the last rights. “People are scared. Fear of virus is getting better of relationships. No one wants to contract the infection,” says a senior citizen from Palasa on the condition of anonymity. In Srikakulam, several organisations have specially designed vehicles for funeral. However, the drivers are not willing to carry the bodies. Taking bodies to cremation or burial ground has become a Herculean task. Sources say that earthmovers and tractors are being used to shift bodies in Palasa and Sompeta. Some people point fingers to the poor coordination among municipalities, panchayats and the Health Department. Officials are hesitant to take the responsibility despite the directive issued by the Collector, they allege. “There is no harm in participating in a funeral if one adheres to all the COVID-19 protocols,” says the Collector. Special ambulance Indian Red Cross Society (Srikakulam) president P. Jaganmohana Rao says an ambulance is being redesigned with the help of CV Nagajyothi Foundation to ensure graceful final journey to the deceased. “The recent incident in Palasa municipality has prompted us to redesign the ambulance for funerals. It will be ready in a few days. Our employees will also be trained to handle bodies while protecting themselves from the infection,” he says Mr. Jaganmohana Rao.
29 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Don’t merge Etcherla, Rajam with Vizianagaram district’||Srikakulam Backward Classes Welfare Association president P. Chandrapati Rao, representatives Ganji Ezra , B. Rajesh Reddy and others said that Srikakulam district would remain backward for the next 100 years if prosperous Etcherla and Rajam constituencies were merged with Vizianagaram district. They submitted a memorandum to District Collector J. Nivas urging him to convey the feelings of locals to the government. Mr. Chandrapati Rao said that all industrial zones, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University and other educational institutions would go to Vizianagaram district with the government proposal to make all Lok Sabha constituencies as new districts. “Etcherla Assembly constituency covers all outskirts and many colonies of Srikakulam town. All the people residing in those areas will have to go Vizianagaram for their official works. It is detrimental to the interests of the district as well as individuals,” he said. Mr. Nivas said that the opinion would be conveyed to the government.
29 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre committed to national security: BJP||The Union government at the centre led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed to ensuring national security at the border as well as taking developmental activities forward, said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Kola Anand Kumar and Saikam Jayachandra Reddy. Releasing graffiti on the Centre’s achievements on completion of its one-year term in power, the party leaders recalled the welfare-oriented measures taken up during the first term, focussing on farmers, backward classes, minorities and women and the schemes aimed at ensuring economic inclusivity of all sections. In the second term, the government focussed on ensuring social and geographical equality across the nation, besides solving the issues remaining unaddressed for long, Mr. Anand observed. All-round development “However, the changing geo-political equations warranted shift of focus towards national security as well as all-round development of the nation”, Mr. Jayachandra Reddy said, adding that the Centre would lay enhanced focus at the border, given the escalation of tension, and would provide formidable defence. BJP district Secretary B. Chandra Reddy, Jana Sena Tirupati City president Raja Reddy and others took part.
29 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Painting of government buildings: ‘YSRCP should bear expenses’||TDP vice-president G. Narasimha Yadav has demanded that the cost incurred in painting and re-painting government buildings should be borne by the YSRCP and not the State government. Addressing the media on Sunday, he said the State incurred an expenditure of Rs. 55 crore for painting the 11,158 village secretariat buildings with the YSRCP colours and another Rs. 45 crore for removing it. Apex court directive “Though the Supreme Court directed the State government to remove the paint within four weeks, it went ahead to paint the 10,641 Rythu Bharosa Kendras. A whopping Rs. 1,300 crore was spent on painting all government buildings, and now another Rs. 1,000 crore is required to undo it. The court should intervene and ensure that the expenses are met from the YSRCP’s account,” Mr. Narasimha Yadav observed. With the amount misused, the government could have provided Rs. 10,000 to every family affected by the COVID-19 situation and the lockdown that ensued, he added.
29 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic curve continues to rise||The COVID-19 cases and fatalities continue to rise at an alarming rate in the State. In the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, the State registered 813 new cases and 12 more deaths after testing 25,778 samples, pushing the tally to 13,098 and toll to 169. The latest figures were the biggest single-day spike so far both in terms of new cases and fatalities. Of the total number of cases, 7,021 are active. With the discharge of 428 patients during the period, a total of 5,908 people recovered so far. Disturbing trend The tally of positive cases doubled in 13 days since June 16 when it was 6,720. The fatalities too doubled during the period. Of the 12 new deaths, six were in Kurnool district, five in Krishna and one in West Godavari. Of the new cases, 755 were local residents, 50 were people from other States and eight were foreign returnees. Most of the new local cases were reported from Kadapa (111); Kurnool (103); Guntur (90); Chittoor (82); Krishna (79); West Godavari (71); East Godavari (57); Anantapur (51); Visakhapatnam (44); Prakasam (41); Nellore (18) and Vizianagaram (8). No new case was reported from Srikakulam. The district-wise tally was as follows: Kurnool (1,787); Anantapur (1,371); Krishna (1,331); Guntur (1,193); East Godavari (1,002); Chittoor (891); West Godavari (875); Kadapa (794); Nellore (579); Visakhapatnam (505); Prakasam (313); Vizianagaram (145); and Srikakulam (62). So far, 8.41 lakh samples were tested and the positivity rate was put at 1.56%. The recovery rate too increased marginally to 45.11%. While the mortality rate was 1.29%, the tests per million ratio increased to 15, 765.
29 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meet on maintenance of LED street lights||The Panchayat Raj Department is going to conduct a high-level meeting soon on the maintenance of LED street lights and revamping the Complaint Monitoring System (CMS) with the involvement of the Energy Department and the ward and village secretariats. The government has contemplated to involve around 7,000 energy assistants (junior linemen) and 2.60 lakh village volunteers for successful implementation of the project, according to an official release. The existing street lights' maintenance is inadequate and not able to address the issues within the stipulated time. Moreover, the government wanted the complaints on non-glowing lights to be resolved within 48 hours against the present 72 hours. Officials said that though more than 90 per cent people are responding positively towards the LED street lighting system, they are complaining about delay in rectifying the complaints on non-glowing lights. The maintenance agencies have envisaged to allocate two technicians for every 4,000 street lights, which works out two technicians for 20 gram panchayats or one mandal. This is resulting in abnormal delay in attending to repairs, the release said.
29 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rejig of manpower in Genco||AP-Genco recently transferred 282 employees from the Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant (RTPP) to the Sri Damodaram Sanjeevaiah Thermal Power Station (SDSTPS), re-deployed 264 employees within the Dr. Narla Tatarao Thermal Power Station (NTTPS), and shifted 55 employees from the NTTPS Complex to the SDSTPS to put its manpower to optimum use. Man - Megawatt ratio An official order issued in this regard said that the ‘Man - Megawatt’ ratio at the RTPP and the NTTPS was 1.03 and 1.28 respectively against the standard of 0.80 per Megawatt. AP-Genco, therefore, undertook rationalisation of the staff at the RTPP and NTTPS to divert the excess manpower to the 800 MW units to be commissioned in Stage-V of the NTTPS and SDSTPS. Thus, 282 employees, including 52 Electrical, Mechanical and Telecom (E,M&T) engineers, and 200 Operations and Maintenance (O&M) staff had been moved from the RTPP to the SDSTPS. Similarly, 264 employees, comprising 52 E, M & T engineers and 212 O&M staff, had been shifted from the O&M wing of the NTTPS to its Stage-V unit. Requirement at SDSTPS Fifty-five employees, comprising 35 E, M & T engineers, had been transferred from the NTTPS Complex to the SDSTPS. The total additional manpower requirement of the three 800 MW units at the SDSTPS was pegged at 408. The requirement at the lone 800 MW unit of the NTTPS was fixed at 257. The existing engineering manpower set-up of the NTTPS O&M and RTPP was reorganised by merging some of their circles and divisions. The recommendations pertaining to the rationalisation exercise made by an expert committee were in the process of implementation under the close monitoring of Energy Secretary N. Srikant and Genco MD B. Sreedhar, official sources said.
29 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist Keshava Rao is most wanted in Chhattisgarh||Nambala Keshava Rao alias Basavaraj, general secretary of the banned CPI (Maoist), figures in the most wanted list of Maoists released by the Chhattisgarh police a few days ago. A native of Srikakulam, Keshava Rao carries a reward of Rs. 1 crore on his head. With many aliases such as Prakash, Narasimha, Ganganna and others, he is said to be an expert in manufacturing and operating Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs). Keshava Rao headed the Central Military Commission of the Maoist groups and he was said to be involved in the murders of Telugu Desam MLA Kidari Sarveswara Rao and former legislator Siveri Soma in Dumbriguda of Visakhapatnam district. He was also said to be the mastermind in killing of 15 commandos in Gadchiroli district in Maharashtra. The Maoist former polit bureau member was said to be behind the Dantewada attack in Chhattisgarh, in which Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Bhima Mandavi and four of his security personnel were killed in an IED explosion. Keshava Rao, who is wanted in many other cases, was reportedly trained in handling explosives and triggering landmines under the supervision of the People’s War Group (PWG), and trained the cadre of the banned outfit. List released Keshava Rao, along with 34 top naxals who are active in Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and other States, figure in the list released by the Chhattisgarh police. The Chhattisgarh government has announced Rs. 1 crore reward on the heads of Keshava Rao, Muppalla Lakshman Rao alias Ganapathi, Mallojula Venugopal, Katakam Sudarshan of Telangana and four others. Nine other Maoists carry rewards of Rs. 40 lakh each. The list also include 17 Maoists operating in Dandakaranyam Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) and other extremist affected districts. A native of Jiyyannapet village in Srikakulam district, Keshava Rao completed his engineering in the erstwhile Regional Engineering College (REC), Warangal.
29 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagananna colonies with 30 lakh houses to be built in State||The State government is gearing up to distribute house sites to the identified beneficiaries on July 8 and take up construction of houses thereafter. The government has chalked out a plan to construct the houses at the earliest and hand them over to the beneficiaries. To be called YSR Jagananna colonies, the Housing Department proposed to construct 30 lakh houses in the next four years under the State government’s flagship programme, Navaratnalu - Pedalandariki Illu. Housing Minister Cherukuvada Ranganatha Raju told The Hindu that the project would be taken up in two phases. The first phase would begin on August 28 and the second phase in August next year. Fifteen lakh houses would be constructed in each phase and facilities like water supply, electricity, approach roads, internal roads and drains and other social infrastructure would be provided in the colonies. ‘Designs ready’ The government would incur Rs. 2,540 crore to provide water supply and Rs. 3,200 crore for electricity, said the Minister. The cost of each house, with a carpet area of 230 sft and a plinth area of 288 sft, was likely to be around Rs. 1.80 lakh. The designs were being finalised. “The government is making arrangements to supply cement at an affordable rate to the beneficiaries – Rs. 235 per bag (OPC - ordinary portland cement) and Rs. 225 per bag (PPC - portland pozzolana cement), against the market price of around Rs. 360 per bag,” he said. The government would have to spend between Rs. 10,000 crore and Rs. 11,000 crore on land acquisition. “The total outlay for the scheme is Rs. 50,000 crore, which includes the Central government’s share. With this, assets worth Rs. 2 lakh crore will be created in the State by 2024,” the Minister said.
29 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC to augment online reservation system||The Online Passenger Reservation System (OPRS) of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) will not be available for online ticket booking, postponement or cancellation of tickets from 12 a.m. to 5 a.m on June 30 (Tuesday). In a statement on Sunday, the public transport carrier’s Executive Director (Operations) K.S.B. Reddy said due to increase in demand, the APSRTC was configuring and upgrading the existing OPRS servers with high availability and scaling to maintain 50,000 concurrent users. The activity was scheduled at the above mentioned time. Social distancing Mr. Reddy said the APSRTC had taken a slew of measures to check the spread of coronavirus. It had been diligently following social distancing inside the buses and promoting cashless and contactless ticketing in all types of buses, including Palle Velugu. At present, the APSRTC was operating more than 3,000 services on a daily basis with a provision of reservation facility to all services.
29 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGP urged to upgrade AHTUs as police stations||An NGO, HELP, has appealed to the government to give powers to the Anti-Human Trafficking Units (AHTUs) to register FIRs and take up investigation in cases relating to human trafficking. In a representation submitted to Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang, in connection with International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, HELP director N.V.S. Rammohan said that following the directions of Ministry of Home Affairs, seven AHTUs were set up in AP. But, the units are not having powers to book cases. In A.P., the conviction rate was 11.7 percent and in 89 per cent of cases, traffickers were being acquitted, Mr. Rammohan said.
29 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railways completes 200 pending projects during lockdown period||The Indian Railways has completed over 200 long-pending projects, including maintenance, rebuilding, modelling repair and electrification of rail lines as passenger services were suspended for over two months. Railway officials have also ensured the stability of supply chain of all essential commodities running through parcel and freight trains during the lockdown period. Execution of long-pending works will improve safety and speed of the trains in key sections, the officials said. The completed works include rebuilding of 82 bridges, 48 road underbridges in lieu of level crossing gates, strengthening of 16 foot over bridges, dismantling of 14 old foot over bridges, and remodelling of five yards, the officials added.
29 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PV saved economy from brink of collapse: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday paid rich tributes to former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao on his birth anniversary. In a series of tweets, Mr. Naidu recalled how Narasimha Rao revived the Indian economy from the brink of collapse and set it on the path to recovery. Under PV’s able leadership, India rose to compete with the rest of the world, he observed. Land reforms “History will forever remember leaders who rekindle a new hope among the people at a time of grave crisis. Narasimha Rao would be remembered as one who gave a bold, new direction to the country in its hour of need,” Mr. Naidu said. As Chief Minister of combined A.P., he had initiated land reforms that helped in uplift of Dalits, Mr. Naidu said, and added that he had rendered brilliant service to the Telugu people not only as a politician but also as a literary personality. The TDP chief said conferring Bharat Ratna would be a befitting tribute to the outstanding services rendered by Narasimha Rao. “Under the TDP government in 2014, the Assembly had passed a resolution seeking a memorial for PV in the national capital. As a result, 10 years after his passing away, a memorial hd come up at Ekta Sthal in New Delhi,” Mr. Naidu said.
29 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP: ready for debate on power tariffs in State||BJP leader Pathuri Nagabhushanam has said that his party is ready for an open debate with the YSRCP leaders who claim that the power tariffs in the State were among the lowest in the country. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Mr. Nagabhushanam said electricity bills had, in fact, been jacked up during the COVID-19 crisis. There were no power cuts in the State due to the Central government’s policy, he claimed. ‘Centre’s achievements’ The BJP would fight against the “anti-people” policies of the YSRCP government, he said. Mr. Nagabhushanam said the BJP-led government at the Centre fulfilled most of its promises. Abrogation of Articles 35-A and 370, banning of Triple Talaq and sorting out of the Ayodhya imbroglio stand out among the Centre’s achievements, he said.
29 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gutkha worth Rs. 1 crore seized||The Krishna district police conducted raids on pan and kirana shops at Paritala, Kanchikacherla and other villages on Sunday, and seized gutkha and tobacco products, valued about Rs. 1 crore. Under the guidance of Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu, police teams led by Nandigama Dy. Superintendent of Police G.V. Ramana Murthy, raided the shops and seized the banned gutkha packets. Nandigama Rural CI Satish, Kanchikacherla SI G. Srihari others participated in the raids.  Liquor seized In a separate raid, the Mylavaram police seized 1,137 liquor bottles, when they were being smuggled from Telangana, and two auto-rickshaws and three bikes. Ten persons were arrested for illegal transportation of liquor, said Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu.
29 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP flays Pawan’s demand||YSRCP leader Thota Trimurthulu has criticised JSP chief Pawan Kalyan for his demand to release a White Paper on Kapu welfare programmes. Addressing the media on Sunday, he said it was clearly stated in the Navaratnalu, but Mr. Pawan seemed to be unaware of it. He wondered if anyone from the Kapu community had poured their woes against the government in front of Mr. Pawan. He alleged that Kapus got a raw deal in the TDP term in the State.
29 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman constable gets a pat from SP||A woman head constable, Swathi, earned the appreciation of Krishna district SP M. Ravindranath Babu, for donating blood to a patient Venkata Lakshmi who was undergoing treatment in Machilipatnam Government Hospital. Ms. Swathi works in the Disha Police Station in the district headquarters. The SP said the patient was in dire need of blood, but nobody was coming forward in view of the COVID-19 fear, but Ms. Swathi chipped in and set an example. Ms. Venkata Lakshmi’s family members thanked Swathi for her gesture.
29 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Chinese funds deposited into PM CARES on day of clash’||All the funds donated by various Chinese companies were deposited into the PM Cares fund by “some strange coincidence” the very day their military force and Indian Army had a scuffle in the Galwan heights, observed Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president S. Sailajanath. He said there appeared to be no guidelines for accepting donations to the PM Cares fund, donations for which were being accepted in individual capacity by PM Narendra Modi. “The Congress Party questions the principles behind this,” Dr Sailajanath said.
29 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Asymptomatic cases keep officials on their toes||Even as the authorities are leaving no stone unturned to check the spread of coronavirus, the rise in asymptomatic cases, which is said to be 90%-95% of the infections across the State, has kept the health officials on their toes. There is no proper method to measure such cases with no symptoms, but are potential carriers, seriously affecting those who have comorbid conditions, they say. The health officials are now laying focus on preventing the deaths. According to district COVID nodal officer P.V. Sudhakar, 664 positive cases were reported from Visakhapatnam district by Friday night, while the same for the State was 10,884. “Going by a conservative estimate, the asymptomatic cases will be at least 10 to 20 times more than the detected cases,” said Dr. Sudhakar, who is also the principal of Andhra Medical College. Quoting ICMR reports, he said an estimate suggested that there were around two crore asymptomatic cases in India. “Going by it, such cases could be at least a few lakh in the State and thousands in Visakhapatnam district which has a population of close to 30 lakh,” he said. Common phenomenon “A majority of the infections are asymptomatic. The patients do not show any symptoms as their innate immune system is good and they fight back the virus. In some asymptomatic cases, the immune system is strong and while in the others the viral load is low,” explained Satya Varaprasad, Director of Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), a designated State COVID hospital. “Whenever the asymptomatic patients touch their eyes, nose or mouth, the virus is transferred to their hands and it spreads through anything that they touch. That is why it is very important to wash hand frequently with soap or alcohol-based sanitisers, wear a good mask and maintain social distance,” he added. Strategic testing As it is difficult to detect every asymptomatic case, the Union and State governments are now focussing on minimising the death rate. “We are now focussing on strategic testing to cover the high-risk group such as people aged over 60 years and those in the age gorup of 40 to 60 years with comorbidity and primary contacts of all positive patients,” said Dr. Sudhakar. The success of the strategy would depend on the strict implementation of norms laid down for containment zones and conducting more tests, he added.
29 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unsafe disposal of masks posing a threat to sanitation workers||The unsafe disposal of face masks by some persons poses a major threat to others, particularly sanitary workers, who are among the frontline warriors in the fight against COVID-19. Despite the rapid spread of COVID-19 infection, the habit of throwing the used masks, by some negligent sections, continues. The discarded masks can be seen on roads more in number in many lanes of the city. “Every day, I pick up a number of face masks on the road, especially the surgical masks. The surgical ones which are sold for prices ranging between Rs. 12 and Rs. 16 in pharmacies are for one-time use. After use, people just throw them on the roads. The cloth masks are found in very few numbers on the roads,” said Janakamma, a sanitary worker from the city. Another sanitary worker Ramu said, “People, living in individual houses, dump the wastes in the dustbin, without segregating them. After picking up the bins, we are forced to clear the biowastes, which is dangerous to us,” he said. Some members of the public complain of used masks thrown in public places, especially near play arenas, parking lots and walking tracks. “When I took my son to a nearby vacant space for play, we found a number of discarded face masks. Children may handle, them unmindful of the COVID-19 threat. The officials should impose fine on individuals, who do not dispose of them properly,” said K. Ramana, a resident of Visalakshi Nagar. GVMC Chief Medical and Health Officer K.S.L.G. Sastry said that a face mask is used to prevent inhalation of air-effluents through mouth or nose. The used masks, if not disposed of properly, can pose a serious health hazard to others, when they come in contact with them. Principal, Andhra Medical College, P.V. Sudhakar, said that masks should be disposed of only as per protocol.
29 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||53 new cases take tally to 766 in Vizag district||As many as 53 new COVID-19 cases were reported from the district on Sunday, taking the tally to 766. This is the biggest single-day spike in the district so far. As many as 27 persons who were undergoing treatment have also been discharged after they tested negative. With these new cases, the total number of active cases is 450. A total of 311 persons were discharged and five persons, including two from Srikakulam district, died due to COVID-19 in Visakhapatnam district till date. According to officials, the new cases were reported from KRM Colony, Elamanchali, Yerrayyapalem, Theeda, Chaitanya Nagar, Seetharam Nagar, Kailasapuram, Uppara Colony, Indira Nagar, Anakapalle and a few other places in the district. Two supporting staff at Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple have reportedly tested COVID-19 positive. In this regard, the authorities have announced closure of temple for two days. According to Special Officer for COVID-19, P.V Sudhakar, there are about 73 very active clusters, 49 active clusters and 46 dormant clusters. Already 28 clusters have been denotified, he said.
29 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kapus being viewed as vote bank: JSP||The JSP-BJP alliance will ensure reservation to the Kapus on coming to power in the State, say JSP general secretaries Siva Sankara Rao and Bolisetty Satyanarayana. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Mr. Rao and Mr. Satyanarayana said that successive governments had considered Kapus as mere vote bank and deprived them of their due after the elections. “The Congress, the TDP, and now the YSRCP governments have all failed to provide reservation to the Kapus in education and employment,” they alleged. Dig at TDP The TDP government had constituted a Kapu Corporation and promised to allocate Rs. 1,000 crore per year to impart training for youth in skill development and competitive examinations. Instead of spending Rs. 5,000 crore, the TDP government had spent a mere Rs. 1,547 crore during its term. “The TDP cheated the community by including the amount given to the Kapus under the farmers’ loan waiver scheme in the allocation made to the corporation,” they said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was toeing the same line, they alleged. The benefits announced under ‘Kapu Nestham’ were being clubbed with those provided under other schemes, they added. The Kapus were seeking reservation, without affecting the quota already allocated to other castes, they said. Mr. Satyanarayana alleged that successive governments were dodging the issue by appointing committees and failing to implement their recommendations. The TDP government had constituted the Justice K.L. Manjunath Commission, but failed to implement its recommendations. Similarly, the YSRCP government constituted a three-member committee to look into the Kapu reservation issue, but did not make its report public so far, they alleged.
29 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rich tributes paid to PV on his birth centenary||Rich tributes were paid to former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao on his birth centenary at a programme organised by the Vizag Brahmin Welfare Society at the statue of the late leader on Beach Road here on Sunday. People from different walks of life and leaders of various political parties garlanded the statue of the former Prime Minister. VMRDA Chairman Dronamraju Srinivas recalled the contribution of Narasimha Rao to the nation. He said that the birth centenary celebrations would continue for a year and the details would be released soon. He said that Narasimha Rao was the first person from South India to become the Prime Minister of the nation and it was a matter of pride for all Telugus. Advocate L.V. Rammurthy said Narasimha Rao was well-versed in many languages. He sought Bharat Ratna for the late leader. BJP leaders Cheruvu Ramakotaiah, P.V. Narayana Rao, K. Charan Kumar, Vizag Brahmins Welfare Society president P.L.K. Murthy, B. Sankar Neelu and HPCL PRO Kali were among those who participated. Sri Swaroopanandendra Saraswati Mahaswamy of Visakha Sri Sarada Peetham, commended Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for organising the birth centenary in a grand manner. In a statement, the seer described Narasimha Rao as a great personality and that his services to the nation would be remembered for long.
29 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag sees drop in crime and accident rate in last one year||The city has seen a drop in property offences and accidents, in the last 12 months from June 2019 to 2020. Speaking about the drop in property offences, Police Commissioner Rajeev Kumar Meena said that property offences have seen a significant drop from 1,251 cases (June 2018 to 2019) to 851 (June 2019 to 2020). Apart from the lockdown, he attributed a number of other measures taken by the police for the drop in property offences. “We have not only increased our visible policing by setting up day and night patrol teams, but have also added more number of CCTV cameras to improve the surveillance,” he said. The city is already covered by about 25,000 CCTV cameras and another 1,646 cameras were added in the last one year. There is also a significant drop in road accidents, especially when it comes to fatalities. Every year on an average, the city records over 350 fatalities. but from June 2019 to June 2020, there has been a drop by around 15%. “Our target is to achieve a drop of 20% by year-end,” said Mr. Meena. According officers from the traffic wing, the initiative to put barricades on the NH has brought down the accident rate significantly. Cracking the whip on errant drivers, the city police booked 19,368 drink driving cases in the last one year, booked 9.28 lakh cases against two-wheeler riders for not wearing helmets, issued 14.72 lakh e-challans and collected a fine to the tune of about Rs. 3.6 crore. The city police was also faced with the challenge of rescuing the victims of LG Polymers styrene monomer vapour leak that took place on May 7. The police along with the NDRF rescued 400 victims. Fighting COVID pandemic, the city police team led by Mr. Meena identified about 60 containment zones and enforced strict vigil.
29 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 50.38 lakh seized from ‘hawala’ operator||The City Task Force (CTF) officials arrested a suspected ‘hawala’ operator near the Dwaraka Bus Station late on Saturday night and seized about Rs. 50.38 lakh from his possession. The accused has been identified as G. Narasimha Rao (58), a native of Narsapuram in West Godavari district. Acting on tip-offs on illegal money transactions (hawala), a team under the supervision of ACP (CTF) A. Trinadh Rao conducted a raid and nabbed the person. Sources said that the police found a code in the cellphone of the accused. Narasimha Rao, who allegedly collected the amount from two persons in the city, was caught when he was trying to board a bus at the RTC complex. Sources said that the accused had failed to produce any documents to claim that the money belonged to him. However, the accused reportedly claimed that he was working as a clerk in a jewellery shop, and he had come to the city to collect money from two persons. I-T Dept. alerted The accused and the seized cash have been handed over to II Town police station. Cases have been registered under relevant sections. The Income Tax Department has been alerted for further investigation.
29 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DSNLU announces BA LLB results||The B.A.LLB final year results of Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University (DSNLU) were released by Vice-Chancellor S. Surya Prakash on Sunday. The officials said that in view of COVID-19, as per the directions given by the UGC and the Bar Council of India, the university had conducted seminar and presentation of research papers online in two days ahead of the schedule. The results were approved by the Academic Council. DSNLU Registrar C.M. Rao was present on the occasion.
29 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last date extended||The last date for submission of applications for the award of distinguished social worker/social service organisation, for 2017-18 and 2018-19, has been extended to July 16, 2020. Applicants, in the age group 15 to 28 years, who have done exemplary work in their respective areas of service, can log on to the websitehttps://innovate.mygov.in/national-youth-awards-2018/orhttps://innovate.mygov.in/national-youth-award-2019/for details.
29 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||122 booked for consuming alcohol in open||In a special drive, the city police booked cases against 122 persons for allegedly consuming alcohol at open places here on Saturday. The city police teams led by Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP-Zone I) Aishwarya Rastogi conducted raids. The DCP said that raids would continue in the city and said that no anti-social activities were reported in the limits of Zone I.
29 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leader hails move to create new districts||Former Bharatiya Janata Party State president Kambhampati Haribabu said that formation of new districts in the State would ensure decentralisation of administration and enable top officials to focus on all mandals. Responding to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s proposal to make all the 25 Lok Sabha constituencies as districts, he said that people would be benefited with the administrative reforms. “Neighbouring Odisha and Telangana have more districts compared to their respective Lok Sabha seats. If needed, the State government can create new districts after taking the opinion of all stakeholders,” said Mr. Haribabu while speaking to The Hindu in Vizianagaram. Mr. Haribabu, who came to Vizianagaram to review the Jana Jagaran programme aimed at highlighting the Narendra Modi government’s achievements, said the BJP was always keen to provide administration at the doorsteps of people. “Even before the government moved the proposal for creation of new districts, the party appointed presidents for all 25 Lok Sabha constituencies. It has also appointed a president for Parvatipuram although it is part of Araku Lok Sabha constituency,” he added. Reacting to the demands for creation of Parvatipuram district, he said that the BJP had no objection for creation of additional districts .
29 June 2020||YANAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scribe’s body retrieved from Godavari||The police have retrieved the body of a 32-year-old scribe who, along with his two children, reportedly jumped into the Godavari river at Yanam on Friday. M. Srinivasa Rao reportedly threw his two children —M. Roja Harini and M. Vikasa Harsha—into the river before he resorted to the extreme step. Family problems are suspected to be the reason. “All the bodies were found a few hundred meters away from the Yanam-East Godavari bridge. The bodies have been handed over to the family members after post-mortem on Sunday,” Yanam Circle Inspector G. Siva Ganesh said. The investigation is on. Helpline People suffering from depression and emotional breakdown can seek assistance by dialling the helpline number 100.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 repatriation flights land in Vizag||Four flights under Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) and chartered flights from London, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah arrived in Visakhapatnam international airport on June 26 and 27. Another three flights from Sharjah and Dammam in Saudi Arabia to Vizag and one from Kiev to Vizag via Delhi were scheduled on Sunday. Two more flights from Dammam to Vizag are expected to land on Monday and Tuesday evening. Four flights from Bishkek, Sydney, Melbourne and Kyiv to Vizag via Delhi are scheduled on July 1, 4, 5 and 11.
29 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Order for probe into ‘bungling’ at hospital||Collector M.V. Reddy on Sunday ordered an inquiry into the incident of a newborn baby boy with extremely low weight being wrongly pronounced dead allegedly by Government Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam. Sunitha, 22, from AP, gave birth to twins in the hospital on Saturday. Her husband Ravindra said that both the babies were declared stillborn but one wrapped in a bag was found alive later. Denying the charge, District Coordinator for Hospital Services G. Ramesh said that the woman delivered a dead foetus and a baby of low weight. The doctors referred the baby to intensive care but the attendants took the baby boy to a private hospital.
29 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Geo-fence government lands, says KTR||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K. T. Rama Rao has issued instructions for GIS mapping and geo-fencing of government lands in and around the city. Addressing a high-level meeting along with Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Mr. Rama Rao issued orders for measures to protect government lands from private encroachments. The meeting was attended by legislators from all the three districts, and Collectors of Rangareddy, Hyderabad and Medchal apart from Revenue, Endowments, HMDDA and GHMC officials. Special attention should be paid to the Revenue and Endowment lands, and action should be taken to fortify the arguments in courts of law in cases pertaining to disputed lands. The legislators from L.B.Nagar, Quthbullahpur, and Serilingampally, who attended the meeting, brought the issues in their purview to the Minister’s notice. Responding to it, Mr. Rama Rao reminded that the eligible poor had already been given rights to their lands through regularisation scheme. GHMC officials should coordinate with Revenue department for protection of government lands, and scope of using lands for public purposes should be explored, he said. He asked Town Planning officials to ensure that illegal structures did not come up on government lands. Lease agreements signed decades ago should be revised to current prices to ensure more income to departments, he said.
29 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS sees 983 new cases, four deaths||The COVID-19 tally in Telangana touched 14,419 with 983 more samples testing positive for the virus on Sunday. Four deaths were also reported in the day. The fresh cases include 816 from GHMC limits, 47 from Rangareddy and 33 from Mancherial. After the State government initiated ‘50,000 tests in 10 days’, cases have risen exponentially since June 16. Sunday is the first time in the past 12 days that cases have been lower than the previous day (1,087 cases). The total 14,419 cases include 9,000 active cases and 247 deaths while 5,172 have, so far, been discharged. Steep spike Mancherial district on Sunday saw a sharp spike in COVID-19 cases. As many as 30 of the 47 samples from Bellampalli town tested during the day turned positive with one more testing positive for Severe Acute Respiratory Illness. That took the total number of positive cases in the district to over 50. This is perhaps the highest number of positive cases to be recorded in the districts in a single day. According to a bulletin released by the Health department in the district, all 30 persons who tested positive were primary contacts of two virus patients.  RIMS relief In Adilabad town, two more primary contacts of a positive person tested positive. There was some relief in the medical and health department as five doctors and an equal number of interns from RIMS Hospital who were suspected to have been infected tested negative.
29 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cases in State police academy crosses 180, panic spreads among cadets||The spread of novel coronavirus at the RBVRR Telangana State Police Academy (TSPA) here has become a major cause of concern with over 180 trainees and staff members testing positive for the infection. Speaking to The Hindu, academy Director V.K. Singh confirmed that the number of people getting diagnosed with the infection are increasing by the day. “So far, 180 people, including 100 trainees and 80 staff members, have tested positive for the virus. More results are awaited,” he said, adding that most of them are asymptomatic. The staff who were infected with the deadly virus include a DIG rank officer, three additional SsP and a few DSsP. While, many are in TSPA isolation centre, some are under home quarantine and a few are admitted to Gandhi hospital, Currently, the academy is training over 1,300 sub-inspector and 650 constable cadets and there are more than 450 staff, including contract employees. The alarming rate of infection in the academy are giving tense moments to the inmates as they have been staying there for several months. Despite cadets approaching the higher officials to suspend the training, (as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, all educational, training, and coaching institutions shall remain closed during the lockdown) and allow them to go back to their respective native place during the early months of virus spread, they were forced to stay there. More cases suspected It is feared that a large number of other cadets, who are yet to be tested, may be found positive, given the intensity of the virus on the campus. Unmindful of the pandemic, the trainees have been sharing rooms, dining together, participating in outdoor training and classroom activities were all seen as the major contributors for the virus to effectively thrive in the immune system. A few cadets alleged that lack of adequate steps in allowing staff members from outside and sending the inmates to buy essentials from the markets has contributed to the fast spread of the virus. “In the initial days of lockdown, we fetched groceries from the mandi in Mehdipatnam and other places and even cooked in the absence of the regular cooking staff,” they said. A few trainee sub-inspectors said there was no restriction on entry/exit on the campus, and most officers who live outside of it come and go any time, without there being any check or rules for masks or social distancing in place.
29 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Forest dept. issues notice to NHAI||A field survey conducted by Forest department officials has revealed that a total of 83 banyan trees on the Moinabad-Manneguda route were damaged either completely or partially. The survey was undertaken after reports by The Hindu about a large number of trees being burnt and felled on both sides of the National Highway, and about an online campaign being launched by tree-lovers to save the trees and punish the culprits. As per the survey report by the Chilukur Forest Range Officer, submitted to the Forest Divisional Officer, Shamshabad, a total of 42 banyans were completely damaged and they included 18 trees which were found sabotaged in June 2019. The remaining 41 trees were found partially burnt or damaged. They included 13 trees from last year. All in all, fresh damage was found to have been inflicted upon 52 trees. In another survey carried out by a group of individual tree-lovers, who have addressed the online petition to Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao, the total number of moderately burnt, severely burnt and toppled trees on the stretch stood at 101. Based on the report, the Forest department issued notice to the Roads and Buildings department, who were officiating on behalf of the National Highways Authority of India, on Saturday, seeking to know the action taken about the damage to the trees. Fixing the responsibility on the NHAI as owner of the trees, the notice has asked them to respond within one week. Otherwise, action would be initiated against the concerned as per the existing Acts and rules, it warned. It was also mentioned in the letter that the R&B, on behalf of the NHAI, had sought permission to remove the banyan trees for highway expansion, but the same had not been accorded so far. Forest officials, on condition of anonymity, said sarpanches of 15 villages lining the highway too were served notices, and explanation had been sought from Village Education Officers. However, enquiries with villagers elicited the reply that the trees were being burnt under the cover of night, and they had no knowledge about it whatsoever.
29 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. to celebrate PV’s birth centenary for a year: Uttam||In an apparent move to take the steam out of CM KCR’s slew of programmes to honour the late P.V. Narasimha Rao, TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy announced that the party would celebrate his centenary for a year in a befitting manner. “AICC president Sonia Gandhi has directed the Congress to organise the birth centenary year on a grand scale,” he said. Calling PV a visionary leader who put India on the path of prosperity and self-reliance through his bold economic reforms, he said that the late leader would be remembered for various landmark decisions that included introduction of the Land Ceiling Act. “PV himself donated more than 500 acres of land that he inherited from his ancestors,” he said. “The PV-Manmohan Singh duo brought revolutionary economic reforms and introduced liberalisation in a highly-effective manner that brought prosperity and growth in all sectors.” TPCC committee TPCC constituted a committee for PV’s centenary celebrations, which would be headed by ex-Minister J. Geetha Reddy. D. Sridhar Babu would be the vice-chairman. TPCC working presidents Ponnam Prabhakar and Kusum Kumar would be part of the panel. All core committee members and present MPs and MLAs will be permanent invitees. The first meeting will be held on July 1 through video conferencing.
29 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Central panel disinclined to meet Cong. delegation: Revanth||Congress MP A. Revanth Reddy has alleged that the Central committee led by Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal visiting the State to study the COVID-19 situation has refused to meet the delegation of Congress MPs. The issue was brought to the notice of Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who has redirected the request to the committee, Mr. Reddy said. Yet the committee is not inclined to meet the Congress delegation apparently under pressure from the Telangana government, he claimed. ‘Need expert panel’ In a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, he demanded that the government constitute an expert committee and take the Opposition parties into confidence to jointly fight the situation arising out of the spread of COVID-19. He accused the Chief Minister of behaving like an expert himself and said that his attitude has worsened the situation. Attacks CM He also alleged that the Chief Minister has been misleading people on the coronavirus issue since his statement in the Assembly about using paracetamol to drive away the virus. When Congress MLA Seethakka spoke on the seriousness of the pandemic, she was ridiculed by the CM himself and that non-serious attitude has pushed the State into a dangerous zone, he claimed. The government is shying away from the “Trace, Test and Treat” method that has given positive results across the globe, he added. The Congress MP also alleged that a senior officer had called up officials of the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh to go slow on testing as pressure was mounting on Telangana government for more tests like AP was doing. The AP govt has conducted more than 6 lakh tests while it was around 70,000 in Telangana, Mr. Reddy added.  A senior officer from here had called up officials of Andhra Pradesh to go slow on testing as pressure was mounting on Telangana government for more tests. A. Revanth Reddy, Congress MP
29 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR moves 9,317 MT of essentials||The South Central Railway (SCR) has loaded and transported third highest parcel traffic of about 9,317 tonnes amongst all zones of Indian Railways during the lockdown . It operated 194 time-tabled parcel services from April 1 to May 31 where 438 parcel vans and 265 luggage rakes were loaded with essential commodities like fruits, medicines, paddy seeds, eggs, fish, lemon, and ghee to different destinations. It introduced an innovative concept of ‘Doodh Duronto Milk’ special trains during this time to cater to the dairy product needs of New Delhi, which was earlier transported by passenger trains. These trains transported around 70 lakh litrws of milk loaded in around 173 milk tankers and dispatched by 26 trains during the lockdown, informed senior officials on Tuesday. Timely delivery The Medchal railway station was earmarked for handling the parcel traffic. Parcel traffic was also loaded from Kacheguda station for new destinations like Guwahati. The timely delivery and safe handling of commodities resulted in a good response from customers. Hence, the service is being extended by six months, to Dec.31. General Manager Gajanan Mallya complimented the staff and officers for effective coordinated planning of these parcel trains. He also urged cargo aggregators, merchants and other perishable transporters to utilise these services for safe, timely and cost-effective transportation of their goods, a press release said.
29 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sudden transfer of TSPA director||Five days after he sought voluntary retirement, senior IPS officer and RBVRR Telangana State Police Academy director V.K. Singh was transferred by the State government on Sunday without assigning him any post. In an order, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, stated that Telangana State Level Police Recruitment Board chairman V.V. Srinivasa Rao is placed in full additional charge to the post of director-TSPA till further orders. However, the order copy did not mention where Mr. Singh was posted, and as a result, he will be at the DGP office. When contacted, the officer refused to comment on his sudden transfer. He will retire from service on attaining the superannuation age on November 30. The 1987 batch IPS officer chose to quit the service as he was “unhappy with the treatment meted out to him by the State government”. He was seeking premature retirement from the service with effect from October 2. Emotional letter “I joined the services with great hopes to change the police system but I think I have failed in my ambitions. The government of Telangana has also not been much impressed with my services. My advice to better the services in the government also did not cut much ice," he wrote it in the letter. “Perhaps my opinion was not considered worth it. I have my considered opinion that I should not be a burden on the Government. Government should not be burdened with worthless people,” he had said.
29 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MSMEs urged to adopt digital technology||Digital technologies have scope to bring broader market for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) thus contributing to their growth, Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said on Saturday. The senior official, addressing a virtual seminar on ‘Rebooting MSMEs in the post Covid world’, said inability to use digital technologies was an issue for such enterprises. Citing a study by Telangana Industrial Health Clinic (TIHCL), a body set up by Telangana government to support and handhold MSMEs, Mr. Ranjan said besides external factors such as receivables from government, the factors pushing the enterprises towards sickness included unrealistic business models and adopting wrong business lines by copying others’ models without understanding the dynamics. A release from Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) that organised the seminar as part of international MSME Day celebrations, said Mr. Ranjan highlighted a need to take steps to help and support MSMEs to overcome these problems. British Deputy High Commissioner to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Andrew Fleming said keeping the supply chain through open markets will be crucial to the global economic recovery. Convenor of CII Telangana MSME Panel A.V.S. Reddy said MSMEs need support and mentoring in terms of finance, international linkages and reaching out to new markets for their sustainability more than before. Director General of National Institute for MSME S. Glory Swarupa said that as per Sustainable Development Goals, MSMEs growth is vital. Several government schemes supporting MSMEs have been documented and are available on NiMSME website.
29 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘India owes a lot to PV’||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said that the country owed a great deal of respect to former PM P.V. Narasimha Rao, who brought India’s economy back to life from intensive care unit through his visionary leadership. “PV was not only an economic reformer, but also a political reformer. He fought against the tyrannical rule in erstwhile Hyderabad that did not allow him to pursue his higher education,” she said. Dr. Tamilisai said that it was an honour to be the Governor of this State when the country was celebrating the birth centenary of the great statesman. The Governor virtually inaugurated the Sthitapragna PV Narasimha Rao Memorial Museum set up at Madhapur by the former PM’s daughter S. Vani Devi here on Sunday. She offered floral tributes to his portrait at Raj Bhavan and commended the efforts of Ms. Vani Devi in setting up the museum. On PV knowing 17 languages, she said,“He was a true polyglot.”
29 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress protest on rising fuel prices today||The Congress would organise demonstrations at all the district headquarters on June 29 against the increase in prices of petrol and diesel, and requested police not to stop their peaceful protest. TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said that a memorandum would be submitted to all collectors, keeping COVID norms in mind. A protest would also be organised on June 30 at all Assembly and district headquarters against the failure of the State government in handling coronavirus situation. Demonstrations would be organised on July 3 in protest against inflated electricity bills and to seek waiver of power bills for the poor during lockdown period of two months. He demanded that journalists should be treated as frontline warriors against COVID and Rs. 50 lakh ex gratia should be paid to the family if any journalist dies.
29 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Virus patient’s ‘goodbye’ clip goes viral||A video of a COVID-19 patient, who died allegedly after indicating that oxygen supply to him was cut off despite his pleas, went viral on social media on Sunday. The 34-year old patient, undergoing treatment at Government General and Chest Hospital, Erragadda, died on Thursday. In the video, the patient, seen with nasal prongs for oxygen supply, indicated that he was not able to breathe and bid goodbye to his father and others. However, hospital authorities denied the allegation. “He was provided with oxygen support all the time and nasal prongs were seen in the video. The patient suffered from a heart attack which was induced by COVID-19,” said Chest Hospital Superintendent, Mahaboob Khan.
29 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man killed in road accident||A 42-year-old man was killed when a drunk stock trader rammed his luxury car into his four-wheeler at Narsingi here on Saturday night. Challa Srinivasa Rao (44) from Ayyappa Society in Madhapur was driving his Mercedes Benz on the wrong side of the one-way service road of ORR when the accident took place around 11.40 p.m. Narsingi inspector Gangadhar said Srinivasa Rao, who was under the influence of alcohol, dozed off at the wheel. The victim, Nageshwara Rao, working at Mantri Developers, died on the spot. Srinivasa Rao was taken into custody and a case was booked.
29 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call to name UoH after PV||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting renaming University of Hyderabad (UoH) after former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao as there was a strong public demand for this in Telangana. Mr. KCR recalled that the university was set up in 1974 as a result of a six point formula that evolved from separate Telangana agitation to address the imbalance in education infrastructure in the region. The renaming of the institution as P.V. Narasimha Rao Central University of Hyderabad will be a fitting tribute to him in his birth centenary year. The CM based his request on the ground that PV’s contribution to education policy.
29 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP leaders pay respects||T-BJP leaders also paid tributes to the late PM at Gyan Bhoomi on Sunday. BJP president Bandi Sanjay, MLC N. Ramchander Rao, MP Soyam Bapu Rao, former ministers Vijayarama Rao, E. Peddi Reddy and Motkupalli Narsimhulu, former MP G. Vivek Venktaswamy, and other senior leaders paid their respects.
29 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New panel of PRCI constituted||A new committee of Public Relations Council of India (PRCI), Hyderabad Chapter has been constituted and Anindita Mookerjee Sinha, Head, Corporate Communications, (L&T Metro) will be its chairperson. G. Aneeja from NAARM and Shakeel Ahmed, Sr. PRO, South Central Railway will be vice-chairpersons. Other office-bearers include Noel Robinson (Treasurer), Phillip Joshua (Secretary) and Jacob Ross, PRO in CM’s office is the Joint Secretary. The Executive Committee members include Puja Kaushik (Air India), Anil Kumar (SCR) Surekha Aitabathula (DD), M.S. Lakshmi (AIR), M. M. Ali, Prakash Jain, K. Venkataramana, Geeta Murthy lyer and Prashant Kumar. M. B. Jayaram, Chief Mentor and Chairman Emeritus of PRCI announced the new team in the presence of K. Ravindran, C.Elbert, Frederick Michael and T.V.S. Narayan.
29 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NIRF rankings||CMR College of Engineering and Technology (CMRCET) was placed in the 251-300 rank in the NIRF rankings released by the HRD Ministry. Secretary Ch. Gopal Reddy and principal V.A. Narayan attributed the achievement to the faculty, staff, students and other stake holders.
29 June 2020||M. RajeevHyderabad,TELANGANA||Minor reshuffle of IAS officers in State||In a minor reshuffle of IAS officers, the State government has transferred Nagarkurnool Collector E. Sridhar from the post with immediate effect. Mr. Sridhar has been asked to report to the General Administration department for further orders. Wanaparthy district Collector Yasmin Basha was given full additional charge as Nagarkurnool Collector till further orders. Though no official reasons have been cited behind Mr. Sridhar’s sudden transfer, official sources said the government was unhappy over his performance. Mr. Sridhar, according to sources, did not perform up to expectations in the implementation of the flagship programmes, Palle Pragati and Pattana Pragati programmes, aimed at comprehensive development of rural and urban areas respectively. Education Secretary Chitra Ramachandran has been relieved of the charge of Housing Department which she had been holding since her transfer to head the Education Department. Transport and Roads and Buildings B Secretary Sunil Sharma has been given the full additional charge as Housing Secretary. The development assumes significance in view of the fact that the prestigious programmes like two-bedroom housing scheme are nearing completion and the government is said to be preparing a complete schedule of starting distribution of the houses to the eligible beneficiaries.
29 June 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Vehicle curbs at AP-TS border in Wadapally||The inter-State border check-post at Wadapally in Nalgonda will allow vehicles to pass to Andhra Pradesh only between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m., Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath said in a statement on Sunday. “Visitors and residents wanting to enter Andhra Pradesh through Wadapally check-post should make sure they are in AP limits well before 7 p.m. starting Monday,” he said. The SP’s announcement comes in wake of new travel regulations by Andhra Pradesh government, conveyed here by Superintendent of Police, Guntur. “Even if vehicles manage to enter AP limits last by 7 p.m., travellers would be made to halt till the time the travel restrictions are lifted the next day. Hence, travellers should plan in advance,” the statement added.And all travels into AP are only through passes issued by competent authorities. No transport was being allowed into AP through the Nagarjunasagar-Macherla check-post, Mr. Ranganath said.
29 June 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘A leader who ideated change’||PV was the brainchild behind historic land reforms in united AP. He was more known as a leader who ideated change and implemented policies, said Legislative Council Chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy. He said PV’s greatness should be celebrated so that younger generations could learn about him.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Norms rule even on sombre occasions||Former minister and senior Congress leader Marri Shashidhar Reddy had a bitter experience when he went to pay homage to the late PV at the latter’s memorial on his birth centenary celebrations on Sunday. Police stopped him from proceeding at the venue as a State programme was being organised and nobody was allowed until the CM paid his tributes first. Mr. Reddy said that Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar informed the same when he was contacted and he had to return home. “It was insulting and humiliating,” he said. An hour later, the Police Commissioner and the concerned Deputy Commissioner of Police called him up to inform that he could go there alone to pay respects. However, he was home by then.   With senior IPS officer Vinay Kumar Singh seeking premature retirement from service, TPCC working president and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy took a peep into departmental politics by naming a few officers who will retire this month but it was speculated that they will get post-retirement jobs in government. His observations were widely discussed in the corridors of power, with many wondering who was the khaki ‘script writer’ behind his speech, as the MP had precise details on how the officers were promoted and how their post-retirement job files moved at a brisk pace. Ironically, the government on Sunday transferred Mr. Singh, which several police officials described as unintentionally giving ‘ammunition’ to the Malkajgiri MP. It may not be to the liking of top political and police bosses.    Leaders of some social groups made no bones about their discontent with the injustice being done to the bureaucrats from those sections who were given the ‘useless’ portfolios. The discontent among the senior officers came out in the open a few days back in the form of Director of State Police Academy Vinod Kumar Singh writing to the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) seeking premature retirement. Another senior Special Chief Secretary rank officer has been relieved of several portfolios held on full additional charge basis. Although several bureaucrats are ruing the undue importance being given to a select few, they are unwilling to register discontent fearing further marginalisation in the administrative set up, observed a senior officer.   Lifting of restrictions on the movement of people in the government offices last month has become a cause of concern for the government employees. The restrictions which were put in place after the State reported steep hike in the number of positive cases helped in containing the spread of the pandemic in government offices to a large extent. But cases of employees being affected by COVID-19 showed a spike ever since these curbs were lifted. The government offices, the BRKR Bhavan and the adjacent GHMC headquarters in particular, reported several cases of COVID-19 positive patients even as signing attendance in time was made mandatory. Representations made by the staff went in vain for some days. The employees, however, heaved a sigh of relief as the government finally reimposed the restrictions in the government offices the other day.  (R. Ravikanth Reddy, Abhinay Deshpande,   B. Chandrashekhar and   M. Rajeev)
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Eerily empty||
29 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘Congressisation’ of MVA led to killing of sadhus in Palghar, says Smriti Irani||Union Minister for Textile and Women and Child Development Smriti Irani on Sunday said that ‘Congressisation’ of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra resulted in the mob lynching of two sadhus in Palghar district. “I want to tell all those who are connected today that we cannot rest until the State is under the possession of the Congress culture. It is a bitter truth that the ‘Congressisation’ of the State government resulted in the mob lynching of the sadhus in Palghar. It is also because of the ‘Congressisation’ that there is a scam in even body bags,” Ms. Irani said. She was addressing a virtual rally for Konkan and Mumbai regions to mark the sixth anniversary of the Central government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A rumour about thieves working in gangs in a remote tribal area led to the killing of two sadhus in Palghar district two months ago. Attacking the Congress and Rahul Gandhi, Ms. Irani said the Congress culture means questioning the country’s forces when India faces challenges. “It is painful that Mr. Gandhi speaks in favour of enemy whenever it stands against the country. Some people believe we should never expect him to stand with the Indian forces. It is sad that Chhatrapati Shivaji’s land witnesses a government which stands with China and wants friendship with Pakistan,” Ms. Irani alleged. She said that she was stunned to know the details of donations given to Rajiv Gandhi foundation, looked after by Sonia, Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi, when the UPA was in power. “When Manmohan Singh was the Finance Minister, he had paid around Rs. 100 crore to the foundation. Congress-ruled States and some PSUs also made donations. There is no better example of political hafta. Is it the reason why Dr. Singh’s name came up suddenly when discussions about who was going to be the Prime Minister were on?” the minister asked. Earlier, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis alleged that the State government is hiding the real number of the COVID-19 patients. “The Maharashtra government’s tendency is to hide the figure. There is no seriousness. Instead of fighting the virus, the government is cutting down on tests. Delhi is testing more than Mumbai. This is being done to hide the real number of positive patients,” he said. Mr. Fadnavis cited the example of Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Adami Party leader (AAP) Arvind Kejariwal, saying the State should learn from him about working along with the Centre. “The Centre is ready to help Maharashtra, but the government is not ready to take it. It is time to work hand-in-hand with the Centre,” he said, adding instead, the ministers from the State are busy blaming the Central government.
29 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Man held for cheating, impregnating women||The Rabale police have arrested a management graduate for cheating and impregnating several women by creating a fake matrimonial profile. Sachin Dilip Sambre-Patil (35), a resident of Thane who worked with a private firm as sales manager, was arrested on June 23 from his native in Palghar. The complainant, a 33-year-old advocate, had filed a case against Mr. Sambre-Patil on on May 31, after which the latter had gone absconding. According to her, she met the accused through a matrimonial website in June 2018. In his profile, the accused claimed he was unmarried and made advances towards the complainant.
29 June 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra reports new single-day high of 5,493 cases||Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day surge in COVID-19 cases on Sunday, with a staggering 5,493 fresh cases taking the State’s total case tally to 1,64,626. This is the third consecutive daily spike of more than 5,000 cases to be reported in the State, with 5,318 cases being recorded on Saturday and 5,024 cases on Friday. Of the total case tally, however, only 70,607 are active ones. As many as 156 more deaths pushed the State’s death toll to 7,429. Of these, 60 were reported in the last 48 hours, while 96 were from an earlier period, said State Health Department officials. As many as 2,330 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries till date to 86,575. With 1,287 new cases on Sunday, Mumbai’s total case tally has reached 75,539, of whom only 28,006 are active ones though. With 23 more deaths reported, the city’s death toll has risen to 4,371. As many as 20 deaths from Pune district saw the total death toll surge to 714, while eight from Nashik district took the latter’s COVID-19 related death count to 217. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate stood at 52.59%. The State’s case fatality stands at 4.51%. After Mumbai, Pune district reported an alarming rise of nearly 850 — the district’s second-highest single-day surge — as its total case tally soared to 20,870, as per State Health Department figures. Of these, 9,448 are active cases, while 10,708 people have been discharged thus far. Along with Mumbai city, most areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) reported record high case surges as well. Fresh cases continued to mount at an alarming rate in Thane, with the district reporting a record surge of more than 600 new COVID-19 cases to take the district’s total tally to 13,502. Navi Mumbai piled up new cases as well with 204 fresh cases, taking its total case tally to 7,443. Kalyan-Dombivli’s upsurge continued relentlessly with 420 new cases taking its total case tally to 6,555. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar in the MMR, too, witnessed sharp spikes of 114 and 288 new cases, respectively, to take their total case tallies to 3,246 and 4,206, respectively. Nashik district in north Maharashtra reported another big spike of 199 new cases with Nashik city reporting 113 of these, while Malegaon – hitherto a virus hotbed – reporting 35 new cases after recording single-digit case surges till recently. The district’s total tally has risen to 3,902, of whom 1,622 are active. “Till date, of the 9,23,502 laboratory samples, 1,64,626 (17.52%) have been tested positive, with nearly 27,000 samples across the State tested on Sunday,” Dr. Awate said. He further said presently, 5,70,475 people across the State are in home quarantine and 37,350 are in institutional quarantine.
29 June 2020||Pune,||Pune district sees 850 cases; death toll at 714||A spike of more than 800 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday saw Pune district’s total case tally surge to 20,870. Nearly 850 fresh cases were reported till evening, while 20 more fatalities pushed the total death toll to 714, Pune Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar told The Hindu . However, the number of active positive cases is 7,628, with 11, 942 recoveries thus far. As many as 356 of the active cases in the district are in a critical condition. The district’s recovery rate stands at 58.04%, while the present case fatality rate is 3.39%. Meanwhile, the death toll in Solapur district has climbed to 253.
29 June 2020||Pune,||‘Draft EIA notification fosters non-transparency, encourages environmental violations’||The draft environmental impact assessment (EIA) notification issued by the Ministry of Environment Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) in March dilutes the EIA process and encourages environment violations in case of big irrigation projects, alleged the South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People (SANDRP). The SANDRP is a network of researchers and experts working on water and environmental issues. Amruta Pradhan, a researcher with the SANDRP, said the 83-page notification in its draft form rendered the environmental clearance (EC) process “non-transparent, undemocratic, unjust and unaccountable”. “In the case of large-scale hydropower and irrigation projects, the SANDRP, through field studies, has routinely witnessed irregularities like poor quality of work, dishonest EIAs coupled with misinformation about the project, and inadequate or no impact assessment, to name just a few of the violations. The MoEF’s draft ensures no monitoring of these projects, let alone achieving compliance,” Ms. Pradhan said. If implemented, the MoEF’s draft will replace the 2006 EIA notification for future projects. The most significant change in the amended draft has been in respect of category ‘B’ projects, Ms. Pradhan said. (Hydro-electric projects lesser than 75 MW but higher than 25 MW fall in category ‘B1’) Public consultation While a significant slab of threshold limits is now pushed under category ‘B2’ projects, these projects are completely exempted from the EIA and public consultation process. Further, these categories have been kept fluid, she said. “This means that essentially, all the hydro-electric projects lesser than 25MW and irrigation projects that have a culturable command area between 2,000 and 10,000 hectares will not need an EIA or a public consultation for their appraisal,” she said. Ms. Pradhan further said in the 2006 EIA notification, category ‘B’ project was treated as category ‘A’ project if the project fulfilled the ‘general conditions’, which meant if they were located (in whole or in part) within 10 km from the boundaries of protected areas, critically polluted areas, eco-sensitive zones, or inter-State and international boundaries. “But as per the new notification, ‘B1’ projects fulfilling the general condition will be appraised by the expert appraisal committee, but they will no more be treated as category ‘A’ projects. This explicit clarification does seem to imply that they will undergo less rigorous appraisal,” she said. Eco-sensitive zones She feared that with the removal of such conditions, projects could now be proposed in dangerously close proximities of boundary of protected and eco-sensitive zones. The draft notification also stated that while projects concerning national defence and security or “involving other strategic considerations as determined by the Central government” would not be treated as category ‘A’, “no information relating to such projects shall be placed in public domain”. “From this, it is clear that with the Centre deciding on the ‘strategic considerations’ for their projects, they are free to hide information from people under this rubric. This flies in the face of the Centre’s stated intention of making the EC process more transparent,” she said.
29 June 2020||Paris,||Infection numbers cross 10 million mark||Global infections from COVID-19 have surpassed 10 million as the rate of new cases surges, according to an AFP tally on Sunday. One million new cases were recorded in only six days, according to the AFP count, just as countries start to unwind punishing lockdowns that have devastated their economies and thrown millions out of work. The worldwide death toll from the disease that first emerged in China about six months ago is also nearing 5,00,000 as fears grow of a full-blown second wave. The United States, the hardest hit country, has surpassed 2.5 million cases alone, as efforts to reopen the world’s economic powerhouse were set back by a jump in new infections in States such as Florida. Infections are also up in some other parts of the world that have reopened, with Europe registering over 2.6 million. Lockdown near Beijing China on Sunday imposed a strict lockdown on nearly half a million people in a province surrounding Beijing to contain a fresh virus cluster. Beijing city official Xu Hejian told reporters that the situation was “severe and complicated,” warning that the city needed to continue tracing the spread of the virus. The tension between reopening battered economies and public health is a source of debate in nearly every country. On Saturday alone, the U.S. recorded more than 43,000 new cases, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. U.S. deaths now exceed 1,25,000, approximately one-quarter the world total of almost 4,99,000. Across the Atlantic, the EU on Saturday pushed back a decision on a list of “safe countries” from which travellers can visit Europe — a list which could exclude the U.S. Meanwhile stars including Coldplay, Miley Cyrus and Jennifer Hudson lent support to a European Commission-led drive Saturday that raised €6.15 billion ($6.9 billion) to support vaccine research and help make it available to poorer countries. In West Asia, the Governor of Bethlehem announced that the Palestinian city would temporarily close due to rising infections. The disease also continues to rampage through Latin America, with Peru topping 9,000 deaths on Saturday. Brazil — the second hardest-hit country after the U.S. — recorded 990 deaths on Saturday, the highest toll in the world that day, while Mexico recorded the second highest at 719. In the U.S. State of Florida, Republican Governor Ron DeSantis has conceded there has been an “explosion” in new cases. On Saturday the “Sunshine State” notched 9,585 cases in 24 hours, a new daily record. Cases in Florida The average age of people infected has dropped sharply — to 33 from 65 two months ago. Young people frustrated by months of confinement have poured back to Florida’s beaches, boardwalks and bars, often without masks and seemingly unconcerned about social distancing. With Mr. Trump struggling to lift his re-election bid off the ground, the campaign confirmed that events featuring Vice President Mike Pence in Arizona and Florida next week have been postponed “out of an abundance of caution.” In California, Governor Gavin Newsom ordered some areas to reinstate stay-at-home orders, while San Francisco announced a “pause” in its reopening.
29 June 2020||Washington,||Trump denies being briefed on ‘Russian bounties for U.S. soldiers’||U.S. President Donald Trump denied on Sunday that he had been briefed on intelligence that reportedly showed Russia had offered bounties to Taliban-linked militants for killing U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan. In a pair of early morning tweets, Mr. Trump angrily slammed the report by The New York Times as “Probably just another phony Times hit job, just like their failed Russia Hoax.” “Nobody briefed or told me, @VP Pence, or Chief of Staff @MarkMeadows about the so-called attacks on our troops in Afghanistan by Russians, as reported through an ‘anonymous source’ by the Fake News @nytimes,” he wrote. On Friday, The Times reported that U.S. intelligence had concluded that a Russian military intelligence unit offered rewards to Taliban-linked militants to kill troops of the U.S.-led coalition in Afghanistan. The rewards were purportedly incentives to target U.S. forces as Mr. Trump tries to withdraw troops from the conflict-torn country — one of the militants’ key demands — and end America’s longest war. Citing anonymous officials, The Times said Mr. Trump was briefed on the findings in March, but has not decided how to respond. White House’s denial White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany on Saturday issued a denial similar to Mr. Trump’s but left open the possibility that such intelligence existed. The Taliban has denied the report, reiterating that it was committed to an accord signed with Washington in February that paves the way for withdrawing all foreign forces from Afghanistan by next year. Russia has also denounced the report, with its Embassy in Washington tweeting that the “baseless and anonymous accusations” in the story had “already led to direct threats to the life of employees” at its embassies in Washington and London.
29 June 2020||Moscow,||Russian firm to be probed over Arctic ‘dumping’||Russian mining giant Norilsk Nickel said on Sunday that it had stopped the discharge of waste water from one of its Arctic facilities, one month after an unprecedented fuel leak nearby sparked a state of emergency. The incident occurred at the Talnakh enrichment plant near the Arctic city of Norilsk, the company said, when liquids used to process minerals were “discharged from a reservoir”. “Measures were taken to stop” the removal of the liquid into nearby territory, the company said, adding that there was no threat of waste leaking. Dumping of waste A source in the Emergency Situations Ministry however told the RIA Novosti news agency that the discharge of toxic substances could pose a threat to the nearby Kharayelakh river. The Investigative Committee, which probes serious crimes, said it had received reports of “unauthorised dumping of liquid waste into the tundra” on the site of the facility and had opened an enquiry. Independent newspaper Novaya Gazeta published videos of the scene in a report claiming the factory had deliberately discharged the waste water into nearby wildlife areas.  Novaya Gazeta journalists said Norilsk Nickel employees had hastily removed pipes when investigators and emergency services arrived on the scene. Norilsk Nickel spokeswoman Tatiana Egorova confirmed to AFP that the employees of the factory had pumped “purified water from the reservoir” and that an internal investigation was under way. A spokeswoman for Russia’s natural resources agency said the decision to remove water from the reservoir was taken to avoid an emergency, after heavy rains and tests had caused water levels to increase dramatically. “To prevent possible emergencies due to increasing water levels in the basin, the operating personnel decided promptly to lower the water level,” Svetlana Radionova said. Norilsk Nickel was at the centre of another incident last month when more than 21,000 tonnes of diesel leaked into soil and rivers after a fuel reservoir collapsed at a power plant also near Norilsk. President Vladimir Putin declared an emergency situation after the accident and the head of Norilsk Nickel, oligarch Vladimir Potanin, promised to pay the costs of the clean-up.
29 June 2020||London,||763 Indian-origin people have died in the U.K.||The U.K. government on Sunday said it is planning to impose localised lockdowns in regions showing a spike in COVID-19 infections, as latest figures showed that Indian-origin people remain in the category of those hardest hit from the deadly virus among Britain’s ethnic minorities. Home Secretary Priti Patel confirmed as “correct” reports of the first such lockdown for Leicester, a region in eastern England with a large Indian-origin population. “We have seen flare-ups across the country already, just in the last three or four weeks in particular. There will be support going into Leicester,” she said. Ms. Patel’s confirmation came as England has seen an overall fall in the daily death toll and prepares to substantially lift lockdown restrictions from July 4, when bars, restaurants and cinemas will begin to open up to public access. Meanwhile, the latest NHS England statistics revealed that 763 people identifying with Indian heritage had died so far in the pandemic, according to data collated until last Thursday. This continues to reflect 3% of the total deaths officially recorded by the National Health Service from COVID-19, first reported in April at the peak of the pandemic, followed by those of Pakistani and Caribbean heritage as the second-hardest hit ethnic groups at 2% each.
29 June 2020||Colombo,||Sri Lanka lifts nationwide lockdown||Sri Lanka’s nationwide lockdown was lifted on Sunday after a selective curfew a month ago was reimposed during a surge in COVID-19 infections, the country’s President said. “The curfew has completely been lifted effective from today,” President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s office said in a statement. Health officials said new infections reported since April 30 were from Sri Lankans stranded in West Asia who were brought home on special flights and quarantined. A cluster in a Navy camp was controlled with the facility still in lockdown, they said. “There has been no community spread of the virus and the infections at the Welisara Navy camp are now contained,” a health official said. Authorities plan to reopen Sri Lanka’s borders on August 1, but the date could be reviewed due to the imported cases, the official added. Sri Lanka will also hold its parliamentary elections at the start of August. Around 2,000 infections including 11 deaths have been recorded so far, according to government figures.
29 June 2020||Washington,||One killed in shooting at Black Lives Matter rally||One person was killed and another wounded in a shooting at a Black Lives Matter rally in the U.S. State of Kentucky, police said. The incident on Saturday took place at Jefferson Square Park in the centre of Louisville where protesters have gathered for weeks over the killing of African American woman Breonna Taylor. Her death in March helped fuel a campaign against racism and police brutality in the United States that has since spread across the globe. Louisville Metro Police Department said officers were called to the park at around 9.00 p.m. “Calls then came in that Sheriff’s Department personnel were in the park performing life-saving measures on a male who eventually died at the scene,” the department said on Twitter. Soon after another person was shot across the street at the city’s Hall of Justice, police added. It was unclear if there was more than one shooter and authorities have yet to release any details of the victims. Louisville Mayor Greg Fischer said he was “deeply saddened by the violence.” Louisville has seen especially passionate Black Lives Matter protests due to the police killing Taylor in her own apartment. The 26-year-old emergency room technician was shot dead after police barged into her home, alleging that drug dealers had used the apartment to receive packages.
29 June 2020||Seoul,||S. Korea to allow some fans at games||South Korea said on Sunday that it will begin allowing limited numbers of spectators at sports games as it seeks to return to normal after months of strict social distancing rules to combat the COVID-19. “We will take phased measures including allowing spectators at sports events,” health minister Park Neung-hoo told reporters on Sunday, without elaborating.
29 June 2020||Yangon,||Yangon, June 28, 2020 (AFP) -||The UN called for “urgent measures to spare civilians” in Myanmar’s northwest on Sunday, saying fighting has intensified between the army and insurgents. The military has been battling the Arakan Army in Rakhine and Chin since January 2019.AFP
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Making sense of China’s calculations||What policy planners in Delhi, and possibly those in Beijing, have long feared, viz ., a direct confrontation leading to fatal casualties, occurred in the Galwan heights in the late evening of June 15. The number of casualties, 20 on the Indian side was the highest since 1967, and included that of a high ranking Colonel of the Bihar Regiment. The number of casualties on the Chinese side has not been formally indicated, though they have conceded that at least one Colonel was among those killed.  No aberration With this incident, it should have been obvious that the die was cast as regards the future of China-India relations. Nevertheless, there was a flicker of hope when apparently the Corps Commanders of India and China on June 22-23 appeared to reach a “mutual consensus” to disengage and embark on lowering “tensions” through a “gradual and verifiable disengagement”. This proved shortlived, with the Chinese post in the Galwan area not only being restored, but also, from satellite images available, bigger in size than before.  What occurred in the Galwan heights on June 15, must not, hence, be viewed as an aberration. It would be more judicious to view it as signifying a new and fractious phase in China-India relations. Even if the situation reverts to what existed in mid-April (highly unlikely), India-China relations appear set to witness a “new and different normal”.  The debate on the Indian side has so far been largely limited to China’s perfidy in violating the status quo. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh for instance, accused China of “brazenly and illegally seeking to claim parts of Indian Territory such as the Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso”. Adding spice to the debate was the Prime Minister’s statement at an all-party meeting on June 19 to discuss the border issue, that “there was no intruder on our land now and no post in anyone’s custody”, which raised the Opposition’s hackles.  China’s reaction has been consistent — India must move out of Galwan. This is something that India cannot ignore any longer. What took place in the Galwan heights cannot be viewed as a mere replay of what took place in Depsang (2013), Chumar (2014) and Doklam (2017). This is a new and different situation and India must not shrink from addressing the core issue that relations between India and China are in a perilous state.  China’s assertion of its claim to the whole of the Galwan Valley needs close and careful analysis. For one, Point 14 gives China a virtual stranglehold over the newly completed, and strategically significant, Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie Road, which leads on to the Karakoram Pass. For another, the strategic implications for India of China’s insistence on keeping the whole of the Galwan Valley are serious as it fundamentally changes the status quo. Finally, by laying claim to the Galwan Valley, China has reopened some of the issues left over from the 1962 conflict, and demonstrates that it is willing to embark on a new confrontation.  Ambiguity has existed regarding the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in this sector; the Chinese “claim line” is that of November 1959, while for India the LAC is that of September 1962. In recent years, both sides had refrained from reopening the issue, but China has never given up its claims. By its unilateral declaration now, China is seeking to settle the matter in its favour. India needs to measure up to this challenge.  Importance of Aksai Chin A charge that could be levelled against successive administrations in Delhi in recent years is that while China has consistently asserted its claims over the whole of Aksai Chin, India has chosen to overlook China’s more recent postures in this region. The importance of Aksai Chin for China has greatly increased of late, as it provides direct connectivity between two of the most troubled regions of China, viz., Xinjiang and Tibet. This does not seem to have been adequately factored in to our calculations. While Indian policy makers saw the reclassification of Ladakh as purely an internal matter, they overlooked the fact that for China’s military planners, the carving out of Ladakh into a Union Territory (followed later by Home Minister Amit Shah’s statement last year laying claim to the whole of Aksai Chin) posited a threat to China’s peace and tranquillity. On intelligence assessment It is in this context, that questions are now being raised about the failure of intelligence. It is axiomatic that leaders make better decisions when they have better information, and the enduring value of intelligence comes from this fundamental reality. Admittedly, the timing and nature of China’s actions should have aroused keen interest in intelligence circles about China’s strategic calculations. The Chinese build-up in the Galwan Valley, Pangong Tso and Hotsprings-Gogra did not require any great intelligence effort, since there was little attempt at concealment by the Chinese. India also possesses high quality imagery intelligence (IMINT) and signals intelligence (SIGINT) capabilities, distributed between the National Technical Research Organisation, the Directorate of Signals Intelligence of the Ministry of Defence and other agencies, which made it possible to track Chinese movement.  Where, perhaps, intelligence can be faulted is with regard to inadequate appreciation of what the build-up meant, and what it portended for India. This is indicative of a weakness in interpretation and analysis of the intelligence available, as also an inability to provide a coherent assessment of China’s real intentions. Intelligence assessment of China’s intentions, clearly fell short of what was required. It is at the same time true that while India’s technological capabilities for intelligence collection have vastly increased in recent years, the capacity for interpretation and analysis has not kept pace with this. Advances in technology, specially Artificial Intelligence have, across the world, greatly augmented efforts at intelligence analysis. It is a moot point whether such skills were employed in this instance.  The failure to decipher China’s intentions in time is no doubt unfortunate, but it has to be understood that deciphering China’s intentions, understanding the Chinese mind (which tends to be contextual and relational), and trying to make sense of Chinese thinking, are an extremely difficult task at any time. Even so, since last year when China’s economy began to show signs of a decline followed by the COVID-19 pandemic, China is known to have become extremely sensitive to what it perceived as efforts by others to exploit its weakness. It has often felt compelled to demonstrate that no nation should attempt to exploit the situation to China’s disadvantage. India’s intelligence and policy analysts obviously failed to analyse this aspect adequately, while trying to make sense of China’s latest forward push. Another of China’s current preoccupation, viz. that India is feeling emboldened because of its growing strategic alignment with the United States, should also have been adequately considered by the analysts, in any assessment of putative Chinese responses.  The principal responsibility for intelligence assessment and analysis concerning China, rests with the National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS) and India’s external intelligence agency, the Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW), and to a lesser extent, the Defence Intelligence Agency. It may not, perhaps, be wrong to surmise that the decision of the NSCS to dismantle the Joint Intelligence Committee has contributed to a weakening of the intelligence assessment system. In the case of the R&AW, lack of domain expertise, and an inadequacy of China specialists might also have been a contributory factor.  Limitations of summit meets We cannot also minimise the adverse impact of certain policy imperatives. For one, the preference given recently to Summit diplomacy over traditional foreign policy making structures proved to be a severe handicap. Summit diplomacy cannot be a substitute for carefully structured foreign office policy making. Any number of instances of this nature are available. Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain of Great Britain was one of the earliest victims of Summit diplomacy. The disastrous meeting between Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and U.S. President Richard Nixon had long-term adverse implications for India-U.S. relations. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and U.S. President George W. Bush did establish a rapport through frequent Summit meetings, but this was the exception rather than the rule. Currently, India’s Summit diplomacy has tended to marginalise the External Affairs Ministry with regard to policy making, and we are probably paying a price for it. As it is, the Ministry of External Affairs’s (MEA) stock of China experts seems to be dwindling, and its general tilt towards the U.S. in most matters, has resulted in an imbalance in the way the MEA perceives problems and situations. M.K. Narayanan is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||P.V. Narasimha Rao, the subversive insider||P.V. Narasimha Rao was, arguably, the first accidental Prime Minister of India. He was also an accidental Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh. Very few, if any, foresaw Rao to be Prime Minister in 1991. No one had expected him to become the Chief Minister of his State about two decades before that. Once in office, on both occasions, Rao brought in reforms that fundamentally changed the destiny of Andhra Pradesh and India. Rao, who would have turned 99 on Sunday, was essentially a mute rebel, intensely uncomfortable with the socio-economic ethos around him. The rebel in him was not in enough measure to make him an outsider, but was sufficient to mount an intellectual challenge from the inside. A combination of his discomfort with the status quo and his unwillingness to roll up his sleeves for an open fight turned him into a subversive insider. In both his roles as Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh and Prime Minister, he subverted the very structures that he was a definite yet uneasy beneficiary of. More than anything else subversion defines his long, successful but unspectacular political career. Temperamentally he preferred to avoid open fights. His inclination was for negotiation, compromise or, at best, a crafty rearguard action. This perhaps enabled him to occupy strategic positions and carry out his project, but surely left him with no passionate following or a die-hard political constituency that owns him. In the event, this personality trait subverted his own place in the popular mind of India. As Chief Minister, he dismantled the political and economic power of the large feudal land-owning class, but without any grandstanding. He did not try to portray his measures as an all-out assault on the archaic structures of economic and social control. But they indeed were. His land reforms gradually squeezed the surplus capital out of the rural economy. That capital made its way into trade, industry and urban areas. The economic landscape of Andhra Pradesh was never the same again. This was an unlikely subversion because Rao was a member of that very land-owning class. The 1991 economic project His political rise owed much to the decline of regional satraps in the Congress system, the rise of its ‘high-command culture’ and the consolidation of the ‘socialistic pattern of society’ as its creed. However, as Prime Minister and Congress President, Rao defanged that arrogant culture and obliterated its socialist creed. His liberalisation-privatisation-globalisation programme unleashed economic and social forces that changed India beyond recognition from what it was until then. The policy departures under his watch hurtled India into a different and hitherto unfamiliar political economy. Rather than describing it as an attempt to upend the Nehruvian legacy, he laboured to portray it as a continuation of Jawaharlal Nehru’s vision and Rajiv Gandhi’s dream — another characteristic subversive manoeuvre, not a frontal attack. The economic paradigm that he introduced then remains unchallenged even today. Since he left office, every major political formation in the country participated in successive Central governments or supported them from outside. But none could overturn the fundamentals of his 1991 economic project. Rao’s subversion of the Nehruvian economic doctrine is irreversible. He disagreed with the imposition of Emergency but was reluctant to break ranks and openly defy his party high-command. He made peace with the rebel in him without ceasing to be an insider. He took the help of his friend Nikhil Chakravarthy to vent his dissent. He published a series of articles in Mainstream under the pseudonym ‘A Congressman’. Again, the subversive insider in him answered the call of his conscience by mounting an intellectual challenge to Emergency. His passion for democratic values was evident during the days when the Bharatiya Janata Party was battling ‘political untouchability’. Rao declared that BJP leaders too were elected to Parliament by the same political process as he and others in the Congress were and, therefore, one had to do business with them. That view was no less than blasphemy in the Congress of those days. Shaping a new India Rao learnt to keep quiet in about a dozen languages. He never claimed credit for his successes in the Punjab, Assam, Kashmir, and for dousing the fires of the Mandal agitation. He did not effectively defend himself when accused of inaction during the Ayodhya episode. He did not cultivate a regional, caste, ideological constituency. Nor did he cultivate a personal following. He stayed away from patron-client politics. Rejecting him, therefore, is no slight to any region, caste, or an ideological constituency. His party could easily disown him without fear of backlash. Today, no group owns or claims him as its own. Celebrating his achievements has no rewards; denouncing him has no punishment; ignoring him has no penalty. There is no one to celebrate his achievements in life; no one to bemoan his humiliation in death; no one to make a spirited demand for awarding the Bharat Ratna to him. Perhaps his subversive streak did not spare his own legacy. The Telangana government has begun celebrating his birth centenary on a grand scale. One hopes that its efforts would reclaim Rao’s rightful place in the popular consciousness of the new India that he helped shape. Parakala Prabhakar is former Communications Adviser to the Government of Andhra Pradesh and Managing Director of RightFOLIO, a Hyderabad-based knowledge enterprise
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||In border claims, reimagining South Asia’s boundaries||Even during this period of social distancing and public lockdown, claims and counterclaims over territories in and around the Kalapani region (located at the tri-junction between northern India, western Nepal and southern China/Tibet) have resurfaced to become an issue that has embroiled India and Nepal in a political debate; it is now gravitating towards a confrontational trend of popular politics. Therefore, it is pertinent to look at our South Asian mentalities as to how such disputes are “handled” rather than “addressed” within the given dispensation of South Asian statecraft. State as sole arbiter One of the major problems of South Asian politics is that it has to flow from within a state-centric paradigm. State-centrism, within the assumption of a South Asia, has given the state structure the propriety to be the sole arbiter of disputes, if any, among communities and regions falling within the territorial limits of nation states. It is the state that articulates, defines, and represents “national” interests in negotiations with other states. Experience suggests that states in South Asia consecrate political boundaries as the “natural” shield even in the arbitration of South Asian affairs. Interestingly, this “realist” fashion of statecraft happens to be the dominant South Asian pattern within which territorial boundaries are valued more than lives, livelihoods and the well-being of the people located at the edges of nation states. “Patriotism” looms large as and when inter-state relationships are viewed through the statist lens, although “jingoism” might be missing. Myopic hostility, real or imagined, is used as the governing principle in the arbitration of territorial disputes across South Asia. Contested idea Basically, the term “region” seems to be a contested idea in a South Asian context as none of the South Asian states has ever recognised and respected the idea of regional identity or regional politics, while becoming suspicious of such natural cleavages in politics. Given that this is a reality, how could one even think of South Asia as a region to reckon with? One must understand that South Asia is perhaps the most natural regional grouping of states around the world. And, at the same time, it is also the most difficult and contested grouping. South Asia needs to be rethought, not as a region of states, but as a region of regions. As such it demonstrates itself more as a borderland that needs to be cultivated out of contact zones which exist beyond the limits of territorial boundaries shared by the member-states. Life here is fluid Such a perspective is necessary in order to address the contemporary crisis that has emerged from the Kalapani dispute. There is a need to go beyond the popular debates (couched in the language of “myopic hostility”) revolving around such “troubling” questions such as: how much area has been “encroached” upon by which state and on what basis. Such questions appear to be “normal” in the way a “statist paradigm” deals with the issue; but they seem to be “troubling”, if not “haunting”, questions to those who are to maintain their lifeworld at those zones which are inexplicable to a “realist” or a “neo-realist” statist paradigm. South Asian life, essentially at the edges of the nation state, is bound to be fluid because the boundary, which confirms the territorial limits of a nation state, is at the same time the affirmed threshold of another nation state. In a certain sense, the people living at the edges of nation states within South Asia do not actually belong to any of the two nation states. Or in other words, they belong to both the states at the same time. Non-sedentary practices define their life courses, while switching positionalities animate their aspiration of belonging. Plurality, differences and inclusivity bring coherence to borderland ontology; they defy the logic of singular, unifying, exclusive identities that the nation states privilege. Impact on cooperation Howsoever real the “realist” positions may be, borderlands act as natural vessels to de-essentialise the statist paradigm. As places of habitation, such spaces are more real than what the “realist” positions of statecraft might make out of them — for those who live in them. Administrative treaties and tribunals represent them as spatial categories; but as lived spaces, they hardly fit into the protocols of a statist paradigm. This is crucial especially when we know that as countries, both India and Nepal not only share cultural and civilisational backgrounds but also an “officially” recognised porous border. Unless both India and Nepal agree to see the reality beyond the gaze of the statist paradigm, they are going to endanger the future of other regional experiments such as the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) or the Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal (BBIN) sub-regional initiative. South Asian states need to realise the difference between “regional cooperation” merely as advocacy and as an issue that demands self-approval and self-promotion. There is every likelihood that South Asian countries would remain busy in making tall claims of regional cooperation while closing all doors of recognising difference and mutual tolerance. In the commotion that ensues, powerful countries operating within and beyond the orbit of South Asia might become successful in establishing their control by using the same token of “regional cooperation” as an issue of realpolitik. Both India and Nepal, and for that matter, other South Asian countries need to rethink South Asia as a region of regions before they submit to the enticements of a new language of “regional cooperation” — one that is ontologically empty but materially more rewarding. Region and regional identity are not just issues of “realpolitik” in South Asia; rather, the need is to “officially” accommodate this rather naturally drafted way of doing politics, if we are genuinely concerned about South Asian geopolitics.  Swatahsiddha Sarkar is the Director of the Centre for Himalayan Studies, University of North Bengal, Darjeeling, West Bengal
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Governments should not aid media extinction||Craig Silverman, media editor for BuzzFeed News, described the pandemic as a “media extinction event”. The news industry is facing threats to its freedom, and journalists are facing threats to their safety. Apart from facing continuing digital disruptions, the news industry is also facing the consequences of the economic meltdown, which is affecting the revenue stream. Many newsrooms are reporting lay-offs, furloughs and closures caused by COVID-19. The growing online culture will have a lasting impact on the news ecology. When the news media is subjected to an unprecedented strain, it is fair to expect governments not to add new burdens. In his insightful essay in Foreign Policy, Jeffrey Smith and Nic Cheeseman said authoritarians are exploiting the crisis we’re in, and democracies must not follow suit. They wrote: “The seemingly endless cascade of dire headlines has overwhelmed citizens globally, triggering inherent survival mechanisms and leading people to focus on the health and safety of those closest to us. Into the void created by this uncertainty — in which fear has often trumped reason — stride the world’s authoritarian leaders.” Governments across the world are using the pandemic to undermine free media. Three disturbing developments Let us look at three disturbing developments in India. The first is the new Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) media policy. The 53-page document is aimed at “creating a sustained narrative on the functioning of the government in media”. Among the provisions which seek to regulate reporting in J&K is a mechanism that empowers the government to decide what is “anti-social” and “anti-national” news. An editorial in The Indian Express , ‘‘Ministry of Truth”, explained how this policy is an affront and will have chilling effect on any voice other than the official one. Journalists in J&K have characterised this policy as more restrictive than colonial-era censorship mechanisms. The second is the FIR filed by the Uttar Pradesh Police against Supriya Sharma, Executive Editor of Scroll.in , for her report on the impact of the lockdown on the Prime Minister’s constituency, Varanasi. While condemning the FIR, the Editors Guild of India stated that the use of Sections of the IPC and the SC/ST Act and the use of criminal provisions of the law against journalists has become “an unhealthy and despicable trend that has no place in any vibrant democracy”. It rightly concluded that “the increasing frequency of such misuse of laws by the authorities is tantamount to shooting the messenger and destroying a key pillar of India’s democracy.” What Scroll.in published was a fine piece of journalism and journalists who believe in core values extend their solidarity. The third is the state broadcaster Prasar Bharati’s threat to cancel its subscription to Press Trust of India, alleging that the news agency’s recent coverage was “detrimental to national interest” and undermined India’s “territorial integrity”. Prasar Bharati claimed it has supported PTI by paying a “huge” annual fee running into crores for years. It also accused PTI of being rigid on the issue of rationalisation of the subscription fee. PTI is a news agency that provides news to subscribers such as the mainstream media, companies, and several government and non-government organisations. Prasar Bharati is among PTI’s biggest subscribers. At a time when the media industry is vulnerable, there seems to be a method behind the government’s moves to weaken the media. The media provides credible news and offers space for multiple views and ideas, but the powers that be want to create and push a singular narrative. They want their tall claims and spurious achievements to be presented as the gospel truth. There is a systematic attack against the act of verification. The attack is multi-pronged. While the state comes up with FIRs, a powerful, omnipresent troll army indulges in character assassination. Former Foreign Secretary Shyam Saran, in his lead article titled “The myopia of 20/20 hindsight” (June 26, 2020), expressed his utmost sadness at the fact that foreign policy, too, has fallen victim to very narrow and cynical jousting in domestic politics. It is important for governments to realise that the human desire for democratic liberties, including access to fact-based journalism, can never be extinguished. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The Mapillah uprising||With the centenary of the Mapillah rebellion of 1921 fast approaching, controversy has erupted over Malayalam movie projects commemorating what was arguably the greatest challenge to British rule between the great uprising of 1857 and the Quit India movement of 1942. Right-wing radicals have launched attacks on social media against actor Prithviraj Sukumaran after he announced his role as the lead actor in the film Variyamkunnan that celebrates the life and exploits of Variyamkunnath Kunhahamed Haji, a leading figure in the Mapillah revolt against British rule. The controversy surrounding the Mapillah uprising demonstrates that in the case of most important historical events no single narrative is accepted by all sections of society. There are multiple narratives propounded by people of different ideological persuasions. More often than not these divergent perspectives are shaped by the proponents’ current political projects and their preferred visions of their societies’ future. Frequently, it is not history that determines the present and the future but the political preferences of contemporary actors that dictates the reading of history at the popular level. The Mapillah uprising is no exception to this rule. On the one hand, people of secular and nationalist persuasions see it as a major instance of resistance to British colonial rule. On the other, people of the Hindutva persuasion revile it as an example of ingrained Muslim hatred against Hindus. Both these perceptions are based on single-factor explanations of a very complex phenomenon. The rebellion can be understood only if one discards ideological blinkers. It is an excellent example of the veracity of the assertion that important historical events always have multiple causes and do not occur in a social, economic, and political vacuum. The revolt The immediate trigger of the uprising was the Non-Cooperation Movement launched by the Congress in 1920 in tandem with the Khilafat agitation. The Malabar Congress, many of whose leaders were Nairs, was the most active participant in these twin agitations with several Hindu leaders addressing Khilafat gatherings. The anti-British sentiment fuelled by these agitations found fertile ground among the Muslim Mapillahs of south Malabar living in economic misery which they blamed in large part on British rule. The British had introduced new tenancy laws that tremendously favoured the landlords and instituted a far more exploitative system than before. The pre-British relations between landlords and tenants were based on a code that provided the tenants a decent share of the produce. The new laws deprived them of all guaranteed rights to the land and its produce and in effect rendered them landless. This change created enormous resentment among the tenants against British rule. The fact that most of the landlords were Namboodiri Brahmins while most of the tenants were Mapillah Muslims compounded the problem. The Nairs formed an intermediate grouping of well-off peasantry with their own economic and social grudges against the Namboodiri landlords but largely unsympathetic to the economic travails of the Mapillahs. The spark that lit the fire The Non-Cooperation Movement combined with the Khilafat agitation provided the spark that lit the fire of Mapillah revolt against the British rulers and their Hindu landlords. The fiery speeches by Muslim religious leaders that accompanied the Khilafat movement added to the religious fervour of an already desperate peasantry and fuelled their ire against the British and the Hindu landlords leading to the atrocities committed by a segment of the mobilised Mapillahs against Hindus regardless of caste. Non-partisan analyses of the uprising make clear that multiple factors contributed to the character of the movement. These included economic distress, anger against foreign rule and the tenancy laws it instituted, and religious zeal. But above all it was an agrarian revolt that simultaneously took on the garb of anti-colonialism and religious fanaticism. Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Brief reprieve||According to reports in Pakistan and India, the Financial Action Task Force, the global watchdog group, has decided to grant Pakistan and other countries on its watch list a three-month extension on fulfilling commitments, in view of the pandemic. Pakistan was placed on the grey list or “increased monitoring” list in June 2018, and given time until October 2019, in order to complete a 27-point action plan on countering terror finance and anti-money laundering. Failing that, it would be put on the black list of “high-risk jurisdictions” facing severe financial sanctions. This means that in effect, Pakistan will have had at least one extra year to meet its deadlines, despite the fact that it has only completed about 14 points so far. The remainder is still a tall order, and includes improving mechanisms to curb terror financing, amending laws to curb ‘Hawala’ transactions and placing sanctions against cash couriers who facilitate terror groups, completing the prosecution of groups banned by the UNSC, and converting madrassas run by them into formal schools. Each item demands more accountability by Pakistan on terror groups, as well as a shift within its ruling establishment on the benefits of allowing such groups to exist at all. Despite this being Pakistan’s third stint on the FATF watch list (prior occasions were in 2008 and 2012-2015), there is little evidence that it has yet internalised that message. In a U.S. report on terrorism released last week, Pakistan remains a “safe haven” for most UN proscribed groups. The report also adds that its steps to prosecute certain leaders of JeM and LeT are inadequate. In the past year, Pakistan has pursued indictments against LeT leaders, but not on serious charges, and even 26/11 mastermind Hafiz Saeed has only been convicted for “being part of a banned terrorist outfit” and for “having illegal property”. Meanwhile, LeT operations commanders Zaki Ur Rehman Lakhvi, Sajid Mir, and JeM chief Masood Azhar appear to be at large. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s reference in its Parliament to al-Qaeda founder Osama Bin Laden as a “martyr” underlines the establishment’s attitude to these groups. Pakistan’s failed attempt to have the UNSC designate four Indians as terrorists last week — it was vetoed by the U.S. — speaks to its lack of credibility on the issue. Pakistan is counting on its role in facilitating the Afghanistan peace deal by pushing Taliban leaders to participate in order to mitigate its troubles at the FATF, and with support from countries keen to conclude the Afghan deal, may even ensure a few more extensions for its government. Eventually, given the rigorous FATF action plan, and the combined pressure of countries in the group, Pakistan would do well to realise that only clear and consistent actions would free it from the commitments at the FATF. In any case, giving a free rein to terror groups cannot be in its own interest.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Letter and spirit||New domicile rules that followed the termination of the special constitutional status of Jammu and Kashmir, which was reorganised into two Union Territories, have brought succour and hope for a segment of its population that had to contend with fragmented citizenship rights for long. This group, of two to three lakh people, is made up of refugees from Pakistan, sanitary workers resettled from other parts of India and Gorkhas who arrived as soldiers before Independence. The erstwhile State of J&K gained special powers to define its ‘permanent residents’ and restrict land, educational and employment rights only to them. This cohort was not classified as permanent residents, leading to a denial of opportunities to them in education, employment and politics — a situation not merely unjust but also untenable. Subsequent to changes to Articles 370 and 35A in August 2019, in March 2020, the concept of “permanent resident of the State” was discontinued in J&K. As per the new domicile rules, those persons and their children who have resided for 15 years in J&K, or have studied for seven years and appeared in the Class X or XII exam in an educational institution in the UT, are eligible for grant of domicile. Besides mitigating the historical deprivation of one segment, the changes will enable many others currently living in J&K to get domicile and associated rights. Not everyone is rejoicing, though. There are concerns that the changes in domicile rules will lead to a huge influx into the region; a more uncharitable interpretation is that a deliberate scheme to change the demographic character of the region is unfolding. The National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party, both Valley-based parties, have reiterated their opposition to the changes. In the Jammu region also, there are concerns that there could be dispossession of land and a shrinking of economic opportunities for local people. Movement of people across political and natural borders has been a constant feature of progress, and arguments over who are the original inhabitants of a place serve little purpose other than to accentuate political polarisation. Economic growth and vitality of a society often positively correlate with its openness towards the outside world. Communities that are not equipped to negotiate with unfamiliar market and cultural forces need some insulation. It is arguable that with relatively high rates of literacy, education and material standards, J&K is not susceptible to any demographic or economic takeover by immigrants. Movement into the region will be largely driven by economic reasons. A state-driven reengineering of the demography of any place is not desirable or democratic, but the fear of such a scenario is no good reason to retreat into a cocoon of nativism.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Yahya’s visit to Moscow||Pakistan has already obtained substantial quantities of arms from the Soviet Union and though its appetite for arms is still keen, President Yahya Khan’s latest visit to Moscow seems to have been more concerned with economic aid. Pakistan has been receiving generous aid from the international consortium, but its debt service liabilities are very heavy and it has now embarked on an ambitious programme to develop heavy industries. Its Western friends are not happy about the current exchange parity of the Pakistan rupee and are urging a measure of devaluation. Nor have they found the prospects of setting up a steel industry in West Pakistan (there is a small Japanese plant in East Pakistan) very bright and President Yahya Khan has now succeeded in persuading Russia to promise help for setting up a million-tonne plant. As was only to be expected, the Pakistan President also raised during his talks in Moscow the issue of Kashmir, the Farakka Barrage, etc., and insisted that India is adopting an intransigent attitude on disputed matters.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Savings options for the twilight years||Sometimes senior citizens or retired people require guidance on where to put their life’s hard-earned savings and derive a regular flow of income from the capital. There are multiple options. Here are a few: PMVVY The Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana, or PMVVY, is a social security scheme for senior citizens, implemented through the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC). This gives an assured minimum pension. LIC invests the corpus in the market and generates market-related returns. If such returns are lower than the guaranteed return, the differential is subsidised by the Union government. This Scheme has been extended till March 31, 2023. The assured rate of return has been set at 7.4% for 2020-21. Thereafter, it will be reset every year. The minimum investment has been revised to Rs. 1,56,658 for an annually paid pension of Rs. 12,000 and Rs. 1,62,162 for getting a monthly pension of Rs. 1,000. The upper limit is Rs. 15 lakh of initial subscription. The scheme also offers a death benefit in the form of return of purchase amount to the nominee. The minimum entry age for this scheme is 60 years, there is no maximum age limit. The maximum investment allowed per person is Rs. 15 lakh. The PMVVY scheme allows premature withdrawal only in the case of critical and terminal illness. However, only 98% of the purchase price is payable as surrender value in such a case. Loan facility is available against PMVVY after three policy years, up to 75% of the purchase price. There is no special tax benefit. You can buy a PMVVY pension from LIC. Policy term is 10 years. SCSS The interest rate for Senior Citizen Savings Scheme (SCSS), since April 1, 2020, is 7.4%, paid out quarterly. Eligibility age is 60. A depositor may operate more than one account in individual capacity or jointly with spouse. There is an upper limit of Rs. 15 lakh in SCSS, and there is tax benefit under Section 80C of the Income Tax Act. Maturity period is 5 years. The account can be extended for a further period of three years within a year of maturity. Both PMVVY and SCSS are similar. The interest rate is 7.4% (till next revision), and payout is quarterly in the case of SCSS and of your chosen frequency in PMVVY. SCSS has the added advantage of Section 80C tax benefit. If the senior citizen has the funds, he/she should avail of both, subject to the upper limit i.e. Rs. 15 lakh each. Post Office scheme Interest rate for the Post Office Monthly Income Scheme has been reduced to 6.6% since April 1, 2020. The reason that the interest rate is lower than the previous two schemes is that the MIS is for everybody. The government has a special dispensation for senior citizens, and gives a higher return in, say, PMVVY and SCSS. In MIS, the upper limit is Rs. 4.5 lakh in a single account and Rs. 9 lakh in a joint account. Public Provident Fund Usually, PPF is not viewed as a retirement planning avenue. However, in a falling interest rate regime, the factors that need to be considered are: the 15-year term can be extended in blocks of five years i.e. there is no limit on the term of a PPF; interest rate is usually on the higher side compared with the prevailing rate regime, currently it is 7.1%; tax-efficiency of the interest, apart from Section 80C benefit for contribution up to Rs. 1.5 lakh per year. You can also withdraw from the PPF as per rules. Bank deposit This is a popular avenue as it is very simple and easy. The issue is, when interest rates are falling, fresh deposits are made at lower rates. Currently, deposits in State Bank of India for maturity of five to 10 years would fetch 5.4% and for senior citizens, it is 6.2%. There are banks that pay a higher interest rate, but the safety issue has to be kept in mind. Nationalised banks and leading private sector banks are safe but usually safer banks would pay a lower rate of return. Mutual Fund SWP You may invest your money in MF schemes as per suitability i.e. in debt and equity funds. Returns are market driven, there is no guarantee or commitment. A systematic withdrawal plan (SWP) gives you complete flexibility over how much you want to redeem per month/other frequency plus lump sum withdrawal as per requirement. Returns are tax-efficient over a holding period of three years for debt funds and one year for equity funds. In government-oriented schemes, your money gets locked in for that tenure.  (The writer is founder, wiseinvestor.in)
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Miffed? You can change your insurer||Recently, Gaurav Gupta, a 36-year-old professional thought of porting his 4-year-old health insurance plan as he was not happy with the services offered by his current insurer. The dissatisfaction began a few months back with his wife Prerna (34) being hospitalised for a minor gallstone surgery and the insurer refused to pay the full claim amount as there were co-pay and sub-limits attached to the policy, which he was unaware of. His policy had a sub-limit on room rent with the maximum limit of Rs. 5,000/day. However, unaware of the room-rent sub-limit he chose to get his wife admitted in a private suite of the plush hospital that cost him Rs. 12,000/day. Know your co-pay terms As per policy wordings, he had to pay the remaining Rs. 7,000/day from his own pocket. Also, his policy had a mandatory co-pay clause of 10% — meaning Gaurav would have to pay 10% of the total claim from his own pocket. Soon after this experience, Gaurav wanted to change his insurer. However, all porting requests will be subject to underwriting guidelines and every insurer has the complete right to accept or reject a consumer’s port-in request. It has also often been observed that most health insurers are only keen on insuring young and healthy individuals as apparently the chances of their falling ill and filing a claim are quite low. Many insurers, at times, do not accept policy portability requests from those who are old and have poor health conditions. Or at times, they attach numerous clauses and restrictions; as a result, people get discouraged and drop the entire idea of porting their health insurer. There are many things that must be kept in mind before filing for a porting request. As a customer, it is quite important for you to know that when you request for porting, the application undergoes several underwriting procedures and based on findings of these procedures, the insurer approves or rejects your request. You can even port your cover during the ongoing crisis if you are not satisfied with the services of the insurer. The entire process can be done through the digital services offered by the insurer. Enhance sum insured While applying for portability, you must think of enhancing the total sum insured (SI) provided you have a family floater plan with limited sum insured. However, you must know that the increase in SI is totally subject to acceptance by the insurer’s underwriter. While most insurers do not reject the request if the increase is justified i.e. up to 50-70%, requests demanding 100-200% increase in the SI may be rejected by the insurer. It also depends upon the claims made in the past. If the request is made for a claim-free policy, the chances of your request getting approved are quite high. Every health insurance policy comes with a pre-defined waiting period. Usually there are three types of waiting period in a health insurance policy. First, a 30-day waiting period for fresh claims; second, up to two years for some specified ailments and procedures; and third, up to four years for pre-existing illnesses. If you are planning to port, make sure you give due consideration to the new insurer’s waiting period. In most cases, if you have already served the waiting period with the previous insurer, you do not have to again serve the period for the new insurer. If the SI is same as the previous policy, there is no waiting period but if the SI in the new policy is more than in the previous policy, the waiting period applies.  Features offered Always choose a policy that offers both hospitalisation and all day-care procedures without any sub-limits and has no mandatory co-pay feature which means the insurer will pay the entire claim amount up to the sum insured. Always look for a policy that offers the maximum possible benefits such as providing cover for pre and post-hospitalisation expenses.  (The author is health business head, Policybazaar.com)
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Protecting investments||What is SIP with insurance? A few mutual fund houses are offering free, optional, in-built insurance cover to their investors based on their systematic investment plan (SIP) contributions and tenure. The cost of insurance is borne by the fund house. The objective is to encourage their investors to continue their SIP contributions as well as stay invested for the long term. The add-on life cover would help investors achieve their crucial financial goals in the event of the unfortunate death of the investor. Insurance cover usually starts with the commencement of the SIP without need for medical tests. Eligibility criteria Investors aged between 18 and 51 years at the time of investment are eligible for the SIP plus insurance scheme. In case of multiple holders, only the first holder will be eligible for the insurance cover. Examples of products on offer are ICICI Prudential SIP Plus, Aditya Birla Sun Life Century SIP and Nippon India SIP Insure. Maximum life cover on offer is Rs. 50 lakh.     How it works Fund houses place different terms and conditions regarding the minimum and maximum tenure for availing the SIP plus Insurance bundled product. The continuity of the life insurance cover is typically capped at 55-60 years of age. The cover terminates as the investor reaches the maximum age. The value of cover is a multiple of your SIP instalment: 10 times for year 1, 50 times for year 2, and 100 times for year 3. A higher SIP amount gets you higher cover.  Is the combination worth it? The primary objective of investing in mutual funds is to achieve one’s financial goals and create wealth as per one’s investment horizon, risk appetite and asset allocation strategy. Hence, one should invest in the mutual fund schemes offering free life cover only if the schemes have a track record of beating their benchmarks and peer funds in the past and have potential to continue to do so in the future. The availability of free life cover should never influence the decision to invest in or redeem these funds. Investors should also adequately enhance their life covers through regular term insurance plans at periodic intervals without factoring in the free life cover provided by the bundled MF plus insurance products.  (Credit: Paisabazaar.com)
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Claiming medical insurance Q.I am a retired employee of the Andhra Pradesh government. I am covered under the government’s Arogyasri programme. About a year ago, my wife underwent a hysterectomy which cost about Rs. 2 lakh. I was reimbursed only Rs. 35,000 as per norms. My wife and I had taken a private health insurance policy for Rs. 5 lakh. My question is whether I can claim from both Arogyasri and the private health insurance company schemes for the medical expenses incurred?   GURUJALA RAGHAVA REDDY A.Arogyasri operates like a hospitalisation expenses indemnity policy, that is, expenses are reimbursed against bills and treatment is cashless if availed in a network hospital. So, if you have an additional cover in the form of a hospitalisation policy from an insurance company, you will be able to make a claim under both as you have to submit bills. Arogyasri is a mass health insurance scheme for beneficiaries defined by their lower income, and has restrictions on claim amounts which has meant, in your experience, that all your expenses may not be forthcoming as claims. So, while you can claim under Arogyasri where the expense is within its limits, you will have the option of claiming it from your personal policy in hospitalisations which cost above what Arogyasri allows. Multiple policies, multiple claims Q.Can one buy more than one term life insurance policy? If I have, say, two or more term life policies of different sums assured from the same or different insurers then, in the case of any disability or loss of life, will my dependent/nominee be paid the claim from any one of the policies or all of them? Is this also applicable to health insurance? ROHIT YADAV A.There is no bar on the number of term life policies one can purchase. When you buy a policy, you have the responsibility to disclose to the life insurance company details of other life policies you already have. Insurers take into account your income, future income potential and premium-paying capacity before issuing policies as there is a notional limit on the total amount of life insurance you can hold. Once you do have two or more term life policies, all of them will pay the sum assured to your nominee should you pass away. If there is a disability clause or rider, then those claims will be paid to you as per policy terms. A hospitalisation policy will not work like this. If you have two hospitalisation policies you cannot claim from both for the same incident. If you exhaust the sum assured under one and still have unpaid expenses, then you can claim under the other in sequence. If all you want is more sum insured, then you can opt for a basic hospitalisation policy combined with a top-up or super top-up policy to enhance your cover. In this case you can exhaust your sum insured under the basic policy and proceed to claim under the top-up or super top-up policy according to terms and conditions. All these claims will be against bills, so the coverage will be supplementary and not overlapping. Should you have a hospitalisation policy and a benefit policy like a critical illness or personal accident policy, then you can claim all expenses under the hospitalisation policy as per its terms and conditions and claim the full sum insured under the critical illness policy or personal accident policy provided the hospitalisation is due to a covered peril, namely one of the named critical illnesses or an accident.     (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)
29 June 2020||ROME,||Lazio cuts Juve’s lead||Serie A leading scorer Ciro Immobile converted a contentious second-half penalty to set second-placed Lazio on the way to a 2-1 comeback win over Fiorentina that kept it four points behind leader Juventus on Saturday. Franck Ribery stunned the host when the 37-year-old put Fiorentina ahead with a solo goal in the 25th minute, slipping between two defenders, then gliding past a third before past Thomas Strakosha. Contentious Lazio was struggling to find a way past Fiorentina’s defence until Felipe Caicedo went down under a challenge from goalkeeper Bartlomiej Dragowski and Immobile converted his 28th goal of the season from the spot in the 67th minute. However, replays suggested that Caicedo fell before any contact was made. Luis Alberto grabbed the winner with seven minutes left, to leave Lazio with 65 points from 28 games with Juve on 69. Staying firm Atletico Madrid beat Alaves 2-1 at home in LaLiga to maintain its superb run of form since the season resumed, recording a fourth straight win to further tighten the hold on third place. Atletico has 58 points after 32 games, with the win extending the advantage over fourth-placed Sevilla by four points.  The results: LaLiga: Levante 4 (Mayoral 21, Bardhi 35, Morales 50, Rochina 59) bt Real Betis 2 (Canales 70, Juanmi 87).     Saturday: Osasuna 2 (Gallego 9, 90+6) bt Leganes 1 (Aviles 50); Atletico Madrid 2 (Niguez 59, Costa 73-pen) bt Alaves 1 (Joselu 90+3-pen).   Serie A: Saturday: Brescia 2 (Donnarumma 10, Semprini 13) drew with Genoa 2 (Falque 38-pen, Pinamonti 70-pen); Cagliari 4 (Nandez 12, Simeone 17, Nianggolan 46, Pedro 69-pen) bt Torino 2 (Bremer 60, Belotti 65); Lazio 2 (Immobile 67-pen, Alberto 83) bt Fiorentina 1 (Ribery 25) .
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indians can flourish with exposure: Cahill||Former Australia and Jamshedpur FC striker Tim Cahill believes Indian football’s young talents can flourish with systematic exposure at the top level. Cahill, who brought his sterling career to an end following his stint with the Jamshedpur-based side in the 2018-19 season of the Indian Super League (ISL), said his experience convinced him that India has what it takes to excel on the continental and world stages. “Indian talents just need more games, get them playing all the time and competing and when they go into international fixtures, you (will) see that they can handle the pressure,” Cahill was quoted as saying by Star Sports Football United according to the Asian Football Federation website. The 40-year-old said India is moving in the right direction. “The ISL and the leagues that are being played with its infrastructure are great and the only thing that the game needs more than anything is unity. Everyone is flowing in the same direction to get to that one goal — which is to win an AFC Asian Cup title, to reach the World Cup and help women’s football and to develop your own leagues.” Cahill’s spell at Jamshedpur was cut short to 11 matches due to injury but the Australian legend has fond memories of his time with The Red Miners.  Indian talents just need more games, get them playing all the time and competing
29 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||National badminton camp looks uncertain||The proposed National camp for shuttlers here from July 1 is unlikely to go ahead, according to a top official of the Sports Authority of Telangana State. “The shuttlers may have to wait a little longer to return to the Academies. Given the mood after a review meeting of the top officials here on Sunday, it is highly unlikely that the Government will relax any of the restrictions,” the official told The Hindu.  “The Government might even reimpose the lockdown from next week given the growing number of COVID-19 cases,” said the official. The SATS official revealed that no one from the Badminton Association of India had approached them regarding the National camp though, in all probability, it was going be held at the Gopi Academy. “We only came to know about it [camp] through the media. However, any decision in this regard should be in tune with the Government’s final call,” he said. Many shuttlers are desperate to resume training after a three-month break due to the lockdown as most of them hail from the city. On the other hand, the officials want to avoid a situation where a top athlete tests positive after the sports complexes are re-opened as there is no guarantee of someone not being affected by the virus despite the safety guidelines.
29 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Story-telling keeps Mir Ranjan Negi busy||There was a time when Mir Ranjan Negi shut his ears to the taunts about betraying his country, following the Delhi Asian Games 1982 hockey final debacle against Pakistan. India lost 1-7 in the match for the gold, and the goalkeeper got the stick. These days, as the world is shaking itself up from inertia following the lock down, the voice of this ex-international was music to the ears of listeners in home-town Indore. Audio narrative He hosted a five-minute audio narrative for Acropolis Group of Institutions over 45 days, telling stories on diverse topics — from sporting achievers to life skills. Olympic pistol-shooter Mohinder Lal, hockey star Dhanraj Pillay, hockey World Cupper Yuvraj Walmiki were examples cited. The audience for this 7 a.m. talk show included students, parents and school management. He said: “Mohinder Lal, who retired as DIG (Border Security Force), is a reputed pistol shooter so focused that once during a national championship when the pistol sight broke off, he blocked negative vibes and shot his way to the gold medal. I met him first due to a close friendship with brother Kulbhushan, my classmate at the Christian College (Indore).” Dhanraj’s rise in world hockey from a humble background, Yuvraj chasing dreams living in a shack were other popular narratives. Negi’s own story, recovering from the Delhi disgrace scars to transforming into a successful India women’s coach, was reflected in scenes from Chak de India, a hockey theme movie. It was followed by a part in Jhalak Dikhala Ja, a celebrity TV dance show. Recovery “I did my part in the goal for India over many tournaments, one bad match turned my world into a nightmare. I recovered to coach the national team, guiding the girls to victory at Asia Cup (Delhi) and the Afro-Asian Games (Hyderabad),” he said. Moving base to Indore after a hockey career with Mumbai Customs, he helps out the MP organisation’s sports and cultural wing.
29 June 2020||Chennai,||Teenager Aashi shortlisted for FIA project||Mumbai’s Aashi Hanspal has been shortlisted for FIA’s ambitious ‘Girls on Track-Rising Stars’ project, FMSCI announced here on Sunday. The 13-year-old has been selected along with 19 others in the 12-16 age-group of 70 entries from five continents. As the first step, she will take part in the ‘Shoot Out’ at the Paul Ricard Circuit in France on October 12 and 13. “Should you be successful, you will join our training camps, and potentially have the opportunity to become Team Ferrari’s first-ever female driver obtaining a partnership agreement with the Ferrari Driver Academy, including participation in an FIA Formula 4 racing season,” Michele Mouton, president of the FIA Women in Motorsport Commission, said in her letter to Aashi. Productive season Coached by eight-time National car racing champion Rayomand Banajee at the Rayo Racing Academy in Mumbai, Aashi recorded five podium finishes in her maiden National karting season last year and was conferred the ‘Outstanding Women in Motorsports Award’ by FMSCI for her podium placings. Speaking to The Hindu , Rayo said, “Aashi, who started less than a year ago, definitely has a lot of potential. This is a massive opportunity one can only dream of. “She will definitely have to increase her efforts as there will be intense competition.” Sita Raina, Chairperson of FMSCI’s Women in Motorsports Commission, said: “Aashi has shown her mettle during the last season and has the potential to become a star. This is a great moment for women in Indian motorsport.”
29 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Will take time to adapt: Sharath||India’s top paddler A. Sharath Kamal said that while the COVID-19 pandemic has cast a gloom over the nation, it is his responsibility as a sportsperson to spread positivity. “We have the capacity to motivate youngsters,” Sharath said during a webinar ‘Future of sports post-COVID-19’, organised by Sports Dunk on Saturday. The multiple-time Commonwealth Games medallist stated that the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) prescribed by the Sports Authority of India (SAI) for table tennis — having a different-coloured ball for each player, and playing on alternate tables — was not practical. “Firstly, your mind should be comfortable. I should be able to focus in practice. I think it will take time for us to adapt. The International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) had asked whether players can play with gloves. This will be difficult for a senior like me. It is a matter of trial and error,” Sharath said. Counselling L. Balaji, former India cricketer and Chennai Super Kings bowling coach, said that since the pandemic-inflicted layoff is likely to have hit the under-16 and 19 juniors hardest, they are in need of counselling. “Older players might have found ways to handle the situation, but juniors need to be counselled. Mental and psychological counselling is important,” Balaji said. R. Murali Krishna, former India basketball captain, said it is important to engage oneself in a constructive manner. “We have to divert our mind.” Bored Coach Rajath Kamal, a former video analyst with the Indian table tennis team, said players of his academy have become bored with online coaching. “We are finding it difficult to engage them as they have not trained for more than three months. For intermediate players, it will be tough,”
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Riya looking ahead with confidence||Riya Bhatia is looking forward to using her yoga techniques and meditation, when tennis resumes. In an online chat with coach M. Balachandran, 22-year-old Riya — who won back to back National titles on hard and grass courts — said that she is getting better under the guidance of coach Stephen Koon in Thailand. “I have been able to improve my fitness. I was happy doing 108 suryanamaskar s on the yoga day. It felt like I had accomplished something,” said Riya. “I have learnt a lot of new techniques and have seen the changes in me after the meditation. I am now looking forward to the matches,” she said. Looking back, Riya recalled that she used to play table tennis with her parents and developed interest in tennis as the courts were near home. Bopanna’s help Riya has also had help from former world No. 3 in doubles Rohan Bopanna, who suggested a tweak for better serve. “I am a big fan of Rohan. I saw him serve and volley with such ease. I am looking forward to working with him,” said Riya. She was equally happy to be part of the FedCup team with Sania Mirza. “I saw Sania playing matches, and how she controlled her nerve. She used to give me some tips,” said Riya. “It hurts me more when I play bad and win,” she said, giving credit to Koon for helping her achieve clarity about improving. “This is how much you need to work to reach your goals, tells Stephen. It is nice.” She did miss competing in the junior Grand Slams, but said that she was happy with the decision to plunge into the women’s circuit. “You can’t have everything.” Four finals Riya confessed that she loved playing on clay, and had made four finals, back to back, in Europe. She said that she tried to pick up the good qualities from various top players, and that Ashleigh Barty was her favourite. With three titles each in singles and doubles in the women’s international circuit, Riya said that she was getting better in her pursuit to compete at a higher level.
29 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Ushenina wins||Anna Ushenina of Ukraine won the first Grand Prix leg of the FIDE Women’s Chess.com Speed Chess, beating Russia’s Valentina Gunina 7-4 in the final on Sunday. Earlier, R. Vaishali finished fourth after losing 7-4 to Alexandra Kosteniuk of Russia in the playoff. The second leg begins on July 1.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Jet, set, go!||
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Riyaz shines||World No. 2 Riyaz Akbar Ali was in irrepressible form as he executed two White Slams and a Black Slam in the third round of the World carrom challenge on Facebook Live. Riyaz was unlucky to miss an Ultimate Slam on the second board as the last pocket eluded him after 18 straight ones. With 13 bonus points from the three Slams, his net score was reduced to nine and Riyaz moved to third behind Komervelli Srinivas and Prashant More. Yogesh Dhongade was fourth. In the women’s section, two-time World Champion Rashmi Kumari executed a Black Slam to stay on top, ahead of Aisha Sajid and Roshita Joseph of Sri Lanka. Naga Jothi climbed to the fourth place. The top four will advance to the knock-outs.
29 June 2020||KOLKATA,||East Bengal gets support from Left Front||East Bengal’s efforts to play in the Indian Super League received support from the leader of the Left Front legislative party, Sujan Chakraborty, who made an appeal to the Chief Minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, to provide support to the club. Chakraborty’s letter urged Ms. Banerjee to resolve the financial predicament of East Bengal, which is in the process of de-merging with its ‘investor’ Quess Corp. The Chief Minister had first responded to the club’s distress call and reportedly called up the All India Football Federation president Praful Patel last month to lend her support to East Bengal’s attempts in securing an ISL berth. While congratulating the CM for her initiative, Chakraborty cited the example of Odisha FC and urged her to provide Government support in helping East Bengal find a place in the ISL. “Mohun Bagan has already gained a place in the ISL after getting merged with the ATK. I hope that you will look into the matter and extend your government’s support in helping East Bengal find a place in the ISL,” Chakraborty urged in his letter.
29 June 2020||New Delhi,||Carlsen makes it to semifinals||Magnus Carlsen and Ian Nepomniachtchi got past Fabiano Caruana and Vladislav Artemiev on their way to the semifinals of the $150,000 Chessable Masters late on Saturday.   Quarterfinal results (set two, game one): Hikaru Nakamura (USA) drew with Ding Liren (Chn); Anish Giri (Ned) drew with Alexander Grischuk (Rus). On Saturday: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Fabiano Caruana (USA) 2.5-0.5; Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) bt Vladislav Artemiev (Rus) 2.5-0.5.
29 June 2020||LONDON,||Man City to give Liverpool a guard of honour||Manchester City will form a guard of honour for new Premier League champion Liverpool when the teams meet next Thursday, manager Pep Guardiola has said. Liverpool took the title City has owned for the last two years this week. When the league resumed this month, Liverpool’s trip to Etihad Stadium was a potentially decisive game in the title race. But City’s loss at Chelsea put Liverpool mathematically out of reach, and Guardiola feels it would be sporting to pay tribute to the new champ. “We are going to do the guard of honour, of course. We always receive Liverpool when they come to our house in an incredible way. They cannot complain and of course we are going to do it because they deserve it,” said Guardiola.
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Don’t make superfluous changes’||Senior India pacer Shikha Pandey finds suggestions like reducing the weight of balls and use of shorter pitches to make the women’s game appealing “superfluous”, and urged the ICC “not to tinker” with the rules to attract more audience. “Growth can also be achieved by marketing the sport well,” said Shikha.PTI
29 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Rare biological phenomenon spotted in dragonflies||When Renjith R.V and Vivek Chandran spotted a peculiar dragonfly, the Scarlet Skimmer (Crocothemis servilia) , in the Puzhakkal area of the Kole wetlands in Thrissur last year, little did they know that they were documenting a very rare biological phenomenon. Even though the dragonfly was perched in the deep marsh, Mr. Renjith managed to take a photograph of it. They were puzzled by its appearance as male dragonflies typically have a prominent blood-red colouration in almost all the body parts, including the head, thorax, abdomen and legs, and the female is pale yellow in colour with a dark brown thorax and legs. But the one they spotted on July 14 as part of the Kole Odonata Survey 2019, conducted by the Society for Odonate Studies and Kole Birders in association with Kerala Agricultural University and the Kerala Forest and Wildlife Department, was “part red and part yellow”. Later, while compiling data, they were thrilled to find that they had recorded ‘gynandromorphism’ — a very rare biological phenomenon. Their finding has been published in the latest issue of the Journal of Threatened Taxa under the title ‘A Record of gynandromorphism in the Libellulid Dragon fly Crocothemis Servilia from India’. Genetic aberration Gynandromorphs are chimeric individuals having both male and female tissues and it is viewed by the scientific community as a genetic aberration. Even though common in some arthropod taxa such as Crustacea and Arachnida, the paper says it is very rare in odonates and only 30 individuals from seven families have been reported with the condition worldwide. The spotted individual showed bilateral gynandromorphism of only the thorax, half of which showed blood red colouration as in males and the other half pale yellow characteristic of females. The base of the wing of the red half was marked with rich amber, in contrast with the other wing base which was paler. The head, legs and abdomen showed typical female morphology. It had mixtures of male and female external characters ranging from almost entirely female to about equally divided. They were symmetrical in development with normally dimorphic structures mostly having characters intermediate between the typical male and female conditions. Further research has to be undertaken to investigate the influence of environmental factors on this phenomenon, says Renjith, a school teacher in Palakkad and Vivek, a Ph.D. scholar in dragonflies. The Society for Odonate Studies has been conducting surveys at Kole wetlands since 2018 and 37 species of dragonflies and damselflies have been reported from the wetlands so far.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Essence of prapatti||The Upanishads state in one voice that attainment of Brahma Jnana is the ultimate goal of all jivatmas. They also point out that one who fails to know the Brahma Swaroopa is to be pitied, for he continues to suffer in samsara through ignorance. In the Vaishnava tradition, this goal is attainable through the act of Prapatti that is based on the firm understanding and belief in the undying relationship between the jivatma and the Paramatma, pointed out Sri Asuri Madhavachariar in a discourse. Prapatti is the ‘atma samarpana’ of the jivatma and the acharya plays an important role by intervening on his behalf and by entreating the Lord to accept his surrender. The acharya explains the true nature of his relationship to the Lord as that as a servant and Master. The entire creation of chit and achit is the sarira of the Lord who is the Paramatma. He is the ultimate end to be reached and He is also the means to attain this end. Vedanta Desika has succinctly captured the essence of the spirit of prapatti in the hymn ‘Nyasa Dasaka.’ Prapatti entails that the prapanna has to do all ordained duties and avoid those that are against the sastras. He is well aware of his limitations and accepts his inability to protect himself. By offering one’s entire self to the Lord, including one’s sarira and atma, the jivatma is relieved of all kinds of pressures and fears that inhere in the daily grind of life. He believes implicitly that the entire responsibility for his life henceforth rests with the Lord. He relinquishes the sense of ‘I’ and ‘Mine’ in all his endeavours pertaining to his thought, word and deed. By offering himself and all what he owns to Him in all humility, he prays to God to bestow on him the greatest gift of being included in His ‘Eternal Service,’ Kainkarya.
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 07:50 IST,||Sudoku - June 29, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
29 June 2020||June 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Anju Dodiya’s worlds lie between the real and fantastic||Inher ongoing exhibition, Breathing on Mirrors , Anju Dodiya turns to German poet, Rainer Maria Rilke’s articulations of anxiety, introspection, and the process of creation that relate to her own preoccupations with the artistic process and human condition. The exhibition features Dodiya’s characteristic figurative paintings, rendered primarily on mattresses that are made of unbleached cotton fabric and stretched on padded boards, using watercolours and charcoal. The numerous references that construct Dodiya’s unique vocabulary showcase her archival instincts as she draws from diverse sources across time and space. In this body of work, Dodiya highlights the moments that precede the intense act of creating. Her works embody a sense of rigour that shows through in her highly distilled compositions. In an interview with The Hindu , she expressed striving in these paintings to arrive at a “minimalist form of representation,” that is, allowing fewer gestures to convey more meaning. She succeeds in conjuring theatrical images of beauty and terror through carefully-contrived arrangements. Dodiya is acclaimed for her “fictionalised self-portraits” that resemble her physiognomically, but portray varying protagonists caught in curious narratives to address questions of identity and the fragility of life. The exhibition’s title Breathing on Mirrors refers to  the act of examining oneself closely. Dodiya abandons the literal mirror used in self-portraiture, referencing it metaphorically to explore “unexpected things that emerge in the process of making art and confronting oneself. When you come close to a mirror, things become foggy and ambiguous,” she says. It is this abstraction that the artist grapples with by narrating versions of the fictionalised self. Three works set the tone of the exhibition. In ‘Snail  (after K)’ , Dodiya renders a figure carrying a heavy load, inspired by work by the Greek artist Janus Kounellis , to convey the idea of labour. ‘Morning Walk’ depicts a person carrying pillows in an outdoor environment, and ‘Untitled  grid’ is a watercolour sketch of a woman in bed with her blanket. These images refer to notions of routine, and reveal an aesthetic that straddles comfort and struggle, intimacy and alienation. Surface and media In 2005, Dodiya was commissioned to create a large scale painting of the marriage of Shiva and Parvati, a work that she realised on a double-bed. Over the years, the surface of the mattress for the artist has evolved into a potent space for “dream images, portrayals of solitude, and investigations of private lives.” Dodiya adds, “Such works may additionally be viewed as pregnant paintings.” These paintings on mattresses and on madarpat, the unbleached cotton that lines our sofas and beds, have a strong presence in the gallery. Dodiya is drawn to the idea of pulling something out of our domestic lives and bringing it to the forefront, an act that resonates with the concurrent reticence and outwardness of her practise. She negotiates between confrontations in the physical spaces of her studio and home in Ghatkopar, as well as her inner-self to create her compositions. In her works, the mattress and madarpat are stripped off their functions and transformed into painted objects. An unwavering watercolourist, Dodiya challenges herself to work extensively with a medium that does not lend itself easily towards scale or the texture of fabric. She expresses interest in the way watercolour stains the cushioned surfaces of mattresses. It’s blurs and smudges are counterpointed by Dodiya’s charcoal lines and incursions held by the fabric’s grain. She creates works that simultaneously contain delicate renderings and hard-lined geometric elements. Her wall note states: “The tension of the creative act is acted out on soft mattresses, hinting at the domestic nature of the demons. The charcoal is a stabbing device that conveys anger at the imperious world.” Through her choice of media and material, Dodiya expresses concerns that surround the creative process, embracing emotions of vulnerability and strength. Act of creation “It takes courage to conquer the anxiety of making something,” says Dodiya. Her painting First Step captures the moment at which one overcomes their inertia and enters a world of possibility. Pierce , influenced by Japanese Ukiyo-e prints, represents the artist as a samurai or warrior who confronts the white of a canvas. Dodiya pitches painting as, “a ritual or martial art that demands integrity and rigour.” In her works Target and Studio (with Phoenix), artistic tools such as paintbrushes and pencils are rendered as weapons. The protagonist both a hero and a sufferer, engages in the turbulent act of creating. In addition to her hyperbolic expressions of an artist’s inner challenges, Dodiya also deliberates broader issues surrounding death and decimation. Her painting Pleasure (after Magritte) depicts a woman eating a bird based on one of Rene Magritte’s most gruesome paintings. For Dodiya, “the idea of eating a bird signifies the end of civilisation.” By painting such an image on a mattress, associated with intimacy and security, Dodiya acknowledges how her own trepidations stem from a place of comfort; they are not the same as the socio-political upheavals faced in the world outside the studio, she expresses. Control and spontaneity Dodiya’s referential works cite Renaissance paintings, world cinema, Japanese Ukiyo-e prints, newspaper cutouts, and miniature paintings. She balances control and spontaneity, allowing the medium to dictate choices as she carefully layers anachronistic and personal references to conjure worlds that lie between the real and fantastic. She does not disclose her narrative or expect one to recognise every reference, allowing viewers to piece together what they can infer. In her series of digital prints, Other Echoes Inhabit the Garden, titled after a verse from T.S. Eliot’s work, Dodiya creates diptychs that feature moments from her life, and images from her art, inserted onto mounts. She renders the mounts with abstract patterns, that she recounts are joyous to create. The work pertains to the passage of time, mortality, and the idea of the mundane. They hark back to the idea of the “sublime pause” emphasising the point at which one begins their creative endeavour —an act that is simultaneously terrifying and liberating.  Anju Dodiya’s show is ongoing at Gallery Chemould Prescott Road, Fort, Mumbai, until July 31. Visitors must email admin@gallerychemould.com. to book an appointment. All physical distancing norms — masks, sanitisers, one-foot distance between individuals will be followed, and surfaces will be sanitised before visits.
29 June 2020||New Delhi,||The mosquito buzz may get louder||Every year, domestic breeding checkers hop from door to door, climb atop water tanks and containers and inspect narrow damp corners for mosquitoes breeding on their premises. Employed by the municipal corporations in the city, they check whether their surroundings are conducive for mosquito breeding, slap fines if violations are observed and spray insecticides to keep off the buzzing intruders, carriers of a host of diseases. This year, however, as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has diverted public health resources and made certain interventions more difficult, such screening and preventive measures is lagging compared to previous years, data from the municipal corporations show. Experts warn that the lack of attention to these measures could lead to an outbreak of vector-borne diseases this season. The numbers In 2019, the domestic breeding checkers visited 1.43 crore houses by June 22. In 2018, they inspected 1.41 crore houses by June 23 and in 2017, 1.73 crore houses were covered in the same time. This year, the checkers have visited only 62 lakh houses till June 20, a drop of about 56% compared to last year, reveal data shared by the three municipal corporations. Similarly, the number of houses sprayed with insecticides has dropped by about 30%, from nearly 3.12 lakh last year to 2.26 lakh this year. The number of houses found conducive for mosquito breeding was a lot fewer at 8,312 this year compared to 25,767 last year, and the number of legal notices issued stands at 7,715 this year compared to 25,767 notices last year. Are we at risk? Himant Singh, an entomologist at the National Institute of Malaria Research, said that given the lack of surveillance, an outbreak may happen. “Mosquitoes are highly adapted to indoor climate and people are unaware of its bite. They are only worried about COVID-19. They are undermining the possibility of high breeding taking place now,” he said. Mr. Singh said since it is difficult to visit houses in the current situation, perhaps even unethical, such checks would be hampered. “Especially given that for three months they could do nothing. Three months is a lot of time. If you don’t destroy them at an early stage, they grow exponentially,” he said. R.S. Sharma, ex-additional director of the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, concurred. He said that prior to COVID-19, in January and February, the number of malaria cases in the country were already on the rise. The cases in Delhi, however, have been the same as this time last year, at 31. “During the pandemic they will definitely increase because no one doing surveillance, no one is doing treatment, they are not checking mosquito breeding,” he said. Apart from this, Mr. Sharma said that such vector-borne diseases are also cyclic, which means that a rise in cases could be witnessed in the coming years too. Mr. Sharma, a former nodal officer for Delhi’s vector disease management, said that domestic breeding checkers had been put in place in the city for household surveys after an outbreak of dengue in 1996 when up to 10,000 people were infected and nearly 400 people died. Explaining the role of the checkers, Mr. Singh said that they visit houses and check all containers, go to the rooftops to check the tanks and identify water collection points and instruct the residents to either drain them out or change the water. “Now there is nobody to instruct and nobody to identify vulnerabilities,” he said, adding: “Most of the people employed for mosquito checking are now deployed for COVID-19 control. Earlier, they would spray mosquitocide. Now they are engaged in spraying disinfectants.” Disinfectants don’t kill mosquitoes, said experts. An official with the National Vector Borne Disease Control said the chance of an outbreak could not be ruled out. “But we have issued advisories and guidelines to States and municipalities, asking them to sensitise communities and households to carry out the work themselves,” the official said. Currently, reports indicate that the workers are going to construction sites and places where people don’t reside but are not visiting houses. In this situation, it is up to the households to protect themselves, their families and their neighbours, the official said. Slowed down North Delhi Municipal Corporation spokesperson Ira Singhal said that as a consequence of COVID-19 pandemic, house owners are not allowing domestic breeding checkers inside their premises. “In many cases people are quarantined. Also, they are not letting them [checkers] into their house in case there is no issue,” she said, explaining the drop in numbers. She also said that because of the pandemic and the lockdown, the checking work started later than usual, but the process is under way and would take a little longer. Ms. Singhal informed that the work of checking people’s houses is over and ensuring water doesn’t accumulate in their premises is ultimately the responsibility of the house owners. The checkers’ primary task is to spread awareness through various means, which is still taking place, she said. Additionally, the corporation is engaged in spraying disinfectants in drains. The fogging machines were stopped as it could aggravate respiratory conditions, she said. An East Delhi Municipal Corporation official agreed that people were not allowing workers in on account of social distancing norms. “Whenever there is an opportunity to interact with householders, they are being educated and motivated to take care of their water collection points,” he said. The official also said that the workers were burdened because of the dual disease situation, given that disinfection was not part of routine activity of domestic breeding checkers, but insisted that this hasn’t hampered breeding checks. Despite this, he admitted that it was a cause of concern because the workers were not entering houses and it was left to the responsibility of the householder to ensure that mosquito breeding was not taking place.
29 June 2020||Ghaziabad,||Kin of deceased accuse Aligarh mortuary of mismanagement||Allegations of bodies being kept in the open and the kin of the deceased being asked to pay for ice slabs to protect them from decomposition in Aligarh have come to light. Parveen Begum, sister of Shareef Ahmed, told reporters that her brother passed away on June 18 under suspicious circumstances and the body was kept in the mortuary till June 22 because the district administration suspected him to be COVID-19 positive. Viral video “We were asked to pay Rs. 500 per day for the ice slabs to prevent the body from decomposing. He was buried only after his report came out to be negative,” she could be heard saying in a video that went viral. On Sunday, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted about the issue, citing local media reports. In another case, the body of Mukhtyar who was allegedly killed during a fracas in the Jalesar area of Etah district, was also kept for five days as the mortuary officials allegedly wanted to check if he was COVID-free or not before conducting the post-mortem. Mohd. Yasin, the nephew of the deceased, alleged that they were made to wait despite a medical report from Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital saying that he was not a COVID suspect. “The official at the mortuary still wanted his sample to be sent to JNMCH,” he alleged. Ravi Kant Dixit, the pharmacist at the mortuary and the official who addresses the media, said: “The mortuary has arrangement to keep six bodies in deep freezers. In mid-June, one of the freezers developed a fault and the electrician could not address the problem because of the fear of COVID-19. Unfortunately, during that period, the inflow of bodies had also increased. Now, the problem has been rectified and bodies are not being kept in the open.” ‘No role’ On officials asking the kin of the deceased to pay for the ice slabs, Mr. Dixit said: “Keeping the bodies secure till the post-mortem is the job of the police. We have no role in this.” He added that sometimes the post-mortems got delayed because JNMCH could not send the report in time. Senior Superintendent of Police Muniraj P. said the police had no role in the affairs of the post-mortem house. “It is the doctors who declare whether a deceased should be tested for COVID-19 or not.” JNMCH principal Shahid Siddiqui said: “If the administration wants a test report on priority, it could convey it to us. The workload is high as we are testing samples from the neighbouring districts as well. As per the State government order, no post- mortem is required for those who have died of COVID-19. Even if the officials suspect a deceased to be COVID positive, they could perform the last rites according to protocol, the report could wait.” There are grey areas, he said, in cases of deaths where the post-mortem is a must, which should be addressed. The Chief Medical Officer didn’t respond to the queries despite repeated attempts.
29 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi hasn’t reached community transmission stage, asserts Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday that Delhi has not reached the COVID-19 “community transmission” stage and all the government arms, including the AAP-led Delhi government were working together to fight the pandemic. Community transmission is the stage when the source of the infection cannot be traced and a large number of people are affected. In an interview to Asian News International (ANI) ,  Mr. Shah, when asked if Delhi had reached the stage of community transmission, said: “I spoke to all the three doctors, Dr. Paul [Dr. V.K Paul of Niti Aayog], Dr. Bhargava [ICMR chief ] and Dr. Guleria (Director, AIIMS). This situation has not come to Delhi…earlier 30% turned out to be positive as tests were being conducted at the last moment. Now we are doing 20,000 tests on an average and there is no reason to fear.” Delhi has reported more than 80,000 cases and around 2,500 deaths. Earlier, Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain had said that only Centre could confirm if there was a community transmission in Delhi. ‘Under control’ He said there was panic after Delhi’s Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said earlier this month that there would be 5.5 lakh cases in the city by July 31. “I do not think we will reach that stage, things are under control,” Mr. Shah said. “It is the State government’s responsibility to take measures against COVID-19 but after the deputy CM’s statement the Centre decided to intervene… From March 25-June 14, in 82 days, the total number of tests stood at 2.41 lakh. But between June 15-June 25, as many as 1.75 lakh tests were done, which means, 16,000 tests per day,” Mr. Shah said. He said as on June 14 that there were 9,937 COVID-19 beds in Delhi and now it has been increased to 30,000. “Even the beds arranged by Delhi Government have not been fully occupied, but we have done advance planning,” he added. Mr. Shah said that based on the results of aggressive testing, 280 new containment zones have been added in Delhi. He said since Delhi is the Capital city, the Delhi government’s decision to not allow patients from other States to get treatment here was changed. He said in India, the rate of COVID positive cases per million stood at 357 compared to the world average of 1,250.
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||City reports 2,889 fresh COVID-19 cases; total count climbs to 83,077||The Capital reported 2,889 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 83,077, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Sunday. Also, 65 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 2,623. Of the total cases, 3,306 people have recovered in the past 24 hours. Till now, a total of 53,607 people have recovered. There are 27,847 active cases in the city out of which 17,148 cases are in home isolation. The total number of beds available is 13,411 out of which 6,014 are occupied. The government said 20,080 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours and 4,98,416 tests have been conducted so far. Meanwhile, a doctor employed at Lok Nayak Hospital died of COVID-19 on Sunday, said the hospital spokesperson. Dr. Aseem Gupta was a consultant anaesthesiologist at the COVID-19 ward of the hospital. “A dear senior and all-weather friend. He lost the battle after a valiant fight,” the spokesperson added. Also, a 53-year-old employee at the Hindu Rao Hospital, who had tested positive for the virus, died on Sunday afternoon. The worker, Raju, was admitted to a hospital on June 26 and tested positive for the virus a day later. While he was shifted to the emergency ward, he developed kidney failure, said a spokesperson for the North DMC. Redrawing zones The number of containment zones had increased to 417 after 175 new zones were added after June 21. This happened when a committee appointed by the Home Minister suggested that the boundaries of these zones in the city be redrawn more effectively to contain the spread of the virus. The deadline set by the committee for the government to redraw the boundaries of these zones is June 30 and the number of zones is likely to increase over the next two days. Under the government’s revised COVID-19 response plan, the officials of 11 districts here were directed to aggressively identify more containment zones in their areas.
29 June 2020||JAIPUR,||FIR against Ramdev, 4 others||The police have registered a first information report against yoga guru Ramdev and four others for allegedly conspiring to sell a fake Ayurveda medicine with the misleading claim to cure COVID-19 following clinical trials on some patients. The FIR said the claim had been made without getting the Union AYUSH Ministry’s approval. The others named in the FIR as accused were Mr. Ramdev-promoted Patanajali Ayurveda Limited CEO Acharya Balkrishna, Patanjali employee Anurag Varshney, and Balvir Singh Tomar and Anurag Singh Tomar, chairman and director, respectively, of the National Institute of Medical Sciences & Research (NIMS). Patanjali Ayurveda had recently launched a drug, Coronil, with the claim that it could cure COVID-19. The herbal products company said the medicine’s clinical trials were conducted on the COVID-19 positive patients in association with NIMS, a private institute situated near Jaipur. The FIR was registered at Jyoti Nagar police station in Jaipur on Saturday on the basis of a complaint made by some individuals, including a lawyer, Balbir Jakhar. The five persons were booked under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 4 and 7 of the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954. Additional Commissioner of Police Ashok Gupta said on Sunday that multiple complaints against Mr. Ramdev had been received for claiming to have developed the medicine without any trial. No arrests have been made so far. Mr. Jakhar said in his complaint that the accused had put the lives of common people at risk and neither the Centre nor the Rajasthan government had been informed about the clinical trials of Coronil. Patanjali Ayurveda, on the other hand, had claimed that it had complied with all legal formalities.  ‘Stop advertising’ The Union AYUSH Ministry has since sought details about the medicine and directed Patanjali Ayurveda to stop advertising the claim about the cure of COVID-19. Rajasthan Medical & Health Minister Raghu Sharma has said that action would be taken if any attempt to was made to sell a purported Ayurveda drug as potential medicine for COVID-19 patients in the State.
29 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Two major projects to decongest Gurugram likely to be delayed||The two major infrastructure projects in the Millennium City to decongest the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway — a U-turn underpass near the Ambience Mall and the U-turn flyover near Shankar Chowk — could be delayed due to non-payment of their shares by the stakeholders. Though the National Highways Authority of India has paid its due share for the both projects, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), the DLF Limited and the Ambience Developers and Infrastructure Private Limited are yet to make their respective contributions. As per the fund sharing formula, NHAI has to incur 50% cost of the Rs. 102.94 crore underpass project and 75% cost of the Rs. 58.96 crore flyover. The DFL Limited and the Ambience Developers need to pay Rs. 25.37 crore each for the underpass and the GMDA has to pay Rs. 14.74 crore for the flyover. As per the contract, the two projects are to be completed before September this year. Ahead of schedule Though both projects were running ahead of the schedule, the construction was stopped for 45 days due to high pollution levels in November last year and again for two months due to the lockdown this year. In a latest communication, the GMDA has written to Ambience Developers and the DLF Limited on June 15 seeking to release their shares at the earliest. Krishan Goel, co-partner of the construction firm Ram Kumar Contractor, said work had resumed post lockdown and around third-fourth of the construction was completed. He claimed that the projects could still be completed in time if the payment was received in 10-15 days. When contacted, DLF Limited spokesperson said they had always supported authorities in completing their commitments and were committed to paying their share. K.C. Sharma of GMDA said the authority had not received any formal communication from the NHAI seeking the funds. Repeated attempts to reach Ambience Developers did not elicit any response. The 377-m-long underground U-turn will reduce the travel time and traffic congestion under the Rajokri flyover in Delhi. The 455-m-long elevated U-turn will reduce the traffic volume on the NH-48.
29 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘False’ virus death in Meghalaya||A 76-year-old man who spent more than 14 days of quarantine in a hospital after he was declared COVID-19 positive due to a technical error, died in his Meghalaya village on June 26. The hill State’s first ‘false positive’ patient died of asthmatic complications. The man from Umsamlem village in Ri-Bhoi district was admitted at the Dr. H Gordon Roberts Hospital in State capital Shillong in the first week of June. The doctors undertook the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, or RT-PCR test after diagnosing him with acute respiratory infection. He was declared positive on June 9, following which the Health department carried out contact-tracing in his village as well as in Shillong. The outcome of all tests, including a few more on the septuagenarian, was negative. The State Medical Expert Committee later said the man’s was a case of ‘false positive’ due to the error factor of the RT-PCR testing kit. Aman War, the Director of Health Services said the machines through which the RT-PRC tests were being conducted have an accuracy rate of 99%. “This particular case fell under the 1% error of the machine and hence the man from Ri-Bhoi was categorised as false positive,” he added. Consultants at the hospital where the man was admitted released him on June 22. “He passed away around 5:30 pm on June 26 ,” said one of his relatives.  ‘48 cases in the State’ Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma said the State recorded 48 COVID-19 positive cases till June 27. Five of them were active while one person, a 69-year-old doctor, died. The COVID-19 death count in Assam touched double figure on June 27 with the death of a woman at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital late night on June 26. With 246 fresh cases on June 27, Assam’s COVID-19 positive count read 7,165. While 2,338 of these are active cases, 4,814 were discharged after recovery.
29 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Proof of planting trees must for availing govt. services in Odisha||The processes for obtaining government licences are already long and tedious. The Jajpur district administration in Odisha has stretched them further by making plantation a precondition for granting its approval. And no one is complaining. The Jajpur administration has stumbled upon the novel idea to popularise plantation drive by assigning specific number of trees to be planted against each licence or service. Getting a gun licence requires thorough verification of one’s criminal antecedents, address authentication and certificate of good behaviour from neighbours. Now, one has to plant 10 trees before seeking new gun licence and five trees for licence renewal. Similar precondition has been kept for opening of new foreign liquor shops and renewal of licence. “We are not taxing people with the additional condition. But we want to inculcate a practice whose outcome will be beneficial for future generation,” said Jajpur District Collector Ranjan Kumar Dash. “During regular reviews, we found fair price shop dealers were very unpopular among people. We asked them to carry out plantation for image makeover. As many as 700 retailers planted 7,000 trees and submitted proof,” said Mr. Dash. People have been asked to choose any government land, school premises, temples, mutt or their own backyards to do the plantation before submission of applications. Plantation, which has to be self-certified through photographic or video evidence, has been made mandatory for eight services including society registration, license for minor mineral, setting up crusher units, purchase of new vehicles and issuance of solvency certificate. According to the District Collector, the administration reserves right to carry out random checking of plantations. The district administration, which began the drive since Rath Yatra, achieved a milestone when public planted 1.25 lakh trees alone in Jajpur block on Sunday.
29 June 2020||FARIDABAD,||Gurugram worst-hit, Faridabad tops in death cases in the State||In terms of absolute number of COVID-19 cases, Gurugram is the worst hit in Haryana, but Faridabad, with the second highest number of infection cases, has the highest fatality rate in the State and a poorer recovery rate. As per the State Health Department bulletin, out of the total 3,325 people having infected in Faridabad till June 27, 71 have died, with the rate being 2.1 % against the State’s mortality rate of 1.62 %. Gurugram has a mortality rate of 1.63% with 83 deaths out of the total 5,070 cases. Also, percentage of deaths due to co-morbidities in Faridabad is lower compared with Gurugram. So far, Gurugram has recorded 35 deaths related to co-morbidities, while Faridabad has seen 22 such deaths. Besides, 42.85% patients in Faridabad are still under treatment, but Gurugram has a better recovery rate with only 29.94% active cases. Faridabad has 1,425 active cases and Gurugram has 1,518. The cumulative number of cases in Gurugram is 5,070. In Haryana, 35.27% cases are active. Though districts like Jind, Panchkula, Rewari and Bhiwani have higher percentage of active cases compared with Faridabad, the cumulative cases in each of these is less than 300. With just 392 cases on June 1, Faridabad has recorded 88% of its total cases over the past 26 days. Anil Pandey, registrar-academic, ESIC Medical College and Hospital, said that as per the policy, COVID-19 patients are discharged after ten days in case they are asymptomatic for three days, but many patients in Faridabad refused to leave the hospital without their test report being negative. Dr. Pandey said that recently, 30 such patients sat on a dharna and refused to leave. He also attributed the lower recovery rate in Faridabad to a fewer people opting for home isolation compared with Gurugram. Dr. Pandey said patients in home isolation were easy to declare recovered after ten days since they were not to be discharged. Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav said the districts with cases spread over a longer period of time had better recovery rates since the patients were discharged after ten days, as per the policy. He said mortality rate in Faridabad was less, compared to the national average. Mr. Yadav said a survey was under way in the district to identify people with compromised immunity due to illness and provide them immunity boosters.
29 June 2020||New Delhi,||Riots: courts refuse to release those seen in footage indulging in violence||With over 750 individuals arrested in relation to the north-east Delhi riots, the trial courts here, facing a flood of bail applications, have taken a stringent stand against releasing those seen in CCTV footage indulging in violence, arsoning or looting. In one of the cases, the Court of Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav declined the bail plea of Mahender Kumar, who pleaded that his mother was suffering from paralysis and his wife was pregnant and that there was nobody else to look after them. The public prosecutor objected to the bail plea on the ground that during the investigation of a video footage, Mr. Kumar was “clearly seen carrying looted box of rooh afza [a drink] from the warehouse of Jakir Malik”. The court rejected Mr. Kumar’s bail plea noting that he “has been categorically identified to be one of the rioters who had played havoc at the time of riots and vandalised and looted the property of innocent persons”. In a separate case involving the looting and setting on fire of Aman e-rickshaw, a unit of Harsh Trading Company in Karawal Nagar, the court rejected the bail plea of Suaib, on the basis of location as per the call details record and identification by two witnesses. The public prosecutor stated that the mob of rioters, including Mr. Suaib, looted the parts of e-rickshaw and other related documents, and following the robbery, the godown was set on fire by the men of Tahir Hussain (AAP leader).  783 cases registered As per one of the chargesheets filed, a total of 783 cases had been registered in respective police stations regarding the incidents of riots in north-east Delhi. A total of 52 persons died in the riots, and another 434 sustained injuries, out of which about 100 sustained bullet injuries. In another case, the bail plea of Mohd. Anas was rejected by a local court here after the public prosecutor said the recovered CCTV footage show him with a ‘ danda ’ along with a co-accused who had a sword. The public prosecutor opposed the bail plea, stating that a victim, who was murderously attacked by Mr. Anas, has also identified him.
29 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘DU scrapping ECA quota is unfair and a loss’||Scores of students who participated in extra curricular activities (ECA) in school as well as those who had joined colleges in Delhi through the ECA quota feel Delhi University’s decision to scrap the reservations this year has been unfair and would adversely affect college culture. Among such students is an 18-year-old Bharatnatyam dancer, Hritika Aneesh, who started a petition against the university for scrapping the course, which garnered nearly 400 signatures a day after it was started. Hailing from east Delhi, Ms. Aneesh said that in her case, some board exams were also cancelled because of the Delhi riots. In this context, the quota would have been a major boon. Ms. Aneesh, whose mother runs a dance school, questioned as to why trials could not take place online. “Our dance classes are also being held online,” she said. Besides, she pointed out that for admissions to music courses, the university was allowing online trials. Pratishita Arya, another dancer who has taken part and won competitions at district and State levels, also said that it was odd that the university was willing to carry out online examinations but did not have the capacity to carry out online trials. “As a premier university, we expect a lot out of them,” said Ms. Arya. Shubham Gupta, a student residing in Ghaziabad, said that he had been hoping to get through DU after having been part of competitions, start-ups and other activities. “This was my dream,” he said, but was left disappointed on hearing that his efforts may not yield the desired result this year. Those who had entered the university through the quota believe scrapping it would be a major loss to colleges and unfair to students. Ankit Rathi, who secured first rank in the quizzing section of ECA quota last year, said that students, who entered the university through this mode, were crucial for furthering quizzing societies. “We would bank on them for competitions,” he said. At the same time, he recognises that undertaking trials would be hard especially because there is no uniform body for quizzing, said Mr. Rathi. Despite this, he believed that some method could have been worked out. Yashwardhan Shukla, who got in through the creative writing quota in 2018, said that the ECA allows individuals, who had worked on their personalities overall, an entry into university. While Mr. Shukla believes there is an issue of transparency in conducting trials in the present situation, he said that the university should have been better prepared with alternatives, instead of entirely cutting off this option. Aastha Arora, who entered the university through the debating ECA quota, pointed out that the college culture in DU was primarily about extra curricular activities and societies more than academics.
29 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram, Faridabad malls to reopen on July 1||Shopping malls in Gurugram and Faridabad will reopen on July 1. The Haryana government has issued orders to this effect fixing the timings for the malls from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. in view of the night curfew and also issued Standard Operating Procedures for the various stakeholders, including visitors. As per the orders, cinema halls, gaming arcades and children’s play areas will remain shut. Besides the generic preventive measures, including social distancing and wearing face covers, people aged above 65 and below 10 years, persons with co-morbidities and pregnant women will not be allowed inside. All the visitors should install and use Aarogya Setu app, said the orders. Employees in high-risk groups such as senior citizens, pregnant women and those with underlying medical conditions were advised to take extra precautions. They will preferably not be exposed to any frontline work requiring direct contact with the public. The use of escalators with one person on alternate steps may be encouraged, said the orders, adding that in food courts and restaurants, not more than 50% of seating capacity will be permitted. . The authorities need to check whether proper sanitisation is being carried out in all areas and issue challans to visitors not wearing masks. Five masks should be handed over to each violator after issuing a challan of Rs. 500, said the order.  The use of escalators with one person on alternate steps may be encouraged. In food courts and restaurants, not more than 50% of seating capacity will be permitted Government order
29 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||NSUI protest against fuel price hike in Chandigarh||Students of Panjab University having allegiance to the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) on Sunday held a symbolic protest against the BJP-led government at the Centre in the backdrop of rising prices of fuel. A group of NSUI members staged the protest at city’s Sector 10 fuel station, where they symbolically pretended to “offer loan” to the people for buying petrol and diesel. A few days ago the NSUI students had held a “boot polish” protest, in which they expressed their anguish against increase in prices of fuel by polishing shoes of bystanders. “We are staging protest to wake up this government. People are fed-up of Central government’s anti-people policies and we want the government to know this. At a time of pandemic when people are already struggling the government instead of offering a helping hand is creating more troubles for them. With price hike of petroleum products, which will result in inflation, the Central government seems adamant to devastate the economic structure of the country,” said Manoj Lubana of the NSUI.  ‘Loan offer’ “As a part of our protest against rising fuel prices we are ‘offering loan’ to the people, who are visiting the fuel station here. The aim is to convey the message about faulty policies of the ruling government at the Centre,” he said. “By sharply increasing fuel prices, the government has broken the backbone of every section of the society. I would urge Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop hurting people of the country with faulty economic management,” he said.  The Central government seems adamant to devastate the economic structure of the country Manoj LubanaNSUI leader
29 June 2020||Agartala,||Swab test made must for air passengers in Tripura||The Tripura government has made swab test compulsory for all incoming flight passengers. A separate unit with adequate number of doctors and heath staff has been set up at the arrival lounge of the Maharaja Bir Bikram Airport here for the purpose.  Change in strategy Hitherto select passengers from each flight had to undergo the test. However, detection of COVID-19 virus in several passengers compelled the State government to change strategy and get all passengers in the testing ambit. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb announced the decision to conduct a mandatory swab test for all passengers on arrival at the MBB Airport. “We have taken this decision to keep everyone secure from COVID-19”, he asserted. Mr. Deb urged everyone to cooperate with the government to keep the State safe from the pandemic. At present, Air India, Indigo and Air Asia are running flights in the Kolkata–Agartala and the Agartala–Guwahati sectors. The number of outgoing passengers, however, has declined due to the dismal coronavirus situation in major air travel destinations.  We have taken this decision to keep everyone secure from COVID-19 in the State Biplab Kumar DebChief Minister
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police register Rs. 1 crore fraud case against dead man||The police have come under the scanner for registering a case of Rs. 1 crore fraud at the Karol Bagh police station against a man two days after he was found dead at his home in north Delhi’s Sarai Rohilla. The victim’s relatives, who belong to U.P.’s Lakhimpur Khiri, raised suspicion over the police when an officer asked them to leave the city at the earliest with the body, citing pandemic and did not give any satisfactory reply on the death. On June 23, an FIR was registered against the man, Manoj Gupta, who worked as a sales manager for a Karol Bagh-based jeweller, for duping him of Rs. 1 crore worth of gold at Karol Bagh police station. In his complaint, the owner, Rajat Kanodia, said Manoj left the shop on March 21 with 2kg gold to deliver it in Rajasthan and Haryana but after that, the lockdown was announced and he claimed to have got stuck. He kept asking Manoj about his location but he kept saying he could not deliver the gold due to lockdown in place. Later, Manoj stopped taking calls. The victim’s father, Ashok Kumar Gupta, said on June 21, he received a call from his son’s colleague informing him about his death. “He told us that my son was found hanging in a flat and that it was a suicide. Next day, we reached Delhi when a policeman asked us to leave the city at the earliest with the body due to the pandemic,” said Mr. Gupta. He said Manoj was always accompanied by workers whenever he travelled with gold or cash. He demanded a detailed probe. When T he Hindu contacted Karol Bagh police station, its SHO was unaware of Manoj’s death. Meanwhile, officers at Sarai Rohilla police station said they were unaware of any pending investigation against Manoj. DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said the role of police personnel will also be probed. “We will find out why the employer registered a case against Manoj even though he knew the latter was dead. We will also find out where the gold is kept,”said Mr. Bhatia.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivni, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.
29 June 2020||New Delhi,||DU teachers raise term renewal issue||Delhi University Teacher’s Association (DUTA) on Sunday wrote a letter to the university’s dean of colleges highlighting various issues faced by ad-hoc teachers, including the renewal of their terms. According to the revised academic calendar, July 1 is scheduled to be the date of reopening of the university, the letter reads. Consequently, it argues, the ad-hoc teachers should be given their joining date as on July 1. The letter said it is important to carry this out to ensure the protection of teachers’ vacation salaries. Any measures to deal with the pandemic must not adversely affect the services or livelihood of teachers, DUTA said. “...the university must issue clear guidelines regarding joining to all colleges,” it demanded.
29 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||161 new cases, five deaths in Punjab||Punjab recorded 161 fresh COVID-19 cases on June 28 and reported five more deaths, taking the toll to 133, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 5,216. The patients who died were from Amritsar, Pathankot, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur districts. The major chunk of new cases, 45 and 39 were reported from Sangrur and Ludhiana districts respectively. The Health department said the active cases are 1,557 and 3,526 patients have so recovered. In Haryana, 402 fresh cases surfaced on Sunday, taking the total tally to 13,829. The State also reported five deaths taking the toll to 223. The major chunk of new cases, 131 and 88 were reported from Faridabad and Gurugram districts respectively.
29 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong- brief||The Delhi Congress on Sunday said that it would protest at around 400 fuel stations across the Capital on Monday against unregulated rise in the prices of petrol and diesel by both Centre and Delhi governments. “For the first time ever, diesel has become costlier than petrol in the Capital and we demand the immediate roll back of the price hike,” the party said.
29 June 2020||New Delhi,||CM sought support of every agency to battle pandemic: Sisodia||Reacting to Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s interview, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has sought help and support of every agency to battle the pandemic in Delhi as he believes that no individual person or agency can deal with it alone. “In the first week of June, there was a sudden spike in cases. There was a shortage of beds and testing. The CM immediately reserved 40% beds in all big private hospitals for the virus infected in addition to declaring some big hospitals like GTB Hospital as COVID-19 facility,” Mr. Sisodia said.
