29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers get invite for talks again||The Centre on Monday invited protesting farmer unions to resume negotiations with a ministerial delegation on December 30. Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal sent the invitation to 40 farmers’ organisations in the evening, saying the Centre was committed to a “logical solution”. Farmer groups indicated that they were likely to accept the invitation, though they complained that the letter did not specifically reference their key demand for the repeal of the three agricultural market reform laws. “The government has used vague and unspecific language, indicating its unwillingness to discuss the full agenda items proposed by farmers… [The letter] is woefully short of any attempt to resolve issues,” said a statement from the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), one of the protesting farmers’ platforms. The wider Samyukt Kisan Morcha held an internal consultation to discuss its response to the invitation. In his letter, Mr. Agarwal noted that the farmer groups had communicated their willingness to hold discussions with an open mind. “The Government of India is also committed to finding a logical solution to the relevant issues with an open mind and honest intentions,” the letter said. Show of strength Farmers are planning a show of strength on December 30, with a tractor rally from the Singhu border point to the protest sites at Tikri on the Haryana border and Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan border. Rallies are also expected in Thanjavur, Patna, Hyderabad and Imphal over the next two days. Tens of thousands of farmers are now protesting on the borders of Delhi for 33 straight days. Five rounds of talks have already been held between the Central Ministers and farmer leaders. Negotiations broke down on December 9 when farmers rejected the government’s proposal to amend the three contentious laws, insisting on full repeal. Last week, Agriculture Ministry Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal wrote to the farmers’ groups, urging them to resume negotiations, suggesting that they set the date and issues of their choosing to be discussed. On Saturday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha responded, proposing a meeting at 11 a.m. on December 29, demanding a four-point agenda, beginning with the modalities to be adopted for the revocation of the three laws and a mechanism of legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP).
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Four States begin dry run for roll-out of vaccine||The dry run to test preparedness for the nationwide roll-out of a COVID-19 vaccine kicked off in four States — Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Punjab — on Monday. The two-day, end-to-end dry run was carried out in Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh; Rajkot and Gandhinagar in Gujarat; Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshahr) in Punjab; and Sonitpur and Nalbari districts of Assam. Intended beneficiaries of each State, who had registered on the Co-WIN app, the Union government’s digital platform for vaccine delivery, were on Monday sent text messages informing them about the time and place of their “COVID-19 vaccination” under a mock drill to administer the shots at designated centres. Ministry checklist A detailed checklist was prepared by the Union Health Ministry and shared with the four States for the dry run, the Ministry said. In Gujarat, the field visits will begin on Tuesday, State immunisation officer Nayan Jani said. The dry run began in Rajkot district and city and Gandhinagar district and city, Mr. Jani told presspersons. “The actual [potential] vaccine shots will not be administered to people during the dry run,” he said. The Punjab government completed the exercise at 12 sites in two districts.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,||BMTC slashes AC bus fares||To woo passengers back to AC buses, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) has decided to reduce fares. In a press release, the BMTC has said that the cost of AC bus tickets and passes would be reduced by 20%, with effect from January 1. However, there will be no change in fares of ordinary buses and Vayu Vajra services operated to and from Kempegowda International Airport. Since the outbreak of the COVID-19, the BMTC has been struggling to find passengers for AC buses in the city. The corporation has a fleet of 860 buses, out of which only 70-odd ones are operational. “It has been more than nine months since most of the AC buses went off the road. A majority of the people earlier travelling to Whitefield and Electronics City are working from home, and this is a major factor for reduced occupancy. We are hardly operating any AC buses on these routes, as there is no demand,” said an official. The BMTC hopes that reduced fares will help to increase ridership in city limits. It is planningto run 80 AC buses in city limits from January 1.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Irrigation department revamped||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday unveiled the revamped structure of Irrigation Department wherein the departmental functioning across the State was divided into 19 territorial units. Different wings of the department like small, medium and major irrigation were all merged and brought under a single umbrella. They will function under the supervision of a Chief Engineer in each of the 19 units. In this context, it was decided that the posts of top officials in the department were also increased, said Mr. Rao at an official meeting attended by ministers, MLAs, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Chief Advisor to government Rajeev Sharma, Principal Secreatary (Irrigation) Rajat Kumar and other officials. The territorial units that were finalised were — Adilabad, Mancherial, Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Jagtial, Karimnagar, Ramagundam, Warangal, Mulug, Sangareddy, Gajwel, Nalgonda, Suryapet, Wanaparthi, Mahabubnagar, Nagarkurnool, Hyderabad, Kothagudem and Khammam. Mr. Rao announced that the posts of Engineer-in-Chief (ENC) were increased from three to six and that of Chief Engineer (CE) from 19 to 22. Sixteen of the 19 territorial units will be headed by Chief Engineers while the the posts in the remaining three will be upgraded to the rank of ENC. Three other ENCs will head general, administration and operations and maintenance wings. Mr. Rao also said that 945 additional posts will have to be created due to the revamp. He asked officials to treat irrigation projects as top most priority of government. Tenders should be invited and works taken up on Kuppi project in Adilabad, Gattu project in Mahabubnagar and Nagamadugu lift-irrigation scheme in Jukkal of Nizamabad district. Work on construction of permanent river banks along Godavari in Warangal should be completed before rainy season next year.
29 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Mayors, Deputy Mayors elected in 6 Corporations||Amid jubilation by party workers, notwithstanding the threat of COVID-19, the new councils in the six municipal Corporations in the State elected nominees to the post of Mayor and Deputy Mayor on Monday. The newly elected Mayors were sworn in by the respective District Collectors as party workers cheered, danced, burst crackers and distributed sweets. Left Democratic Front nominees were sworn in to the posts in all but the Kannur Corporation where the United Democratic Front had emerged victorious at the hustings. In the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, 21-year-old Arya Rajendran of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) was elected Mayor, after she secured 54 votes in the 100-member council. P.K. Raju of the Communist Party of India was elected Deputy Mayor. Ms.Rajendran as well as Mr.Raju got the support of the three Independent councillors, in addition to the 52 seats won by the LDF. In the voting for the Mayor post, one vote was declared invalid. The Opposition BJP, which has 34 seats and the support of an Independent councillor, and the Congress-led UDF with 10 seats also fielded candidates for the Mayor post. Prasanna Earnest of the CPI(M) was elected Mayor of the Kollam Corporation and Kollam Madhu of the CPI was elected Deputy Mayor. Ms.Earnest who won 39 of the 55 votes is donning the Mayor’s garb for the second time after a four-year stint from 2000. The UDF’s mayoral candidate Sreedeviamma secured nine votes and B.Shylaja of the BJP five. The lone SDPI councillor abstained from voting while the vote of one BJP councillor was considered invalid. In Kochi In the Kochi Corporation, M. Anilkumar of the CPI(M) was elected Mayor and K.A. Ansiya of the CPI the Deputy Mayor. Mr. Anilkumar secured 36 votes, defeating UDF candidate Antony Kureethara who polled 32 votes. One Independent member abstained from voting. The LDF with 34 seats in the council ensured the support of two Independent councillors while the UDF with a tally of 31 also had the support of one Independent. The NDA with five seats in the council fielded candidates for the election to both posts. The election to the post of Deputy Mayor turned stormy with UDF councillors protesting against the District Collector’s delay in beginning the proceedings and storming out after the first round of voting. Councillors of the rival fronts came to blows at one point. M.K. Varghese, Congress rebel who contested as Independent and won from the Nettissery division, was elected Mayor of the Thrissur Corporation with the support of the LDF. Mr. Varghese polled 24 of the 54 votes, while the UDF nominee N.A.Gopakumar polled 23 and the BJP candidate Vinod Pollencherry received six votes. One vote was invalid. LDF nominee Beena Philip was elected Mayor in the Kozhikode Corporation and C.P.Musafir Ahamed the Deputy Mayor. Ms. Philip bagged 49 votes while her opposing candidates K.C. Shobhita of the UDF and Navya Haridas of the NDA bagged 18 and six votes respectively. Only 74 of the 75 votes were polled as T.Reneesh of the BJP did not turn up. One vote was declared invalid. Mohanan in Kannur Congress leader T.O. Mohanan was elected Mayor of the Kannur Corporation, defeating CPI(M) nominee N.Sukanya by 33 votes to 19. One BJP member abstained from voting and an IUML councillor could not vote as she arrived late. One vote was invalid. The newly elected Mayors later administered the oath of office to the Deputy Mayors.
29 December 2020||Mumbai,||BJP using ED to destabilise MVA govt., claims Raut||A day after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) summoned Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut’s wife, the party on Monday said it was part of a political move to destabilise the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. This will be dealt politically, the party added. Addressing a press conference at Sena Bhavan in central Mumbai, Mr. Raut said, “Leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party were contacting me ever since the formation of the coalition government. I was told they would bring down the State government at any cost. They were trying to convince me to help topple this government and had even shown me a list of 22 MLAs, who are on ED’s radar and would be pressurised to resign.” He however, did not mention any names. Mr. Raut’s wife Varsha has been summoned by the ED on December 29 in connection with an alleged money laundering case at the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank. She had previously skipped two summons on health grounds. On Monday afternoon, Sena workers hanged a banner outside the ED office in Mumbai renaming it as BJP headquarters. Mr. Raut, who played a pivotal role in the formation of MVA government in Maharashtra by being the bridge between his party and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), also hinted that, “Some BJP leaders have been visiting ED office in Mumbai and taken away some papers. When it became clear to them that this government is not going to fall, frustrated leaders started using central agencies like ED, CBI and IT.” He cited the example of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik, and BJP-turned-NCP leader Eknath Khadse who are being targeted by the ED. “Since the BJP cannot face us directly, cowardly tactics are being used to target our families. The notice sent to my wife is about a 10-year-old loan that she had taken to buy a flat which is even mentioned in my election affidavit,” he said. The BJP’s hope of destabilising the government will be futile as it cannot even ‘harm a hair’ of the State government. Earlier in the day, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh told reporters in Nagpur that whoever speaks against policies or leaders of the BJP is facing action from Central agencies. He said the ED’s use for “political purposes” had never happened in Maharashtra. Yuva Sena chief and Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray said, “The ED move is politically motivated. We are not scared. Our government is stable.” Allies, NCP and Congress slammed the ED action saying the notice has been served for political gains. “Many politicians have received notices and all of them are anti-BJP. This is nothing but to create panic among the people and stop them from speaking against the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said NCP Mumbai unit chief and Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik. Another senior NCP leader Praful Patel told reporters that several people are now getting notices from the ED. “....The reason (behind getting such notices) may be political or may be something else...Whatever it may be, the facts will stand out. I don’t want to derive any other meaning out of this action,” he said. Opposition BJP called it a ‘drama’ by Sena and Mr. Raut. “If he has done no wrong then what is wrong in visiting ED office and submitting documents? He can always approach the court if he thinks ED’s action is unconstitutional. Why is he defaming a reputed agency?” asked BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye.  (With PTI inputs)
29 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Vinay Kulkarni’s judicial custody extended again||Judicial custody of Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni and his uncle Chandrashekhar Indi, alias Chandu Mama, arrested in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar, has been extended again. While Vinay Kulkarni, arrested on November 5 in Dharwad by the CBI, is lodged in Hindalga Jail in Belagavi, Indi, arrested on December 15 from Vijayapura, is lodged at the Central Prison in Dharwad. As their judicial custody ended on Monday, both were produced before the Special CBI Court in Dharwad via video conference and counsel for CBI appealed for extension of their judicial custody. The court granted their plea and extended judicial custody of the two till January 8.  Bail plea Meanwhile, the bail application moved by counsel of Vinay Kulkarni in the High Court of Karnataka, Dharwad Bench, is scheduled to come up for hearing on January 6. CBI counsel have been given time till January 6 to file their objections to bail.
29 December 2020||Mumbai,||‘Stay home, have a simple New Year celebration’||The Maharashtra government on Monday appealed to people to remain indoors on New Year’s eve and hold simple celebrations. A set of guidelines issued ahead of December 31 celebrations, comes a week after the State government imposed night curfew from 11 p.m. to 6 a.m. in the wake of new strain of coronavirus strain found in the United Kingdom. It has asked people to not gather at beaches, parks and public places to bid adieu to 2020, and reminded them to follow social distancing and follow all health guidelines. The guidelines said, “Even though there is no day-long curfew on December 31, 2020, citizens should celebrate the New Year at home in a simple manner. On December 31, the citizens should not gather in larger numbers at beach, gardens or even on the roads. Instead, special attention should be paid to ensure that there is social distancing in public places and everyone uses masks and sanitizers.” Every year thousands of people gather at popular spots like the Gateway of India, Marine Drive, Girgaum Chowpatty, and Juhu Chowpatty in Mumbai to usher in the new year. However, this year due to the pandemic, everyone should take extra care of their health, the guidelines said. “Citizens over the age of 60 and children under the age of 10 are advised to avoid going out. Religious/cultural events and processions should not be organised on the occasion of New Year’s Eve,” it said, adding that fireworks should be avoided and noise pollution regulations strictly adhered to. People visiting places of worship on January 1 must take care to avoid crowding, the guidelines said. “Social distancing must be followed. The concerned authorities should take appropriate precautionary measures from the point of view of health and hygiene of the citizens,” it said.
29 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||11 U.K. returnees test positive for COVID||The State reported four new COVID-19 deaths and 212 new infections in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. The number of U.K. returnees who tested positive for COVID increased to 11 and their contacts who tested positive increased to 12 with five and eight new cases in the past day. So far, Guntur has 12 cases related to U.K. returnees from where the spread of a new strain of COVID is suspected. Similarly, East Godavari has five cases, Krishna three, Nellore two and Anantapur one. As many as 1,324 U.K. returnees and 5,784 contacts were traced and are being tested. The results of tests for identification of new strain of COVID among the infected are yet to be received, officials said. Testing The daily positivity rate of 37,381 samples tested in the past day was 0.57%. So far 1.165 crore samples were tested and their positivity rate was 7.56%. Of the four new deaths reported, two occurred in West Godavari district and one each was reported in Guntur and Visakhapatnam districts. Meanwhile,410 patients have recovered and the number of active cases came down to 3,423. So far, 8,70,752 patients have recovered and 7,098 patients died due to the virus. Six districts reported new cases in single-digit while Vizianagaram reported no new infection. The district-wise new infections are as follows: Guntur (53), Chittoor (42), Krishna (32), East Godavari (21), Anantapur (13), Visakhapatnam (13), Kadapa (9), Prakasam (8), Nellore (7), West Godavari (5), Srikakulam (5) and Kurnool (4). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,23,604), West Godavari (93,764), Chittoor (85,978), Guntur (74,619), Anantapur (67,292), Nellore (62,061), Prakasam (61,999), Kurnool (60,544), Visakhapatnam (59,067), Kadapa (54,924), Krishna (47,600), Srikakulam (45,918) and Vizianagaram (41,008).
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID vaccine dry run held at five session sites in State||The two-day dry run for COVID-19 vaccine administration began in the district at five session sites, including public and private medical institutions, on Monday. The entire proceedings of the dry run, which was aimed at evaluating the Co-Win computer application and other arrangements in place for conducting vaccination drive, were recorded. The footage will be submitted to the district and State task force committees, which would evaluate them and take necessary action. The dry run was conducted at Government General Hospital, Vijayawada; Public Health Centre (PHC), Uppuluru; Purna Heart Institute, Vijayawada; PHC, Penamaluru; and Urban PHC, Prakash Nagar, Vijayawada, with 25 dummy beneficiaries (healthcare workers) at each site for two hours. District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, who inspected the arrangements at Prakash Nagar UPHC, said each session site had five vaccine officers and three rooms. In the first room, the registration process was taken up and in the second room vaccine would be administered, while in the third room the vaccine beneficiary would be observed for 30 minutes, he said. The entire process of registration, vaccination and observation had been enacted to identify any flaws in the system, he said. As many as 125 health workers took part in the dry run as vaccine beneficiaries.
29 December 2020||CHITTOOR,||TDP creating hurdles in house site distribution: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday blamed Telugu Desam Party president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his aides for stalling the distribution of house sites in Amaravati, Visakhaptnam, Rajamahendravaram and other places, by obtaining stay orders from courts against the process. Addressing a public meeting at Uranduru village of Srikalahasti mandal, 35 km from Tirupati, after launching the “Pedalandariki Illu” scheme, the Chief Minister said that he felt “hurt” with Mr. Naidu’s “mindless acts” of placing hurdles in the implementation of welfare schemes initiated by the YSR Congress Party government. “As per 44 of the Constitutional amendment, the right to property has been made a legal right. But, they (Naidu and his aides) are undoing the spirit behind the amendment,” Mr. Jagan said. He said he was puzzled at the way the schemes meant for the poor were stayed by courts. Mr. Jagan alleged that in the name of “demographic imbalance”, the TDP leaders had got a stay order on the distribution of house sites at Amaravati, affecting the fortunes of 54,000 beneficiaries. Interestingly, Mr. Jagan referred to Amaravati as “so-called capital”. He said while 1.8 lakh beneficiaries were affected due to stay orders from courts in Visakhapatnam, it was 27,000 in Rajahmundry. He said 34,000 more house sites identified from lands of APIIC were caught in legal battles. Mr. Jagan said the State government had given three options to the beneficiaries of house sites regarding construction of pucca houses under TIDCO. They were: providing the material and labour costs to beneficiaries by the government, release of funds as per progress of construction works, and thirdly the government itself would undertake construction and hand over the finished unit to the beneficiaries. All the colonies coming up would be provided with modern facilities such as Rythu Bharosa Kendras, community halls, schools, secretariats, parks and other amenities. “The government is committed to fulfilling the election promise of constructing 25 lakh houses, and now we will surpass the figure,” the Chief Minister said. The Chief Minister observed that as the “Pedalandariki Illu” involved construction activity worth over Rs. 25,000 crore, it would generate a massive economic activity and augment the State GDP, besides providing work to about 30 different fields. Mr. Jagan said that as per market value, each site measuring one cent near Srikalahasti meant for the target group, would cost Rs. 7 lakh. He said while 15 lakh units would be constructed in the first phase, the remaining 31.7 lakh units would be taken up in the second phase. Earlier, the Chief Minster arrived at Renigunta airport by special flight and reached Uranduru by helicopter, where he unveiled the pylon of the “Pedalandariki Illu” scheme.
29 December 2020||KALABURAGI,||Reduced KKRDB funds may hit development works||The State government has reduced grants to the Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board by 25 % for the 2020-2021 financial year. Though the Yediyurappa-led government recently promised to increase the special grants for the region from Rs. 1,500 crore to Rs. 2,000 crore, it has approved of only Rs. 1,134 crore against the Rs. 1,500 crore annual allocation for KKRDB. According to sources, of the total approved funds of Rs. 1,134 crore, the government has released only Rs. 544.03 crore — in two instalments, and there is no clarity over the balance Rs. 590 crore funds. Another Rs. 308.70 crore approved of for the board last year is yet to be released by the government. The former Minister Priyank Kharge has in the past urged the government to bring clarity on the action plan and the remaining funds. He said that the board has submitted an action plan amounting to a total of only Rs. 952 crore for Cabinet approval, whereas the KKRDB has neither submitted an action plan for the balance Rs. 197 crore nor provided any details. Mr. Kharge asserted that there is apparently a lack of coordination among the Planning and Finance departments with the board. Recently, Additional Chief Secretary (Planning and Statics) Shalini Rajneesh wrote a letter to KKRDB Secretary N.V. Prasad expressing displeasure over the slow pace of the works in the region. The higher officials also asked the board secretary to clear the pending bills pertaining to 2,344 works taken up under KKRDB funds and had already been completed. The board has spent only Rs. 533.45 crore till the end of November 2020. If KKRDB fails to spend about 78 % of the funds released through the first and second instalments, the government will not release the next instalment, the letter stated. Vice-president of the Hyderabad Karnataka Horata Samiti Razak Ustad criticised the government for the reduction of funds to the board. The government has nominated only the chairman for KKRDB, without forming a full-fledged body comprising eight legislators, one MP and five experts on the board for its active functioning. Mr. Ustad said that the KKRDB chairman has the sole responsibility of carrying out development works in all the six districts of the region and not his constituency only or Kalaburagi district alone. Whether the chairman had visited any one of the districts and held review meetings, he asked.
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM flags off India’s first driverless train||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated the country’s first driverless train on the Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line. Stating that unlike previous regimes, his government has taken steps towards urbanisation, Mr. Modi said that by 2025 metro services will expand to 25 cities across India from the current 18. “In Delhi, discussions aro-und the metro rail service went on for a long time but it became operational only during former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s tenure. In 2014, only 248 km of metro lines were operational. Today, at 700 km, it is almost three times of what it was earlier. We are working to expand it to 1,700 km by 2025,” said Mr. Modi. ‘Ease of living’ The Prime Minister said that the expanding metro network was an indication of “ease of living” among the citizens. “In cities where passenger numbers are less, work is being done on the MetroLite version. Similarly, MetroNeo is being planned in cities where the ridership is less. It would be built at 25% cost of the normal metro. Also, for cities where there are large waterbodies, a system of Water Metro is being worked upon,” he said. The National Common Mobility Card was also introduced by Mr. Modi for use on the Airport Express Line. “The NCMC will give access to all modes of transport and will help do away with long queues for tokens,” he said.
29 December 2020||Press trust of India mumbai,||TRP scam: Arnab paid lakhs, say police||The Mumbai police on Monday told a local court here that Partho Dasgupta, arrested former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), in alleged connivance with another ex-senior BARC official and Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, manipulated the television rating points (TRP) of Republic TV and its Hindi arm. The Mumbai police’s Crime Branch, in its remand note submitted before a magistrate’s court here, sought further custody of Mr. Dasgupta, claiming he was the “mastermind” of the alleged TRP scam. It said Mr. Dasgupta and other accused (both arrested and wanted), in conspiracy, allegedly manipulated the TRP of specific TV news channels to obtain financial gain. Romil Ramgarhia, former BARC COO, also allegedly connived with Mr. Dasgupta for manipulation of TRP of certain news channels, the police claimed. “Mr. Dasgupta misused his official position and manipulated TRP of specific news channels broadcast by ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd such as Republic Bharat Hindi and Republic TV English,” the police alleged in its remand note. “Mr. Dasgupta, while serving as CEO of BARC, got involved in the conspiracy along with Arnab Goswami and others for manipulation of TRP. The police remand note alleged that Mr. Goswami has given “payment in lakhs” to Mr. Dasgupta from time to time. The magistrate, after perusing the remand note, on Monday extended the police custody of Mr. Dasgupta till December 30.
29 December 2020||MANGALURU,||15 tourism projects worth Rs. 2,245 cr. proposed in Udupi, says Karandlaje||Udupi-Chikkamagaluru Member of Parliament Shobha Karandlaje said on Monday that Udupi district is set to get 15 Union government-funded projects worth Rs. 2,245 crore for developing tourism sector. Unveiling the Blue Flag at Padubidri End Point Beach, which has bagged the coveted label from from Denmark-based Foundation for Environment Education, Ms. Karandlaje said that of the total projects, 13 worth Rs. 2,103 crore are in the proposal stage. Another project for constructing a fisheries harbour at Hejamadi Kodi at an estimated cost of Rs. 139 crore is in the planning stage. One more project worth Rs. 3 crore, which is for skill development in port and marine sector, is being implemented now. She said that among the tourism projects proposed were development of Panchagangolli Island, island hopping circuit development, Jain spiritual circuit development, development of Kodi-Kundapur beach and ferry service from Kalyanpura bridge to Mabukala bridge. In addition, setting up of a sea food park in Gangolli and development of tourism circuit along Udupi-Malpe beach, including Kaup, Padubidri, Shiroor, Trasi and Maravanthe, has been proposed, she said. The Member of Parliament said that the other projects mooted covered having floating jetties at different beaches, development of tourism at Kaup lighthouse and constructing Marina at Padukere beach. She said that with the Padubidri beach and Kasarakod beach, near Honnavar in Uttara Kannada, getting Blue Flag certification, they would naturally draw the attention of tourists. The State government can attract tourists as does Goa by projecting its Blue Flag beaches and helping the local economy thrive. She said that the State and Union governments have together spent Rs. 10.68 crores for developing the Pabubidri End Point Beach to meet the requirements of Blue Flag certification. Additional proposal for Rs. 6.10 crore has been sent to the government to widen the road leading to the beach. The proposal also covers developing the island abutting the backwater and for constructing a retaining wall along the backwater adjoining the parking area.
29 December 2020||GUNTUR,||Minister promises action after woman killed in clash||Minister for Home Mekathoti Sucharita has said that the State Government will act sternly against the accused responsible for the death of a woman belonging to a Scheduled Caste at Velagapudi village in Thullur mandal. The Home Minister, along with MLAs M. Nagarjuna and U. Sridevi, and MP Nandigam Suresh and local leaders, visited the house of the victim and promised that the State government would support the family to the maximum extent. Stating that she was deeply pained by the incident, the Home Minister said prohibitory orders would continue under Section 144 of Cr.P.C. and appealed to all the sections to remain calm. She alleged that the Opposition parties were trying to create a wedge between two communities and said that the police would come down heavily against any such elements. The incident occurred on Sunday night when a clash between two groups turned violent after some persons pelted stones. In the melee, a woman, identified as Mariyamma, was hit by stones and died while undergoing treatment at Government General Hospital (GGH) in Guntur. A large posse of policemen has been deployed in the village.
29 December 2020||New Delhi,||Be vigilant, says Centre||The Union Home Ministry issued an order on Monday extending the COVID-19 “guidelines for surveillance” till January 31. In a letter, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla asked the States and the Union Territories to support the Union Health Ministry in the “identification, preparation of database, vaccine delivery, storage, security, shipment and vaccination of beneficiaries”. “While there has been a continuous decline in the active and new COVID-19 cases, there is need to maintain surveillance, containment and caution, keeping in view the surge in cases globally, and the emergence of a new variant of the virus in the United Kingdom,” the letter said. “Strict vigil is also needed to be maintained to prevent any fresh surge in the wake of the upcoming New Year celebrations and ongoing winter season.”
29 December 2020||Mysuru,||IndiGo resumes Mysuru-Hyderabad flight||IndiGo Airlines resumed its flight from Mysuru to Hyderabad on Monday which it had discontinued during the lockdown. The resumption also signals the gradual return to normality in the economy which suffered a blow due to the COVID-19 induced lockdown. The IndiGo flight 6E 7955 will depart from Hyderabad at 8.35 a.m. and reach Mysuru at 10.25 a.m. The return flight 6E 7956 will depart from Mysuru at 10.50 a.m. to reach Hyderabad at 12.50 p.m. Mysuru airport director R. Manjunath said the ATR flight had 54 incoming passengers and 42 outgoing passengers underlining the encouraging response for it. IndiGo’s Mysuru-Hyderabad flight is under UDAN scheme and is a daily service, he added. The route is also served by Alliance Air which departs daily from Hyderabad at 2.35 p.m. and reaches Mysuru at 3.30 p.m. In the return direction Alliance Air flight departs from Mysuru at 8 p.m. and reaches Hyderabad at 10 p.m. Mysuru airport now has 16 flight movements connecting Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Kochi, Mangaluru, Goa and Belagavi.
29 December 2020||Belagavi,||Five killed in two road accidents||Three persons died in a road accident in Umarani village near Chikkodi in Belagavi district on Monday. Parappa Kamble (50), Santosh Bagewadi (30) and an unidentified person died when a van collided with a sugarcane-laden tractor. A case has been registered by the Chikkodi Police. In the other road accident, a private company employee and his daughter were killed near Mattihal in Vijayapura district on Monday. Dharaneppa Shivannanavar (30) and his three-year-old daughter Sanvi were killed when his motorcycle rammed a car. A case has been registered.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Hooda says he is with farmers||Former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda reached the sit-in site at Makdouli toll on Monday to support the agitating farmers. He said he had not seen such a democratic and disciplined movement in his political life.Page 4
29 December 2020||Patna,||JD(U) leader K.C. Tyagi slams ‘love jihad’ laws||After its two-day national council meet, Bihar’s ruling party, the Janata Dal (United), slammed ‘love jihad’ laws and said there was an attempt to create an “atmosphere of hatred and mistrust over love jihad in the country”. “Our Constitution says any two consenting adults can choose to be life partners irrespective of religion or caste but an atmosphere of hatred and mistrust is being created in society in the name of love jihad,” senior JD(U) leader K.C. Tyagi told mediapersons. Socialists had upheld the right of adults to marry irrespective of their caste and creed since the days of socialist leader Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia, he added. “In the national council meeting, the party passed a resolution on the government’s efficient handling of the COVID-19 pandemic in Bihar and also to contest coming Assembly elections in other States, including West Bengal,” Mr. Tyagi added.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS gets third instalment of GST shortfall from Centre||The State government has received the third instalment of the Rs. 818.36 crore under the Atmanirbhar Abhiyan scheme announced by the Centre to meet the shortfall in the revenue on account of implementation of the Goods and Services Tax. The Union Finance Ministry has announced the release of the third instalment on Monday. The release to the State forms part of the ninth instalment released to the States and Union Territories with legislatures as back to back loan to meet the GST compensation shortfall. The Centre borrowed Rs. 54,000 crore so far at an average interest rate of 4.7%. The State became eligible for the package after it opted for the Option-1 offered by the Centre under the Atmanirbhar Abhiyan to meet the estimated shortfall in the revenue on account of GST implementation. The Union Finance Ministry had assured that the State would get funds to the tune of Rs. 2,380 crore under the scheme from the Centre which set up a special borrowing window for raising loans on behalf of the States and UTs. The State had earlier received Rs. 559 crore and Rs. 688 crore in last two weeks as GST compensation shortfall and the current release takes the total receipts to Rs. 2.065 crore. The balance of Rs. 315 crore is likely to be released next week. In addition to the back to back loans obtained by the Centre on behalf of the States, the State is also entitled to raise Rs. 5,017 crore as additional borrowing of 0.5% of GSDP allowed to the States.
29 December 2020||Coimbatore,||T.N. CM rules out coalition government||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday ruled out the possibility of the AIADMK heading a coalition government after the 2021 Assembly election in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Palaniswami made it clear that the AIADMK would lead the alliance (of NDA constituents) in the election. His comments come a day after party’s deputy coordinator K.P. Munusamy delivered a similar message to the AIADMK’s allies at the launch of the election campaign. “As far as Tamil Nadu is concerned, the people will not accept a coalition Cabinet. This is our stand,” the Chief Minister, who is also co-coordinator of the AIADMK, told journalists at the Coimbatore airport. ‘Alliance to continue’ Despite the absence of a commitment from some allies, Mr. Palaniswami reiterated that the alliance formed during the 2019 Lok Sabha election would continue for the Assembly election too. As for remarks by the BJP leaders that the party’s leadership should announce the chief ministerial candidate, Mr. Palaniswami contended that the AIADMK announced its candidate because of the election campaign planned by it. Asked about Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan releasing a ‘rate card’ of alleged bribes in various departments, he reiterated that the actor had entered politics after retirement. “He might be great in acting, but he is a zero in politics.” In response to the criticism made by former Chennai Mayor and DMK MLA Ma. Subramanian on the construction of flyovers during the AIADMK regime, Mr. Palaniswami accused the DMK of not completing the construction of flyovers when it was in power. As many as 86 mini-flyovers (bridges and culverts) were built within the limits of the Greater Chennai Corporation during the AIADMK regime and 15 more were under construction, he said. The second phase of the Outer Ring Road in Chennai, from Nemilichery to Minjur, would be inaugurated “within 10 days”, he said. He also accused the DMK of being the “fountain-head of corruption” and levelled multiple corruption charges against Mr. Subramanian and DMK general secretary Duraimurugan. At a reception organised by the AIADMK at Perumanallur near Tiruppur, the Chief Minister said the government would not acquire any land for the SIPCOT industrial park proposed near Avinashi. He also listed the schemes that were introduced by the government in Tiruppur district.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||PM: working to expand markets||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday flagged off the 100th “Kisan Rail” service from Sangola in Maharashtra to Shalimar in West Bengal. Mr. Modi said the government was trying to expand the market for smaller farmers.page 9
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Net result||
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Maintain peace, says Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has directed the police to take strict action against those vandalising mobile towers in the State. The order came as the total number of towers targeted went up to 1,561. The Chief Minister appealed to the protesters to maintain peace.page 11
29 December 2020||Guwahati,||Assam tables Bill to make madrasas regular schools||The Assam government on Monday introduced a Bill in the 126-member Assembly to convert the State-run madrasas into general educational institutes from the next fiscal. The Assam Repealing Bill, 2020 seeks to repeal the Assam Madrassa Education (Provincialisation) Act, 1995 and the Assam Madrassa Education (Provincialisation of Services of Employees and Re-Organisation of Madrassa Educational Institutions) Act, 2018. After protests from the Opposition, Finance and Education Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the government was not taking any steps to close down or regulate private madrasas.
29 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||Inquiry into Chhota Rajan, Bajrangi stamps||The Postal Department in Kanpur on Monday began an inquiry after postage stamps bearing photographs of jailed underworld don Chhota Rajan and gangster Munna Bajrangi, who was shot dead in a Baghpat jail in 2018, were printed and released by it. The stamps were issued under the ‘My Stamp’ scheme run by India Post for personalised sheets of postage stamps. A dozen stamps each of Rajan and Bajrangi were printed, creating an embarrassing situation for the postal department. Under the scheme, any person may submit soft or hard copies of their photographs or any other image, including logo, symbols, heritage places or wildlife, to get them printed on stamps at a cost of Rs. 300 per stamp sheet.
29 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||AICC backs State leadership for now||The All India Congress Committee (AICC) on Monday appeared to have backed the party’s State leadership for now amid raucous demands for drastic changes at the helm. AICC general secretary in charge of Kerala, Tariq Anwar, gave the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) a backhanded compliment by remarking that the party had fared better in the recent local body polls than in 2015. However, the results fell short of what the party projected and perhaps district congress committees (DCC) might have to share a larger part of the blame. The AICC seemed in tandem with KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy. The top leaders had earned criticism for ‘making light’ of the debacle by stating that the party had increased its share of local body seats in 2020. Their words triggered a public war of words and constant demands for a leadership change. Party groups touted K. Sudhakaran and K. Muraleedharan as potential KPCC presidents and launched poster campaigns. UDF leaders’ grouse Mr. Anwar sought to end the blame game targeting individual leaders for the poor showing. He stressed collective responsibility and urged party members to follow a code of silence in public about intra-party affairs. Mr. Anwar also met coalition leaders. They reportedly gave him a rundown on the fighting fitness of the United Democratic Front (UDF). The UDF district level set-up was moribund.
29 December 2020||Kolkata,||Amartya Sen thanks Mamata for her support||Nobel laureate Amartya Sen has written to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee thanking her for the support on the recent controversy over Visva-Bharati allegedly including him in the list of people who have illegally occupied land. “I am very happy to get your wonderfully supportive letter. I am not only most touched but also very reassured that despite the busy life you have to lead, you can find time reassuring people under attack,” Professor Sen wrote in a letter to the Chief Minister. He expressed his deep appreciation of Ms. Banerjee’s letter to him.
29 December 2020||Agartala,||Tripura’s terminated teachers on dharna||Terminated government school teachers announced that their sit-in demonstration here would continue for an indefinite period till the State government announced their direct employment. The agitation, which began outside the City Centre on December 7, entered the 22nd day on Monday.In all, 10,323 teachers lost their jobs
29 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Over 80 % polling in three districts||An average of over 80 % voters from the districts of Dharwad, Gadag and Haveri exercised their franchise during the second phase of the gram panchayat elections on Sunday. On Sunday, in the elections to 71 gram panchayats in the taluks of Hubballi, Kundgol, Navalgund and Annigeri in Dharwad district, 80.4 1% voters cast their votes. In the first phase of the elections on December 22, the three taluks of the district — Dharwad, Alnavar and Kalghatgi — which have 65 gram panchayats, had recorded 83.13 % polling. “Together, the district has recorded an average of 81.71 % polling in the elections to 136 gram panchayats,” Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil told presspersons in Dharwad on Monday.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Metro work drives people out of their homes||Several families have been asked to move away from their homes temporarily due to the disturbances caused by the ongoing tunnelling work by Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. Mehboob Khan, a resident, claimed that due to vibrations, many houses had developed cracks and the sound had driven their sleep away. He added that those without kin here have been put up in hotels.
29 December 2020||Patna,||JD(U) leader slams conversion ordinance||Slamming the recent conversion ordinance, JD(U) leader K.C. Tyagi said, “Our Constitution says any two consenting adults can choose to be life partners irrespective of one’s religion or caste but an atmosphere of hatred and mistrust is being created in the name of love jihad.”
29 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi records lowest COVID cases in 7 months||Delhi witnessed 564 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours — the lowest in over seven months — taking the total number of cases to 6,23,415. This is the lowest since May 26, when 412 new cases were reported in a day. A total of 57,463 tests were done in the past 24 hours.
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Panel asks CPWD to submit demolition plans||An expert committee of the Ministry of Environment and Forest has asked the Central Public Works Department to submit detailed plans for the demolition of government buildings for its proposed redevelopment of the Central Vista, with a focus on “instant demolition” techniques.
29 December 2020||Mumbai,||Popular car designer held in cheating case||The Criminal Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Crime Branch on Monday arrested renowned car designer Dilip Chhabria in a cheating and forgery case, the police said. The development was confirmed by Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Milind Bharambe but he refused to give more details. A car modified by Chhabria’s DC Designs firm has also been seized as part of a case registered under IPC sections for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy, the police said.PTI
29 December 2020||Pune,||p1 brief||Amid continuing protests by farmers near the Delhi border over the new farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday flagged off the 100th “Kisan Rail” service from Sangola in Solapur district to Shalimar in West Bengal via video-conferencing. He said the Centre’s policies that aimed at providing access to newer and bigger markets for smaller farmers were “clear” and its “intentions are transparent”. Mr. Modi said the service would transform the economics of Indian agriculture while strengthening the country’s cold supply chain. The Prime Minister said the Kisan Rail service and the amended farm laws would help protect farmers. Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal were present.
29 December 2020||MANGALURU,||KEONICS plans to set up electronics city||KEONICS has proposed a plan to set up an electronics city in Mangaluru named after R.K. Baliga, first chairman of KEONICS who set up the Electronics City in Bengaluru, said KEONICS Chairman Harikrishna Bantwal here on Monday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Bantwal said that this new electronics city, modelled on the electronics cities set up in Israel, will expose people to emerging technologies in the fields of robotics, optical fibre and manufacturing of chips.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Cabinet nod for Ordinance to ban cow slaughter||The State Cabinet has decided to promulgate an Ordinance for banning cow slaughter. The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, passed in the Legislative Assembly during the winter session of the legislature, was not cleared by the Council. But slaughterhouses will continue to operate and beef consumption will not be stopped.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Passengers from U.K. to be tracked||The Department of Health and Family Welfare has sought the assistance of the Home Department to track passengers who have returned from the U.K. Over the last couple of days, the Health Department is trying to trace all passengers who have arrived from the U.K. in the backdrop of the new strain of the coronavirus.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,||State Cabinet cuts APMC market cess to 0.6%||The State Cabinet on Monday decided to reduce the market user cess charged by the APMC from 1% to 0.6% of the transaction value. This is expected to benefit traders. The decision was taken following a recent bandh observed in APMC yards across Karnataka against the State government’s decision to increase the cess to 1% of the transaction value, up from 0.35%.
29 December 2020||Hassan,||Crop-raiding monkeys haunt farmers in Malnad||Srinivasa Murthy, a farmer with four acres of land at Mundagodu near Sringeri in Chikkamagaluru district, wants his school-going son to take up some job after he completes his studies. The loss Mr. Murthy has suffered in his farm owing to monkey menace in the last 10 years has pushed him to this.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||T.N. adds 1,005 COVID-19 cases to its tally CHENNAI||Tamil Nadu on Monday reported 1,005 new cases of coronavirus and 11 fatalities, pushing the overall infections to 8.15 lakh and the total number of deaths to 12,080. Chennai recorded 285 new cases, while Coimbatore had 93 and Chengalpattu 65.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Cinema owners plead for relaxation of norms||With big-budget films in the pipeline, the Tamil Nadu Film Exhibitors Association has requested the State government to increase the seating capacity in cinemas to the pre-COVID-19 levels. Now, cinemas are allowed to fill only 50% of the total seats.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. drops disciplinary action against doctors||The Health Department has decided to drop the disciplinary proceedings initiated against 114 government medical officers for participating in an indefinite strike last year. Several doctors affiliated to the Federation of Government Doctors Association went on a strike in support of their demands.
29 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala Governor gives nod to convene Assembly on Dec. 31||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Monday accorded sanction to the government to convene the Assembly on December 31 for a one-day emergency session to discuss the national-level farmers’ agitation and its implications for the State’s food security. Mr. Khan had triggered a political impasse when he sought more clarification on the need for an urgent session, thereby thwarting the government’s initial attempt to hold the sitting on December 21. Mr. Khan disagreed with the government’s position that the Governor was bound by the Cabinet’s recommendation to summon the Assembly and that he had no choice in the matter. The Raj Bhavan insisted that the Governor was well within his powers to seek the reason for an impromptu session of the Assembly without serving advance notice (minimum 15 days) to the legislators. The conflicting positions earned Mr. Khan severe criticism from the ruling front and the Congress-led Opposition. Mr. Khan refrained from making any public statement. However, he upped the ante by insisting that the government had failed to convey, with clarity of purpose, the urgency to convene the Assembly at short notice. The report that the emergency sitting was a cover for the government to pass a resolution against the agriculture reform laws had emerged as the underlying sore point between the administration and the Raj Bhavan. Mr. Khan felt the legislature lacked the “jurisdiction to offer a solution” to the farmers’ strike prompted by the Central laws. In the past, Mr. Khan had expressed scepticism whether the Assembly could discuss or hazard a judgment on the constitutional validity of laws enacted by Parliament. He had aired a similar sentiment when the Assembly passed a resolution against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December 2019. The Raj Bhavan found the government’s explanation partial and imprecise initially. Soon, Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan, Law Minister A.K. Balan and Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar met Mr. Khan and stated the government’s case. Mr. Khan reportedly said he had not refused assent but only sought more clarification.
29 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Keep the peace, says Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday directed the police to take strict action against those vandalising mobile phone towers and disrupting telecom services in the State. The Chief Minister’s warning came as the total number of mobile phone towers targeted in the State went up to 1,561, of which 25 had been physically damaged, allegedly by some farmers and their supporters, in violation of the directions given by farmers’ unions asking them to keep protests against the Central governments’s farm laws peaceful. The Chief Minister said that he would not let Punjab plunge into anarchy and nobody could be allowed to take the law into their hands. Pointing out that his government had not objected to or stopped peaceful protests in the State against the farm laws for the past several months, he said damage to property and inconvenience to citizens could not, however, be endured. Calling upon farmers and their supporters to put an immediate stop to such destructive activities, which were being disowned by farmers’ leaders themselves, the Chief Minister said disruption of telecom services could lead to a communications blackout in the State, causing serious consequences for people, especially students and working professionals. Disruption of supply Of the 1,561 towers affected over the past few days, 146 have been damaged since Monday morning due to disruption of power supply to 32 towers, which led to disconnection of services of the remaining 114. So far, 433 towers have been repaired, according to an official spokesperson. The State has a total of 21,306 mobile towers spread across 22 districts.
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Wait for vaccine to end soon: Harsh Vardhan||India should be able to make available a COVID-19 vaccine in a matter of weeks now to its population, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday. “Everybody is desperately waiting for a vaccine, but the wait is likely to end soon,’’ he said launching a pneumococcal cojugate vaccine, Pneumonsil, developed by the Serum Institute of India. The SII is testing and manufacturing the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine candidate, which has emerged as the front runner in the race for getting an emergency use approval in the country. It is awaiting approval in the U.K. SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said that while positive news should be expected soon, “we cannot compromise on the safety of the vaccine and so must allow the regulatory authorities to do their work without any pressure.’’ The company had 40-50 million doses of the vaccine, COVISHIELD, stockpiled. “Once we get regulatory approvals in a few days, it’ll be down to the government to decide how much they can take and how fast. We will be producing around 300 million doses by July 2021.’’ he said. Mr. Poonawalla, however, noted that the first six months of 2021 would see a vaccine shortage globally. “Nobody can help that. But we will see easing off by August-September 2021 as other vaccine manufactures also start supply. India is a part of COVAX — a global initiative working towards global equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines. We will be sharing 50% of our manufactured vaccine between India and COVAX at the same time. Initially, India will get more doses of the vaccine since global clearances will take an additional month or more to come through. Also India has such a large population so we will probably end up giving the majority of those 50 million doses to India first,’’ he said. Vaccine for pneumonia Giving details of the SII’s pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, the company said it had been tailor-made for cases of pneumonia reported in India. Mr. Poonawala said this would be the most affordable vaccine for pneumonia in the whole world.  Everybody is desperately waiting for a vaccine... Harsh VardhanUnion Health Minister
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka to track U.K. returnees||The Department of Health and Family Welfare has sought the assistance of the Home Department to track passengers who have returned from the United Kingdom (U.K.). Over the last couple of days, the Health Department is trying to trace all passengers who have arrived from the U.K. in the backdrop of the new strain of the coronavirus that emerged there. Speaking to reporters on Monday, Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that they were unable to trace some of the passengers as their mobile numbers were switched off. “We have appealed to them through the media several times and asked them to cooperate with the State government. Despite this, many have not got tested nor are in touch with the state government,” he said. The State government has made it compulsory for passengers coming from U.K. to undergo an RT-PCR test. As on Monday, as many as 27 passengers who came from U.K. tested positive for COVID-19. All their swab samples have been collected at the designated lab at NIMHANS and all of them are admitted to the hospital, said Dr. Sudhakar. He said that they are not under home isolation. According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, as many as 2,127 international passengers arrived from the U.K. As many as 1,766 passengers who arrived in Karnataka from there have undergone RT-PCR tests. Of these, 27 tested positive, 1,384 tested negative and reports of 355 are still awaited. On Monday alone, as many as 179 tests of passengers from U.K. were conducted and one person tested positive, while 120 were found to be negative and reports of 58 passengers are still awaited. Dr. Sudhakar said that the officials have been instructed to immediately locate those who have returned from the U.K. but have not been traceable. “All forms of information have been provided by the Department of Health, and all persons from the U.K. will be found within two days,” he assured.       Guidelines for New Year celebrations soon    Mr. Sudhakar said that the Health Department will soon come out with guidelines to make sure the New Year celebrations are carried out in a simple and meaningful way. Speaking to reporters after a meeting with Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Dr Sudhakar said it was important to make sure the new year was celebrated in a simple manner in the light of the pandemic.
29 December 2020||Kochi,||Kerala HC ruling comes as relief to senior citizens||Much to the relief of senior citizens, the Kerala High Court has held that maintenance tribunals presided over by district magistrates under the Kerala Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Rule, 2009 have the power to order eviction of son/daughter from senior citizen’s residential building to ensure his/her normal living with security and dignity. The court made the ruling while disposing of a petition filed by 80-year-old Thoppil Anto of Ernakulam. He had challenged the tribunal’s order refusing his plea to evict his son and family from the first floor of his residential building alleging that he was not being allowed to lead a normal life there.  Justice Sathish Ninan observed that Section 4(3) of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 provided for the obligation of children to maintain his/her parent, which extends to providing of needs necessary for the parent to lead a normal life. It was in consonance with these provisions and the scheme of the Act that Rule 19 was enacted, casting duty on the district magistrate to ensure that senior citizens were able to live with security and dignity. The court observed that the district magistrate has under Rule 19(2)(i) the power to order eviction to ensure the peaceful living of a senior citizen with security and dignity. ‘Exercise caution’ However, the power had to be exercised cautiously. It had to be ensured that it was not made as a weapon or tool to settle property disputes amongst siblings. An order of eviction could be passed by the district magistrate only if, on an inquiry, it was found that such an order was necessary to ensure the normal living of the senior citizen with security and dignity, the court added. The court while setting aside the maintenance tribunal’s order directed it to pass afresh an order on the plea of the petitioner.  District magistrate has power to order eviction to ensure peaceful living of a senior citizen with security and dignity.
29 December 2020||Patna,||JD(U) leader K.C. Tyagi slams ‘love jihad’ laws||After its two-day national council meet, Bihar’s ruling party, the Janata Dal (United), slammed ‘love jihad’ laws and said there was an attempt to create an “atmosphere of hatred and mistrust over love jihad in the country”. “Our Constitution says any two consenting adults can choose to be life partners irrespective of one’s religion or caste but an atmosphere of hatred and mistrust is being created in society in the name of love jihad,” senior JD(U) leader K.C. Tyagi said while addressing mediapersons on Sunday. Socialists had upheld the right of adults to marry irrespective of caste and creed since the days of socialist leader Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia, added Mr. Tyagi. Arunachal move He said that the party was unhappy and anguished over the recent political developments in Arunachal Pradesh where six of the seven JD(U) MLAs had switched over to the ruling BJP. “It was an unfriendly move by an alliance partner and against the spirit of coalition dharma”, said the JD(U) leader. “In the national council meeting, the party passed a resolution on the government’s efficient handling of the COVID-19 pandemic in Bihar and also to contest coming Assembly elections in other States, including West Bengal,” Mr. Tyagi added. “The party will also identify those who damaged the JD(U)’s prospects in the recently held Assembly poll in Bihar,” he said.
29 December 2020||Srinagar,||277 elected DDC members take oath in J&K||A total of 277 elected District Development Council (DDC) representatives were administered oath of office in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. However, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra, who is in National Investigation Agency (NIA) custody and had sought a court order for online oath, could not do so “due to procedural issues”. An official said that out of 280 members, 137 in the Kashmir division and 140 in the Jammu division “were administered oath in their respective districts”. After an oath ceremony in Srinagar, Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, P.K. Pole said the completion of three-tier Panchayati Raj System had realised the dream of Mahatma Gandhi’s ‘Gram Swaraj’. “People, now onwards, need not approach district administrations for the purpose of basic amenities, and can apprise their constituency members. The members shall facilitate them. Also, the annual budget of districts from next financial year will be prepared and decided by the DDC members,” he added. Parra family’s charge In south Kashmir's Pulwama, the family of winning PDP candidate Parra alleged that the authorities “did not facilitate his oath online despite a court order”. “One candidate [Mr. Parra] is under judicial custody. I received an email or a fax from the court of law to facilitate his oath through virtual mode. However, the court order was not served in original or through a proper channel. I have accordingly forwarded it to the election authorities, who will seek legal opinion and issue us the necessary instructions to do the needful,” Deputy Commissioner, Pulwama, Dr. Raghav Langer, told The Hindu . The NIA arrested Mr. Parra days after he filed his nomination for the polls in a case related to the arrest of two militants earlier this year. The oath ceremonies were held amidst the allegations by the National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party that their leaders remained detained.
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army to restore grave of Naushera ka Sher||After it came to light that the grave of Naushera ka Sher Brigadier Mohammad Usman, the senior-most officer killed in the first India-Pakistan war of 1947-48, was damaged, an Army source said it was looking into the issue and the grave will be restored soon. The grave is located on the Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) campus. ‘Proactive action’ “It is not our responsibility, and this is inside the university campus. However, having come to know of the incident, we took proactive action,” the source said on Monday. “It has been discussed and will be restored soon,” he added. The responsibility for graves of martyrs is not that of the Army and is usually taken care of by the families, the source said. However, he added that every year, a wreath is laid at Brig. Usman’s grave during which it is cleaned up.  Brig. Usman was one of only 18 Brigadiers in the Army at the time of Independence and was posthumously awarded the Maha Vir Chakra for his gallant action during the 1947-48 war. Turf war When contacted, JMI officials said while the graveyard belonged to the university, maintenance of the graves was not under its purview. An official, on condition of anonymity, said the responsibility of maintaining the graves lay with the families and the University’s horticulture department took care of only the grounds and boundary walls.  Professor Iqtidar Mohd. Khan of the Department of Islamic Studies added, “While the land belongs to Jamia, the graves don’t and hence maintenance and repairs of the graves is not the university’s responsibility. One would need a budget for maintenance of all the graves, which the university does not have. The graves are taken care of by the families and in this case by the Defence (Ministry).” Mr. Khan also said those who were responsible for maintenance of the graves were required to approach the Registrar for permission to carry out the repairs.  According to the portal “heritagetimes.in”, which wrote about the damage to the grave, Brig. Usman’s funeral was done with full state honours and the prayer was led by Maulana Abul Kalam Azad.
29 December 2020||KOCHI,||Sivasankar encouraged smuggling, claims Customs||M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Kerala Chief Minister, was in the know of all the illegal activities undertaken by the officials of the UAE consulate, but never intimated the government agencies about such activities, the Customs has said. The Customs said this in a statement in the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, while opposing the former bureaucrat’s bail application. Sivasankar misused his privileged position and his proximity to the Chief Minister to support smuggling activities. Despite knowing the seriousness of the activities, he did not do anything to curb them. Instead, he encouraged them, the agency alleged. The agency submitted that Swapna Suresh, another accused in the gold smuggling case, had disclosed the active role of Sivasankar in the smuggling activities. ‘Harmful to economy’ The agency said Sivasankar was involved in smuggling of gold, which harmed the economy, even affecting India’s relationship with a country that gives employment to a large number of Indians. The petitioner was a very influential person and could intimidate witnesses. Sivasankar was not cooperating with the investigation. If released on bail, he would influence witnesses, destroy evidence, and hamper investigation. His release could also be a potential threat to the life of Swapna and Sarith, another accused, in view of their disclosures made to the Customs, the agency submitted in court. The Customs submitted that it had materials revealing the role of the petitioner in abetting gold smuggling through the international airport, Thiruvananthapuram.
29 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||41 arrested for peddling child porn material||A month-long covert online surveillance operation in Kerala, code-named P-Hunt_20.2, ended in the arrest of 41 persons from across the State on the charge of ‘seeking, collecting, browsing and downloading’ child pornography, according to the police. The police shut down several groups on Telegram and WhatsApp that were peddling child sex abuse material. The groups had a minimum of 400 persons as members from different States. The police also found vast caches of videos and pictures of minors stored in the mobile phones, pen drives, hard discs, tablets and laptop computers seized from the suspects. 392 devices seized The raids resulted in the seizure of 392 devices. Additional Director-General of Police and head of the Countering Child Sexual Exploitation Team Manoj Abraham said the confiscated content included videos and images captured furtively, mostly on mobile phones, in domestic environs during the COVID-19 period in Kerala. “The distressing part is that many of the videos/pictures appear to be of local children in the 6-15 age group,” he said. The police also found child sexual abuse material sourced from security cameras at homes and flats and images and videos of children harvested from webcams. Mr. Abraham said the flood of such new content indicated a rise in child abuse in the State. Officials said child abuse could go unreported these days since children had little contact with their classmates or teachers due to the restriction on in-person schooling. The material was possibly from households hit by domestic violence, parental alcohol or drug addiction, or impaired adult supervision. Surge in queries Investigators said there was a worrying surge in Internet search engine queries related to child pornography. Investigators at the Kerala Police Cyberdome tracked persons who obsessively downloaded, disseminated or traded child sexual abuse material over various social media platforms. They used a mix of surveillance software, social engineering techniques and deceptive social media identities to insinuate themselves into clandestine child porn sharing circles. The ‘darknet’ was the platform of choice for posting, harvesting and disseminating such material. This is the third round of the operation this year. A total of 88 people were arrested in the State after two similar raids in June and October.  (With PTI inputs)   The groups had a minimum of 400 persons as members from different States   onfiscated content included videos and images captured furtively, mostly on mobile phones, in domestic environs during the COVID-19 period
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Poll wins point to people’s confidence in Modi: Irani||Union Minister Smriti Irani on Monday said the victories posted by the BJP recently in bypolls in 11 States, the Bihar Assembly election and the local body polls in eight States and Union Territories show that the Narendra Modi government enjoyed the confidence of people across the country and the Opposition’s efforts to state the opposite, in light of farmers groups protesting outside Delhi’s borders, was a lie. “The Congress’s comments that the BJP has no reach in the rural areas, have been responded to by the people in elections in Rajasthan, Kashmir, Arunachal Pradesh and Hyderabad local bodies. This proves the confidence of the public in the leadership of Prime Minister Modi and the belief that only his government can effectively deal with the situations created by the worldwide COVID-19 pandemic as well as bring in meaningful reform,” she said. Addressing a press conference, she said the Indian government was the only one which not only dealt with the pandemic but also ushered in reforms in agriculture and other sectors of the economy. “Ever since the agricultural reform Bills have been cleared by Parliament, the Opposition has been spreading the lie that the Modi government has lost its support in rural areas ... The figures, however, demonstrate that farmers, villagers, housewives and the common man have, in the bypolls in 11 States, local body polls in eight States and Union Territories and the Bihar Assembly polls have shown that they continue to repose faith in the leadership of Prime Minister Modi,” she stated.
29 December 2020||PUNE,||Centre trying to expand markets for farmers: PM||Amid continuing protests by farmers near the Delhi border over the new farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday flagged off the 100th “Kisan Rail” service from Sangola in Solapur district of Maharashtra to Shalimar in West Bengal via video-conferencing. He said the Centre’s policies that aimed at providing access to newer and bigger markets for smaller farmers were “clear” and its “intentions are transparent”. Mr. Modi said the service would transform the economics of Indian agriculture while strengthening the country’s cold supply chain. “In August, the first ‘Kisan Rail’ train dedicated to agriculture and farmers was begun to connect farmers and markets across the country. Despite the daunting challenge posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, the ‘Kisan Rail’ network has only expanded in the past four months, and today, we flagged off the 100th Kisan Rail. This experiment will prove especially beneficent for the country’s 80% small and marginal farmers, who constitute the backbone of the agrarian economy,” he said. Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal were present. Observing that the lack of cold storage facilities had often resulted in losses for farmers, Mr. Modi said the BJP government at the Centre had invested crores of rupees in modernising the country’s supply chain, of which the “Kisan Rail” service was a new experiment. “Even before Independence, India had a massive rail network. Though we even had technologies related to cold storage earlier, it is only now we are making effective use of them via the ‘Kisan Rail’ service,” he said. Farm amendments In a veiled rebuke at the ongoing protests against the farm laws, Mr. Modi said announcements regarding modernising agriculture had already been made in the Budget which had envisaged the “Kisan Rail” service and the “Krishi Udaan” scheme.  “We are transforming our claims into reality when we say that India’s farmers can now transport their produce to far-flung places within the country as well as gain access to international markets … Earlier, the ‘Kisan Rail’ was being run only once a week. But now, such is its demand that we are running it three times a week … It is also proof that farmers are open to new possibilities in agriculture. The farmers in the north are already benefiting from ‘Krishi Udaan’ scheme. It is only after this solid preparation that we had moved towards the new farm amendments,” he said. Stating that the ‘Kisan Rail’ service and the amended farm laws would help protect farmers against the fluctuations in demand and supply, the Prime Minister underscored that farmers in India had an option today to send their produce to any part of the country where there was a demand for a particular crop or fruit.
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Expert panel asks CPWD to submit demolition plans||An expert committee of the Ministry of Environment and Forest has asked the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) to submit detailed plans for the demolition of existing government buildings for its proposed redevelopment of the Central Vista, with a focus on “instant demolition” techniques to reduce pollution. At a meeting on December 17, the MoEF Expert Appraisal Committee agreed to grant the terms of reference (ToR) for the project, as a part of the process of environment impact assessment and environment clearance. The minutes noted that the CPWD “committed” on December 18, a day after the meeting, that it would include the proposed new Prime Minister’s Office in the EIA report they submit “for holistic coverage of overall impacts.” An earlier version of the proposal had included the PMO, but the CPWD had left it out when it submitted the proposal for the December 17 meeting. According to the minutes, the proposed built-up area would be 17,21,500 square metres and the area to be demolished would be 4,58,820 square metres, at a total cost of Rs. 13,450 crore. The existing buildings that would be demolished are the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, Shastri Bhavan, Krishi Bhavan, Vigyan Bhavan, VP Residency, National Museum, Jawahar Bhavan, Nirman Bhavan, Udyog Bhavan, Raksha Bhavan and INS Hutments, according to the minutes of the meeting. “Since the building is situated in a very sensitive area, adequate care and precaution will be taken to reduce noise and dust while ensuring appropriate safety ... Before commencing demolition, the nature and condition of concrete, condition and position of the reinforcement and the possibility of discontinuity of reinforcement shall be ascertained,” the minutes said. The project would need 542 kilolitres per day of water and produce 7.2 tonnes per day of solid waste.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Biodiversity register of villages in the works||All the 6,000-plus gram panchayats that will be reconstituted shortly will have to create a biodiversity register of all the villages in their limits, said Ananth H. Ashisar, chairman, Karnataka Biodiversity Board. He was speaking at the twelfth edition of biennale Lakes Conference - 2020, at the Indian Institute of Science, on Monday. Senior scientist and conservationist Dr. T.V. Ramachandra, convenor of the conference, said students need to be involved to develop biodiversity registers, and this will not only act as a force multiplier, but also create awareness among the youth on biodiversity and its conservation. Dr. Ramachandra also pushed for Aghanashini Estuary of the State to be declared a Ramsar site of international importance and alleged that while the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests was keen, there were bottlenecks in the State. “The State will benefit from getting sites declared under the Ramsar Convention. They will get international projects for their conservation, and to develop ecotourism,” he said. The three-day conference will have special focus on evaluation of goods and services from the natural ecosystems. “The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is today distorted, as it doesn’t include valuation of goods and services by natural ecosystems of the region, which mostly goes unaccounted for,” Dr. Ramachandra argued. “We rejuvenated Sarakki lake last year, and the reports indicate groundwater levels have improved phenomenally, which also has an economic impact. For instance, we have done a study of Jakkur lake that has been rejuvenated. One hectare of the lake leads to an earning of Rs. 10,000 per day, in terms of fishing, groundwater and fodder for cattle for those dependent on the lake. Before rejuvenation, the same was only Rs. 20 per hectare per day,” he said. Dr. Ramachandra said in the next two years Bellandur and Varthur lakes would be rejuvenated.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Total electrification of railways by 2023: Railway Board CEO||Indian Railways is on course to complete the electrification of entire broadgauge network by 2023 with 66% of track length already covered so far. The speed of electrification has been scaled up from 1,176 km in 2014-15 to 5, 276 km in 2018-19 and 4,378 km in 2019-20 despite COVID-19 restrictions, said Railway Board Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Vinod Kumar Yadav. “It will be a unique feat among the major railways in the world to run trains fully with indigenously produced power without dependence on imported fossil fuel. After 100% electrification the estimated saving on fuel bill will be about Rs. 14,500 crore per annum,” he said, in a recent online media interaction. IR has fixed itself a ‘stiff target’ of being a net-zero emitter of carbon by 2030 and the equally ambitious target is also for generation of renewable energy using railway’s assets. The first pilot solar power plant of 1.5 MW has taken off and the plan is to generate 20 GigaWatt of solar power using spare railway land and also provide free-of-cost fencing along the track to prevent encroachment, he explained. Elevated corridors With regard to the proposed new routes for the Bullet Trains or High Speed Rail Corridors (HSRC), including Hyderabad-Chennai-Bengaluru, Mr. Yadav said that all the planned seven new routes will be elevated corridors along the national highways to “minimise land acquisition costs.” Detailed project reports for taking up HSRC connecting Delhi-Agra-Varanasi (865 km), Varanasi-Patna-Howrah (760 km), Delhi-Jaipur-Ahmedabad (886 km), Delhi-Chandigarh-Amritsar (459 km), Mumbai-Nasik-Nagpur (753 km), Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad (711 km), Chennai-Bengaluru-Mysore (435 km) is expected to be ready by December 2021. “How many of these will have HSRC where trains can travel in excess of 250-300 kmph and how many will be for semi-HSRCwhere trains can travel upwards from 160 kmph will be based on the detailed studies. The precise financial model too will be decided then,” he said. Railways will be providing land and financing is likely to be through the public-private partnership (PPP) mode. About 10,000 km of track connecting the major cities of Delhi, Mumbai-Howrah-Chennai or Golden Quadrilateral and Golden Diagonals, will be modernised to handle trains of speeds for up to 130 kmph by December 2021. “Work for track and signalling in advanced stage. New Delhi-Mumbai and New Delhi-Howrah sections have been upgraded and balance routes will be done by July 2021 including the Delhi-Chennai line,” he said. In fact, work of deep screening, thick web switches, realignment of curves is in progress in Mumbai-Delhi-Howrah sections (2,800 km) for running trains at 160 kmph by December 2023. “Tenders are invited for solar panel fencing. These sections will have indigenous TCAS signalling, 2x25 kV traction system for operating the additional line capacity and safety in the high speeds,” he added.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka set to ban cow slaughter||The State Cabinet has decided to promulgate an Ordinance for banning cow slaughter. The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservationof Cattle Bill, 2020, passed in the Legislative Assembly during the winter session of the legislature, was not cleared by theCouncil. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said on Monday that the new law would prohibit the slaughter of cows, but would not stop the slaughter of buffaloes aged 13 years and above. Slaughterhouses will continue to operate and beef consumption will not be prohibited, he added. Stating that there was no substance in the Opposition Congress’ allegations about the implementation of the new law and its adverse impact on farmers, he said the anti-cow slaughter law was an old law enacted in 1964. While the old law imposed a ban on slaughter of cows until the age of 13, the new law would totally ban the slaughter of cows. “The government has just extended the scope of the law so that aged cows are not abandoned and slaughtered. As the prohibition does not extend to buffaloes, there is no ban on beef sale and consumption,” the Minister said. Furthermore, he said that in the 1964 law, there was scope for litigation on deciding the age of the cow. The new law has put an end to such confusion and imposed a blanket ban. For reducing the burden of feeding aged cows, the government has decided to take care of such cows by opening more ghoshals and roping in voluntary organisations for feeding them, he said. The new law was made for stricter implementation of the rules regarding the transportation of domestic animals, seizure of vehicles, imposition of penalty, and operation of slaughterhouses, Mr. Madhuswamy said. As per the new law, which could come into effect with Governor Vajubhai Vala’s assent to the Ordinance, the slaughter of cows would be a cognizable offence and would attract three to seven years of imprisonment and a fine ranging from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 5 lakh. Repeat offenders would have to pay a fine of up to Rs. 10 lakh and face a jail term of seven years.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Schools will reopen in Karnataka on Jan. 1||Schools and PU colleges will reopen on January 1 for students of classes 10 and 12 as scheduled, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education has said. Schools will be opened after a span of nine-and-a-half months. Though the government had announced the date earlier this month, because of the emergence of a new strain of coronavirus in the U.K., department officials were in a dilemma on whether the reopening should be as per schedule. The State government had then stepped up its monitoring mechanism and was screening all passengers arriving from the U.K. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, on Monday, wrote to district in-charge Mministers and members of the Legislative Assembly and requested them to oversee the preparations made by the district authorities. In the letter, the Minister said that it was important that schools are reopened so that children are engaged in continuous learning. “We need your support in the functioning of schools throughout the year; reopening of schools is not an activity restricted to a day or a month, and it is a year-long process.”The reopening of schools on January 1 will be amidst several precautionary measures. Online classes Many private schools have, however, decided against reopening schools for class 10 and 12 students from January 1, and have decided to continue with the online classes. While some school managements have taken this decision as they want to avoid the risk of spreading COVID-19 on their campuses, some others say they are unable to reopen as they cannot afford the cost of following all the standard operating procedures laid out by the State government. Meanwhile, Vidyagama programme for students of classes 6 to 9 will also be conducted from January 1. Under this programme, students of all school managements can attend classes held on the school campus. Short syllabus The Department of Primary Education has decided to release trimmed syllabus for SSLC students next week. Several schools and students had lashed out at the department for not announcing trimmed syllabus more than seven months after the academic year had commenced. Mr. Suresh Kumar had said that the syllabus will have minimum content that would be needed to grasp the concepts in pre-university classes.
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army chief begins visit to South Korea||Continuing a string of visits to several countries aimed at strengthening military-to- military cooperation, Army chief Gen Manoj Naravane arrived in South Korea on Monday on a visit from December 28 to 30. This is the first ever visit of an Army chief to South Korea. During the visit, Gen. Naravane will be meeting the senior military and civilian leadership of the Republic of Korea, the Army said in a statement. On reaching Seoul, Gen. Naravane laid a wreath at the national cemetery and war memorial. The Army chief is scheduled to call on the South Korean Defence Minister, Army chief, Chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Minister of Defence Acquisition Planning Administration. He is also scheduled to visit the Korea Combat Training Centre and Agency for Defence Development. In recent years, the two countries have significantly expanded their defence cooperation which also saw a number of high-level visits.
29 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam tables Bill to make madrasas regular schools||The Assam government on Monday introduced a Bill in the 126-member Assembly to convert the State-run madrasas into general educational institutes from the next fiscal. The Assam Repealing Bill, 2020 seeks to repeal the Assam Madrassa Education (Provincialisation) Act, 1995 and the Assam Madrassa Education (Provincialisation of Services of Employees and Re-Organisation of Madrassa Educational Institutions) Act, 2018. Following a protest from opposition parties after the Bill’s introduction in the House, Finance and Education Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the government was not taking any steps to close down or regulate the private madrasas. “The teachers and the non-teaching staff of the madrasas, provincialised under the two Acts, will not face any difficulties. There is a clause that says that despite repeal of the Acts, any action taken under the Acts so repealed before the date of commencement of the Repealing Act shall be deemed to have been validly done or taken under the Repeal Act,” Dr. Sarma said. The Bill proposed to convert the madrasas into upper primary, high and higher secondary schools with no change of status and pay, allowances and service conditions of the teaching and the non-teaching staff. Assam has more than 600 State-run madrasas.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru police nab 3 for loan app racket||CCB officials, on Monday, arrested three persons who are allegedly part of a loan app racket run by Chinese companies. The police raided the firms situated in Koramangala and seized equipment, including 35 laptops and 200 mobile phones used by the accused. The accused, identified as Syed Ahmed, 33, from Shamanna Garden, Syed Irfan, 26, from BTM 2nd Stage, and Aditya Senapathy, 25, from Ramagondanahalli, were appointed as directors of the companies owned by Chinese nationals. The accused ran the business using Chinese mobile apps. They were offering instant loans and charging exorbitant interest, the police said. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police, said two Chinese nationals are involved. “The team investigating the case have information about them and they will be arrested soon,” he said. Roped in BPOs The police said the accused had hired a few BPO companies to manage the loan disbursement and repayment process. The accused would threaten and blackmail customers if they failed to pay the EMI. They do not have the required permission from the competent authority to run financial activities, they said. Based on a complaint filed by three customers, the CCB filed separate cases and raided Ace Pearl Service Private Limited, situated in Koramangala, and arrested the accused. The police also raided Higeki Service Private Limited, Exceed Will Service Private Limited, Mascot Star Service Private Limited and Aqua Steller Private Limited, which were operating mobile loan app services. Harassment, data theft Recently, cyber crime sleuths of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) busted an online loan app racket and raided several firms offering instant loans to mobile users at an exorbitant rate of interest rate. The racket came to light following a complaint filed by a woman stating that she had availed a loan using one of the apps and was later harassed despite repaying the loan amount. Investigations revealed that the accused would not only harass and threaten customers who defaulted on payment of interest or repayment of the loan amount, but also hack into their mobile phones, including contacts and pictures. Using personal data, they allegedly created a WhatsApp group consisting of the contacts of customers, and posted abusive messages against the customer with the photograph of the customer, labelling them ‘fraud’ or ‘defaulter’. The RBI had cautioned against unauthorised digital lending platforms and mobile apps.
29 December 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul’s absence from Cong. event raises eyebrows||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s absence from an event of the party’s 136th Foundation Day on Monday became a talking point in political circles. As party president Sonia Gandhi was also absent, senior leader A.K. Antony unfurled the party flag at its headquarters in New Delhi. As the BJP questioned Mr. Gandhi’s “seriousness” as a political leader, the Congress came to his defence, stating that he had gone to meet an ailing relative and his maternal grandmother in Italy. Ms. Sonia Gandhi has been avoiding public appearances because of concerns over the COVID-19 pandemic as well as Delhi’s smog and pollution. The timing of Mr. Gandhi’s foreign visit raised eyebrows as it was not only just a day before the party’s Foundation Day, but also barely 10 days after the much publicised meeting of Ms. Gandhi and key members of the group of 23 dissenters (G-23). Among several key demands to revamp the Congress, having a “full time and visible” leadership was prominently mentioned by G-23 in their letter to Ms. Gandhi in August. While party chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had claimed that 99.9 % of the workers want Mr. Gandhi back as their chief, he did not clear his stand on the issue. “He has not gone on a vacation,” said Mr. Surjewala, adding, “Can’t a person go to meet a relative who is severely unwell? He will also be meeting his maternal grandmother at the end of the year”. Other senior leaders, including party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, were present at the brief event. Though Ms. Vadra spoke to reporters, she sidestepped the question about Mr. Gandhi's absence, and focussed only on the issue of ongoing farmers’ agitation.   Party general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal later went to Jantar Mantar, where party MPs from Punjab are protesting over the farm laws, to express solidarity with the farmers’ agitation.
29 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||Chhota Rajan, Bajrangi stamps embarrass India Post||The Postal Department in Kanpur on Monday began an inquiry after postage stamps bearing photographs of jailed underworld don Chhota Rajan and gangster Munna Bajrangi, who was shot dead in a Baghpat jail in 2018, were printed and released by it. The stamps were issued under the ‘My Stamp’ scheme run by India Post for personalised sheets of postage stamps. A dozen stamps each of Rajan and Bajrangi were printed, creating an embarrassing situation for the postal department. Under the scheme, any person may submit soft or hard copies of their photographs or of that of their relatives or friends or any other image including logo, symbols, heritage places or wildlife to get them printed and published on stamps. Each stamp sheet would cost the applicant Rs. 300. For the personalisation, the postal department prints a thumbnail of the customer’s photograph and logos of institutions, or images of artwork, heritage buildings, famous tourist places, historic cities, wildlife and other items on a selected template sheet having postage stamps. The applicant would also have to produce an identity card issued by a government authority. V.K. Verma, Postmaster-General, Kanpur, said he was investigating how the stamps got issued. “We are trying to fix the responsibility where the mistake was made. And ensure that the mistake is not repeated,” he told presspersons. The Kanpur police said the stamps were issued after an application was received by the postal department. The applicant and the department staff who issued them would be identified. If found guilty, legal action would be taken, the police said. The police added that neither was there any kind of “unethical gains” made in issuing the postage stamps nor can the applicant gain similarly from the issued stamps. While the police and the postal department have not identified the applicant, a Hindi daily said in its report that its reporter had submitted the application to expose the shortcomings in the scheme.
29 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Differently abled couples tie knot at mass wedding||Eleven differently abled and underprivileged couples, who tied the nuptial knot at a mass wedding ceremony in Udaipur, took a pledge to wear face masks and generate awareness until they get the COVID-19 vaccine. The ceremony was attended only by the relatives of the couples on Sunday with adherence to guidelines for containing the epidemic. Narayan Seva Sansthan (NSS), a philanthropic institution, organised the ceremony for the persons with disability, many of whom had earlier received its assistance through corrective surgery. Donors gifted household items to the newly married couples, while the NSS members wished them a happy conjugal life. The marriage was a celebration like any other wedding, which included the procession, photography, music and the wedding rituals, though on a low-key scale with social distancing. NSS president Prashant Agarwal said the institution had so far organised 35 mass weddings in which over 2,000 differently abled couples had got married. “Our no dowry campaign is a flagship drive which has been organised for the last 18 years. This platform has helped the people who find it difficult to marry because of financial constraints and physical difficulties,” Mr. Agarwal said, adding that the life partners could support each other in their struggle. Couples from Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Bihar, Gujarat and several other States has approached NSS with the request for assistance to support their weddings. Mr. Agarwal said the mass weddings ensured social inclusion and accountability of every differently abled person, in addition to helping them out to lead a normal life and become a part of mainstream society.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Irrigation department revamped||Apart from ENCs and CEs, the posts of superintending engineers will go up from 47 to 57, executive engineers from 206 to 234, deputy executive engineers from 678 to 892, assistant executive engineers from 2,436 to 2,796, technical officers from 129 to 199, assistant technical officers from 173 to 242, junior technical officers from 346 to 398, non-technical personal assistants from 31 to 45, office superintendents from 187 to 238 and record assistants from 134 to 205. He asked officials to treat irrigation projects as top most priority of government. In a district-wise review of progress of irrigation projects, he asked officials to complete the barrage, pumphouse and canals of Chanaka-Korata project in Adilabad district by June 2021. Tenders should be invited and works taken up on Kuppi project in Adilabad, Gattu project in Mahabubnagar and Nagamadugu lift-irrigation scheme in Jukkal of Nizamabad district. Work on construction of permanent river banks along Godavari in Warangal should be completed before rainy season next year. He ordered survey for taking up a lift-irrigation scheme at Atchampet and sanctioned another lift-irrigation scheme at Huzurnagar.
29 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Polls to seven wards in Kerala on January 21||Elections to seven wards of local bodies in the State that were postponed due to the death of candidates will be held on January 21. State Election Commissioner (SEC) V. Bhaskaran issued the special election notification to this effect on Monday. As per this, nomination can be submitted till January 4 and the scrutiny will take place on January 5. The last date for withdrawal of nominations is January 7. The voting will take place on January 21 and the counting will be held on January 22. Elections will be held in the Parambimukku and Chola wards in the Panmana grama panchayat in Kollam, the PHC ward in the Chettikulangara grama panchayat in Alappuzha, the Municipal ward in the Kalamaserry municipality in Ernakulam, the Pullazhi ward in the Thrissur city Corporation, the Thatoorpooyil ward in the Mavoor grama panchayat in Kozhikode and the Thilankery ward in the Kannur district panchayat. Poll expense The SEC said the last date for submitting poll expenses is February 20.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers get invite for talks again||Tens of thousands of farmers have been protesting on the borders of Delhi for 33 straight days. Five rounds of talks have already been held between the Central Ministers and farmer leaders. Negotiations broke down on December 9 when farmers rejected the government’s proposal to amend the three contentious laws, insisting on full repeal. Last week, Agriculture Ministry Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal wrote to the farmer groups, urging them to resume negotiations, suggesting that they set the date and the issues of their choosing to be discussed. Four-point agenda On Saturday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha responded, proposing a meeting at 11 a.m. on December 29, demanding a four-point agenda, beginning with the modalities to be adopted for the revocation of the three laws and a mechanism of legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP). The other demands are that farmers be exempted from the penal provisions of the Commission for Air Quality, and changes to be made to the Electricity Bill, 2020. Mr. Agarwal’s letter mentioned the same four issues to be discussed at the December 30 meeting, but left out the specific reference to the “modalities for repeal” of the three laws, as well as the “legal guarantee” with regard to MSPs. “This is wordplay being engaged in by the government. We will want to clarify that our proposed agenda has been clearly understood,” AIKSCC general secretary Avik Saha said. “We will go for the talks on Wednesday. At least, the government is not talking about amendments as the agenda any more. But neither have they mentioned repeal,” said Abhimanyu Kohar, spokesperson for the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh. Tomar meets farmers Earlier, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who has been leading the Central delegation in the talks, addressed a conference organised by the farmer groups supporting the contentious new laws. He reiterated the government’s determination to implement the reforms, saying that they were long overdue and would enable farmers to benefit equally from domestic and foreign markets.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Remain vigilant, says Centre||The letter said the government had started making preparations for the administration and the roll-out of vaccine for COVID-19, prioritising healthcare and frontline workers and those aged above 50. The Home Ministry added that the State governments could impose local restrictions such as night curfews. The letter also asked States to follow the December 18 order by Supreme Court directing strict compliance of COVID-19 guidelines and regulation of gatherings, among other things. The earlier guidelines under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, that were issued on November 25 were applicable till December 31. “Accordingly, containment zones continue to be demarcated carefully; prescribed containment measures strictly followed within these zones; COVID-appropriate behaviour promoted and strictly enforced; and the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) prescribed in respect of various permitted activities followed scrupulously,” the MHA said. “Therefore, the focused approach on surveillance, containment and strict observance of the guidelines/ SOPs issued by MHA and Ministry of Health & Family Welfare as envisaged in the Guidelines issued on 25.11.2020; need to be enforced strictly by States and UT,” the order said. The November 25 guidelines specified “surveillance, containment and caution” in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases due to the festival season and onset of winter. Earlier the MHA had stressed that States should ensure 80% contacts of all persons found COVID-19 positive should be traced in 72 hours and their “tracking, identification, quarantine and follow up” for the next 14 days should be done strictly. More than 1 crore COVID-19 cases and 1.4 lakh deaths have been reported in the country so far.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Four States begin dry run for roll-out of vaccine||“The actual [potential] vaccine shots will not be administered to people during the dry run,” he said. The Punjab government completed the exercise at 12 sites in two districts. Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the UNDP and the WHO, the State’s immunisation partners, supported the Monday exercise. In Ludhiana, seven centres have been set up at various hospitals. Health officials in Ludhiana and Nawanshahr said for each centre, 25 persons from those registered online were selected for the dry run. Assam health officials said they focussed on software efficacy and will carry out the physical part of the drill involving 300 people in two districts. “Today’s dry run was mostly related to the Co-WIN software and encountered some bottlenecks during the software arrangement for selection of vaccine sites, vaccinators and the beneficiaries, generating messages for each of them for informing them to come on a particular date and time when the vaccine arrives,” said Lakshmanan S, director of the National Health Mission, Assam. Andhra Pradesh’s two-day exercise will be conducted at five session sites, including public and private medical institutions, with 25 dummy beneficiaries (healthcare workers) at each site for two hours.. The sites selected are Government General Hospital, Vijayawada; Public Health Centre (PHC), Uppuluru; Purna Heart Institute, Vijayawada; PHC,Penamaluru; and Urban PHC, Prakash Nagar, Vijayawada. District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz, who inspected the arrangements at Prakash Nagar UPHC, said each session site had five vaccine officers and three rooms. “The entire process of registration, vaccination and observation was enacted to identify any flaws in the system,” he said. (With inputs from Ahmedabad, Chandigarh, Guwahati and Vijayawada)
29 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab police in cahoots with disruptive forces: BJP||The BJP on Monday alleged that the Punjab police were hand in glove with disruptive forces targeting the party’s offices and its workers in the past few days. A party delegation led by former Punjab Cabinet Minister Madan Mohan Mittal met Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta here and expressed concern over the deteriorating law and order situation in the State. A statement issued by the party later said that despite information, the police failed to prevent the attack on BJP workers during the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in Bathinda last week. The delegation asserted that in the garb of farmers, divisive and disruptive forces were at play and the State police must act against them, said the statement. Punjab Cabinet Ministers, meanwhile, asked State BJP chief Ashwani Sharma to not cross lines of propriety and decency in political discourse. In a statement, senior Cabinet Ministers, including Brahm Mohindra, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Vijay Inder Singla, O.P. Soni and Sunder Sham Arora said Mr. Sharma was levelling unfounded allegations against the State’s top police officer. ‘Irresponsible remarks’ The Ministers said Mr. Sharma was trying to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere of Punjab by irresponsible statements. The BJP was trying to divert attention from issues the nation faced by indulging in irresponsible and dangerous politicking, but the Punjab government would never allow the Centre to succeed in its plans to destroy agriculture at the behest of crony capitalists, said the Ministers.
29 December 2020||Kolkata,||Amartya Sen thanks Mamata for her support||Nobel laureate Amartya Sen has written to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee thanking her for the support on the recent controversy over Visva-Bharati allegedly including him in the list of people who have illegally occupied land. “I am very happy to get your wonderfully supportive letter. I am not only most touched but also very reassured that despite the busy life you have to lead, you can find time reassuring people under attack,” Professor Sen wrote in a letter to the Chief Minister. He expressed his deep appreciation of Ms. Banerjee’s letter to him. “Your strong voice, along with your full understanding of what is going on, is, for me, a tremendous source of strength,” he wrote in the letter dated December 27. The letter was made public by the Chief Minister’s Office on Monday. ‘Political matter’ On December 26, he broke his silence on the issue and described the development as a “political matter”, adding that if the Vice-Chancellor felt happy to take part in such political matters, then there was nothing to be done.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||College told to admit student in MBBS||Telangana High Court on Monday directed Prathima Medical College in Karimnagar to give admission in MBBS course to a student Vikram under convenor quota on production of original certificates and payment of fees. The order was passed by a bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and T. Amarnath Goud, after hearing a lunch motion moved by the student’s uncle. The petitioner contended that Vikram Chinathandrapadu of Jogulamba Gadwal district was denied admission even after production of a custodian certificate from Government Agricultural College in Jagtial district where he had submitted his original certificates. On this December 15, Vikram secured admission in B.Sc. (Agriculture) programme through counselling conducted by the EAMCET convenor. On the night of December 22, the Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences informed him that he got admission in MMBS course in Prathima Medical College. The next day, he rushed to Agricultural College and requested for return of his certificates for submission in medical college. The college’s authorities gave him a custodian certificate stating that they could not give the original certificates back immediately. They assured him that he can secure admission by presenting the custodian certificate. However, Prathima college authorities declined to admit Vikram insisting on production of original certificates. Citing rules, they told the student that the seat he got under convenor quota would be converted into management quota seat if he failed to secure admission in compliance with the rules relating to production of certificates on time. The petitioner’s counsel contended that failure of agricultural college authorities to return the student’s certificate was costing his future. He argued that Prathima College cannot refuse admission to the student for the fault of agricultural college.
29 December 2020||Kolkata,||New redressal mechanism in West Bengal||Describing the State government’s outreach programme duare sarkar (government at the doorsteps) as a “huge success” West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced a new grievance redressal mechanism “Paray Samadhan” (redressal in the neighborhood). Ms. Banerjee, who held an administrative meeting district in Birbhum district, announced that the new initiative will begin from January 2 and continue till February 15. “It will be a New Year’s gift to the people,” Ms. Banerjee said. State Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said a separate task force comprising senior officials has been set up for the “Paray Samadhan” programme. Mr. Bandyopadhyay, who was also present at the administrative meeting said the scheme has reached about 1.5 crore people and about 20,000 camps have been organised in the State. Earlier in the day, the Trinamool Congress also issued statement saying that the State government has allocated Rs. 8,700 crore for the duare sarkar programme and added the programme is a “model for the entire world”. New strain worries Meanwhile, addressing the officials particularly the Health Secretary, Ms. Banerjee urged them to remain on guard against the new strain of coronavirus which has surfaced in the United Kingdom and a few other European countries. “A new strain of coronavirus has surfaced in the UK and it is being said that it is more potent. We should be prepared for this. Some countries including U.K. and Italy have again imposed lockdown. We should be serious about it and shouldn’t let our guards down,” the Chief Minister said. In the past 24 hours West Bengal has recorded 1,028 new cases 1,028 COVID-19 infections and 27 deaths due to the virus. The number of mortalities has increased to 9,625. The numbers of samples tested for COVID-19 in the past 24 hours have reduced to 28,095.
29 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Modi’s meet with Orthodox faction cordial||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a discussion with representatives of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church in Delhi on Monday, in an attempt to mediate the raging dispute between the Orthodox and Jacobite factions of the Malankara Church. According to an official spokesperson of the Church, the meeting that lasted nearly an hour, was also attended by Mizoram Governor P.S. Sreedharan Pillai. The Orthodox faction was represented by Youhanon Mar Demetrios, Metropolitan of the Delhi Diocese; Thomas Mar Athanasius, Metropolitan of the Kandanad East diocese; and Youhanon Mar Diascoros, synod secretary of the Church. ‘Respect court order’ “The meeting was cordial and the Prime Minister allowed us enough time to explain our stance. He also acknowledged the need to respect the court order,” the spokesperson said. According to him, the faction laid stressed on settling the issue within the framework of the Supreme Court order. “We explained the circumstances leading to the case in the Supreme Court and how the Jacobite faction is now seeking a settlement outside the court,” the spokesperson added. He further pointed to the court directive to the State and all parties to abide by its judgment in totality and not to solve the matter in variance with the judgment. Mr. Modi is slated to meet the representatives of the Jacobite faction on Tuesday.  Mizoram Governor P.S. Sreedharan Pillai was present at meeting ‘Stress laid on solving dispute within the framework of SC order’
29 December 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. calls for Smriti Irani’s resignation||The Congress on Monday said Union Minister Smriti Irani should step down and a “judicial inquiry” should be ordered over bribery allegations by international shooter Vartika Singh. Ms. Singh alleged that the two “close aides” of Ms. Irani, who handles the Ministry of Women and Child Development, demanded a bribe of Rs. 1 crore to make her a member of a women commission. “Smriti ji , why don’t you come forward for an impartial inquiry after tendering your resignation. Why doesn’t the Prime Minister ... order an independent judicial inquiry,” said Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala.   ( With inputs from PTI )
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Onion exports to resume from January 1||The Centre has lifted the ban on exports of all varieties of onions with effect from January 1. The Directorate General of Foreign Trade issued a notification lifting the prohibition on Monday. The permission to export the kitchen staple again, after a three-and-a-half month ban, would “increase farmers’ income”, tweeted Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal. The move comes against the backdrop of long-drawn farmers’ protests. Onion farmers and traders have been demanding the lifting of the ban, as fresh arrivals from the kharif crop flood the market, pushing prices lower. The ban was imposed on September 14 when seasonal shortages were exacerbated by excess rainfall and flooding causing damages in key producer States. Prices have now fallen to Rs. 37 a kg, as the fresh kharif harvest arrives in the wholesale market.
29 December 2020||Kolkata,||W.B. Governor targets senior police officers||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday accused top police officials in the State of being vigorously engaged in translating politically motivated police actions. Mr. Dhankhar’s remarks were targeted at State Security Advisor (SSA) Surajit Kar Purakayastha. “Alarming reports that De facto boss @WBPolice Surajit Kar Purakayastha #SSA @MamataOfficial vigorously engaged in translating politically motivated police actions. Concerned at Field police work of DGP- postings & transfer, investigation usurped by De facto boss Purakayastha,” the Governor tweeted. In a series of posts, Mr Dhankhar said: “Such capitulation #DGP @WBPolice and usurpation #SSA @MamataOfficial sounds death knell of democracy . Such gross violation of Police Act and constitutional provisions proves political stance of police and administration that is by law required to be politically neutrality,” the Governor added. The Trinamool Congress leadership came out with a strong rebuttal to the charges. National spokesperson Derek O’ Brien, MP, said the Governor has crossed the line. Meanwhile, the Diamond Harbour S.P. Bholanath Pandey was transferred and posted as Superintendent of Police, Home Guards.
29 December 2020||new delhi,||SCBA condemns raid on lawyer’s residence||The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) on Monday expressed “deep shock and concern” over the “illegal and brazen” exercise of power by Delhi Police in raiding the residence of advocate Mehmood Pracha, who represents many northeast Delhi riots accused. SCBA president and senior advocate Dushyant A. Dave said, “I strongly condemn the lodging of FIR against Mr. Mehmood Pracha and the raid at his place. While acknowledging that Delhi Police is a fine professional organisation, I must say that their investigations into the riot cases are biased and perhaps motivated”.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Legislature session likely from Jan. 18||The State legislature session is likely to be convened from January 18 and will be opened by Governor Vajubhai Vala’s address to a joint session of both Houses. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said this was a tentative decision and the dates would be finalised at the next Cabinet meeting. Briefing reporters on Cabinet decisions, he said it has approved the Karnataka Private Security Agencies (Private Security to Cash Transportation Activities) Rules, 2020, for fixing rules for the number of men and security required while transporting cash to ATMs. The Cabinet has also provided administrative approval for a grant of Rs. 124 crore for filling 12 tanks in Belur constituency of Hassan district and three tanks in Chikkamagaluru. It has approved the revised proposal to implement Emergency Response Support System Dial – 112, instead of Dial – 110, at a cost of Rs. 35.47 crore. The Cabinet has sanctioned 50.29 acres in Bullapura village of Bhadravati taluk in Shivamogga district for one battalion of the Rapid Action Force. It has also approved the Bengaluru Dr. B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics University (Amendment) Bill, 2020, sources said.
29 December 2020||Hyderabad,||One more U.K. returnee tests COVID-19 positive||Another person who arrived in Telangana from the U.K. tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. From December 9, a total of 1,216 people have come to the State from the U.K., and 1,060 were tracked in the last 72 hours. Of them, 21 were detected with the virus, and six have left for other countries. While officials, till Sunday evening, said 92 of those 1,216 belong to other States, the number was brought down to 58 on Monday. On Sunday evening, officials said that 154 were yet to be traced.
29 December 2020||Hyderabad,||16.04 lakh ryots get Rs. 494 cr. Rythu Bandhu aid on day one||A total of about 16.04 lakh pattadar farmers with landholding up to one acre were extended the input investment support under Rythu Bandhu scheme for the current Yasangi (Rabi) season at the rate of Rs. 5,000 per acre on Monday. The amount was transferred directly to the bank accounts linked to their pattadar passbooks by the Treasury department in 32 districts. The State government has stated earlier that it would commence the disbursement (transfer) of the Rythu Bandhu benefit to the pattadar farmers from December 28 and the exercise would run into the first fortnight of January starting with lesser extent of landholding with higher extent. According to the details given by the Agriculture Department on the status of Rythu Bandhu disbursement on the first day for the current Yasangi season on Monday, a total of 16,03,938 farmers were extended an amount of Rs. 494,10,86,470 (about Rs. 494.11 crore) to their landholding extent of 9,88,208 acres. The total eligible farmers with landholding up to one acre for Rythu Bandhu benefit are 18.69 lakh with an extent of 11.2 lakh acres. It would require a total of Rs. 559.99 crore. A total of 61.49 lakh pattadar farmers have been found to be eligible to get the benefit this season for their landholding extent of 1.52 crore acres requiring an amount of Rs. 7,515 crore.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hyderabad Metro to run trains ‘driverless’||Delhi Metro may have become the first in the country to launch driverless technology for its new 38.2 km of Magenta Line on Monday. Fact, however, is that Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) was the first metro in the country to have opted for most advanced Communication Based Train Control (CBTC) system which enables the metro trains to be run without drivers. “We brought CBTC technology for the first time to the country when the project took off with in-built Automatic Train Control (ATC), Automatic Train Operation (ATO) and Automatic Train Protection (ATP). It allows for running more trains at greater frequency and also run them without any driver,” explained HMR managing director N.V.S. Reddy. Thales Groupof France supplied SelTrac CBTC technology where trains can be run in ATO eventually every 90 seconds. “With software tweaks, we can also run driverless trains but the infrastructure needs to be upgraded in stations with platform screen doors to be installed to align the metro train coach doors with them. This will prevent free access to the passenger to the railway tracks,” he said. It is to prevent passengers from falling accidentally or otherwise slip onto the track just before the train is arriving into the station. “We have been fortunate not to have such incidents but there have been cases in Delhi where people tried to jump onto tracks even as the train was charging in. Having a driver inside the cabin allows a chance, even if a slim one, to save lives by slamming brakes as it is a touch-and-go affair,” said Mr. Reddy. “The role of a metro train pilot inside the cabin is limited to opening or closing of doors, braking option in case of any emergency and keep a watch on the track and train movement,” informed the MD. Driverless rail systems are operational in Japan, Europe and other such places. Current metro rail services run across 66 km in three corridors — L.B. Nagar to Miyapur (Red Line), MGBS to JBS (Green Line) and Nagole to Miyapur (Blue Line) — and is remotely controlled through the Operation Control Centre (OCC) at Uppal depot with a back up centre and a display panel indicating trains’ movement on all the corridors. Kochi, Chennai and the latest metro rails under construction in different parts of the country also opted for CBTC technology while initial phases of Delhi Metro was not built on this platform. Hyderabad Metro after being locked up during the pandemic lockdown from March to August, began operations from September 8 and is carrying about 1.70 lakh passengers on weekdays, he added.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Ban orders to be in force in Bengaluru on New Year’s Eve||Like all other celebrations in a pandemic-hit year, ushering in the New Year will also be a muted affair as the City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant announced imposition of prohibitory orders from 6 p.m. of December 31 to 6 a.m. of January 1 in the wake of fresh threat of a new strain of the coronavirus. Mr. Pant held a meeting with senior police officials to discuss the security measures on New Year’s eve before announcing the prohibitory orders under section 144 of Cr PC on Monday. Gathering of five or more people is prohibited, he said. No music programmes Apartment residents and private clubs are allowed to celebrate within their premises, but music programmes, bands and DJs are prohibited. Hotels and restaurants are allowed to function, but they should ensure implementation of COVID-19 guidelines like wearing masks, social distancing and provision of sanitisation. However, they may carry out regular business activities, including music within permissible decibels following COVID-19 protocols. Celebration at public places, roads and parks is banned and police patrolling has been intensified to enforce prohibitory orders. Police have been deployed to check instances of joy rides and bike stunts and also carry out special drives against drunk driving in the city. Strict action would be taken against people who violate prohibitory orders under the Disaster Management Act and their vehicles will be seized, Mr. Pant warned. Focus on CBD Special focus will be on the Central Business District area and M.G. Road, Brigade Road, Church Street, Koramangala and Indiranagar will be complete no-man’s zone to ensure prohibitory orders, the Commissioner said. Wine shops and bars have been directed to shut down by 11 p.m. Flyovers will be shut down from 8 p.m. and barricades will be put up at major junctions in order to conduct checks.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,||APMC user cess cut after backlash||The State Cabinet on Monday decided to reduce the market user cess charged by the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) from 1% to 0.6% of the transaction value. This is expected to benefit traders. The decision was taken following a recent bandh observed in APMC yards across Karnataka against the State government’s decision to increase the cess to 1% of the transaction value, up from 0.35%. On December 15, the State government increased the market fee to 1%. Traders had demanded a complete rollback of the hike and sought a level playing field with the traders who operate outside the APMC purview. Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs J.C. Madhuswamy said that earlier, the government had imposed 0.35% cess, but it was considered too little for taking up development and administrative activities at the APMCs. But after the hike, traders claimed that an increase in user fee would make trade unattractive for buyers coming to APMC yards. The Minister said a cess of 0.6% would be sufficient for maintenance and development works at APMCs. There are 161 APMCs in the State. During a Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry interaction last week, traders had urged Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar to withdraw the notification issued on December 15 and restore of the order issued on August 4, 2020, wherein the market fee was fixed at 0.35%. On the matter of fixing the same market fee for selling farm produce outside APMC market yards, the Cabinet opposed it on the grounds that it would defeat the very purpose of the amendments made to the APMC Act. The APMC Act was amended to allow farmers to sell their commodities outside APMC yards in order to fetch better remunerative prices.   Demand met halfway Traders had called for the withdrawal of he notification issued on December 15 and the restoration of the order wherein the cess was fixed at 0.35%. But the government felt 0.35% was too little for taking up development and administrative activities at the APMCs
29 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘My FASTag’ App now with balance-check feature using vehicle numbers||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has updated its mobile application “My FASTag” with a new feature to check balance status by simply entering the vehicle number. FASTag will be mandatory on toll plazas from January 1. “This new feature will help both highway user and toll operator,” said NHAI.
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI books Faridabad-based company for Rs. 236.74-cr. bank fraud||The CBI has booked Faridabad-based Richa Industries Ltd. and 11 others for allegedly cheating the Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) and the erstwhile Corporation Bank of Rs. 236.74 crore. Several bank officials are also under the scanner. The company was initially into textile products and later diversified into other sectors. It took credit facilities under multi-lender arrangement over a period of time.
29 December 2020||IMPHAL,||Amit Shah meets civil society organisations in Manipur||During a one-day visit of Union Home Minister Amit Shah to Manipur on Sunday, some civil society organisations (CSOs) met him with some demands after a public speech. Important among them were the Coordinating Committee on Manipur Integrity (COCOMI), the United Naga Council (UNC), the Kuki Impi Manipur and the Zeliangrong Boudi.
29 December 2020||Delhi,||President posts video jogging at Diu beach||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday shared a video in which he is seen jogging on the Ghoghla beach in Diu. “Jogged on the pristine Ghoghla beach this morning. As we enter 2021, after a difficult year that has tested us all, let us rise together and endeavour to remain fit and healthy. May the coming year bring good health and prosperity in our lives,” the President said.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Mouth cancer prevalence high among Thanjavur women’||The Tamil Nadu Cancer Registry Project (TNCRP) has found that the Age Standardised Rate (ASR) of mouth cancer among women in Thanjavur district — 9.2 per 1,00,000 women — was the highest in the world. “We suspect it to be due to rampant tobacco chewing among women. Use of chewable tobacco is high among women in districts such as Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur,” said R. Swaminathan, associate director, professor and head of the Department of Epidemiology, Bio-Statistics and Cancer Registry, Cancer Institute, Adyar. The TNCRP Report 2020 was released by Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar in the presence of Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and chairperson of Cancer Institute, Adyar, V. Shanta on Monday. The incidence of breast cancer observed in Chennai — ASR of 46.4 per 1,00,000 women — was the highest in India while incidence of cervical cancer observed in Perambalur (ASR of 37.6 per 1,00,000 women) was also the highest in the country. “Another important finding is about large bowel cancers that were thought to be not so common 10 years ago. It is now among the top five cancers in many districts of the State. This is a cause for concern as it is related to diet. Good screening is available and there is a need to take this forward,” he added. In districts such as Ramanathapuram, 70% to 75% of patients with cancer visited neighbouring districts for treatment. In Erode, which is considered a semi-urban district, 50% patients went to the neighbouring district for treatment, raising the need to make available health services within the region, he said. The report that has data from 2012-2016 and estimates up to 2020 provides district-wise cancer incidence, age group and gender-wise, and common cancers. According to the report, nearly 66,000 new cancers were diagnosed every year in the State, with the estimated new cancer burden being around 78,000 in 2020. Cancer incidence was higher among women than men — 94 per 1,00,000 women and 75 per 1,00,000 in men. The common cancers among women were those afflicting breast, cervix, ovary, large bowel and mouth while it was stomach, mouth, lung, large bowel and tongue among men. “Data from the TNCRP will be a major component in framing cancer policies and cancer control programmes,” said Dr. Shanta. She raised the need to continue surveillance activities. “The entire project was done by the institute with no cost to the government,” she added. TNCRP, a collaborative study by the institute and the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Tamil Nadu, was the largest cancer registry in the world, covering eight crore population and the first of its kind in the country. The Health Minister said the TNCRP report would serve as a record for the government, and would help in framing cancer control measures in the State. “For instance, the common cancers in women were of the breast, cervix and ovaries. The district-wise data in the report will guide the government,” he said. Mr. Radhakrishnan said the registry would go a long way in ascertaining the causes of mortality and stages of cancers.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No New Year revelry on ECR||The police have said there should not be any revelry on roads, beaches and beach resorts from Muttukadu to Mamallapuram, known for New Year celebrations. The State government has banned New Year revelry at beaches, hotels, clubs and resorts on the night of December 31 and January 1 as part of efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. There would be no entry to the beaches on these days. To ensure compliance of the government order, Chengalpattu Superintendent of Police Kannan on Sunday held a meeting with the representatives of resorts, hotels, and other places and asked them to follow the government order. He said there should not be mass celebration in hotels, resorts, farm houses and places of stay located from Muttukadu to Mamallapuram. They should not organise any entertainment programmes, DJ programmes or serve drinks in parties in view of the New Year celebration. People who stay in resorts and hotels in the vicinity of the beach are prohibited from gathering on the sea shore or swimming in the sea. However, those who made advance booking for celebration in rooms in hotels and resorts should check in before 10 p.m. on December 31 and there is no bar on stay in the rooms. Swimming pools should not be open on New Year’s eve and bursting firecrackers is not allowed. Police presence More than 500 police personnel from the district police will be deployed and vehicle checkpoints will be installed at 10 places on East Coast Road and on Rajiv Gandhi Salai. Those riding motorcycles from the city after 6 p.m. on December 31 would be turned away, the police said. Officers have warned of stringent action against owners of resorts, hotels and lodges if they fail to follow the rules.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 1,005 fresh cases||A total of 1,005 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday, taking its tally to 8,15,175 cases. Chennai recorded 285 fresh cases, while Coimbatore had 93 cases and Chengalpattu 65. In Tiruvallur, 44 persons tested positive, while 41 persons tested positive in Tiruppur. While Perambalur recorded no cases, 22 districts had less than 20 cases each. The fresh cases took Chennai’s overall tally to 2,24,672 (2,17,902 discharged, 2,774 active cases and 3,996 deaths). Coimbatore followed with 52,074 cases, and Chengalpattu accounted for 49,853 cases. A total of 1,074 persons were discharged after treatment, while 11 more succumbed to the infection. So far, 7,94,228 persons have been discharged and 12,080 persons have died. Chennai and Tiruvallur recorded three deaths each. Among the deceased was a 59-year-old man with no co-morbidities. A resident of Chengalpattu, he was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on December 25 with complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing. He had tested positive on December 15. He died on December 27, owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. Results awaited There was no fresh case reported among persons who returned from the United Kingdom. So far, 13 returnees have tested positive. On Monday, three more contacts of these patients were found to be infected. According to the bulletin issued by the Health Department, of the 2,300 passengers who travelled from the U.K. between November 25 and December 21, a total of 1,549 were traced and tested, of whom 13 tested positive and 1,432 negative. The results of 104 persons are awaited. Among 93 contacts of 13 patients, 15 tested positive and 77 were negative. The result in respect of one person is awaited. A total of 63,242 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. So far, 1,39,87,769 samples have been tested.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||300 vehicle checking points will be set up in city to enforce ban||Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Monday said an elaborate security arrangement will be in place to prevent revelry on beaches, roads and other places. Mr. Aggarwal told reporters here that arrangements had been made to ensure compliance with the government’s order banning New Year celebrations on roads, beaches, hotels, clubs and resorts on the night of December 31 and January 1. “We are going to restrict entry to beaches. Additional deployment will be there on Kamarajar Salai and East Coast Road and vehicle checks will be conducted.” The city police had drafted a scheme to prevent people from celebrating on roads and there would be 300 vehicle check points. “We want them to celebrate safely. Bike racing or bike stunts will endanger the lives of bikers and others who are on roads. We wish to do good to all. So all can stay in their homes and celebrate with their families,” Mr. Aggarwal said. Asked if action would be taken against those who hold parties in beach houses, Mr. Aggarwal said: “It depends on the circumstances. If a family owns a beach house and they celebrate with close relatives, there is no issue with it. If they organise parties or celebrate by selling tickets, that won’t be allowed since it will be a public gathering.”
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The challenges facing AIADMK ahead of Assembly election||The ruling AIADMK, which launched its campaign for the 2021 Assembly elections on Sunday, is facing several challenges in the run-up to its bid for an electoral hat-trick. It has to contend with the “pressure tactics” by its allies, primarily the BJP; the possible fallout of the DMK’s memorandum of corruption charges to the Governor against the Chief Minister and his colleagues; and the likely political impact of the expected return of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s jailed aide V.K. Sasikala in January end. In recent weeks, the BJP has been ambivalent about acknowledging Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami, as the alliance’s candidate for the CM post. Though BJP leaders are maintaining that the relationship with the AIADMK remains intact, they appear disinclined to endorse Mr.Palaniswami’s candidature. There is a feeling that the AIADMK has not effectively countered the issue, though the national party, given its limited electoral strength, will be contesting in much lower number of seats in the alliance. A senior functionary of the AIADMK points out that the present situation is not like the 1980 Assembly election when the DMK and the Congress contested in an equal number of seats together and were briefly sparring over the CM candidate.  BJP’s view The BJP also seems to be promoting the concept of coalition government in the State, an idea that the AIADMK has rejected flatly. A senior BJP leader, also a long-standing member of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), expresses the confidence that despite the present posturing, his party will eventually settle for an electoral understanding with the AIADMK. The DMK’s memorandum to the Governor has evoked sharp responses from the ruling party and Mr. Palaniswami, at the party’s campaign on Sunday, termed it as one “full of lies”. Though the Governor’s decision is not yet known, it is regarded by jurists and senior officials alike as a matter which falls within the “exclusive domain” of the Governor. At the same time, the development has caused anxiety at least among sections of the AIADMK how it will play out, when the announcement of the election schedule is expected in a few months. Recent months saw a few occasions of subtle differences between the Governor and the government coming to the fore. The issue of 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical courses is one such instance.  Need for unity The AIADMK leaders are also privately discussing the possible impact of the release of Sasikala, briefly the party’s interim general secretary after Jayalalithaa’s death, on their organisation. While all the speakers at Sunday’s meeting invariably referred to the need for unity among members of the party, this has a special relevance for the AIADMK on account of the Sasikala factor. Perhaps, keeping this in mind, Law Minister C. Ve. Shanmugam, a few days ago spoke of a “big conspiracy” about freezing his party’s symbol, “Two Leaves”. Notwithstanding all the challenges, sections within the party are confident that the organisation can come out with flying colours, as they feel that the image of Mr. Palaniswami has “changed favourably” in the last four years, particularly in the past year or so.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Theatres urge govt. to increase seating to pre-pandemic levels||With big-budget films in the pipeline, the Tamil Nadu Film Exhibitors Association (TNFEA) has requested the State government to increase the seating capacity in theatres to the pre-COVID-19 levels. Now, theatres have been permitted to allow patrons up to 50% of their capacity. Popular actor Vijay, whose Master is scheduled for Pongal release, called on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at his house-cum-camp office on Sunday evening. While the meeting was not publicised, sources indicated that the actor also placed a request to ease the restrictions on theatres. “There has been no COVID-19 cases reported from any theatre across the country,” TNFEA general secretary R. Panneerselvam said on Monday. “So we request the Chief Minister to allow us to operate with 100% occupancy. Only then will the producers start releasing their films,” he said. The theatres in the State are now running shows mostly with 30%-35% audience. The TNFEA said the local body tax levied on films, besides the GST, remained a burden. For the last three years, the film industry had been demanding its withdrawal, arguing that no other State had resorted to such a levy. The industry also sought permission for special shows and payment of electricity bills in instalments. “Films these days come with a shorter duration of two hours to two- and-a-half hours. In this scenario, extra shows will help,” Mr. Panneerselvam said. Owners also sought permission to conduct other events at theatres. This could help them earn more to pay up their workers. The association sought cancellation of the old operator licence system. “Currently, films are running in the digital mode and we need to change with times. So it is time to remove the operator system and bring in people with technical knowledge,” Mr. Panneerselvam said. Association members said a Tamil film chamber would soon be established for discussing the issues of the industry.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Do not use party cadres to give Pongal gift tokens: Stalin to CM||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday accused the AIADMK of using its cadres to distribute tokens for the Pongal gift scheme. He demanded that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami ensure that the scheme is delivered only through employees of fair price shops. The cash meant for rice ration card holders belonged to the Treasury and not to the AIADMK, he added. The Chief Minister was making it seem as if the money was being given from the AIADMK fund, Mr. Stalin said in a statement.  Election on mind “While the government issued an order that the Pongal gift would be distributed from January 4, the Chief Minister inaugurated the scheme on December 21 itself and gave away Rs. 2,500 to some beneficiaries. He is in a haste because of the election. Mr. Palaniswami is making his party cadres distribute the tokens for collecting the Pongal gift. But the money belongs to the tax payers,” he said. While welcoming the fact that the people’s money was going back to the people themselves, he asked how the Chief Minister could distribute tokens through AIADMK cadres. “Why should the AIADMK cadre handle the money which is being given from the State treasury? This will lead to the problem of cash not reaching the right people. The Chief Minister should explain whether this is being done to benefit his party men,” Mr. Stalin further said.  Legal action He demanded that the Chief Minister immediately stop distributing tokens through AIADMK cadres. If this was not done, the DMK would take legal action, he warned. Separately, DMK organisation secretary R.S. Bharathi wrote to the Chief Election Commissioner and the Chief Electoral Officer on the issue. “Though the model code of conduct is yet to be enforced, it is not proper for the ruling party to issue Pongal gift tokens with the identity of the ruling AIADMK party, such as the photo of the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu and the names of respective Ministers, as it would affect the level-playing field, which is the basic concept of fair election to ensure democracy,” he said in his memorandum.
29 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Sexual harassment: Loyola ordered to pay Rs. 64.3 lakh||The Tamil Nadu State Commission for Women has directed Loyola College, Chennai, to immediately pay Rs. 64.3 lakh, with interest, to a senior woman faculty member, who was allegedly harassed by a Jesuit Father and verbally terminated from service. The amount includes back wages, damages for mental agony and “unkind words of sexual harassment” and compensation for a false complaint. “The Commission found that her track record was very good and there was no reason for terminating her service. It is very clear that Loyola College has abruptly stopped her from work deliberately,” said an order passed by Commission chairperson Kannegi Packianathan on December 22. “For the kind of trauma and physical and sexual abuse she has been submitted to, she has to be adequately compensated, expeditiously,” it said. When contacted, a college spokesperson told The Hindu that the administration was deliberating on its future course of action in the wake of the order. The college would also wait for the judgment of the Madras High Court, where a related case was pending. The complainant, who joined the college in 2010 after serving at a reputed private engineering college, had alleged that she was harassed by the Father between 2013 and 2014 when he was the director of the Alumni Association.  No termination letter Subsequently, she was verbally asked not to come to college, without being served a termination letter. “The college administration promised to recall her to work once the Father is transferred. But my mother was not called back,” her son told The Hindu on Monday. As several complaints to the Loyola College Society did not yield any response, she moved the Madras High Court in 2016. In November this year, she also approached the Commission seeking wages for 81 months from April 2014 and compensation. Commission members visited the college on December 15 and conducted an inquiry. Inform directorate The Commission noted that as per rules, the college has to inform the Directorate of Collegiate Education whenever a staff member is terminated. But no such communication was sent; hence, her claim for salary arrears was not considered. Ms. Packianathan noted that other issues surfaced during the inquiry. One was that the donations received from the old students should have been accounted for in a separate alumni funds account, but the Rector said these funds were maintained by the Loyola College Society.  The Commission found that her track record was very good and there was no reason for terminating her service. It is very clear that Loyola College has abruptly stopped her from work deliberately
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac bars to open across State||After nearly nine months, bars attached to Tasmac shops across the State will resume operations following standard operating procedures. A directive from the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) headquarters to all senior regional managers and district managers said all bars would be allowed to operate with immediate effect (except in containment zones). Tasmac shops and bars had downed their shutters on March 17 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Social distancing norms Heads of Tasmac bars have been instructed to keep the premises clean and sanitised. Not more than 50% of the seating capacity will be permitted. Adequate crowd and queue management is to be followed to ensure social distancing norms. Orders have also been given to maintain a log book with details of the consumers. Details of the consumers, including their contact details, have to be obtained for contact tracing in the event of COVID-19 cases being reported. A source from Tasmac said the State government decided to open bars as sales had not been good in the last few days. “With bars opening, tipplers will have a place to sit and drink, and this will generate more revenue,” the source added. But a person in charge of a bar attached to a Tasmac outlet said, “They have asked us to ensure that there is adequate space and that social distancing norms are followed. We are worried about how this can be done inside a bar. When someone is drunk, we can’t tell them to maintain distance as it might lead to arguments. At times, it is very difficult to handle tipplers who walk in here.” Tasmac has over 5,338 shops across Tamil Nadu and they sell liquor worth Rs. 130 crore to Rs. 140 crore a day.  The government decided to open bars as sales hadn’t been good in the last few days
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||At COVID-19 review meet, Chief Minister appeals to public to mask up||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami chaired a meeting of senior officials and Collectors via video-conference here on Monday to review the COVID-19 situation in Tamil Nadu. As for the new strain of the novel coronavirus, which has been spreading in the United Kingdom and is being closely monitored in the State, he said the government was awaiting results from Pune of the tests on the samples lifted from patients who had returned from the U.K. “There are reports that the new strain from the United Kingdom is spreading in Tamil Nadu. Blood samples from 13 suspected persons have been sent for testing to Pune. Only after the results are out will we know whether the samples have the new strain, and only then can appropriate treatment be given,” he said. The Chief Minister said medical experts had opined that the new strain was spreading because people did not wear masks. “The public must ... follow the guidelines issued by the government without fail. I reiterate that the public must use face masks while stepping out. The government has been insisting that the only way to check the spread of the disease is the use of face masks,” he said. Referring to a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss vaccination, Mr. Palaniswami said, “We are ready with district-level committees for the drive.” Since the spread of the virus was on the decline, people were avoiding face masks, he said. “Only because all districts are implementing the guidelines issued by the government has the spread of the infection declined in Tamil Nadu, compared with other States, and the number is less than 1,000 daily,” he said. Owing to the review meetings he had chaired during his visits, the spread has been quite low in several districts, he said. “Moreover, several relaxations have been announced, and we could see [the return of] normalcy gradually. Thanks to the efficient administration of the containment zones, the spread is under control,” he said. Over Rs. 7,000 crore spent So far, Rs. 7,544 crore has been spent by the State government on the containment of the spread of COVID-19 and lockdown relief measures. Over 6.17 lakh fever camps have been organised to screen 3.26 crore people, of which 64,841 were found to have had fever. There are 67 government and 168 private laboratories in the State. Over 1.35 crore people undertook RT-PCR tests and the government was continuously procuring medicines and medical equipment needed in the fight against COVID-19. The government was continuously procuring Tocilizumab 400 mg, Remdesivir 100 and Enoxaparin 40, besides personal protective equipment kits, N95 masks, CT scan machines and X-ray equipment. Mr. Palaniswami instructed the officials to tighten vigil, especially since the Pongal festival season was drawing close. Later in the day, the Chief Minister chaired a meeting of public health and medical experts to review the situation.  The public must ... follow the guidelines issued by the government without fail
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Elders turn targets of vishing calls||Every time her landline rings, Shanta Srinivasan, from T. Nagar, gets the jitters. A few days ago, she became a target of vishing and was cheated of close to Rs. 1.8 lakh by a conman. The police said that senior citizens should be wary as fraudsters were calling landlines posing as bank officials. Vishing or voice phishing is a practice of making calls, especially posing as bank officials, and convincing people to divulge their bank details, OTP and other credentials. This year, the Anti-Bank Fraud Wing of the CCB unearthed a gang running a vishing racket from Delhi. One such gang called Ms. Shanta on December 28. “I had just returned from the temple when the landline phone rang. The person on the other end introduced himself as Ravikumar, manager of a private bank on Bazullah Road. He said he wanted to update my husband’s card and then mentioned the card number too. He said he wanted us to avoid going to the bank and promised to send the upgraded debit card home,” she said. Trusting him, she divulged all the details he asked for and also shared the OTP numbers multiple times. Later, the same person called and said her card was due for an upgrade and she shared the details. “Later in the evening, I got messages on the phone about the money debited from our account,” she said. An officer said at least 10 petitions were received by each cybercrime wing functioning under different Deputy Commissioners.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. drops disciplinary action against 114 doctors||The Health Department has decided to drop the disciplinary proceedings initiated against 114 government medical officers for participating in an indefinite strike last year. Several doctors affiliated to the Federation of Government Doctors Association went on a strike to put forward their demands, including proper implementation of the Dynamic Assured Career Progression scheme, in October 2019. The Health Department had then said participating in the strike would attract violation of Rule 20 and 22 of the Tamil Nadu Government Servant Conduct Rules, 1973. As the doctors went ahead with the strike, the Health Department initiated disciplinary proceedings against 114 of them — 32 doctors from institutions under the Directorate of Medical Education, 31 from the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services and 51 from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. The Department, in a government order (G.O) dated December 21, said the government had initiated appropriate proceedings — transferring the doctors to various places, no work no pay for the strike period and the initiation of disciplinary action — against the doctors. In response, some of them moved the Madras High Court.  Orders set aside The court, while coming to a conclusion that doctors did not have the right to go on strike under any circumstances, set aside the transfer orders and disciplinary proceedings issued against them. It also asked the government to address the issues and demands made by the government doctors and find a solution. The doctors of various associations submitted repeated representations on their earlier demands, including a pay increase, and also for the cancellation of the charge memos, treating the strike period as eligible leave and restoring them to their original places of work. At a meeting headed by the Health Minister on December 14, it was decided that the penal proceedings taken against the doctors may be dropped in view of the “selfless service” rendered by government medical officers during the COVID-19 pandemic. Following this, the government decided to drop further action with regard to the disciplinary proceedings initiated against the 114 government doctors, to treat the period of strike — October 25 to 31, 2019 — as leave for which the doctors are eligible and to restore the medical officers already transferred to their original places
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Runaway girls from Kotturpuram traced in six hours||Technology, proper coordination and information by a responsible transperson and few other train passengers helped trace two girls who went missing from their house and boarded a train to Srivilliputhur on Saturday. The police rescued them within six hours. According to the police, a 13-year-old girl and her 8-year-old cousin went out on Friday. As they did not return home, the 13-year-old’s father lodged a complaint with the Kotturpuram police. A special team headed by Sembeddu Babu, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Kotturpuram, was formed trace the children. “The 13-year-old had taken her mother’s mobile phone. When we tracked it, the location appeared as Kattankulathur. However, after sometime the tower location showed Villupuram and we realised that they were on a train. On checking the railway schedule, we found the Podhigai Express was running at that time. We immediately informed the Government Railway Police, sent them the children’s pictures and tried to rescue them,” he said. At the Villupuram station, a transperson and a few other passengers spotted the unsupervised children. “The transperson, who did not reveal her name, handed the children to the Railway Police, who immediately realised that they were the same ones who had gone missing from Chennai,” Mr. Babu added. By then, the Kotturpuram police team reached spot and took charge of the children. “We have asked the All-Women police team to investigate the issue.” “They had boarded the train from Egmore at 8.30 p.m. We identified their location by 11 p.m. and rescued them in another few hours,” the Assistant Commissioner said.  (Childline operates a toll free helpline 1098 for children in distress across the country.)
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tipsy doctor drives away police van, arrested||A doctor who was drunk and fought with the police demanding the release of his vehicle and later drove away a patrol vehicle, was arrested by the Kilpauk police. He was lodged at the Chengalpattu jail after being remanded by a court, said the police. Police said S. Muthu Ganesh, a native of Arakkonam in Ranipet district, holds a postgraduate degree in dermatology and practices at a private medical college hospital. At 1.30 a.m. on Sunday, he was caught on Harrington Road for drunken driving and his vehicle was seized. He was asked to pay a penalty as well. He demanded that the police release his vehicle, but they refused. The police took his vehicle to the Chetpet police station. The doctor walked to the Ega theatre junction, where traffic police personnel were painting a stop line at 3.30 a.m. He asked them to release his car so that he could reach his destination. The police personnel replied that the officer who had seized the vehicle was not available and, moreover, the vehicle could not be released immediately as he was drunk. The doctor had a heated argument with the personnel. When the police continued with their work, the doctor started a patrol vehicle parked on the road side and drove away. Sundar, a constable, hailed a lift from a motorist and chased him. Near the Gengu Reddy subway, they overtook the vehicle and caught the doctor. He was then handed over to the Kilpauk police, who arrested him and remanded him in judicial custody.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bed dam planned across Adyar to divert surplus water to Sikkarayapuram quarries||The Water Resources Department plans to build a bed dam across the Adyar river downstream of Chembarambakkam reservoir and divert surplus water to Sikkarayapuram quarries to be used for city water supply. The Adyar carried flood water joining in the upper portion apart from surplus released from Chembarambakkam reservoir during the recent rains. The department recently submitted a proposal to build a bed dam across the river near Kavanur and divert water through a 3.9-km long cut and cover channel to Sikkarayapuram quarries. This new channel would have a carrying capacity of 400 cusecs (cubic feet per second). The existing two-km course branching out from Thanthikal channel would be improved to carry double its capacity of 50 cusecs. It carried water from Chembarambakkam reservoir and from catchment areas en route such as Manapakkam and Sikkarayapuram to the quarries. “Attempts to increase the carrying capacity of this canal will demand tedious masonry work at the reservoir’s sluice and also more funds. We decided to build another channel that could transport floodwater faster to the quarries,” said an official. The proposal is under scrutiny of the government. The reservoir not only serves as a drinking water source but also feeds a few irrigation channels. According to sources, in this season, the branch canal from Thanthikal channel brought a good quantity of water into the quarries, which are buffer sources for the city’s water supply. The 22 quarries in Sikkarayapuram received an inflow sufficient to store 2,000 million litres this season alone. Similarly, five quarries in Erumaiyur have 800 million litres of water. The depth of these quarries varies between 30 metre to 52 m. However, the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board is focussing on drawing water from reservoirs and has kept these quarries as reserve. The Sikkarayapuram quarries have a combined capacity to store 350 million cubic feet. There were suggestions that it could be increased up to 1,000 mcft if these quarries were merged as a single large source. However, it would need intervention and permission of various government agencies, sources said. The Department of Geology, Anna University, had suggested diverting surplus water from Chembarambakkam lake to the quarries through a combination of open channel and a pipeline.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramana Maharshi event to be livestreamed on YouTube||Sri Ramanashramam, Tiruvannamalai, will be celebrating the birthday of Sri Ramana Maharshi on December 31. It will be streamed live on YouTube for the benefit of devotees worldwide. According to a press release, Ramana Satsang groups from around the world will participate in the 24-hour livestream from centres around India, the U.S., Canada, Australia, the U.K., France, Kenya and other countries. The highlight of the event will be a live telecast of the puja and celebrations at Sri Ramanasramam, Tiruv- annamalai.  Multilingual programme The multilingual programme will include talks, readings, bhajans, chants, classical songs, skits and presentations from children with special needs. Livestreaming will commence at 6 a.m. on December 31 and will continue until 10.45 a.m. on January 1. People can view it online athttps: //-youtu.be /M08EgQiqxwAorhttps://www.you - tube.com/c/ArunachalaA- shrama.A programme schedule is available athttps://sriramanamahars- hi.org
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||When Vaiyacheri dominated the music world||Long before small villages in the composite Thanjavur district earned a name for themselves in Carnatic music, thanks to the musicians born there, Vaiyacheri held a pre-eminent position. It is the birthplace of Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer or Vaidyanatha Sivan (1844-1893) and his brother Ramasamy Iyer, both great musicians and Tamil scholars. They had performed all-Tamil concerts comprising songs fromThevaram,ThiruvasagamandPeriya Puranam. A narrow road between the Cauvery, on the one side, and emerald paddy fields dotted with teak and bamboo trees, on the other, leads to the village which is also the birth place of musicians Anai Ayya brothers and mridangam player Vaidyanatha Iyer, who was the teacher of Palghat Mani Iyer. “He was incomparable. No one possessed the talent of Vaidyanatha Sivan, who travelled across Tamil Nadu and converted the places where he performed into ‘Gandharvalokha’. None with such a talent existed before him,” writes Tamil Thatha U.V. Swaminatha Iyer, who had listened to their concerts. There is a portrait of Vaidyanatha Sivan at the Agastheeswarar temple at Vaiyacheri today. It alone reminds the people of the musician born there. The house where the brothers lived disappeared with time; just a few old bricks that were part of the foundation remain. “I have seen the house. But years of neglect led to its destruction,” said Rajapaa, 71, who as a child had listened to concerts in Thiruvaiyaru. Swaminatha Iyer, who has penned the biography of Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer, recalls one particular concert held at the Thiruvavaduthurai Mutt that stands testimony to Vaidyanatha Iyer’s greatness. “And then Vaidyanatha Iyer sang alone. He displayed a variety of skills. From the lowest notes, he traversed the base, mid-level and higher octaves with an admirable facility. His voice, much like nibble fingers sliding through the frets of the veena across octaves, glided through the notes effortlessly like a diving kingfisher. His music bore a stamp of victory that day.” It was on this occasion that Melagaram Subramania Desikar, the head of the Thiruvavaduthurai Mutt, conferred the tile ‘Maha’ on Vaidyanatha Iyer in the presence of another musician Periya Vaidhyanatha Iyer after he rendered ‘chakravakam’. “He elaborately rendered a raga and no musician could identify it. Desikar also asked Periya Vaidhyanatha Iyer and he, too, could not identify it. Then Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer said it was ‘chakravakam’, and its grammar had been explained in Sangeetha Ratnakaram.” “He went on to sing to explain its nuances and everyone present enjoyed the occasion,” recalls Swaminatha Iyer. Composer-singer Mysore Vasudevacharya in his book, Naa Kanda Kalavidharu , had recorded the ban imposed on him and other students by Patanam Subramania Iyer from attending the concerts of Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer in Thiruvaiyaru. He and others would sneak into the concerts after Subramania Iyer slept. Swaminatha Iyer says Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer would not sing continuously for more than one-and-a-half hours. He would begin withVathapi Ganapathimand it would be followed byEkkalathilum Maravene, a song fromPeriya Puranam. “He would perform siva katha for two hours. He would begin his raga alapana by singing the word ‘sankara’. He would avoid preparing his throat before the concert, spending a few minutes to align his voice with sruthi and drinking liquids frequently during the concerts.” Thirukodikaval Krishna Iyer was one of the violinists who accompanied him. Narayanasamy Appa had played mridangam for him.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ilaiyaraaja’s ties with Prasad studio come to an end||In the end, music director Ilaiyaraaja decided not to go to the recording studio at the Prasad Laboratories to meditate. Awards, including Padma Vibhushan, musical instruments and his personal belongings were handed over to his representatives. The Madras High Court had recorded a settlement between Ilaiyaraaja and the proprietors of Prasad Labs that would allow him to meditate for a day in the recording theatre where he composed songs for the past 35 years. As per the order of the court, advocate commissioners V. Lakshmi Narayanan and Naveen Kumar Moorthy were present on the premises on Monday along with the counsel belonging to both sides. Mr. Ilaiyaraaja’s counsel informed the advocate commissioners that since the room was altered and put to a different use now, the composer was not interested in visiting the premises. All the rooms were opened in the presence of the advocate commissioners and an inventory was taken of each box and items. The proceedings were recorded digitally. Sources said about 67 photographs and boxes were checked and packed. The awards, which were placed securely in one of the rooms, were unpacked, checked and repacked. The fragile items like a wooden Malabar ship, awards in glass, laminated certificates and electronic items were repacked and kept separately. All were shifted to container lorries, arranged as per the directions of the court.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Marina vendors want their shops back||Fishermen and women who used to run food and trinket stalls on the Marina beach staged a protest in the city on Monday, urging the Greater Chennai Corporation to allow them to continue their business. The Corporation had proposed to allot around 500 shops to outsiders and around 1,040 shops to those who were already selling on the beach, said a vendor from Ayodhya Kuppam. The vendors had been saying that there were around 2,000 of them on the sands and except a section of fake card holders, many were genuine. “There are families that have educated children and run homes through their earnings. They can weed out the fake vendors and ensure genuine vendors get shops,” said a vendor from Nochikuppam.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight arrested in Taramani robbery case||Thr Taramani police on Monday arrested eight accused who allegedly waylaid a motorcyclist and robbed his mobile, wallet and watch. The police said on Saturday afternoon, K. Raja, 40, of Pammal, was riding his two-wheeler on the service road in front of the Taramani railway station. A gang of eight persons waylaid him and brandished a weapon. They robbed Rs. 3,000 cash from him and took his watch. They snatched his cellphone and threatened him to share his password to use the mobile wallet. Using the password, they transferred Rs. 2,000 from his account to one of their accounts and escaped from there. Police arrested Balamurugan, 20, Vicky alias Vignesh, 21, and six others and recovered Rs. 1,000 and a watch from them. They were remanded in judicial custody.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||7-month-old undergoes liver transplant||A seven-month-old baby with a congenital disorder recently underwent a liver transplant at Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre. Mahira Ahmed from Kuwait, who had a rare biliary genetic disorder, was advised a liver transplant by doctors in that country. The baby, whose family hails from Uttar Pradesh, arrived in Delhi at May-end with her mother and grandmother, with the financial support of the Indian community in Kuwait and the Indian government. Her condition deteriorated during her quarantine period in Delhi. Following an appeal from the family, she was allowed to travel to Chennai. The child’s mother donated a segment of her liver, and a team of 12-15 members performed the 10-hour surgery. Paediatric liver surgeon Naresh Shanmugam said the child weighed 4.5 kg during admission. As she was given nutritional support, she weighed 5.4 kg before surgery. Mohamed Rela, chairman of the hospital, said the surgery was challenging as such children have tiny blood vessels that must be connected to the new liver. Every year 15 babies are airlifted from across the world for transplant at the hospital, CEO Ilankumaran said.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure job opportunities’||PMK founder Dr. S. Ramadoss urged the State government to ensure job opportunities for those returning from abroad amid the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement, he noted that a majority of those returning to the country were construction workers, drivers, and domestic help. “The prevailing economic situation, owing to the pandemic, has not given them adequate job opportunities here. The efforts of the State government have not yielded desired results,” he said. “This section of the labour force has already borrowed money for going abroad. Without job opportunities here, they are forced to borrow more. If this situation continues for some more months, they will be pushed into a huge debt trap. It is the duty of the State government to save them,” Mr. Ramadoss said. Most of the workers who have returned are from districts like Cuddalore, Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Ramanathapuram. They should be given employment in small and medium scale industries in the Sipcot industrial estates, he said.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold worth Rs. 2.47 crore seized at airport||About 4.8 kg gold worth Rs. 2.47 crore was seized at Chennai airport. On Monday morning, after a flight from Dubai landed here, while all others deboarded, one passenger went to the transit toilet and came out with another person. After he came out, officials searched him and recovered two white packets in his trouser pockets. M. Nizhalravi was a software engineer with an outsourced agency of AAI, a release said. He later said a passenger, Niyamthullah Hadi, had kept the gold in the toilet. The packets had gold bars, gold chains and ear studs. Both Niyamthullah Hadi and Nizhalravi were arrested.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two patients treated using minimally invasive procedures||Two elderly men who had severe co-morbid conditions were treated recently without them having to undergo an open heart surgery at Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre here. A 74-year-old man, who had difficulty in breathing, was diagnosed with severe aortic stenosis. His platelet count had dropped to below 32,000 due to a blood disorder called idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. S. Nagendra Boopathy, who treated him, said after careful assessment by a structural team involving cardiologists, cardiac surgeons and cardiac anesthesiologists, he successfully underwent a trans aortic valve replacement in September using an Indian-made 24.5 mm valve. He was discharged a few days later. In another instance, a 65-year-old man, who had an otherwise active social life, approached Dr. Boopathy for the replacement of his aortic valve. “The patient’s right coronary artery was blocked as much as 95%. The patient’s coronary artery was blocked at the origin itself,” he said. Prised open “We did a much more difficult TAVI procedure as he had already had a valve replacement seven years ago,” he added. The valve implanted earlier was prised open using a balloon and an Indian-made valve measuring 21.5 mm was implanted. The procedure was done in November, and the patient was discharged the same month.  The patient’s coronary artery was blocked at the origin itself... We did a much more difficult TAVI procedure as he had already had a valve replacement 7 years ago
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t approve selection of SHRC chairperson: VCK||VCK founder Thol. Thirumavalavan has written to Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit urging for transparency in the appointment of the Chairman, State Human Rights Commission, and not to approve the name proposed by the State government. Opposition leader M.K. Stalin boycotted the selection committee meeting on December 26 since an “illegal attempt” was being made to appoint a person not competent for the post, he charged. There was no transparency and opportunity was not provided to those more competent than the proposed shortlisted persons, he alleged in his letter dated December 28. Mr. Thirumavalavan requested the Governor, the appointing authority under the provisions of the Protection of Human Rights Act, to take an independent decision. He pointed out that the Supreme Court had categorically given various guidelines for selecting persons for the public office. “Transparency should be maintained in appointing a Chairperson of the highest office; however, that was not followed by the chairperson of the selection committee (viz., Tamil Nadu Chief Minister),” Mr. Thirumavalavan alleged.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State-run oil marketing companies issue advisory on mandatory checks||State-run oil companies have urged customers not to fall for con artists, who claim to represent their cooking gas agencies and charge exorbitant amounts for installing fake devices like “weight-pressure check” or “gas-saving mesh” or even mandatory checks. They said that oil companies do not send anyone to a customer’s place to install any equipment. Text messages would be sent by the agency before authorised personnel are deputed for the check, which is done once in five years. “The agency person will check the strength of the orange Suraksha hose, the regulator and the gas stove. The maximum charge would be Rs. 300. There is no need for paying any additional amount,” said an oil marketing company official. The customer should call up and check with the distributor if someone had been sent by them. Elderly couple duped An elderly couple in Alwarpet were cheated of Rs. 7,300 a few days ago by a woman claiming to be from their gas agency. “The woman said the equipment would cost Rs. 300 and Rs. 7,000 was the deposit on it and that if we do not pay up, we won’t get the next cylinder. That made us pay up,” said the homemaker. They have filed a complaint with the police. There have been instances of people changing some parts of the stove or hose and charging for those items. “An entire gas stove will cost under Rs. 2,500 and the regulator and hose under Rs. 500. There is no equipment that would save gas, only diligent use does,” said a distributor. Oil companies have asked customers to check with their distributors if they indeed sent personnel for the mandatory checks before paying. “They need not worry about not getting refills since even fresh connections can now be had across the counter,” said an official.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK-BJP front continues: Murugan||State BJP president L. Murugan on Monday said the party’s alliance with the AIADMK continues and that it is strong. “Your question is about the alliance continuing. Our only answer is that the alliance continues. You will get an answer for everything very soon,” Mr. Murugan told reporters after meeting Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and submitting 50 lakh signatures in support of the New Education Policy. Signature campaign Mr. Murugan said the BJP unit undertook a signature campaign across the State and explained the benefits of the NEP to the people. It also told them that the DMK was double-faced on the issue, and that schools being run by DMK members were teaching up to five languages, he added. “They don’t want poor students to learn multiple languages and grow in their lives,” he said.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A.R. Rahman’s mother passes away||Eleven years ago, as A.R. Rahman took the stage to collect his first Oscar, he said, “ Mere paas maa hai ... Her blessings are with me.” Kareema Begum, the mother of the legendary musician, passed away in Chennai on Monday. Soon after the death of Mr. Rahman’s father R.K. Shekar, his mother became a pillar of support for the family, persuading and motivating her son to take up music professionally. Throughout his life, Mr. Rahman has reiterated the central role his mother played in getting him where he is today — from starting out as a keyboard player to emerging as the ‘Mozart of Madras’. In an interview, Mr. Rahman had said, “My mother had suffered a lot of humiliation. After my father’s passing, she was in control of the business, renting out the equipment. Some of her relatives were jealous of her. But she stayed strong and lived for us [him and his sisters]”.  Condolences pour in As soon as Mr. Rahman shared a picture of his mother on Twitter, condolences began pouring in. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, DMK leader M.K. Stalin, several musicians and members of the film fraternity extended their condolences to the family. Singer Sujatha Mohan, who worked with Mr. Rahman on ad jingles even before his foray into films and collaborated with him on many hit tracks, recalled that Ms. Kareema was present during the chorus recording of the song Tamizha Tamizha in the film Roja . She sang along with Mr. Rahman’s sisters. “As he composed a lot late at night, she used to ensure that I had food. She made sure that all singers were well-fed and taken care of. I have eaten so many biriyanis in that house. Whenever I shared something with her, it felt like I was sharing it with my own mother,” she said. Inherited her qualities Krishna Tilak, author of Notes of a Dream , the authorised biography of Mr. Rahman, said Ms. Kareema came across as a very kind and practical person. “Her son has inherited all the kindness and goodness from her, and continues to live by them,” he added. Singer Srinivas, who has closely collaborated with the music composer since the 1990s, said, “A.R. Rahman had talent, no doubt, but it was his mother who gave it direction. The discipline and values she instilled in him through the tough phase after his father passed away were what made his music so special. For ARR Sir, she was everything."  The discipline and values she instilled in him through the tough phase after his father passed away were what made his music so special. For ARR Sir, she was everythingSrinivasSinger
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dabholkar Memorial Award for DK chief||The Dr. Narendra Dabholkar Memorial Award for this year has been conferred upon Dravidar Kazhagam president K. Veeramani. The award was instituted in the memory of the Maharashtra-based rationalist Dabholkar, who was killed some years ago. The U.S.-based Maharashtra Foundation had instituted the award in his memory, a release issued by the Dravidar Kazhagam said on Monday. The award includes Rs. 1 lakh and a citation. Mr. Veeramani has dedicated his whole life to propagate rationalism and served for the cause of social justice in society, the release said. Due to COVID-19, the award ceremony would be held online this year.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Painting everything in saffron to suit views not good for society: Alagiri||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri on Monday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of pouring saffron paint on statues at night to create disharmony in the State. The Congress could pour black paint on the BJP’s State headquarters in daylight, but would not do that, he added. Addressing presspersons after hoisting the Congress flag on its 136th foundation day on a 150-feet pole set up at Sathyamurthy Bhavan, the TNCC headquarters, Mr. Alagiri said, “What will you do if we pour black paint on your headquarters just like how you pour saffron paint? Where will it lead to? Your actions are a blot on democracy,” he said. Mr. Alagiri said democracy was about listening to opposing viewpoints as well, which was the philosophy followed by the Congress. The BJP should learn that painting everything in saffron to suit their views was not good for the society.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three held in kidnap case||The Thiruvanmiyur police have arrested three persons on the charge of kidnapping a youth. Police said Muraj Jamal, 26, of Thoraipakkam received Rs. 1.5 lakh from Yuvaraj, who was known to him, for clearing arrears in BBA examinations two years ago. He failed to to return the amount. On Saturday night, Jamal was talking to his friend Dev Anand near the Jayanthi cinema signal. Yuvaraj and his friends came on a bike and picked a quarrel with Jamal. They forcibly took him in their vehicle and fled the spot. The police arrested Yuvaraj, 25, of Adyar, Arul Doss, 23, and Joshua, 20, of Thiruvanmiyur, for wrongful confinement.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for snatching cellphones||The Semmancheri police on Monday arrested two suspects who allegedly snatched mobile phones from people. The names of the arrested were given as Karthi alias Kozhi Karthi, 21, and Siva alias “Karuppu” Siva, 24 of Tsunami Nagar. During night rounds, a special team of police personnel, led by Crime Inspector Malathi, intercepted the duo on their high-end bike and arrested them as they gave evasive replies. The interrogation revealed that they were possessing a stolen mobile and they were on their way to snatch more phones from people walking alone on the roads, said the police. Meanwhile, a 20-year-old youth was arrested by the Semmancheri police for allegedly committing a house break-in. The suspect was identified as Santhosh, 20, of Perumbakkam. He was arrested based on a complaint from A. Christie, 53, of Sholinganallur. Mr. Christie complained to the police that a person trespassed into his house and made away with 17 sovereigns of gold jewellery in last March. The police recovered two sovereigns and 40 g of silver articles from the suspect.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man jailed for 10 years in POCSO case||A POCSO special court in Vellore on Monday sentenced a 46-year-old man to 10 years rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting a six-year-old girl in 2017. A fine of Rs. 6,000 was also slapped on him. Police said that when the incident happened, the victim was six-years old. In April 2017, Settu sexually assaulted the girl, living in his locality, and threatened her not to tell anyone. The child informed her parents and a complaint was lodged in the police station, and Settu was arrested. The public prosecutor for the case was V. Amudha. On Monday, judge M. Selvam sentenced the man to 10 years rigorous imprisonment. He was found guilty under Section 366 and Section 506 (ii) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Pocso Act.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||20 kg ganja seized||The Marina Beach police seized 20 kg of ganja and arrested two men for allegedly smuggling the contraband into the city ahead of the New Year celebrations. The police said the accused were J. Thangaiyasamy, 58, from Chetpet, and R. Sasikumar, 33, from Theni district. Following a tip-off that an SUV was entering the city with a gunny bag of ganja, a special team intercepted the vehicle in the early hours of Monday near Ice House. The accused were smuggling 20 kg of ganja. The Marina police arrested the duo and seized the contraband. The accused were remanded in judicial custody.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested, nine bicycles recovered||The Thiruvanmiyur police on Monday arrested a 22-year-old youth who allegedly stole high-priced bicycles parked in houses. Police said Jagannath Naik, 22, from Odisha, was nabbed by a patrolling team in the early hours of Monday. He was found roaming on a bicycle, which was stolen from a house. The accused was working as a security guard with a private company in Perungudi and had the habit of stealing high priced cycles in Thiruvanmiyur. Police recovered nine bicycles from him.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident on highway||Two persons were killed and three others, including a 23-year-old woman, all hailing from Chennai, were grievously injured after a car they were travelling in rammed a load vehicle near Ambur on Sunday night. The police said that while Gokul and Yogaraj, both aged 28, died, Ragavendran, his wife Divya and Vikas were injured in the accident. The group was returning after visiting a friend in Bengaluru. While the vehicle was moving on the Chennai-Bengaluru highway around 11 a.m, it rammed a lorry from the rear. Yogaraj, who was driving the car, and Gokul died. The others sustained injuries and are currently undergoing treatment. The Ambur taluk police are investigating the incident.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Street vendors seek nod to resume sales||Members of the Tamil Nadu Street Vending Workers’ Federation have demanded that street vendors be allowed to resume sales around the Koyambedu wholesale market complex. They submitted a petition on Monday at the Koyambedu Management Market Committee office in the city. Federation’s State general secretary V. Mageshvaran said nearly 1,500 vendors were out of business for nearly nine months now after the market was closed in May as it turned out to be a hot spot for COVID-19. “Their livelihood has been severely affected. The authorities concerned must consider allotting vacant space inside the market for street vendors to carry out sales. Officials of the MMC have assured us that they will look into our demands,” he said.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RTI query: GCC engineer penalised||The Tamil Nadu State Information Commission levied a penalty of Rs. 25,000 against an Greater Chennai Corporation Executive Engineer for failure to give information under the RTI Act. According to a release from Arapoor Iyakkam convener Jayaram Venkatesan, the Commission had ordered disciplinary action against the Superintendent and Executive Engineer, Bus Route Roads Department of the Corporation. Arappor Iyakkam had got an order from the State Information Commission for a penalty of Rs. 25,000 on the Public Information Officer of Bus Route Roads Department Executive Engineer Victor Gnanaraj to be deducted from his salary. The Commission also ordered disciplinary action on both the then PIO and Executive Engineer and Appellate Authority and Superintending Engineer Vijayakumar of the Bus Route Roads Department. Arappor Iyakkam filed a RTI with the Bus Route Roads Department on July 31, 2018, seeking information on the list of roads and the rates finalised before and after negotiation. However, the information and first appeal were rejected and Arappor Iyakkam filed a second appeal with the Tamil Nadu State Information Commission. When the matter came up for hearing on November 5, 2019, the State Information Commission ordered PIO Victor Gnanaraj to give the information. But it was not given and when the matter came up for hearing on December 10, 2019, Information Commissioner G. Murugan ordered the PIO to furnish the information before 4 p.m. on the same day. However, at 4 p.m., no such information was provided. The Information Commissioner ordered a show-cause notice to the PIO and the Appellate Authority asking them why they should not be penalised and why disciplinary action should not be taken against them for not providing information. There was no subsequent order from the Information Commission on the penalty. Second appeal Following another second appeal case hearing before the same Information Commissioner during January and February 2020, the Information Commissioner told that orders had been issued but that the order was a matter of communication between the Information Commission and the Corporation, and the appellant did not have any rights to get the order. Following an argument that the appellant is entitled to a copy of the order, the Information Commissioner agreed to send the copy of the order. However, Arapoor Iyakkam did not get any copy. Therefore, on February 14, Arapoor Iyakkam filed an RTI query with the Information Commission to furnish the final order in the second appeal SA/C/1096/2019, the release said.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Free patta melas an eyewash’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday claimed that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had instructed Collectors to conduct ‘patta issuing melas’ ahead of the Assembly election, after having put the DMK’s free patta scheme in cold storage for 10 years. Mr. Stalin said the Chief Minister was indulging in an eyewash ahead of the election, and wondered if the government had true intentions, and whether the right beneficiaries would get pattas. “At a time when bribes and commissions have become the order of the day, will poor people get the house pattas? I don’t think so.”.
29 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man killed at Basin Bridge||A 35-year-old man was murdered by a five-member gang on Monday in broad daylight in Basin Bridge. The police suspect the murder was an act of revenge. Police identified the victim as M. Silambarasan. On Monday, while he was on Demellows Road, the gang arrived by an autorickshaw and hacked him to death.
29 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. aims to complete lake development project before polls||Coimbatore Corporation has fast tracked the execution of the lake development project it took up under the Smart Cities Mission. Sources said the civic body looked to complete and throw open a few lakes ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections as the ruling party wanted to showcase it to the public. It also looked to expedite the execution to make good the time lost during the COVID-19 lockdown period. Towards this end, the civic body had asked the contractor to double the number of labourers in the coming weeks. At present, there were 80 to 100 workers engaged in developing the Ukkadam Periyakulam and around 60 labourers at the Valangulam tank. The Corporation had completed the 35 – 40% work in the Periyakulam and it hoped to complete the project and throw it open before the Election Commission of India imposed the Model Code of Conduct, the sources said. The Corporation had similarly speeded up work at the Selva Chinthamani tank. The deadline for this tank was sometime around Pongal in January 2021, the sources said and added that around the same time the civic body also hoped to throw open the Valangulam tank. The Corporation had taken up a part of the Periyakulam and Valangulam lakes on a priority basis to form a ‘quick win’ component of the lake development project. The Chief Minister had inaugurated the stretches that the Corporation had completed under the quick win component a few months ago. The Corporation had taken up development of eight lakes under the Smart Cities Mission at over Rs. 700 crore.
29 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||VHP to launch public outreach campaign to mobilise funds for Ram Mandir||Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) will conduct a public outreach campaign from January 15 to mobilise funds for the construction Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. The VHP would hold the campaign from January 15 to February 27 to reach out to atleast 50 lakh families in 10,000 of 13,000 villages and 5,000 of 6,000 urban wards using 90,000 volunteers, said general secretary Milind Parande at a press meet held here on Monday. The VHP was the only organisation that the Shri Ram Janmaboomi Teertha Kshetra had authorised to collect donations and it would do so in three formats. It would issues coupons for Rs. 10, Rs. 100 and Rs. 1,000 which people could buy. For high-value donations, the VHP would issue receipts and it would also enable facility for online money transfer. The donations made to the temple trust were exempt under Section 80G of the Income Tax Act, he said and added that the VHP did not have a collection target in mind. As a part of the campaign, the organisation would meet politicians, celebrities, sportspersons and people who had excelled in their chosen field. It would also meet the Chief Minister, if necessary, he said. The campaign in Tamil Nadu was a part of the nation-wide campaign that the VHP had launched. The target was to reach out to people in at least one crore families in four lakh villages by deploying at least a few lakh volunteers. In response to questions, Mr. Parande said though the construction on the three-storeyed temple and development of the land around it would take more than two to three years, the VHP hoped to see the Lord Ram idol inside the sanctum within that period. The VHP would also welcome donations from people outside the Hindu community, if they volunteered, he added.
29 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Freedom’ nursery inaugurated in city||Saplings of flowers, ornamental plants and trees cultivated by the prisoners at Coimbatore Central Prison will be available for sale at ‘Freedom’ nursery, an initiative by the Prisons Department that was inaugurated here on Monday. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Prisons (Coimbatore Range) G. Shanmuga Sundaram inaugurated the nursery at Gandhipuram, close to the ‘Freedom’ fuel station which is also a Prisons Department initiative. According to Prison Superintendent R. Krishnaraj, 12 convict prisoners were involved in the cultivation, preparation and sale of the saplings. Initially, around 1,000 saplings of flower varieties such as rose and jasmine along with trees such as neem and coconut were made available for sale at the nursery. The prisoners began the works for these saplings nearly six months ago on the prison premises, he said. “We started using these saplings inside the prison at first. As more saplings were cultivated, we have opened this nursery,” he said. Training Local trainers including former prisoners, who currently had their own plant nurseries, and an official from Tamil Nadu Agricultural University had trained the convict prisoners in cultivating and propagating the different varieties of saplings. All the prisoners involved in the ‘Freedom’ nursery would earn a monthly salary, Mr. Krishnaraj said. The nursery would be open for the public on all days from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.
29 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK to stage protest on Dec. 31||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam will stage a protest in front of the Coimbatore Corporation office in Town Hall on December 31 against the use of “inferior quality” products in lake development project. Inferior quality products At a press meet here on Monday, party’s Coimbatore east urban unit in-charge and Singanallur MLA N. Karthik said that during his visits to the tanks that the Corporation had taken up under the lake development project, he found the use of inferior quality products. He also found the Corporation reducing the quantum of storage in the tanks and encroaching upon the water body by dumping earth. Untreated water Besides, the Corporation had not yet taken steps to treat the sewage flowing into the Ukkadam Periyakulam, the MLA said. With such untreated water in the tank would any member of the public come forward to patronise the food courts that the Corporation was constructing on the tank’s bund, Mr. Karthik further asked. As for the Race Course road development project that the Corporation had taken up under the Smart Cities Mission, Mr. Karthik said the development of the place that was already in good shape and disregard for the residents’ wishes suggested that the Corporation’s aim was not to develop the Race Course road and walking track, but something else. Irregularities And, the way the Corporation was executing the project had paved way for irregularities, which the DMK wanted to highlight during the protest, Mr. Karthik added.
29 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Govt. gives approval for jewellery cluster||The State government has approved and recommended to the Central government a common facility project for goldsmiths in Coimbatore. S.M. Kamal Hasan, president of Coimbatore Goldsmiths' Association, told The Hindu the Rs. 15.3-crore project was expected to benefit nearly one lakh goldsmiths in Coimbatore city. The common facility centre would have machinery for the entire jewellery making process - from melting gold to hallmarking. The government would purchase the machinery for the project. “We expect the Centre to approve the project next month,” he said. The State government would give 10 % of the project cost (Rs. 1.5 crore) and the goldsmiths invested in land and building. Their contribution would be Rs. 2 crore. The Centre would invest Rs. 10.5 crore. A company called Coimbatore Goldsmith Jewellery Private Limited was formed two years ago for the project. The building construction works were on and it was expected to be completed in three months. The facility was likely to be commissioned in June, he said. Mr. Hasan said the demand for jewellery was currently down and was expected to pick up after Pongal. The main source of bullion for the manufacturers here was the United Kingdom. With the spread of COVID-19 in the U.K., gold supply was affected. Further, the public also preferred to invest in bars and coins rather than jewellery.
29 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Bovine Breeding Act attempts to destroy indigenous cattle breeds’||The Tamil Nadu Bovine Breeding Act 2019 is an “indirect attempt to destroy indigenous cattle breeds,” alleged DMK’s environment wing secretary Karthikeya Sivasenapathy and demanded the State government to repeal the Act. In a statement, he alleged that section 12 of the Act that laid down the ‘regulations for bovine breeding through natural service’ would eventually lead to the extinction of indigenous breeds from the State. The Act would also eliminate the indigenous bulls step-by-step as it allowed farmers to eliminate bulls that were unfit for breeding, he charged. No consultation Questioning the need for such an Act, Mr. Sivasenapathy accused the State government of bringing the Act without consulting with stakeholders.
29 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Accused involved in Navakkarai robbery case still at large||The Coimbatore district police are still on lookout for the gang which allegedly robbed the cash from a car at Navakkarai. According to the police, the gang waylaid a car that was travelling from Bengaluru to Kerala at Navakkarai at around 4 a.m. on Friday. They allegedly attacked a real estate businessman from Kerala Abdul Salam (50) and drove the car off. Salam initially claimed to the police that the car contained a bag with cash of Rs. 27.5 lakh. The police found the vehicle abandoned at Madhampatty in the early hours of Saturday. Upon bringing the car to the K.G. Chavadi police station and examining, the police recovered bundles of cash to the tune of Rs. 90 lakh from secret compartments inside the car. Superintendent of Police Ara Arularasu said that the police submitted reports regarding the cash seizure to the Income Tax Department and the Enforcement Directorate on Monday. “There are no takers for the money so far,” he said. As the seized cash is suspected to be hawala money, the Income Tax Department and the Enforcement Directorate will initiate further action in this case, he said. The cash was handed over to the Madukkarai Judicial Magistrate Court on Monday. As far as nabbing the gang members is concerned, the three special teams have not got any concrete evidence as of Monday, according to Mr. Arularasu. The police are also suspecting that the car contained more bundles of cash which the gang members stole on Friday. One team has gone to Kerala and the second team has gone to Bengaluru to collect further evidence, while the third team is reviewing the CCTV camera footages available at K.G. Chavadi to ascertain the identities of the accused, the SP said.
29 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman demands inquiry into suspicious death of son||P. Murugammal (97) of Kuppanur, Annur, has demanded a detailed inquiry into her son’s suspicious death. The woman, who with her three daughters went to the Coimbatore Collectorate on Monday morning to submit petition at the weekly grievances redress meeting, alleged that she saw her daughter-in-law and grand daughter poisoning her son Rangasamy on March 5, 2020. They used pesticide while saying they were giving only medicine, she added. She was ready to prove her allegation if the Coimbatore Rural Police were to conduct a thorough investigation, she told the district administration . She added that her petition to the Annur Police did not yield the desired result as the latter, without conducting a thorough inquiry, had asked her to return after the COVID-19 lockdown period. Ms. Murugammal further alleged that her daughter-in-law was attempting to finish her off with the help of a person named Marappan, who had encroached on her land and sought the administration to instruct the police for a thorough probe.
29 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||65-year-old man killed in elephant attack||A 65-year-old man was killed in an elephant attack on Maruthamalai Road within the Coimbatore forest range on Monday. Forest Department officials said that Muhammad Niyas, a security guard at a private building near the Government Law College on Maruthamalai Road, was walking on the road around 6 a.m. in search of a tea shop when he encountered a male elephant that strayed into the residential area. The elephant pushed him on the ground, which led to his death, the officials said. Autopsy Following the incident, the Forest Department staff, who were monitoring elephants in the forest range, visited the spot and sent the body to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for autopsy. Officials said that Rs. 50,000 will be provided to the deceased kin as immediate relief out of the Rs. 4 lakh solatium given by the State government. The Vadavalli police have registered a case. According to the officials, 18 persons have died in elephant attacks in Coimbatore Forest Division this year, including the death on Monday.
29 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Elephant kills security guard||A man working as a security guard was killed in an elephant attack on Maruthamalai Road, within the Coimbatore forest range, on Monday. He was identified as Muhammad Niyas, 65, working as a security guard at a private building.
29 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Vizha Marathon||The Coimbatore Vizha Marathon will be conducted virtually from January 2 to January 10, 2021. Participants could choose their race category with day and time to complete the race. For registrations, visitwww.vizhamarathon. comand for queries, contact 90802 09817.
29 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Let govt. employees distribute tokens for Pongal goodies: DMK||Singanallur MLA and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Coimbatore east urban unit in-charge N. Karthik urged the district administration to not let the AIADMK workers takeover the distribution of tokens for Pongal goodies. In a statement issued here, Mr. Karthik said the government distributed tokens using the money that people paid as taxes. Therefore, it was fit that only government employees, in this case the fair price shop employees, distributed the tokens to the card holders. It was unfair that the administration let local ruling party workers to distribute the tokens as it would pave the way for corruption. Protest The administration ought to check it and if it failed, the Coimbatore unit of the DMK would stage protest in front of all fair price shops, taluk and district supply offices, Mr. Karthik warned. The State government would first distribute tokens containing date and time to all card holders attached to every fair price shop so that they turned up at the given time and date to avoid crowding at the shops.
29 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||No liquor shops after 10 p.m. on Dec. 31||No liquor shall be served after 10 p.m. in bars in clubs, restaurants or hotels or any other place with liquor licence on December 31, the district administration has said in a release. Establishments operating with FL2, FL3, FL3A, FL10 or such licences should stop serving liquor, the release said and warned of penal action on those found in violation of the order.
29 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Online passes must to witness Arudra Darshan in Chidambaram||Devotees who wish to visit Sabanayagar temple, popularly known as Sri Natarajar temple in Chidambaram, during the Arudra Darshan festivities on December 29 and 30 have to make advance bookings online. According to an official, only devotees with online passes would be allowed inside the temple complex to participate in the chariot procession on Tuesday and the festivities on Wednesday. Bookings can be made online onhttp://aruthracarfest.com The online darshan ticket rule applied to all sections and even local devotees would have to register online for darshan. Only one person would be allowed for each pass and booking of bulk passes would not be allowed, the official said adding that devotees would be thermally scanned. People showing any symptoms would have to undergo a rapid antigen test and would be allowed inside the temple only after they produce a COVID-19 negative certificate. ‘First come first served’ Devotees would be allowed to participate in the festivities in slots of 200 on ‘first come first served basis’, the official added. Meanwhile, the Cuddalore district police have made elaborate security arrangements for the festivities. Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav said that a three-tier security arrangement had been put in place and over 950 police personnel had been deployed for security. All arrangements have been made to facilitate smooth and hassle-free conduct of the festival, Mr. Abhinav said.
29 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||First-level checking of electronic voting machines begins in Erode||The first-level checking of electronic voting machines (EVMs) and voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) began at the Railway Colony Corporation Higher Secondary School at Kollampalayam here on Monday. The strongroom, where the EVMs and VVPATs were stored, was opened in the presence of District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan in the presence of representatives from the recognised political parties. Mr. Kathiravan said that a total of 4,779 EVMs, 3,646 control units and 3,937 VVPATs, would be checked by six engineers from the Bharat Electronics Limited. He said that an engineer could check 35 VVPATs and 35 control units a day and the entire process would be completed in 25 days. Officials of the Election Commission of India (ECI), Office of the Chief Election Commissioner and Office of the District Election Officer will monitor the entire process through webcasting. The Collector said that the machines would be kept back in the strong room, after a mock polling. District Revenue Officer S. Kavitha, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, Personal Assistant to Collector (General) Balaji, Erode Revenue Divisional Officer Saibudeen, Election Tahsildar Sivagami and other officials were present.
29 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Special educator wins best teacher award||A special educator at the Government Boys Higher Secondary School at Nambiyur here has received the “Best Teacher Award 2020” from the State Government for his service towards the differently abled students. J. Manjunathan, serving in the school since 2009, is one among the three teachers in the State who received the award from the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on the occasion of International Day of Disabled Persons on December 21 in Chennai. Under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan of the Department of School Education and Literacy of the Ministry of Education, special educators were appointed to handle children with special needs in the age group of 0 to 18. These educators also train teachers and parents on handling children with disabilities and provide home-based training for the differently abled children. Mr. Manjunathan told The Hindu that he had trained 256 differently abled children in 76 government schools in the last 12 years and had also helped them receive national identity card, appliances and aids. “I have helped a student Rajasekaran of Government Higher Secondary School at Kurumandur to bag third place in an event at the Paralympic games held at Jharkhand in 2011”, he said. These children need simplified teaching and extra care, he said.  He is one among the three teachers in the State to receive the award from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami
29 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Production resumes in power looms after a week||Over 30,000 power looms units producing rayon fabrics that closed their units for a week resumed production here on Monday. Urging the private yarn mills in Pallipalayam to fix the price of rayon yarn once in a month, power loom units functioning at five locations in the district stopped their production from December 21 to 27. Members of the Tamil Nadu Federation of Powerlooms Associations had also submitted a petition to Collector C. Kathiravan seeking his intervention in holding talks with the mills to fix the price of yarn, once in a month and not frequently. On Monday, all the units resumed production. However, association members said that the price of yarn that was Rs. 172 per kg on December 19 increased by Rs. 22 per kg and sold at Rs. 194 per kg on December 26. “It is very difficult to run the units incurring heavy loss”, said the members who urge the governments to intervene and take necessary steps. They said that halting production again will lead to job loss of over 50,000 workers and wanted a decision regarding fixing of yarn price every month to be taken at the earliest.
29 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Power supply will be disrupted in the following areas from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the given dates. Ashokapuram line, December 29: Sathy Road (upto Lotus TVs), Veerabadra Street, ABT Road, Cauvery Road, Annamalai Layout, 16 Road, Veerappanchatiram and Devarayan Kadu areas.  Collectorate line, December 30: Ramasamy Street, Perundurai Main Road, Gandhi Nagar, Palaniyappa Street, Muthukaruppan Street, EB Colony, Meenatchi Sundaranar Street, Balasubramaniam Nagar and Uzhavar Sandhai.
29 December 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 6,674-crore PLP for Karur district||The Potential Linked Credit Plan (PLP) drawn up by National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development in consultation with various departments envisages a credit flow potential of Rs. 6,674 crore in Karur district during 2021-22. Of this, the potential for short-term crop loans is estimated at Rs. 2,128 crore and the estimate for term credit for important thrust areas such as water resources, farm mechanisation, plantation and horticulture, forestry and wasteland development, fisheries and animal husbandry stands at Rs. 749 crore. The potential for agriculture infrastructure and ancillary activities is projected at Rs. 205 crore. The PLP also projects a credit potential of Rs. 1,697 crore for small and medium enterprises; Rs. 644 crore for export credit; Rs. 122 crore for education; Rs. 561 crore for housing; Rs. 12 crore for renewable energy, Rs. 14 crore for social infrastructure and Rs. 542 crore for Other Priority Sector. In order to hasten the process of overall development of agriculture and allied activities through exploitation of the identified potential, the PLP has identified and suggested various sector-wise critical infrastructure requirements for improving production and productivity of agriculture and allied activities in the district. This include renovation and strengthening of Panjapatti lake in Krishnarayapuram block to improve availability of water for irrigation and construction of rainwater harvesting structures to strengthen water sources for panchayat tanks in the district. The PLP was released by S. Rajendran District Revenue Officer at a recent meeting of District Level Review Committee of bankers. The first copy was received by Sudhakar, Assistant General Manager, Indian Overseas Bank, Regional Office, Erode,said a NABARD release.
29 December 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Kanyakumari to Kashmir on foot to honour corona warriors||Some may call it a mission, while skeptics may call it an activity borne of unemployment, but Bharath P.N., all of 33 year old, appears a resolute man. An umbrella in hand and a backpack, this bearded young man from Mysuru claims to be walking for humanity as a “tribute to corona warriors”. Bharath has been on foot since December 11, embarking on his “humanity walk” at sunrise in Kanyakumari. He intends to reach Kashmir in the next four months, if he keeps up the momentum of 40 to 50 km a day. Ask him who exactly are the corona warriors? Bharath replies, “anyone who has helped those in distress during the COVID-19 lockdown. It could be police, or doctors or anyone, who helped those walking.” Like the millions rendered jobless during COVID-19, Bharath too lost his job as a cable operator. Not to be let down, he decided to walk to spread awareness, he says. Coming from a humble background, Bharath says the support from his family has been “fifty-fifty”. “Parents are worried about me. I have an elder brother,” he says, reticent while talking about his family and no keen on talking more. Along the way, Bharath has been spreading awareness about fitness, environment protection, tree plantation among others. He bunks-up in any place that opens up its doors to him. Where none found, petrol stations are his night halts. In Krishnagiri, Bharath found support from Rotary club and JCI, and when he started he was supported by Vivekananda Ashrams.
29 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Arittapatti may get biodiversity heritage site tag||It would not be an exaggeration to call Arittapatti, a village located in Melur block, an ideal village. This hamlet located in serene pastoral splendour has rich avifaunal diversity, natural water sources, flourishing agriculture and important archaeological findings. Most importantly, it has residents who show extraordinary courage and solidarity to protect their natural sources against commercial exploitation. To add a feather to its cap, the Tamil Nadu Biodiversity Board (TNBB) has proposed to declare the village a ‘Biodiversity Heritage Site’ (BHS). A senior official says that a team has inspected the village and submitted a report. “But there are several steps left to decide if Arittapatti can be declared a BHS. A meeting with the Board members will have to be held to decide if the village can be notified as a BHS,” says the official. Arittapatti is among the several proposals received by the Board from across the State for identification of the BHS. A source in the TNBB says that the village has a unique and fragile ecosystem, which supports about 250 species of birds with a high ratio of raptors (birds of prey), indicating a healthy avifaunal diversity. It needs to be protected for future generations. “If Arittapatti is declared a BHS, every activity in the village will be documented through a register. It will help in protection of the flora and fauna of this unique ecosystem,” he says. Arittapatti is cradled in the midst of seven hillocks, which are the major sources of water for around 200 natural springs. It has 52 registered rainfed waterbodies, including three that are under the purview of the Public Works Department. These waterbodies are the major source of water for drinking and irrigation of around 1,500 acres of farmlands. R. Kasiraman, a resident, points at the contrast in agricultural pattern here with that of the adjacent village, Naickerpatti. He says that when there is sufficient rainfall, they harvest three (paddy) crops a year. “The water from Mulla Periyar dam acts only as a supplement for our agriculture,” he adds. (To be concluded)  If Arittapatti is declared a BHS, every activity in the village will be documented through a register. It will help in protection of the flora and fauna of this unique ecosystem TNBB official
29 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow only indigenous bulls at jallikattu events’||The members of Jallikattu Training Centre, a registered body that trains bull tamers for jallikattu, submitted a petition to the District Collector demanding that only indigenous bulls be allowed to participate in jallikattu and pressing for a charter of other demands. The members said that protests were held across the State in 2017 in support of jallikattu and also to save the indigenous breed. Hence, only indigenous bulls must be allowed to participate in jallikattu, the members demanded. They also urged the district administration to ensure that excess tokens were not issued for bulls that cannot participate in the event. P. Ranjith Kumar, Secretary of the Centre, said that usually only around 600 bulls can participate in the event. However, the district administration issues tokens for more than 1,000 bull owners. “This causes unnecessary difficulty for the bulls as they are brought to the venue a day prior to the event. There are also very few facilities available for the bulls at these venues,” he added. Hence, the district administration must ensure that tokens are issued only for the exact number of bulls that will be allowed to participate in the event. The members also urged that cash prize must be given for all bulls and not just for the top-ranked bulls. The district administration must give permanent identity cards for bull tamers. The government must provide insurance cover for all bull tamers. A financial assistance of Rs. 3 lakh must be provided to the families of bull tamers who have died during jallikattu. The members demanded the intervention of the district administration to ensure that at least one health facility works round-the-clock for the bulls in the district. “The district administration must convene a meeting with bull owners and tamers to understand their requirements,” said Mr. Kumar.
29 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Significant orders passed by Madurai High Court Bench in 2020||The year 2020 has turned out to be extraordinary for Indian Judiciary. In view of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, the country came under a national lockdown. But, this did not stop the Indian courts from continuing its functions. Virtual courts or hearing cases via video conferencing method was adopted for much of the year in order to ensure justice to litigants. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court which has been hearing cases via video conferencing has delivered significant orders this year. The court came forward a number of times to take up issues suo motu in order to render justice and also give out elaborate guidelines to be followed in the future. Custodial deaths case In June, the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks sparked a nationwide outrage. The court initiated suo motu proceedings and monitored the case closely. Dismissing the bail petition of one of the accused in the case, the court gave out directions with regard to displaying the rights of the complainants in police stations. The court also gave out elaborate guidelines with regard to conducting videography of the post-mortem. With regard to custodial deaths cases, the court ruled that no autopsy should take place before the next of kin saw the body and the autopsy should be carried out by a team of qualified medical experts. Taking a sympathetic view of the plight of 31 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, the court granted them bail and directed the government to consider closing the cases against them as they had already suffered enough. The court also quashed FIRs registered against advocates and human rights activists for taking part in the Anti-CAA protests. Quashing a criminal defamation case against a journalist, the court observed that there was no point in merely singing paeans to freedom of press if one cannot go to its rescue when the right was faced with a serious threat. The court granted default bail to an accused in a case after the police failed to file the final report within the mandated time period. Another significant case that was taken up suo motu was the incident of a group of members from the Scheduled Caste community who had to carry a dead body through an agricultural field as there was no pathway to the burial ground. “We have to hang our heads in shame”, the court observed on the caste discrimination and sought reports in the case. Taking a serious view of pollution of waterbodies and prevailing corruption practices, the court asked why not were punishments made stricter to curb the practices. The court also took a serious view of issues of Kudimaramath, illegal quarrying, illegal extraction of groundwater, the status of COVID-19 pandemic and restrained the sale of oil in loose. In other important cases, the court's intervention proved to be significant. After the court had sought a response, the 7.5 % horizontal quota for the benefit of government school students who cleared NEET for medical admissions was implemented, quota for the benefit of Tamil medium students in appointments was implemented and online gambling was banned in the State.
29 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SFI stages protest against farm laws passed by Centre||Around 40 members of the Students Federation of India (SFI) formed a human chain here on Monday, in protest against the three agricultural laws passed by the Union government. The protesters demanded the withdrawal of the laws, citing them to be against the interests of the farmers. “Despite the farmers protesting in the national capital for the past several days, the government failed to understand the needs of the farmers,” said SFI’s District Urban secretary S. Veldeva. The protesters also criticised the State government for supporting the agricultural laws. They said that the laws were hurriedly passed by the Union government to promote the interests of Corporate giants.
29 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Stop construction of bridge for SC residents at Uthapuram’||A large group of caste Hindus from Uthapuram panchayat petitioned the District Collector here on Monday, urging to stop the construction of a bridge over a drainage channel which will enable the Scheduled Caste residents to easily access Elumalai-Usilampatti Road. Caste tension has prevailed in Uthapuram between the caste Hindus and the Scheduled Caste residents for the past several years. The petitioners said that the Scheduled Caste residents who were predominantly present in Pottalpatti, have recently expanded to adjacently located Kurunji Nagar. It was decided to construct a bridge across the drainage channel connecting Kurunji Nagar with Elumalai-Usilampatti Road, after holding several talks with the district administration officials. Kurunji Nagar is located near the residential area of the Caste Hindus and near the Vasimalayan Swamy Temple that is run by the Caste Hindus. “This often leads to clashes between the two communities,” said V. Karuppiah, a petitioner. Now, the Scheduled Caste residents have asked the government to build a bridge from Kurunji Nagar, which will pass near the Vasimalayan Swamy Temple. “This will lead to unnecessary clashes between the two communities. The construction of the bridge will create an opportunity for the Scheduled Caste residents to falsely file charges against the caste Hindus,” claimed Mr. Karuppiah. The Scheduled Caste residents already have an alternative pathway from Kurunji Nagar to reach the Elumalai-Usilampatti Road, he added.
29 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Test result of one more U.K. returnee awaited||Apart from the 38-year-old man who had travelled from the United Kingdom to Madurai and tested positive for COVID-19, the test result of one more U.K.- returnee is awaited, said Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar. Dr. Arjun Kumar said that they had initially received a list of 110 persons who had returned from the U.K. After cross notification, the number of U.K. returnees to Madurai stood at 83. Among them, 75 tested negative for COVID-19, one person tested positive for COVID-19 and the test result of one more person is awaited, the Deputy Director of Health Services said. Out of the 83 U.K. returnees, four children aged below five years were not tested for COVID-19. “The remaining two persons are not yet traceable. The police are tracking down the other two missing persons,” added Dr. Arjun Kumar.
29 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Pallivasal election||Pursuant to the orders of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, the Election Officer appointed to conduct the election for the Kollam Pattarai Sungam Pallivasal, Madurai, will be receiving nominations on December 29 and December 30. In November, Justice M. Govindaraj had directed the election to be completed within a period of three months from the date of the order of the court. Taking into account that a time extension was sought to complete the election due to COVID-19 pandemic situation, the court had granted the extension. Former Madras High Court Judge K. N. Basha has been appointed as the election officer.
29 December 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Cooperative bank employee ends life||Gopi (50) of Sargunam Street, working in a cooperative bank in Nagercoil, allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison blaming it on a superior officer for the death on Monday. According to Kottar police, Gopi was working with the Kuruthancode Primary Agriculture Cooperative Bank. His daughter had handed over a letter reportedly written by Gopi that he had taken the decision to end his life due to a superior in the bank, who had insulted him in front of others. He had joined duty recently after the covid-19 pandemic, which was questioned by the superior, he had mentioned in the letter. When she returned home, she saw her father lying unconscious. Immediately, she rushed him to the hospital and doctors declared him dead. The police sent the body for post-mortem. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
29 December 2020||NAGERCOIL/SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Cooperative bank employee ends life in Nagercoil||Gopi (50) of Sargunam Street, working in a cooperative bank in Nagercoil, allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison blaming it on a superior officer for the death on Monday. According to Kottar police, Gopi was working with the Kuruthancode Primary Agriculture Cooperative Bank. His daughter had handed over a letter reportedly written by Gopi that he had taken the decision to end his life due to a superior in the bank, who had insulted him in front of others. He had joined duty recently after the covid-19 pandemic, which was questioned by the superior, he had mentioned in the letter. When she had gone away and returned home, she saw her father lying unconscious. Immediately, when she rushed him to the hospital, doctors declared him dead. The police sent the body for post-mortem. Further investigation was on. BDO attempts suicide A Block Development Officer Ramesh (58) of Senthamizh Nagar in Sivaganga allegedly attempted suicide on Monday. According to Town Police officers, the official's wife Tamil Selvi (54) had complained that her husband had taken the step following 'undue' pressure of work from some of his superiors. She demanded action against them and maintained that her husband had been admitted to the Government Hospital. When reporters asked the police whether the complainant had named any superior officer, they responded that the matter was under investigation. “We have to enquire with the BDO...” they added. The official had recently attained superannuation. However, after the State government had given one year extension for all those employees who turned 58-years, Mr. Ramesh continued in service. He was attached with the District Rural Development Agency. As the news spread, the officers' association in the Rural Development Department here staged a demonstration demanding action against the superior, police added. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
29 December 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||CM to campaign in Namakkal today||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will be campaigning for the Assembly election 2021 at various places in the district on Tuesday. Party sources said that he would reach Namakkal at 8.30 a.m., offer prayers at the Anjaneyar temple and meet the vendors at the temple complex. Later, at Mudalaipatti, he would meet the residents at Arunthathiyar Street and interact with the members of Thottiya Naicker community. At Rasipuram, he would garland the statue of former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran and conduct a road show. In the afternoon, he would campaign in Tiruchengodu bus stand area and garland the statue of former Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai. He would interact with members of the Mudaliyar community and members of borewell industry at a marriage hall. In the evening, he would conduct the women’s booth-level meeting at Kumarapalayam, followed by a meeting with the party’s IT wing at Pallipalayam.  At 8 p.m., Mr. Palaniswami would hold a public meeting at Kulakarai Thidal in the town and meet party functionaries. On Wednesday, he would interact with the tribal people at Senthamangalam and proceed to Tiruchi.
29 December 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Cane crushing season begins||The cane crushing season for 2020-21 began at the public-sector Perambalur Sugar Mills at Eraiyur in the district on Monday. About 7,200 acres of sugarcane area in Perambalur, Ariyalur, Kallakurichi and Cuddalore districts have been registered with the mill for the current season. About 2.10 lakh tonnes of sugarcane production is expected during the season. The crushing season was formally inaugurated by R. Tamilselvan and R.T. Ramachandran, MLAs, in the presence of senior officials and farmers.
29 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy refutes Modi’s charge over local body polls||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Monday refuted the charge levelled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that his government was not conducting the local body elections in the Union Territory and said the polls were delayed owing to the interference of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi. Addressing Congress workers near the Gandhi Statue on the occasion of the Congress party’s 136th foundation day, the Chief Minister said the Prime Minister, without knowing the facts, had criticised his government. AINRC’s role After the term of the last local body ended in 2011, the principal Opposition party All India N.R. Congress (AINRC) was in power till 2016. The AINRC extended support to the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance after the Parliament elections in 2014. The Prime Minister should have pressed for the local body elections during the time, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Narayanasamy further said after his government came to power, the cabinet recommended the name of an officer as State Election Commissioner and forwarded the file to Ms. Bedi who returned it stating that the power to appoint SEC vested with her. When the matter was raised in the Assembly, the house unanimously passed a resolution appointing former IAS officer Balakrishnan as SEC. The Lt.Governor did not accept the proposal and called for applications from individuals for selection of SEC, the Chief Minister said. (It might be recalled that the Madras High Court had dismissed a writ petition challenging the Lt. Governor’s decision to reject the nominee of the cabinet for SEC post) SEC appointment Mr. Narayanasamy said the Lt. Governor, despite opposition from the government, appointed a former Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer as SEC through a selection process. Recently, a person with experience in conducting elections and who came second in the selection process, approached the court challenging the appointment of an IFS officer as SEC, he said. “As per Election Commission rules, an IFS officer cannot be appointed as SEC. It is because of the interference of Lt.Governor that the election process got delayed. The Prime Minister is speaking without knowing the facts,” he said. Endorsing former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s statement that democracy was lacking in the country, the Chief Minister said Jammu and Kashmir was divided and made as Union Territories without any consultation. The political party leaders were put under house arrest, he said. “It can happen in Puducherry. But we will not allow the rights of the Union Territory to be taken away by anyone,” he said.
29 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP protests in Puducherry||Workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday staged a protest seeking an apology from the Congress government for All India Congress Committee leader Rahul Gandhi’s remarks on a “lack of democracy” in the country. BJP cadre, led by nominated legislator and party Puducherry unit president V. Saminathan, staged a protest in front of the Oulgaret Municipality seeking an apology from the Congress government for Mr. Gandhi’s remarks. Incidentally, Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a virtual launch of a health insurance scheme in Jammu and Kashmir responded to Mr Gandhi’s remarks by stating that while Congress leaders preach democracy, the party in Puducherry had no elected local bodies. Mr. Saminathan said the Congress government had failed to conduct the local body polls despite a directive from the Supreme Court. A party which could not hold local body elections has no right to talk about democracy, he said.
29 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bio-methanation plant to power lights inside dump yard||A small portion of the wet waste that is transported to the Kurumbapet garbage yard here will soon be converted into bio-gas to power lights inside the dumping ground. The Oulgaret Municipality is in the process of establishing a one-tonne per day capacity bio-methanation plant at the yard. The plant, constructed at a cost of around Rs. 20 lakh released by the Department of Science and Technology, will be ready for commissioning next month.  ‘End of next month’ “The work to establish the plant is over. Now, the generator is getting ready. We are planning to operationalise the unit by the end of next month,” an official in the Local Administration Department told The Hindu . The plant was established with technical assistance from the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre. The plant would help in producing quality manure and methane gas, the official added. A 12 KVA generator attached to the bio-methanation plant could generate 8 to 10 units of power. With a one-tonne per day capacity plant, the methane produced could run the generator for about two hours. The process could generate around 20 units of power, which could light up 40 lamps installed at the yard and also power a few other equipment, the official said. On average every day, around 350 tonnes of garbage is transported to the yard from both the municipalities and the commune panchayats in the urban area, the official added. “Once the legacy waste is disposed using the bio-mining process, it is imperative on the part of the civic body to adopt some mechanism to compost the waste brought to the land on a daily basis. The one-tonne capacity plant is only a pilot project. Maybe we will have to plan a major scheme to segregate and dispose the waste generated once the bio-mining work is completed,” the official said.
29 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory records 33 new COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory on Monday registered 33 new COVID-19 cases from 1,828 tests conducted for the virus. As per statistics released by the Health Department, 20 new cases were detected in Mahe region while Puducherry registered 10. The remaining three new cases were registered in Karaikal. Thirty-five patients were cured and discharged during the period from Sunday morning to Monday morning, the data said. The active cases now stand at 357, including 210 under home isolation. Currently, there are 147 patients undergoing treatment at various government hospitals in four regions of the Union Territory. The total number of patients tested is 4,76,570. While the fatality rate stood at 1.66 %, the recovery rate had increased to 97.40%. Nearby district tallies Cuddalore district reported 16 fresh cases on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 24,627. While 24,228 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 84. In Villupuram, 13 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases in the district to 14,962. Kallakurichi district reported five positive cases, taking the overall count to 10,795.
29 December 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK is ridden with internal fights: Kanimozhi||All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Government is busy settling internal quarrels and were not bothered about the people’s issues, said Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MP, K. Kanimozhi. Campaigning for the party here on Monday, Ms. Kanimozhi said that the situation has worsened so much so that even an MLA has expressed fear for his life from a Minister. She pointed out to the Sattur MLA, M.S.R. Rajavarman, blaming Minister for Dairy Development, K.T.R. Rajenthra Bhalaji, threatening him. She also alleged that a journalist who reported against the AIADMK government was attacked in Sivakasi. Besides, the Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, and the Deputy Chief Minister, O. Pannerselvam, had fought over the post of Chief Minister and even over Chief Ministerial candidate of AIADMK. “People from Delhi need to come here to settle their quarrel,” she said. The present Government had surrendered the welfare of Tamil Nadu to the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, and Union Home Minister, Amit Shah. Ms. Kanimozhi also alleged large scale irregularities by awarding tenders of various Government works to the relatives of the people in power. They claimed that the Government was promoting global tender. “But, these online tender process would only open for certain people only,” the MP said. Though the AIADMK had promised to modernise Arasu Cement Factory at Alangulam, it has not allocated any funds for the same in the last 10 years. “The factory is on the verge of closure and workers are facing the threat of losing their jobs,” she said. In the last two days of campaign in Aruppukottai, Sattur, Srivilliputtur and Rajapalayam Assembly constituencies, she interacted with workers of handloom, spinning mill, vegetable market.
29 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Ariyanoor flyover works nearing completion||The construction work of a flyover at Ariyanoor will be completed by mid-January, official sources said. The Ariyanoor junction is one of the busiest junctions on the Salem -Coimbatore National Highway and a flyover was proposed here to decongest the road and reduce accidents. This is the fourth flyover being constructed on the Salem-Coimbatore National Highway. The National Highways department has already constructed flyovers at Kandhampatti, Thiruvagoundanur and Steel Plant and they have been opened to public use.  According to authorities, the Ariyanoor flyover is being constructed at an approximate cost of Rs. 43 crore. The construction work began last year. Officials said that the trial run of vehicles was being carried out on the flyover at the moment and works such as painting, construction of dividers between service road and approach road, centre median were progressing.
29 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Farmers protest against eight-lane expressway project in Salem||Urging both the Central and State governments to drop the eight-lane expressway project to connect Chennai with Salem, over 350 farmers along with the members of various Opposition parties staged a protest outside the Collectorate here on Monday. The protesters, along with film director V. Gowthaman, assembled near the Nattamai Kazhagam building and raised slogans against the project. They said that the project would affect the livelihood of farmers. They wanted both the governments to drop the project and widen the existing highways that linked Chennai with Salem. “By widening the roads, the governments can fulfil their objective of easy connectivity between the two cities”, they said. Since the protest was held without permission, police personnel were deployed in large numbers to prevent the protesters from marching ahead. At the end of the protest, a few farmers were allowed to submit a petition to the Collector.
29 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Child sale racket busted, girl baby rescued in Salem||A 58-day-old girl baby was rescued and five middlemen involved in a child selling racket were arrested by the Salem City Police here on Monday. On December 10, Sathya (25) of Kariyaperumal Karadu in Nethimedu lodged a complaint with the Annathanapatti police stating that she was married to Vijay, an autorickshaw driver, and they have two girl children, aged six and two. On November 1, she gave birth to a girl baby. Her husband took the child to his relative’s house on November 15, and returned without the baby in the evening. He told her that since they had two girl children, his relatives would bring up the infant for a few months and return her. However, she learned that the child was sold and the police registered a case. Inquiries revealed that Vijay sold the child to Chithra alias Chitrapriya and Nisha of Erode for Rs. 1.15 lakh through Gomathi of the same area. The child was again sold to Balamani of Kumarapalayam, who in turn sold the child to Rajeswari of Bengaluru and later she sold the child to Geetha alias Mariya Geetha of Bengaluru. Later, Geetha sold the child to a couple, Sundarrajan and Sasikala alias Sujatha of Bommidi in Dharmapuri district, for Rs. 4 lakh. The couple was without a child for 16 years, the police said. Police arrested Mariya Geetha (43), Rajeswari (57), Sundarrajan (40), Gomathi (34) and Nisha (40) and lodged them in prison. The baby was rescued and handed over to the mother temporarily. Police said that the baby would be produced before the court. Search is on for Vijay, Balamani, Chitra and her husband Karthick.
29 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Special tax fixation camps on Dec.30||Special camps will be held in all the four zonal offices here for provision of various services, including fixation of taxes, on December 30. Corporation Commissioner N. Raveendran said that services such as fixation of taxes for new buildings and vacant lands, applying for new drinking water connection, name change for property tax and drinking water connection, applying for reconnection of disconnected water pipelines, applying for underground drainage connectivity, plot regularisation would be rendered during the camps. The camps will be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the zonal offices of Suramangalam, Hasthampatti, Ammapettai and Kondalampatti, a press release said.
01 January 2021||Staff Reporter UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Injured tusker treated by forest dept. using kumkis||An injured tusker that had been noticed around the Bokkapuram area, near Masinagudi, for more than two weeks, was sedated by Forest Department veterinarians using kumki elephants, and treated on Monday. The elephant, believed to be around 40 years old, had an injury on its back, and Forest Department staff and officials had tried to treat it by administering medication hidden inside fruits that they fed to the animal. However, as the condition of the elephant continued to deteriorate, a decision was made to get closer to the elephant using kumki elephants from the Theppakadu elephant camp and directly administer antibiotics to the wound.    On Monday, a team of Forest Department staff and wildlife veterinarians found the animal near Thotlingi near Bokkapuram, and sedated the animal. Using the kumkis, the elephant was bound and brought to an open area, where wildlife veterinarian, Rajesh Kumar, along with other veterinarians, treated the elephant’s wound with antibiotics and drugs to help it heal. “The operation started at around 8 a.m. and continued for around four hours,” said Deputy Director of Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (Buffer Zone), L.C.S. Srikanth. “The elephant was sedated with just enough medication to keep it standing throughout the entire treatment, and the operation went off without any problems,” said Mr. Srikanth. Following the successful operation, drugs to reverse the sedatives were administered to the elephant. “The effects of the sedative will gradually wear off over the course of a few hours, and Forest Department staff will continue to monitor it carefully,” he added. Staff will also be posted to keep tabs on the animal’s recuperation over the coming days, officials said. Officials said that they hoped that the elephant would be able to make a full recovery.
29 December 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||More regulations proposed for tourists visiting Courtallam||After the footfalls had gone up manifold over the last three days of holiday, the district administration had proposed to introduce regulations as a precautionary measure for the tourists. Collector G.S. Sameeran, Superintendent of Police Suguna Singh and other officers from the Health and Municipal administration visited the Courtallam falls here on Monday and took stock of the situation. The Courtallam, which was closed to the tourists since March due to the covid-19 pandemic, was opened to the public on December 15. While in the initial three-four days, the floods in the western ghats forced the ground staff to ban the visitors into the falls, since December 20, the crowd started increasing every day and it touched its peak on Sunday (December 27). The number of personnel deployed to regulate the crowd was wafer thin that the officials had decided to form committees for each of the Falls in the Courtallam. "At any given point, only 40 people would be permitted to stand near the falls and have a shower. As and when they moved out, the next batch would be let in," they added. Similarly, the Collector urged all the tourists to wear face masks compulsorily. The staff shall screen the visitors for temperature. He also underlined the vendors in and around the falls to maintain physical distancing and wear masks all the time. The health and municipal officials were told to be courteous with the visitors and any person found to have fever or other symptoms such as cold and cough, shall be subjected for swab test. The Collector said that the government was committed to protecting the people and covid-19 had been a challenge to the administration. The district, as on Monday, had 49 active cases of covid-19 patients and had successfully discharged 8043 patients out of 8250 people till date. Hence, the officials said that to ensure that there were no fresh cases, the cooperation from the public was essential to contain the spread totally.
29 December 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Casual worker ends life||Excessive borrowings from moneylenders had forced a family of four to attempt to end their lives here on Monday. The head of the family died while the others are in hospital. Surandai police said that Kannan (40) of Puliangudi lived with his wife Seethalakshmi (31) and two children. They had borrowed money from some private lenders and could not repay the loan. Kannan, who was working as a casual worker, was jobless for some months due to the covid-19 pandemic. Under such circumstances, they had decided to consume poison. It is said that Kannan died, while his wife and two children, who were admitted here in the GH were rushed to Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
29 December 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Casual worker ends life||Excessive borrowings from private money lenders had forced a family of four to attempt to end their lives here on Monday. The head of the family died while the others are in hospital. Surandai police said that Kannan (40) of Puliangudi lived with his wife Seethalakshmi (31) and two children. They had borrowed money from some private lenders and could not repay the loan. Kannan, who was working as a casual worker, was jobless for some months due to the covid-19 pandemic. Under such circumstances, they had decided to consume poison. It is said that Kannan died, while his wife and two children, who were admitted here in the GH were rushed to Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
29 December 2020||TENKASI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Collectors intensify vigil on foreign returnees||After the State government adequately cautioned the districts to keep an eye on the foreign returnees, Collectors in the southern districts have been constantly reviewing the situation, officials in the Health department said. Tenkasi Collector G.S. Sameeran said that they have intensified the checks at Puliyarai check-post. Based on data received from airports, the officials were tracking the movement. Public, who had information about any such foreign returnees too may share it with the officials, the Collector said. This is just to ensure that all precautions were taken and he appealed to the people to voluntarily cooperate. Dr Sameeran said that the district had successfully overcome the challenge covid-19 had posed over the last nine months. More care had to be given and he urged the people to keep their face covered with the masks. The Collector also wanted the residents to use sanitizers and maintain physical distancing.  Ramanathapuram  Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver said that a 38-year-old man, who had returned here from Dubai on Sunday night, was tested positive to covid-19. He had been admitted in the isolation ward in the Government Hospital. The doctors said that the patient had landed in Madurai airport on Saturday late night and travelled to his home in Kamudi by road. All steps were taken to screen people from outside India. Though there were no signs of the recent mutant virus, which had been spreading in the European countries, it was not clear whether the patient had similar symptoms. However, he said that the doctors were attending to the patient as per the medical protocol. The samples have been sent for comprehensive examination, he added. Madurai The international passengers arriving from Dubai were mandatorily screened before they stepped out of the airport, officials said. They also added that the swab tests were sent for diagnosis. Those, who possessed covid-19 negative certificates obtained 76 hours prior to the departure, too were examined with a thermal scanner. The officials appealed to the returnees to remain in isolation at least for a week in their homes, though they tested negative, a senior official in the Health department said. Meanwhile, Collector T Anbalagan, Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J Sangumani and other officials reviewed the progress of covid-19 patients convalescing in the Government Rajaji Hospital. The number of active cases in the district had fallen below 200 on Monday.
29 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘We will not vote in Assembly poll’||The Kurunji Ina Makkal Ezhuchi Kazhagam, an outfit working for the social uplift of malaikuravars has announced that the community will not cast their vote in the coming Assembly election. The outfit headed by Ka.Uthakumaran, a legal practitioner, said it had to resort to the protest since none of the political party showed any interest in solving the problems faced by the community. Claiming that obtaining a caste certificate still remained a dream for around four lakh people belonging to the community in Tamil Nadu, Mr. Uthakumaran in a memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister said availing basic requirements such as education and employment had become a herculean task for the them. Further, persistent instances of law enforcers attempting to project the community members as ‘anti-social elements’ also impeded the smooth life of the malaikuravas , he added.
29 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Seven arrested in Thanjavur||Seven persons belonging to Tamil Desiya Katchi were arrested after they climbed up a mobile tower in Thanjavur town on Monday. The demonstrators, led by TDK Thanjavur district secretary Kathiresan, climbed the tower located near New Bus Stand raising slogans demanding the immediate release of the seven convicted persons in former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Police rushed to the spot and persuaded the demonstrators to climb down from the tower and later arrested them.
29 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||DMK poll manifesto panel meets trade bodies||The DMK's election manifesto committee headed by senior leader and MP T R Baalu interacted with the trade and industry among others here on Monday. As part of the preparation of the manifesto, the DMK president M K Stalin had formed an eight-member committee comprising senior members. They have proposed to visit the major districts in Tamil Nadu and interact with the stakeholders. For instance, in Thoothukudi, the committee members listened to the grievances of the trade associations and the relief they expected from the next government, which would come to power. Hence, the DMK had planned to hear the issues first hand and then examine the modalities on a solution for the same, a committee member said and hoped to complete the exercise by January 2021 end. The delegation from match industries, farm sector, agro-based units, fishermen and the autorickshaw drivers associations submitted a memorandum, the committee members said. The members included T K S Illangovan, Tiruchi Siva, MP K. Kanimozhi and others. The party MLAs Geetha Jeevan, Anita R Radhakrishnan, and Shanmugiah also participated.
29 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Residents take to the streets||The Federation of Tiruchi City Residents Welfare Association on Monday staged a demonstration in front of Corporation office to protest against the poor condition of roads in residential colonies. The roads were dug up to lay sewer lines under phase-II of the underground drainage scheme (UGD) in the city. The federation members urged the government to allocate special funds to repair and blacktop the damaged roads. They also condemned the delay in completion of the new drinking water supply scheme for wards 61-65 and sought its expeditious implementation. The federation contended that roads in many residential areas, including Tiruverumbur, Ellakudi, Kattur, Ariyamangalam, Golden Rock and Kalkandarkottai, spread over 19 wards, where the UGD works were under way since 2018, were badly damaged. The roads were full of potholes and rendered slushy following the monsoon. Residents faced tremendous hardship in negotiating the roads by vehicles. The protesters withdrew the stir after Corporation officials assured them of temporary repair works on the damaged mud roads and call for tenders for black topping the roads in January. “They also assured us that the water supply scheme would be completed within the next few months. Based on the assurances given by the officials, we decided to withdraw the stir,” the federation said in a statement issued later in the day.
29 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal releases ‘rate card of bribery’||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan alleged on Monday that bribery had been systematised in Tamil Nadu. To drive home his charge, he released a “rate card” of bribes that the people “are forced to shell out for availing themselves of various government services right from the cradle to the grave”. This list included “bribes” which he said people had to pay for basic services such as issue of birth/death and community certificates, driving licences and ration cards, land registration and household water/drainage connections. “This is the tariff in force, which everyone pays as they have no other option. Everybody knows this and can only endorse it, though one may point out slight changes [in the rates],” Mr. Haasan said at a press conference here. He was in the city on the third leg of his campaign, covering the central districts since Sunday. Asked whether he would present the list to the Governor (as the DMK had done), Mr. Haasan said he was releasing the list for the media to get the message across. “Soon,” was his cryptic reply when asked whether he would release a list of corruption charges against the Ministers. Affirming that the MNM had a plan to prevent such bribery through “predictive governance”, Mr. Haasan said that if his party was voted to power, people would not have to wait in queues to avail themselves of such services. “We will ensure that each household has a computer with Internet connectivity. This is not a populist measure but an investment to ensure digital connectivity between the government and people. We consider this as a basic right of the people,” he said. Mr. Haasan maintained that the MNM had emerged as an inevitable ‘third factor’ in the State politics. “That’s what we assume,” he remarked, when asked whether he would head a third front. To a question on the chief ministerial candidate, the party’s second-line leaders, including its vice-president Mahendran, intervened to affirm that Mr. Haasan would be the chief ministerial candidate of the proposed front. As for the possible delay in the launch of a party by actor Rajinikanth, Mr. Haasan said the health of his long-time friend was more important. When asked whether Mr. Rajinikanth would like to work with him, he shot back, “Why not? We have done so even 40 years ago. Just because we have entered politics, it does not mean we are not friends any longer.” To another query, he said one could not say that the BJP was not a communal party. On the continuing farmers’ protest in Delhi, Mr. Haasan said a country that did not accord due respect to agriculture would face its downfall, and it should not happen to India. The MNM, he said, was taking measures as per law to secure the ‘torch light’ symbol in Tamil Nadu. If necessary, it would take recourse to legal action.
29 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Overflowing sewage goes unchecked at Central Bus Stand||Frequent malfunctioning of underground drainage at Central Bus Stand in the city has been causing inconvenience to passengers. Sewage mixed with faecal matter leaking from a pipe near the sanitary complex flowed like a river in the bus stand on Saturday and Sunday, making it difficult for passengers and bus crew members to move about. Nearly 75% of the space of a part of the bus stand, where Chennai, Villupuram, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam bound buses are halted, was spread with sewage. It stagnated in front of the urinals of men and women. The passengers, who wanted to use the urinals, had no other option but to walk on the filthy water. Moreover, the foul smell emanating from the sewage troubled the passengers and bus crews. The outbound passengers, who waited for their buses, hawkers, time keepers and tea stall operators at the bus stand too endured sordid time. “The bus stand attracts a large number of passengers including transit travellers. I had to walk on sewage to board the bus. It is not a right way to maintain a bus stand. It is annoying,” said M. Manivannan of Thanjavur. Enquiries revealed that the sewage began to leak from a spot near the public toilet on Saturday evening. It is alleged that though the issue was brought out to the concerned officials of Tiruchi Corporation, it was not solved till Sunday night. The issue was said to have been sorted out on Monday morning. While pointing out the presence of sanitary workers at the bus stand , the passengers felt that the issue would have been taken to the notice of the officials concerned well in advance. But, it took more than 24 hours to solve the issue. Malfunctioning of UGD at the bus stand and its surrounding areas is not uncommon. A shopkeeper said that it was a recurring phenomenon. The UGD system, which was established about 40 years ago, could not withstand the pressure. The pipes and manholes burst frequently. A complete overhaul of the system was needed to find a lasting solution to the long pending issue.
29 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Ailing ancillaries see ray of hope in BHEL’s initiatives||Ancillary industries in Tiruchi region, most of which are in the red, see a ray of hope in BHEL’s involvement in Make in India movement with a special focus on contributing to the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India). BHEL Small Industries Association (BHELSIA), its functionaries say, is keen on taking active part in the second interactive workshop titled ‘BHEL Samvaad’ under the guidance of the Department of Heavy Industry. In the first online workshop conducted recently, BHEL reached out to MSME (Micro, Small and Medium) vendors as potential partners for collaborative manufacturing. The workshop saw a cross-section of Indian Industries, Industrial houses and MSMEs coming together to dwell upon the next steps for increased cooperation in indigenous manufacturing. The workshop also aimed at fostering better utilisation of assets for development of technologies and products. Chaired by Arun Goel, Secretary (Heavy Industries), the workshop was attended by more than 80 participants, comprising senior representatives of industry chambers, BHEL’s vendors, other MSMEs, and other leading industries. The meeting took note of how the lockdowns across geographies have resulted in massive supply chain disruptions, making many countries rethink on over-dependence on imports and the need for being self-sufficient. In the first meeting, the discussions pertained to initiating MSMEs and local industry into manufacturing hitherto imported items. The roadmap for local industries to join hands to address the market with indigenous technology at competitive rates and world-class quality was deliberated upon. “BHELSIA is looking forward to BHEL looking beyond power equipment and making forays into transportation, infrastructure for Oil & Gas, Defence and Aerospace and other sunrise sectors,” BHELSIA president Rajappa Rajkumar said.
29 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||98 new cases, no deaths||The central districts accounted for 98 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday. According to a medical bulletin issued by the Health Department, the maximum number of fresh cases was reported in Thanjavur district with 30 patients testing positive for the virus. It was followed by Tiruchi with 23 new cases. Karur and Nagapattinam districts registered 13 cases each. Tiruvarur district reported 11 new cases, Pudukottai six and Ariyalur two. No new case was recorded in Perambalur. No death was reported in any part of the region. A total of 79 patients were discharged from various hospitals in central districts. Tiruchi district topped with 35 discharges followed by 13 in Nagapattinam and 10 in Thanjavur district.
29 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BDU inks MoU with Madras Flying Club||The Institute of Entrepreneurship and Career Development (IECD) of Bharathidasan University on Monday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Madras Flying Club Aviation Academy, a unit of Madras Flying Club, Tiruchi International Airport, to offer collaborative short-term certificate and diploma in aviation-related courses. BDU Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar, who presided over the signing of the MoU on the university’s main campus here, handed over a copy to Capt. Jacob Selvaraj, honorary secretary of Madras Flying Club and Chief Executive Officer of Madras Flying Club Aviation Academy. University Registrar G. Gopinath and IECD Director E. Ramganesh were present. The collaborative programmes to be offered are diplomas in Airport Ground Handling Management, Flight Operation Management, Cabin Crew and Hospitality Management, and short-term and certificate courses in Airlines Customer Service Executive. The diploma programmes are for six-month duration, while the short-term programme is for one month and the certificate course for three months. The need for conducting aviation-related courses was felt as the aviation industry requires thousands of skilled personnel, said Mr. Ramganesh. It is for the first time that IECD is offering a slew of collaborative aviation-related programmes by teaming up with Madras Flying Club. The Madras Flying Club Aviation Academy has been promoting various courses in the areas of Flight Dispatch, Air Hostess Training, Airport Ground Handling and Customer Service Executives. The MoU is valid for three years and likely to be renewed further. Regular classes for diploma, short-term and certificate courses will be conducted by the Madras Flying Club Academy and the study material will be prepared by the Academy with prior approval and as per IECD guidelines. The Academy will provide entire infrastructural and instructional facilities such as classrooms, laboratories, teaching aids and qualified staff for conducting the programmes at Tiruchi airport, said Capt. Jacob Selvaraj. The 90-year-old Madras Flying Club, which shifted its operations from Chennai International Airport to Tiruchi in 2019, imparts pilot training and offers aircraft engineering and aviation-related courses, said Mr. Jacob Selvaraj. Interested students of Bharathidasan University and affiliated colleges and even engineering graduates can avail the programmes.can enrol for the diploma courses to improve their employable skills, said Mr. Ramganesh.
29 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Three run over by trains||In separate incidents, three persons were run over by trains in Tiruchi on Monday. Two persons were run over by a train at Manapparai and their bodies were found lying on the railway track in the morning. Railway Police sources identified the victims as James, 20, and Santhosh, 18, both of Manapparai. They suspect that the two youth were in an inebriated condition. Their bodies were sent for post-mortem to Government Hospital at Manapparai. In another incident, the body of a man, suspected to be in his 50s, was found on the track between Ponmalai and Tiruchi Town. The identity of the deceased is yet to be established. The Government Railway Police, Tiruchi, registered separate cases in this connection.
29 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man sets wife on fire||The Uthukuli police registered a case against a man who allegedly set his wife on fire on Sunday. Police said that Maheswari (24) had a verbal altercation with her husband Veerakumar at their house in the early hours of Sunday. Following this, she allegedly poured kerosene on herself and the man set her on fire, the police said. Both suffered burns and were admitted to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Sunday. The police have registered a case under sections 498A (Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 307 (Attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code.
29 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘State govt. must allow 100% occupancy in cinemas’||President of Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners’ Association ‘Tiruppur’ M. Subramaniam on Monday requested the State government to allow 100% occupancy in cinemas from January. Speaking to the reproters in Tiruppur, he said that a petition regarding this request has been submitted to the State government already. Noting that the Tamil movie Master with actor Vijay in the lead is releasing in theatres on January 13, he commended the actor for staying firm on its theatrical release despite the delay induced due to the COVID-19 pandemic and offers from various over-the-top (OTT) platforms. While assuring that there will not be any hike in ticket fares in cinemas and multiplexes for the movies releasing ahead of the Pongal festival, Mr. Subramaniam said that any possibility of reduction in ticket cost to attract more audiences will be announced after discussing with the stakeholders. Actors must ensure that their movies will release on OTT platforms only after completing eight weeks of theatrical run, he urged.
29 December 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Govt. must encourage organic farming in State: meet||A call to encourage organic farming and promotion of traditional paddy variety cultivation was made at National Farmer’s Day and Consumer’s Day event held at Tiruvarur last week. Highlighting the advantages of consuming traditional paddy varieties raised in organic farming method at the event organised on behalf of CREATE – Save Our Rice Campaign and Veludaiyar Educational Institutions (VEI), speakers urged the State government to initiate steps for promoting organic farming as done by Kerala and create awareness of the traditional varieties among the public and farmers. State Coordinator, CREATE–Save Our Rice Campaign, Raghunathan explained the presence of phyto-bioactive compounds naturally in traditional paddy varieties and its medicinal properties. Mentioning about the ethnic characters of traditional paddy varieties, he said phyto-bioactive compounds could not be developed in any laboratory. Hence, it was time to take the information to consumers and make them aware of the richness of traditional varieties. President of VEI Thiyagapaari observed that the traditional food system played a key role in maintaining immunity level during COVID-19 pandemic, while countries like the USA, which did not have such a food system struggled to contain the infection. He also pointed out the flood or inundation resistance the varieties imbibed. Professor from the Department of Zoology, A.V.V.M. Sri Pushpam College, Poondi, Thanjavur district, Bakkialakshimi, shared her research work on traditional rice varieties and their potential as a remedy to many non-communicable diseases like diabetics, blood pressure, heart disease, urinary tract infection, cancer, male sterility, decrease in sperm count, problems of women during menstrual cycle through the presence of phyto chemicals and bioactive compounds. She also explained how ‘red kouni’ was an alternative to tablets prescribed by allopathy practitioners for type 2 diabetic disease. Speaking on the occasion, Chairman, CREATE, Duraisingam urged the State government to ensure a market situation wherein the farm produces were bought at the minimum support price. He also called upon farmers and consumers to extend their support in a coordinated way to achieve the objective. Stressing the need to include traditional rice in noon-meal programmes considering the nutritious security of school children, Mr. Duraisingam urged the State government to procure traditional paddy seeds from farmers and redistribute to a greater number of farmers at a subsidised rate to ensure higher productivity of nutritious traditional paddy varieties.
29 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Police yet to trace 8-year-old girl missing for over a week||It has been a week since an 8-year-old child, daughter of tea estate workers in Thuthurmattam near Coonoor went missing. With an intense search operation under way, and still no sign of the missing child, police officials are scrambling to find some clues that will lead them to the girl’s whereabouts. The girl and son of two tea estate workers were reported to have been playing in the area when she suddenly went missing. Following a search of the local area, the girl’s parents registered a missing persons complaint with the Kolacombai police on Tuesday, crucially an entire day after the girl went missing. Five special teams comprising ADSPs and DSPs have since been formed to trace the missing girl. With the assistance of the Forest Department, the police combed the entire surrounding area where the girl was last seen, initially suspecting that she could have been the victim of an animal attack. However, as they have not yet noticed any signs indicating an animal attack, the police have also begun to investigate other leads in the case. When contacted, Nilgiris District Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan said that the police had identified one suspect in the case and had taken him in for questioning. “However, we are still actively looking for clues in the case, and investigations are ongoing,” said Mr. Sasi Mohan. The children who had last seen the girl have also been questioned by police looking for clues into the disappearance. Based on their testimonies, a few cars which resembled the ones that were spotted near the area were also tracked by the police and searched. However, these efforts too have so far proved futile.
29 December 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Cases in Vellore breach 20,000 mark||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,165 with 18 new cases reported on December 28. While a total of 19,623 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 202. The district’s death toll is 340. In Ranipet district, seven cases were reported positive taking the total to 15,882. In Tirupattur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,420 with six new cases on Monday. In Tiruvannamalai district, eight new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,110. Out of this, 18,723 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 107.
29 December 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Over 30 coppersmith barbets found dead near Auroville||Over 30 coppersmith barbets were found dead in front of a private property near the international township of Auroville on Monday. Locals and wildlife activists suspect that the birds died due to poisoning, though the Forest Department authorities are yet to ascertain the reason behind the deaths. Govinda, a resident of a property owned by the Sri Aurobindo Ashram, noticed the carcasses of the birds lying outside the premises, under a banyan tree on the main road. “A few birds were writhing while the others had perished. The carcasses were found scattered on the main road in front of the property and also on the premises. We immediately informed the Forest Department,” he said. Residents alleged that the poachers who had killed the birds had removed the carcasses that were lying on the road in the morning. Poachers were seen roaming in the area carrying slingshots, they said. A team of Forest Department officials, led by Tindivanam Forest Ranger M. Babu, rushed to the spot and made inquiries. The team also collected the carcasses of the birds and sent them to the veterinary hospital in Vanur for post-mortem examination. ‘Sent for analysis’ “We are trying to find out if the birds died due to poisoning. The carcasses have been sent for post-mortem examination to ascertain the reason behind the deaths. The accused will be nabbed soon and they will be booked under the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972,” District Forest Officer Abhishek Tomar said. According to a naturalist, “ Prima facie , it looks like a case of poisoning. The barbets are widespread residents and are predominantly frugivorous. The birds are found in small groups on banyan and peepal trees. The carcasses had no visible injury and it is suspected that the birds were poisoned.” Forest Department officials said that patrolling would be stepped up in the Auroville region following the incident.
29 December 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram police searching for man behind fake video||The Villupuram district police have launched a hunt to trace a social media user who deliberately shared a fake video claiming that the four-lane stretch between Vikravandi and Ulundurpet toll plazas was vulnerable to attack by highway robbers. The video shows two motorcycle-borne men wearing helmets riding in front of a car on a highway. The unidentified person who circulated the video claimed that the stretch was vulnerable to attacks by robbers and warned the people against travelling on the stretch. Villupuram Superintendent of Police S. Radhakrishnan said the cyber crime police had launched a probe to identify the user who deliberately uploaded the fake video. He suspected that mischief mongers had circulated the video to spread panic. Mr. Radhakrishnan said patrolling had been intensified on the stretch. In fact, the number of traffic accidents had drastically come down from 40 in October and November to 12 due to police presence, he said. A specific case had been initiated and the accused would be nabbed soon, he said. The police appealed to the people to not believe such fake videos and said they could continue travelling on the stretch without any fear.  The person who circulated the video claimed that the road between Vikravandi and Ulundurpet toll plazas was prone to attacks by robbers
29 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘No infrastructure development in T.N.’||DMK women’s wing leader Kanimozhi on Sunday alleged that the AIADMK government had failed miserably in attracting investments for industrial development over the last 10 years. In an interview, she sought to know what happened to the 50,000 MSMEs that were closed down post-demonetisation and GST rollout. Excerpts:  How do you view the industrial development under the AIADMK’s rule, especially in the southern districts? The AIADMK government has failed to attract investments for industrial development over the last 10 years. Moreover, after the way it handled the anti-Sterlite protesters, no one has come forward to invest. The government has done nothing for infrastructure development. Even existing industrial units have started to leave the State. The State government’s policy note has acknowledged that 50,000 MSME units have been shut down post-demonetisation and rollout of GST. What has the State done to reverse it? It is yet to respond to DMK president M.K. Stalin’s demand for a White Paper on the investment and jobs generated after holding two Global Investors’ Meets. Will the Sterlite firing incident have any resonance during the Assembly election? The State government has kept the issue relevant with its pronounced inaction. It has not met the demand of the family members of those killed for qualification-based government jobs. Many of the injured need to undergo surgeries to lead a normal life, and they are still struggling. No one has heard about the progress of the CBI probe into the firing. The CBI has shown some progress in the case of the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son Benicks. The Chief Minister, who is in charge of the Police Department, had claimed that he came to know about the firing only through television channels. If not him, who else could have ordered the firing on protesters? The Centre and the State government have been blaming each other regarding the handover of the land for AIIMS in Madurai… Not just AIIMS, the present government has not been clearing [the files on] any project. The State has not given clearance for the proposed night landing facility at Thoothukudi airport as well. It seems the Chief Minister thinks that the mere laying of a foundation stone is enough. People will have to wait for [another] four months for the work on AIIMS to start. How do you see the crisis in the fireworks industry? The State government has not reached out to the industry to resolve the crisis affecting the livelihoods of eight lakh workers. Even with regard to green crackers, the State has not made efforts to ascertain their feasibility. It failed to take up the issue with the Centre even when the industry was facing the threat of a ban on crackers during Deepavali year after year. No action has been taken on the Sagayam Commission report on the granite scam in Madurai… Not only the granite scam, the State has not acted on complaints regarding several scams. In the gutkha scam, even the CBI has not made any concrete progress. Our party president has promised to take it up once the DMK returns to power.  The government is yet to respond to DMK president M.K. Stalin’s demand for a White Paper on the investment and jobs generated after holding two Global Investors’ Meets
29 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Emergency rescue drill conducted||A team of National Disaster Response Force on Monday conducted a mock drill on rescuing people during natural calamities on the Collectorate premises. The team that has been camping in various parts of the district to create awareness on the simple rescue techniques during natural disasters like flood, earth quake, building collapse and also other emergency situations like fire and heart attack among the people since December 16. They also visited the areas identified as vulnerable for flooding in the district. The team had also visited some of the industrial units to explain on precautionary measures and rescue operations during industrial accidents. In the presence of Collector, R. Kannan, the NDRF team, led by its Commander and Inspector, Marikani, displayed how to rescue people who are trapped inside debris following building collapse. The injured persons were segregated with different colours of hand bands based on the gravity of their injuries. This would help in giving priority to treat the most injured persons. They also exhibited various equipments like power saw and spreader, iron cutor, concrete cutter, hydraulic cutter, manual cutter, hydraulic jockey, air lifting bag, telescopic ladder, door opener, breathing apparatus, personal protective suit, rubber boats and other fire fighting equipment. They also exhibited simple techniques of lifting the injured persons and transporting them physically on difficult terrains. Such mock drill could create awareness among the people to safeguard themselves and also rescue others during disasters, Mr. Marikani said. The team would visit Sathuragiri hills on Tuesday before winding up their programmes in the district.
29 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Makkal Nala Paniyalargal stage road roko||Over 200 members of Tamil Nadu Makkal Nala Paniyalargal Sangam staged a road roko here on Monday demanding the State Government to reinstate them in work without dragging an appeal pending in the Supreme Court. The police arrested 230 protesters, including 90 women, when they suddenly squatted on Virudhunagar-Madurai highway even as they were staging a dharna in front of the Collectorate. The protest was led by the association State president, N. Chellapandian. The State deputy general secretary, M. Selvakumar said that the AIADMK Government had removed 13,500 makkal nala paniyalargal thrice since 1992. After the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Government made their appointment in each village panchayat in 1991, the AIADMK Government removed them. Subsequently, they were reinstated twice by the DMK Governments and dismissed by the AIADMK Governments. “After the High Court ordered our reinstatement in 2014, the State Government has made an appeal in the Supreme Court and was taking all efforts to drag the case. We want the State Government to withdraw its appeal and provide us jobs,” he added. The association has proposed to intensify their protest in the coming months.
29 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Additional bumper from Collector’s car removed||An additional bumper, fitted on the official vehicle of the Virudhunagar District Collector was removed here on Monday. Following a directive by the Madras High Court to dismantle additional bumpers from all four-wheelers, the Collector, R. Kannan, inspected the work of removing the additional bumper from his official vehicle on the Collectorate premises. He said that the additional bumpers from all government and private vehicles should be removed immediately. Officials from the Regional Transport Office would impose fines on those who fail to comply with the High Court directive. Besides, such bumpers would be removed, the Collector said. In the event of a collision, the airbag inside vehicles get activated only when there was no bumper or other objects. Virudhunagar District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, RTO (Virudhunagar), Ilango, were present
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports one death, 93 new cases||Salem district reported 39 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 31,489. A total of 51 persons were discharged after treatment and 368 persons are under treatment in various health facilities. Erode district reported 33 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 13,572. While 47 persons were discharged, 275 persons continue to be under treatment. Namakkal saw 26 cases and the district’s tally stood at 11,140. Twenty-three persons were discharged and 179 persons continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri reported nine new cases and there were 106 active cases. Twelve persons were discharged and the total number of infections in the district stood at 7,847. Dharmapuri saw 12 new cases and seven discharges. There were 70 active cases and the total number of infections stood at 6,378. Coimbatore district reported 93 new cases, taking the overall tally to 52,074. A 70-year-old woman died at a private hospital here, taking the district’s toll to 646. The Health Department said 50,581 patients recovered and 847 were active cases. On Monday, 103 patients were discharged Tiruppur reported 41 fresh cases, increasing the tally to 16,946. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 16,383 patients recovered and 348 were active cases. The district reported 215 deaths so far. On Monday, 49 patients were discharged. In the Nilgiris, 16 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 7,902. The toll stood at 45 and 117 persons are under treatment. Samples sent to Pune The district administration said two persons, who returned to the district from foreign countries, and one of their 35 primary contacts who were tested, were found to have been infected. The samples of the three had been sent to Pune to identify the strain with which they had been infected.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Damaged benches replaced at Tiruverumbur bus shelter||Passengers using the bus shelter in Tiruverumbur town, an important stoppage for town and mofussil buses, are a relieved lot as there are steel benches now to sit and rest their feet. Until a few months ago, most of the benches were damaged, forcing elderly and sick passengers to sit on the floor. In the absence of proper seating facility, a section of passengers bound for delta districts waited on the side of the main carriageway to board the buses. On their part, the drivers did not feel any compulsion to pass through the lane abutting the bus shelter. It was after several representations from public welfare organisations that the town and mofussil buses passed through the shelter. While appreciating the replacement of the damaged benches, passengers still express discomfort over absence of toilets. According to local traders, 1,500 single trips are being made daily by mofussil buses between Tiruchi and various destinations in delta districts through Tiruverumbur town. After representations were made by voluntary groups to the Corporation to integrate the suburb into the Swachh Bharat initiative, Namma Toilet was installed in the vicinity. But not many are aware of its existence, though the user-friendly toilet is accessible to all type of users, including the differently abled, said Balakrishnan, a trader. It would have been proper had the old MLA office building that was contiguous to the bus shelter had been converted into a toilet complex for the convenience of passengers. It is incomprehensible why the authorities thought it fit to demolish the building rather than putting it to best use, he added.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA arrested||The Coimbatore City Police arrested Singanallur MLA and DMK’s Coimbatore urban east unit in-charge N. Karthik along with other functionaries on charges of organising an unauthorised meeting at Ramanathapuram on Monday. The police said Mr. Karthik organised a meeting as part of the ‘We Reject the AIADMK’ campaign at Perumal Koil Grounds in Ramanathapuram without police permission. About 98 members including 16 women were removed and were detained at a private hall. They were released later, according to the police.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami rules out coalition govt.||Asked about Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan releasing a ‘rate card’ of alleged bribes in various departments, he reiterated that the actor had entered politics after retirement. “He might be great in acting, but he is a zero in politics.” In response to the criticism made by former Chennai Mayor and DMK MLA Ma. Subramanian on the construction of flyovers during the AIADMK regime, Mr. Palaniswami accused the DMK of not completing the construction of flyovers when it was in power. As many as 86 mini-flyovers (bridges and culverts) were built within the limits of the Greater Chennai Corporation during the AIADMK regime and 15 more were under construction, he said. The second phase of the Outer Ring Road in Chennai, from Nemilichery to Minjur, would be inaugurated “within 10 days”, he said. He also accused the DMK of being the “fountain-head of corruption” and levelled multiple corruption charges against Mr. Subramanian and DMK general secretary Duraimurugan. At a reception organised by the AIADMK at Perumanallur, near Tiruppur, the Chief Minister said the government would not acquire any land for the SIPCOT industrial park proposed near Avinashi. He also listed the schemes.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In flight||
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mayiladuthurai is 38th district of Tamil Nadu||The 38th district of Tamil Nadu, with Mayiladuthurai as its headquarters, came into being formally on Monday with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurating it through a video-conference from Chennai. Special Officer R. Lalitha assumed charge as the first Collector of the new district in the presence of Textiles Minister O.S. Manian at a function attended by senior officials, representatives of traders, advocates and farmers’ welfare organisations. MLAs Radhakrishnan (Mayiladuthurai), Pounraj ( Poompuhar) and Bharathi (Sirkazhi) participated. Over the last few weeks, there was a sense of discomfort among people since the Assembly elections are only a few months away and the delay in the procedure for formalising the jurisdiction of the new district carved out from Nagapattinam, could have led to an indefinite postponement in the event of the election code of conduct taking effect. On Monday however, there was huge sense of relief was palpable among a cross-section of the public and the formation of the new district was welcomed with bursting of crackers. The announcement of the formation of the new district was made during March, and a Government Order was issued the following month. The Special Officer for finalising the boundaries of the new district and Superintendent of Police were appointed in July. Sirkazhi taluk has now been made a division in the new district. New Collectorate The new district Collectorate will function out of the buildings on the premises of the Commercial Taxes Department. The government will shortly release funds for establishing the Collectorate complex and the District Police Office at the 26-acre site being offered by the Dharmapuram Adheenam, Mr. Manian said, adding that the new district would offer immense convenience to the people. The economy of the new district, with a jurisdiction over 1,172 sq km will mainly be driven by the agricultural and fisheries sectors and partly by temple tourism, official sources said. According to the latest statistics, the new district with a population of 9,18,356 will account for 1,65,550 acres of cultivable land and and 26 fishing villages. The four taluks are Mayiladuthurai, Sirkazhi, Kuthalam and Tranquebar.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||RELIGION||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Trust: Margazhi prayers, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal temple, Kovaipudur, 5.20 a.m.; Ra Pathu Utsavam, 6.30 p.m.     New Century Book House : 36th Book Festival, Nehru Stadium, 9.30 a.m.
29 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Cinematographer Ishwar Bidri passes away in Belagavi||Ishwar Bidri, veteran cinematographer who worked in the Hindi film industry for over 40 years, died in Belagavi on Sunday. He was 88. He was an associate of industry greats Gurudatt, V. Shantaram and V.K. Murthy, veteran cinematographer. He died at KLE Society’s Prabhakar Kore Hospital. He was brought in after he collapsed following a heart attack during a marriage ceremony he attended in Belagavi a week ago. He suffered another attack in the hospital and efforts to revive him failed. His last rites were conducted in Vijayapura on Sunday evening. Ishwar Bidri hailed from Banahatti in undivided Vijayapura district, which is now in Bagalkot district. Having grown up in Banahatti and Vijayapura, he left for Mumbai in the 1950s. He joined as an apprentice under V.K. Murthy, legendary cinematographer. He later joined as an assistant to Dwaraka Divechi, senior cinematographer who shot films such as Sholay. Ishwar Bidri worked for other directors, including Ramesh Sippy. He was the credited cinematographer for Damini directed by Rajkumar Santoshi. He continued to work for him in Andaaz Apna Apna and Ghatak. He also shot Andaaz by Raj Kanwar. Ishwar Bidri had a long association with J.P. Dutta who directed films such as Border, Yateem, Hathiyar, Batwara and the unreleased Sarhad. “Ishwar Bidri was among the gifted children of undivided Vijayapura district who have not got their due credit,” said A.L. Nagur, Vijayapura-based researcher and historian. He compared Ishwar Bidari to film personalities such as V. Shantaram, Shantesh Patil, Amirbai, Gauhar Jan and Sangappa Goggawad, who made it big in the Hindi film industry.  Having grown up in Banahatti and Vijayapura, he left for Mumbai in the 1950s and joined as an apprentice under V.K. Murthy, legendary cinematographer
29 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Activists foil police bid to remove flag pole put up without nod||Amid high drama, the police failed to remove a pole with Kannada flag that was erected by Kannada activists without due clearance from the government in front of the city corporation building in Belagavi on Monday. Efforts by the police to remove the pole failed with the activists offering resistance. The police took some activists into custody but another group arrived on the spot and continued a dharna. They were demanding that district in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi come to the spot and unfurl the flag on Tuesday morning. Earlier, the activists erected the pole outside the corporation office, next to the office of the Inspector-General of Police. They unfurled the Kannada flag and began singing the national anthem. They felicitated Kasturi Bavi, a Kannada activist who had vowed not to wear footwear till the Kannada flag was hoisted on the corporation office premises. Activist Srinivas Talukar and Basavaraj Doddi had brought along with them a pair of white slippers for the activist. She wore them on the spot and announced that Kannada groups had been able to do what successive governments had failed to do — fly the Kannada flag on the corporation office premises. Ms. Bavi told journalists that councillors had opposed attempts to unfurl the Kannada flag since long. She also said that the State government had shifted the corporation office to its new premises from Khade Bazaar only because Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti members did not allow the Kannada flag to fly over the old building. When the police tried to foil their attempt to install the pole, a team of Kannada Rakshana Vedike activists had a verbal spat with them. The police tried to reason with the activists stating that they were welcome to put up a flag post after due permission from the Urban Development Department and the district administration. But the activists were in no mood to listen to the police.
29 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for shooting at deer||Forest personnel arrested two men who are said to be poachers and who had shot at a deer in the Kittur forest in Belagavi district on Monday. Rajendra Nayak and Yalloji Pingate had shot at the deer in Golihalli range. The wild animal was hurt but escaped. Forest officers, who came to know about the offence, arrested the poachers. They seized a gun, bullets, an air gun and other material from the two. Later, they were produced before a court. However, two other suspected poachers Mohammad Ali Khan and Ataulla Sheegihalli are on the run. They are a gang of repeat offenders, it was said. They will be caught and dealt with strictly, Chief Conservator B.V. Patil said.
29 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Masks, sanitisers distributed at polling booths||There were some interesting moments in the second phase of gram panchayat polls in Belagavi district on Sunday. Officers of the district administration and the zilla panchayat, who were on poll duty, distributed masks and sanitisers to voters who came to the booths in most places. The Karoshi Gram Panchayat gave away around 10,000 masks and distributed 20 litres of hand sanitiser to voters, Panchayat Development Officer Praveen Kumar S.G. said. The police resorted to lathi-charge to disperse a mob that gathered in front of a booth in Bambalwad Gram Panchayat as voters came in droves and crowded the front door. They did not listen to officials who kept requesting them to form two lines. A police party was summoned to the spot and polling was restored in a few minutes. Polling was brisk in Sankonatti, one of the biggest gram panchayats in the State. Over 27,000 voters chose 56 candidates from among 148 candidates who contested in 17 wards. By evening, total polling had crossed 64 %, officials said.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chief Secretary felicitated ahead of retirement||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday gave an official send-off to Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, who is to retire on December 31. In fact, Mr. Bhaskar celebrated his birthday on Monday. Soon after a Cabinet meeting, Mr. Yediyurappa and his Cabinet colleagues felicitated the Chief Secretary by presenting him with a shawl and a silver plaque. Successor Mr. Bhaskar is likely to be succeeded by P. Ravi Kumar, Additional Chief Secretary tothe government. Mr. Kumar is of the 1984 Indian Administrative Service batch.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||I like eating beef: Siddaramaiah||On the day the Karnataka Cabinet decided to promulgate an Ordinance to impose a blanket ban on slaughter of cows in the State, Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah said his party leaders lacked the courage to oppose the anti-cow slaughter Bill. Speaking on the 36th foundation day of the Congress here on Monday, he said party leaders feared speaking against the Bill as they sensed huge public support for the government’s decision. However, he said that he liked eating cattle meat and that it was his right. The former Chief Minister also said the BJP government’s anti-cow slaughter Bill could end the sale and consumption of cow meat. “The proposed legislation will burden farmers and each day Rs. 100 will be required to feed one aged cow,” he said. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar said all farmers have been feeding cows and the BJP government’s anti-cow slaughter Bill was not a new one. The Congress government introduced it in 1964. The BJP government’s anti-cow slaughter law is aimed at only one section of society, he said. Call for unity Former Union Minister K.H. Muniyappa told party leaders to work with unity instead of proposing their names for the post of Chief Minister. He also appealed to Mr. Siddaramaiah to take Mr. Shivakumar along with him to rebuild the party. “I wanted to become KPCC president, but some people didn’t agree. You [Mr. Siddaramaiah] should take Mr. Shivakumar into confidence. First, the party should come to power. Then we can decide the candidate for the post of CM,” he said. He also said all party leaders should start exposing the flaws in the NDA government’s policies. As of now, only Rahul Gandhi, MP, has been criticising the policies, he said.  The proposed legislation will burden farmers and each day Rs. 100 will be required to feed one aged cow Siddaramaiah, former Chief Minister
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||80% polling in phase 2 of GP elections||Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, 80.71% of the eligible voters exercised their franchise in the second phase of the gram panchayat elections, which were held on Sunday. The poll percentage in the first phase was 82.13%. The highest polling — 91.86% — was recorded in Bengaluru Rural district, while the lowest — 67.48% — was in Bengaluru Urban. The polling recorded in other districts was: Ramanagaram — 88.27, Chitradurga — 85.34%, Davangere — 85.36%, Kolar — 86.51%, Chikkaballapur — 89.58%, Shivamogga — 80.91%, Tumakuru — 86.87%, Mysuru — 81.17%, Dakshina Kannada — 78.67%, Udupi — 75.42%, Kodagu — 69.51%, Hassan — 83.72%, Mandya — 88.13%, Chamarajanagar — 82.88%, Belagavi — 82.70%, Vijayapura — 69.75%, Bagalkot — 89.67%, Dharwad — 79.50%, Gadag — 80.42%, Haveri — 85.13%, Uttara Kannada — 80.58%, Kalaburagi — 74.55%, Bidar — 76.24%, Ballari — 81.10%, Raichur — 71.11%, Yadgir — 70.25%, and Koppal — 81.99%, according to the State Election Commission. The counting of votes is scheduled for Wednesday.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Labs ask customers to pay more to get RT-PCR test results faster||While the State government capped the rates for the COVID-19 RT-PCR tests at Rs. 800 earlier this month, many laboratories and hospitals are charging three to six times the amount if people want the test results faster. Enquiries made by The Hindu at several private labs in the city revealed that while the RT-PCR tests are available at Rs. 800 and the test results are given in 24 hours, if one wants the results in five to six hours, they can sign up for a special turn-around RT-PCR test and will have to pay Rs. 2,500. Meanwhile, the RT-PCR express test, which costs Rs. 5,000, will ensure that the patient gets the test result within 13 minutes. Many customers feel that the labs are trying to fleece the customers. Labs say that the special turn-around RT-PCR test and RT PCR express tests are in demand among passengers who are travelling from other States or countries. “Those who have elderly people at home want to get themselves tested before they go back home and interact with their friends and family,” said the manager of a private lab in the city. Dhriti S., an employee of a private company, said that she chose to get the special turn-around RT-PCR test as she had a sore throat. “I live with my mother-in-law who is a senior citizen and I wanted to rule out the possibility of having COVID-19. I gave my swab for testing for COVID-19 and isolated myself in a room. I chose to pay three times the actual price as I wanted the results quickly as I was very anxious,” she said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer, labs and testing, COVID-19 task force, said that while the regular RT-PCR test was capped at Rs. 800 by the State government, the Abott ID NOW test, which provides test results between 5 and13 minutes, was fairly new in the market and the price could not be slashed. “The express test is useful in an emergency room where a patient is in the casualty and has to undergo a surgery or treatment,” he said. He said that if international passengers get an express test during arrival, they need to also monitor their symptoms for 14 days after their date of journey and repeat an RT-PCR if they develop any symptoms of COVID-19.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||653 new COVID-19 cases||As many as 653 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Karnataka on Monday, taking the total number of positive cases to 9.16 lakh. While this is the lowest number of cases reported in recent times, the number of COVID-19 tests conducted on Sunday stood at 67,742 - much lower than the daily target of 1 lakh tests. Meanwhile, 1,178 patients were reported to be discharged on Monday, taking the total number of discharges to be 8.92 lakh. As many as eight COVID-19 deaths were reported on Monday, taking the total number of deaths in the state to 12,070. Of the total 12,547 active cases in the State, as many as 205 patients are admitted in intensive care units across different designated hospitals. The positivity rate for the day on Sunday stood at 0.96% and case fatality rate for the day stood at 1.22%.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Both to be transferred?||The State government, unhappy over the public spat between senior IPS officers D. Roopa and Hemant Nimbalkar over the Safe City Project tender, is likely to transfer both out of their present posts to avoid further controversy, sources in the government said. The transfers are likely to take place with other transfers scheduled for January 1, 2021. “We are keen on going through with the Safe City Project tender this time, already in Call - III and inordinately delayed. The spat is casting aspersions on the tender. “It is also reflecting poorly on the State government and the Home Department,” a senior functionary in the government said.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Levy cess outside yards’||Perikal M. Sundar, president of the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI), has urged the government to levy market user cess on both APMC traders as well as traders operating outside it. In a press statement, he said levying cess only on APMC traders would create a disparity in the business. He welcomed the decision to reduce the cess from 1% to 0.6%, but sought a further reduction to 0.5% of the transaction value.
29 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on Tuesday between 10.30 a.m. and 3 p.m. in areas serviced from Sarakki sub-station. They are Feeder - 23 : J.P. Nagar 4th Phase, Venkatadri Layout, K.R. Layout, D.S. Palya church.
29 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hon. doctorate||Dakshayini Avvaji, chairperson of Sharanabasaveshwar Vidya Vardak Sangha, was conferred an honorary doctorate in Kalaburagi by Davangere University Vice-Chancellor Dr. Sharanappa V. Halse on December 26.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Celebrating Kuvempu||Kuvempu Bhasha Bharathi Pradhikara (KBBP), Bengaluru, will celebrate the birth anniversary of Kuvempu on Tuesday. The KBBP will also give away honorary awards for the year 2020 and book awards for 2019. Writer Pradhan Gurudutt will present the awards. S. Rangappa, Director, Department of Kannada and Culture, will participate in the event, which will be held at Suvarna Sammuchchaya Auditorium, Kalagrama.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kannada exams||Kannada Sahitya Parishat (KSP) will conduct 2020-21 Pravesha, Kava, Jaana, and Rathna Kannada exams from January 8 to 10 at 19 centres across the State. KSP in a release said admission tickets have been dispatched to candidates through post. If not received by December 30, such candidates can contact the honorary secretary of the KSP. Call 080-26623584.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Arogya Soudha inaugurated||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa inaugurated Arogya Soudha, the newly-constructed Administrative Building Complex of the Health and Family Welfare Department at Magadi Road in Bengaluru. K. Sudhakar, Minister for Health and Medical Education said Arogya Soudha will facilitate better integration within the Health Department by bringing 53 offices under one roof including NHM and SAST. According to an official release, Dr. Sudhakar said in the last one and half years, the CM has approved four new medical colleges of which three are already functioning. There are 18 government medical colleges in the State and nine districts have no government medical college. The government is planning to construct medical colleges in these nine districts also under PPP or other suitable models. There will also be district hospitals and super speciality hospitals attached to these colleges, he added.
29 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Crop-raiding monkeys haunt farmers in Malnad||Srinivasa Murthy, a farmer with four acres of land at Mundagodu near Sringeriin Chikkamagaluru district, wants his schoolgoing son to take up some job after he completes his studies. The losses Mr. Murthy has suffered in his farm owing to monkey menace in the last 10 years have pushed him to this. “Earlier, I wanted my son to remain a farmer. But crop loss to the tune of Rs. 1.5 lakh a year owing to monkey menace has made me change my mind,” he told The Hindu . Hundreds of farmers in parts of Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga, and Hassan districts have been hit hard by the monkey menace in the last 10 to 15 years. “During our school days, monkeys used to visit our farms in a group of 10 to 15. They used to damage our banana plantation and go away. But, now they raid our farms in large groups. At a time three or four herds, each with 50 to 60 monkeys, attack the farm,” he said. Growers of banana, areca, maize, coconut, and ginger are facing this problem as the food patterns of monkeys have also changed over the years. Prasanna Bhat of Nandodi in Sagar taluk is a small grower with one acre of areca plantation. “Monkeys have developed taste for areca as well. They eat less and damage more,” he said. Many banana growers have zero income from the plantation. The scene in cornfields is no better. “They come in large numbers and damage the crop within minutes. Our yearlong hard labour is lost within no time,” said Nagaraj of Uralagallu in Sagar taluk. Over the years, farmers have adopted indigenous techniques and burst crackers to combat monkeys. They use home-made tools that make noise to deter monkeys. However, these techniques have failed to yield the desired result. The farmers alleged that the government machinery has failed to understand the gravity of the problem. “They brush it aside as a silly thing, without analysing the damage monkeys can cause. The increasing number of monkeys has affected bird population as well because they damage nests,” said Mr. Murthy. Monkey park The State government had proposed a monkey park in Shivamogga district as a measure to handle this problem. The idea was to capture monkeys and leave them in the park where fruit-bearing trees are grown. However, environmentalists dub the idea of a monkey park impractical and unscientific. “The concept of making animals live in a closed place is itself bad. The government should think of birth control methods for monkeys so that their number could be brought down. This is the method we follow in case of dogs, with whom we live,” opined Kalkuli Vittal Hegde, writer and activist of Sringeri. Initially, the Forest Department had proposed to set up the monkey park at Nagodi in Hosanagar taluk. Following opposition from the local people, the department thought of setting up the park in an island in the Sharavati backwaters near Kargal. There too, people opposed it citing that the monkeys could spread Kyasanur Forest Disease in the area. “Considering the opposition from the public, the idea of the monkey park has been put on hold,” said D. Mohan Kumar, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Sagar division.
29 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Minister flayed||The Recognized Unaided Private Schools Association (RUPSA) has alleged that hundreds of private schools in the State were in dire straits because of the “contradictory statements” of the Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar. Lokesh Talikatte, State president of RUPSA, at a press conference in Hassan on Monday, alleged that the Minister had issued several statements that intensified the problems of private schools during the COVID-19 pandemic. “The department has not given attention to fix the syllabus and finalise the calendar of events so far, though the central board had done that long ago. Now the government has allowed the schools to function from January 1. But, it has not fixed the syllabus so far”, he said. Except for a few schools which charge a heavy fee, all schools collect minimal fee. They had been providing quality education to children in small towns and rural areas. “Initially the government allowed us to take admission for the year. Later, the Minister discouraged us from collecting fees. Without collecting the fees, how could school function? Most of our buildings are locked up as we have not paid rent for several months. Many of our vehicles have been seized as loan instalments had remained pending,” he said.
29 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||All measures in place in Hassan district||The Hassan district administration has made preparations to reopen schools for students of Class X and II PU from January 1, 2021. The classes will be held between 10 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish told presspersons in Hassan on Monday that based on the experiences of classes to be held for Class X and II PU, classes for XI would begin on January 15. All teaching staff would have to undergo COVID-19 test with 72 hours before the schools start. Only those tested negative in the test would take classes. “The COVID-19 test is not mandatory for students. However, those joining hostels have to undergo the test.”  Not mandatory The parents have to give consent for sending their children to schools in writing. However, attendance is not compulsory for the students. They could attend online classes. “We appeal to parents not to send children with COVID-19 symptoms to schools”, he said. In Hassan district, 21,874 students are in Class X. Among them, 14,700 have access to a television set, through which they have been attending classes telecast on Chandana TV channel. As many as 10,872 students have mobile phones with internet facility. They have been attending online classes. However, 1,582 students have no access to either mobile phones or television. “Parents of children who do not have either mobile phone or television set, should send them to schools with precautionary measures”, the DC said. D. Bharathi, Chief Executive Officer of Hassan Zilla Panchayat, said several meetings had been held to review the preparations to reopen the schools. The school staff and SDM committee had also held meetings with parents in this regard. “We will not be providing students with midday meals. Instead, we will distribute foodgrains. The parents have been suggested to send water bottles. Students would be seated maintaining social distance in classrooms. There would not be any group activity or entry into the library. Even for laboratories, students would be allowed in small groups”, she said. The DC said he would instruct KSRTC officials to streamline bus timings in tune with the school timings in rural areas. The private schools, which have their separate vehicles to pick up and drop students, have been told to maintain only 50% of occupancy.
29 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||87.24% voter turnout||The voter turnout in the two-phase Gram Panchayat elections, concluded in Hassan district on Sunday, has been recorded at 87.24%. Of the total 9,88,790 voters in the district, 8,62,656 cast their votes. Channarayapatna taluk recorded the highest turnout of 90.61%. The voters’ turnout in other taluks: Hassan – 84.48%, Arakalgud – 86.31%, Sakleshpur – 83.06%, Arsikere – 89.07%, Belur – 83.38%, Alur – 85.55% and Holenarsipur – 90.09%. The counting of votes will be conducted at eight centres in the district on Wednesday. The staff, to be involved in the counting process, took part in a training programme on Monday.
29 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Plan to sterilise them||The Forest Department will take up sterilisation of monkeys (bonnet macaques) damaging crops in Shivamogga. D. Mohan Kumar, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Sagar division, told The Hindu that a three-day training programme was held at the Veterinary College in Shivamogga. “The Department of Animal Husbandry conducted the programme in which 15 veterinarians participated. They will be involved in the programme,” the officer said. Monkeys causing trouble in the agricultural fields would be caught, sterilised, and released back in the same place, the officer added.
29 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Govt. nod for water project||The State Cabinet, on Monday, gave its consent for the project to carry Yagachi water from Ranaghatta pick-up point to tanks in parts of Halebid, Madihalli hoblis of Hassan district and Lakhya hobli in Chikkamagaluru taluk. Former Minister and Chikkamagaluru MLA C.T. Ravi, in a press release issued on Monday, said the project would cost Rs. 125.46 crore, benefiting eight tanks. For this, a canal of 8.3 km would be laid to carry water through gravity, including 2.4 km of the open canal.
29 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Over 80 % polling in Dharwad, Gadag and Haveri districts||An average of over 80 % voters from the districts of Dharwad, Gadag and Haveri exercised their franchise during the second phase of the gram panchayat elections on Sunday. On Sunday, in the elections to 71 gram panchayats in the taluks of Hubballi, Kundgol, Navalgund and Annigeri in Dharwad district, 80.4 1% voters cast their votes. In the first phase of the elections on December 22, the three taluks of the district — Dharwad, Alnavar and Kalghatgi — which have 65 gram panchayats, had recorded 83.13 % polling. “Together, the district has recorded an average of 81.71 % polling in the elections to 136 gram panchayats,” Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil told presspersons in Dharwad on Monday. Of the total 5.95 lakh eligible voters in the rural areas, 4.86 lakh voters had cast their votes, he said. On Sunday, polling did not take place at two polling stations in Katnur village of Hubballi taluk and four polling stations of Amaragol village in Navalgund taluk owing to technical issues pertaining to voter list. 85.13 % in Haveri In the second phase of polling in Haveri district in 105 gram panchayats in Byadgi, Hanagal, Shiggaon and Savanur taluks, 85.13 % voters turned up for voting, according to Deputy Commissioner of Haveri Sanjay Shettennavar. Byadgi taluk recorded the highest polling of 87.32 % followed by 85.09 % in Shiggaon taluk, 85.05 % in Hanagal taluk and 83.64 % in Savanur taluk. 81.27 % in Gadag In the second phase of the elections in Mundargi, Nargund, Ron and Gajendragad taluks of Gadag district, an average of 81.27 % polling was recorded. Mundargi taluk recorded the highest polling of 84.93 % followed by 83.88 % in Nargund taluk, 79.89 % in Gajendragad and 77.77 % in Ron taluk.
29 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Police custody for Chota Shakeel’s aide||The Dharwad Police have been given custody of Bachcha Khan, notorious criminal and close aide of underworld don Chota Shakeel, till January 31 for interrogation in connection with extortion calls made to businessmen in the twin cities. The accused is wanted by the police in connection with complaints on extortion calls from jail. He was arrested a decade ago and lodged at the Central Prison in Mysuru. A series of complaints has been filed against him at the Dharwad Suburban Police Station after businessmen in the city received extortion calls from him. Acting on a complaint, the Dharwad Police had brought Bachcha Khan from Mysuru on a transit warrant and produced him before the Principal District and Sessions Court on Monday.
29 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bidar student chosen for ParliaMentors Leadership Programme||Adhish R. Wali, a resident of Bidar district, has made the city proud with his selection for participation in the UN award-winning ParliaMentors Leadership Programme for the 2020-21 academic year. Wali, a final year undergraduate student of Britain’s Coventry University, is one among the five students who got an opportunity to participate in the programme. He has gone beyond the realm of academics, participating in all events contributing to society. Now, he would get an opportunity to have access to tailored training and develop his leadership and vision for social and economic change. He will benefit from the mentorship of British MP Taiwo Owatemi who will introduce Wali to Westminster, constituency and national politics and share her own experiences and insights with him. ParliaMentors has in the past known to have produced great leaders of the industry across various sectors ranging from technology to business. Wali will graduate from the programme at a high-profile reception in the British Houses of Parliament. Wali is now studying for his bachelor’s in Computer Engineering from Coventry University, United Kingdom. He has completed his International Baccalaureate studies from Christ University, Bangalore, and schooling from Shree Swaminarayan Gurukul and Holy Shepherd School, Bidar.
29 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||2.5 cm tumour removed from woman’s bladder||In what is claimed to be a first-of-its-kind surgery in the Kalyana Karnataka region, urologist Ravindra Patil with his team of doctors at V.L. Patil Super Specialty Hospital in Kalaburagi performed a rare surgery on a 35-year-old woman who was diagnosed with a mature teratoma (Dermoid tumour) in her bladder. The patient consulted the doctor recently for acute pain in her bladder and also with symptoms of pilimiction (passage of hair in urine). She was also suffering from occasional hematuria, while the pain in the bladder was subsistent for more than five years “Upon cystoscopy evaluation, it was revealed that the woman had a 2.5 cm x 2.0 cm of hairy dermoid growth or (teratoma) in her bladder, and a biopsy revealed that it was benign,” Dr. Patil said. Dr. Patil and other doctors — Smeeta Patil, Roshni Devi, Gururaj Deshpande, Mallikarjun Holkonde and anaesthetist Vani Pujari — performed the two-hour-long surgery on December 18 and excised the hairy teratoma growth from the bladder. Elaborating on the case, Dr. Patil said, “In over 35 years of my experience I have never come across a case where a hairy teratoma measuring about 2.5 cm has been in the bladder.” Teratoma is a germ cell tumour derived from all the three primitive layers of the embryo consisting of fat, sweat glands, hair and skin. Dr. Patil said that bladder teratoma is an extremely very rare pathology. Post-operation, the patient was discharged without any complication, he added.
29 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Voters stay away as poll symbols are found exchanged||Electors at Mattihalli Gram Panchayat in Harapanahalli taluk of Ballari district decided not to exercise their votes after they noticed that the election symbols of the contestants had got exchanged. As soon as the polling process began for the second phase of gram panchayat elections on Sunday morning, the voters in Mattihalli Gram Panchayat were in confusion after the symbols of two contestants in Ward No 1 and Ward No 2 were misplaced on the ballot paper. Gives birth A contestant at Ingalagi Gram Panchayat in Chittapur taluk of Kalaburagi district gave birth to a female baby on polling day on Sunday. Manjula Guduba, contesting from Ward No 4 of the gram panchayat gave birth to a female baby in the early hours of Sunday. Interestingly, her mother in-law also contested from the Ward No 3 in Ingalagi Gram Panchayat Dies in road accident A 40-year-old-woman, who was returning home after exercising her franchise in the gram panchayat elections, was killed in a road accident at Yargal village in Chittapur taluk of Kalaburagi district on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Saraswati Kulkarni (40). The woman died on the spot and three of her family members were injured when the autorickshaw in which they were travelling overturned. All the three injured were shifted to the Chittapur Taluk Hospital for treatment.
29 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Vaidya Shree Award||The former Medical Education Minister Sharanprakash Patil has been selected for the Vaidya Shree Award instituted by the Dr. P.S. Shankar Prathisthan. The award will be conferred on Dr. Patil during the 21st anniversary of the prathisthan on January 1, 2021. Narendra Badasheshi, secretary of the prathisthan, has, in a release, said that Dr. Patil has been selected for his role in establishing the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Science, VTSM Peripheral Cancer Treatment Centre and bringing a branch of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research Hospital in Kalaburagi during his tenure.
29 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Dialysis centre to come up in Kalaburagi||A dialysis centre offering services to kidney patients will be inaugurated by newly registered Sharanabasaveshwar Trust in Kalaburagi soon. Trust member Sharnbasappa Pappa told presspersons that the centre would be equipped with five dialysis machines. It will be monitored by a team of dialysis technicians and doctors. Treatment will be provided at concessional rate of Rs. 500 per session. It will be of immense benefit to kidney patients requiring dialysis in the region.
29 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KEONICS proposes setting up electronics city in Mangaluru||KEONICS has proposed a plan to set up an electronics city in Mangaluru named after R.K. Baliga, first chairman of KEONICS who set up the Electronics City in Bengaluru, said KEONICS Chairman Harikrishna Bantwal here on Monday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Bantwal said that this new electronics city, modelled on the electronics cities set up in Israel, will expose people to emerging technologies in the fields of robotics, optical fibre and manufacturing of chips. “With Prime Minister Narendra Modi laying emphasis on Atmanirbhar Bharat, this new electronics city will go a long way in putting the city on the global map of technology. This will be a good tribute to Mr. Baliga who hails from Bantwal,” he said and added that Mr. Baliga’s 100th birth anniversary falls on Tuesday. The proposed electronics city can come up on a 100-acre land in the city. “Some educational institutions have such land available with them. We (KEONICS) can tie up with such institutions and private developers to build the new electronics city,” he said. Mr. Bantwal said that he will send a proposal to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on this shortly Mr. Bantwal said KEONICS has decided to build on public-private participation basis the software technology park in Derebail on a three-acre area. In another press meet, senior Janata Dal (Secular) leader Y.S.V. Datta on Monday asked the State government to extend the term for KEONICS to provide contract workers for various posts in MESCOM. The term of such workers came to an end recently. The government should support its agency grow and not hand over the task of providing workers to private human resource agencies, he said.
29 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Railways extend services of some special trains||The Railways has extended the services of some special trains. Train No 02620 Mangaluru Central-Lokmanya Tilak Terminal Daily Festival Special will be extended to run from January 1, 2021 to January 31, 2021. Train No 02619 Lokmanya Tilak Terminal-Mangaluru Central Daily Festival Special will be extended to run from January 2, 2021 to February 1, 2021. Train No 06338 Ernakulam-Okha Bi-weekly Festival Special running on Fridays and Wednesdays will have extended exercises on January 1, 6, 8, 13, 15, 20, 22, 27 and on January 29, 2021. Train No 06337 Okha-Ernakulam Bi-weekly Festival Special running on Mondays and Saturdays will have extended services on January 4, 9, 11, 16, 18, 23, 25, 30 and on February 1, 2021. Train No 06072 Tirunelveli-Dadar Weekly Festival Special running on Wednesdays will have extended services on January 6, 13, 20 and January 27, 2021. Train No 06071 Dadar-Tirunelveli Weekly Festival Special running on Thursdays will have extended services on January 7, 14, 21 and January 28, 2021.
29 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘It is better to declare 2020-21 zero academic year’||While urging the State government not to hurry to reopen schools from next month, senior Janata Dal (Secular) leader and mathematics teacher Y.S.V. Datta on Monday said that the government should consider declaring 2020-21 as zero academic year. Talking to reporters here, Mr. Datta said that with about four months left for the end of the academic year, parents will not agree to send their children to schools and colleges for this period. “Too less a time is left now. You cannot drastically cut the syllabus and hold examinations, which will have drastic consequences on children. It is better to declare it zero academic year,” he said. Mr. Datta said that he is among the several teachers taking online classes for Class 10 students. “When we (teachers) are confused as to what portions to cover and what not to for the annual examination, imagine the condition of students, more so of Class 10 and II Pre University,” he said. Do not hold examinations for Class 10 and II Pre University this academic year, he added. Mr. Datta said that he is not happy with his party legislators supporting the ruling BJP in the efforts to remove Pratap Chandra Shetty from the post of Chairman of the Legislative Council. “My party legislators are wrong in supporting the ruling party in the passage of Land Reforms Bill. Such mistakes should not be repeated,” he said. Mr. Datta hoped that the former Janata Parivar members will come back to Janata Dal (S) in the coming days and help build an effective regional party that will take on the national parties.
29 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Samithi urges Rlys. to restore original schedule of train||The Paschima Karavali Railway Yatri Abhibriddhi Samithi has urged South Western Railway to operate Mangaluru Central-Bengaluru overnight express trains (Train Nos 06516 and 06518) on their original schedule as it existed before COVID-19 lockdown. In a letter to South Western Railway General Manager, samithi president G. Hanumanth Kamath, who is also on the Divisional Railway Users Consultative Committee of Palakkad Division of Southern Railway, said that Train No 16516 used to leave Mangaluru at 8.55 p.m. to reach Bengaluru at 7.20 a.m. via Kunigal four days a week. Similarly, Train No 16518 used to leave Mangaluru at 8.55 p.m. to reach Bengaluru at 8 a.m. via Mysuru. This schedules were convenient to passengers as a result of which both the trains were highly patronised. Mr. Kamath pointed out that the schedule did not get affected even after the introduction of Bengaluru-Karwar direct service (Train No 16595) on March 8 with both the trains crossing each other at Siribagilu station on the ghat section. After the services were reintroduced as special trains recently, the trains were leaving Mangaluru at 8.10 p.m. However, the arrival time at Bengaluru was not advanced and the train going via Kunigal now takes nearly 12 hours instead of 10 hours and the train going via Mysuru takes about 12.30 hours instead of 12 hours severely inconveniencing passengers, Mr. Kamath said. This delay, Mr. Kamath said, was occurring as Mangaluru-Bengaluru trains were being detained for 82 minutes at Yedakumari station, ahead of Siribagilu, on the ghat section to facilitate the crossing of the Karwar express. The journey hours thus were being prolonged to the discomfort of passengers which also was likely to affect patronage. The samithi has urged the South Western Railway to revert to the crossing of Mangaluru-Bengaluru trains with Bengaluru-Karwar train at Siribagilu itself instead of Yedakumari by restoring Bengaluru service’s departure time at Mangaluru to 8.55 p.m. This would avoid longer detention of the Bengaluru service, Mr. Kamath said.
29 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Striped hyena, wild dog give birth to young ones at Pilikula||A striped hyena at the Pilikula Biological Park has given birth to two cubs, for the first time in the park, according to H. Jayaprakash Bhandary, director of the park. Striped hyenas under captivity conceiving and giving birth to cubs is very rare, he said. The park had a male and female hyenas brought from Arignar Anna Zoological Park, also known as Vandalur Zoo, in Chennai. With the new born, their numbers have now increased to four. Mr. Bhandary said that a wild dog at the park has given birth to eight pups. Earlier, the same wild dog had given birth to 10 pups. Their numbers in the park have now risen to 29. Earlier, the park had got four wild dogs under the animal exchange programme from Visakhapatnam zoo.
29 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Jewellery worth Rs. 7 lakh taken away from house||Gold ornaments worth Rs. 7 lakh were stolen from the house of Rekha Shenoy in Mundkooru village of Karkala taluk in the early hours of Sunday morning. The police said that a gang entered the house by breaking open the lock on the rear door. The gang members made away with ornaments kept in the cupboard in the bedroom and also those kept in the room of Shenoy’s mother in-law. They took away five gold chains and four gold bangles. The Karkala Rural Police have registered a case. Arrested The Gangolli Police on Sunday arrested Abdul Raheem (30) for illegally selling beef near Gangolli Fish Market. The police recovered four kilograms of beef from the accused. He was booked under Sections 4,5,7 and 11 of Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act and under Section 11 (1) (D) of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. Dies in accident A 60-year-old worker died after he was hit by a tipper lorry in Shiroor Aramane Haklu near Byndoor on Saturday. The Byndoor Police gave the name of the deceased as Ganapathi Sherugar. The police said that Sherugar was among those workers employed to fill cement mixed sand into tipper lorries on a land belonging to Rehman Sahed. As the tipper lorry was moving in the reverse direction at the place of work, the vehicle hit Sherugar and he collapsed. He was immediately taken to the Community Hospital where Sherugar was declared dead.
29 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Electrocuted||A 36-year-old employee of a private company was electrocuted after the aluminium pole he used to pluck arecanut came in contact with an electricity line in Ajjikallu of Olamogaru village of Puttur on Friday. The Puttur Rural Police said that Ravindra Poojary had come to his native place along with his wife and one-year-old child for Christmas holidays. On Friday morning, he took the aluminium pole to pluck arecanut from the plantations on the premises of his house. Accidentally, the pole got in touch with the overhead electricity line and he was electrocuted. He was taken to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead, the police said.
29 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man dies in road accident||In a motor vehicle accident, Manjunath (30), a worker, who was riding pillion on a motorcycle ridden by Clinton Mendonsa, died after he fell off the vehicle near Tallur Junction of Kundpur taluk on Friday evening. The police said that Clinton Mendonsa hit a bicycle, and Manjunath, Mendonsa and bicycle rider Raghavendra were injured. Manjunath died on the spot, while Mendonsa and Raghavendra were admitted to a private hospital in Kundapur, the Kundapur Traffic Police said.
29 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Film-maker, actors complain about trolling||A few persons in the Tulu cinema industry were trolling unfounded facts about his upcoming Kannada movie ‘Mumbai to Bhatkal’ and causing communal hatred, said director Ismail Moodushedde here on Saturday. Mr. Ismail told The Hindu that the perpetrators were falsely claiming that their movie, which is slated for release in February, promoted ‘Love jihad’. He accused the perpetrators of spreading false information about the actors in the film. “This is being done to prevent distributors from taking my film,” he said. Separate complaints were filed with the Cyber Crime Police Station and Kavoor Police Station on December 24, he said. Pragnesh Shetty, the film’s hero, told reporters that the new film was being trolled as the one promoting ‘Love Jihad’. The film was about a Muslim couple and deals with issues such as terrorism and patriotism. The film no way speaks about ‘Love jihad’. Kavya Achan, who plays the role of a police officer in the film, said she had been falsely trolled for sporting a burqa in the movie.Pran Shetty, who plays the role of a villain, said the perpetrators were making public his mobile phone number and those of other actors and the film’s director.
29 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Private schools facing cash crunch, want fee issue to be resolved soon||The managements of private schools have sought a notification from the authorities authorising them to collect the fee stipulated by the government, from the parents of students. The private school managements represented by the past chairman of FKCCI, Sudhakar Shetty, said that the private educational institutions, mainly schools at the taluk and district levels, are in dire straits following the outbreak of the pandemic. Mr. Shetty, who is also the president of CBSE, ICSE & State Board Private School Managements Association of Mysuru and surrounding districts, said it was customary for the schools to collect the fee due for the academic year during the months of January through March. But consequent to the outbreak of the pandemic in March, the State government issued a directive to the management not to collect any fee from the parents for the new academic year (2020-21). As a result of the freeze even the fee payable for the previous academic year has not yet been paid and this has put the private schools financial distress, said Mr. Shetty. He said the fee outstanding was to the extent of 35 per cent and this has a bearing on the financial viability of the schools. But as no new notification has been issued by the government the parents are reluctant to pay the remaining amount. The private schools also bear the financial burden of students admitted under RTE (25 per cent of the seats) besides implementing various government policies pertaining to admission. But with the freeze on fee collection, the private schools are in dire straits and hence the government should intervene, said Mr. Shetty Memorandum A memorandum was submitted to the Minister for Primary and Secondary Education Suresh Kumar to draw his attention to the issue and resolve the matter. The representatives of various schools also pointed out court orders in other States which have authorised fee collection ranging from 75 per cent to 80 per cent. Mr. Shetty said the pandemic has created an extraordinary situation wherein schools are forced to open studios for conducting online classes all of which costs money. Besides, they were paying 50 per cent of the salary to their teachers which was rendering the private institutions financially unviable. Hence the Minister was urged to fix the fee that could be collected by private institutions and resolve the issue.
29 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Injured leopard tranquilised||A leopard found injured near Devikere atop the Chamundi Hills in Mysuru was tranquilised and shifted to Bannerghatta in Bengaluru for treatment, on Monday. The leopard was found to be struggling to heave itself from the place and local people who first sighted it around 8.45 a.m. informed the Forest Department. A team of officials including veterinarian Nagaraj reached the spot and found the animal in an aggressive mood. It charged at the Forest Department personnel before retreating into the bushes which was when it was observed that the animal was dragging its hind legs. It was decided to rescue the leopard and hence was tranquilised and shifted to Bannerghatta for treatment. Deputy Conservator of Forests K.C. Prashanth Kumar said the cause of the injury was yet to be ascertained though it was being bandied about that the leopard was injured in an ‘’hit and run’’ accident. “Prima facie there was no external injury which tends to be visible if it is a case of accident. Only a closer examination followed by x-ray will help ascertain the nature of injury after which the cause could be speculated’’, said Mr. Prashanth Kumar. It was shifted to Bannerghatta as the Chamundi Wildlife Rescue and Rehabilitation centre at Koorgalli on the outskirts of Mysuru was full, he added. Veterinarian Dr. Nagaraj who tranquilised the leopard said it was a female aged around 4 years. He said the injury could be due to a fight with another leopard in the vicinity, an accident or it could have suffered a fall while chasing a prey. The operation was rendered difficult by the presence of a large crowd numbering more than 500 which had assembled there. Chamundi Hills, a reserve forest, is a natural habitat for the leopard and it is reckoned that there are at least 6 of them in the area. But only three were sighted during the last camera trap exercise last year. They survive on natural prey including hares and feed on domestic cattle at the foothills or on stray dogs. Besides, the habitat is not an island eco-system and is linked through scrub jungles, paddy and sugarcane fields to other reserve forests which enable them to move from one place to another.
29 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Raga Rangayana’ coming||Theatre repertoire Rangayana will launch a new initiative “Raga Rangayana’’ – a programme featuring different genres of music which will be held on the first Saturday of every month. Inspired by the doyen of theatre B.V.Karanth who was passionate about music, the inaugural programme will be held at Bhoomigeetha on January 2, 2021, at 6.30 p.m. Rangayana Director Addanda Kariappa said here on Monday that B.V.Karanth had remarked in his works that professional theatre troupes and companies engage in theatre production for 4 days but are immersed in music for 3 days. He had described music as truly secular transcending all barriers of religion, caste, nationality etc. Poetry sessions The “Raga Rangayana” will feature poetry recitation, folk songs, folk music, theatre renderings, tatvapada gayana, vachana gayana etc. The inaugural programme will feature the poems of Jnanapeetha awardee Da.Ra.Bendre and the programme is titlted “Bendre Beragu’’. Akin to the weekend theatre festival, the music programme will be a permanent feature but only on the first Saturday of every month. He said Rangayana will also launch a campaign to urge the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) to name the stretch of road from Hunsur Main Road to Kukkarahalli main gate parallel to the railway line, after B.V.Karanth. “We will urge the MCC to name the road as Padmashri B.V.Karanth Road and the campaign will commence on December 31 from the Rangayana main gate,” he added. A book highlighting the initiatives and activities of Rangayana during the lockdown and the pandemic, will also be released on that day at 3.30 p.m. Titled “Kovid Kathaleyallu Rangabelaku’’, the book will be released by Chamaraja MLA L. Nagendra.
29 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Curbs placed on tourists||The Mandya district administration has clamped prohibitory orders in places of tourist interest on December 31 and January 1, 2021, to prevent the congregation of New Year revellers and prevent drowning incidents in water bodies.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||When eating out was out of the question||From empty hotel rooms to luxurious staycations, the closure of numerous restaurants to the boom in the food delivery business, the hotel and food service industry has witnessed it all during these last 10 months. The year 2020 has been a tumultuous one to say the least, and the hospitality industry has been among the most affected as a result of having to deal with myriad hardships and challenges caused by COVID-19. Like in cities across the world, several hotels and restaurants in Bengaluru had to shut down, and thousands lost their jobs. Those that opened up post the lockdown found it increasingly difficult to deal with the situation due to the drastic drop in business. Delivery business However, despite the continuous onslaught of the pandemic, the hospitality industry has started showing signs of a gradual bounce back, more so during the end of the year. The food delivery business which was started by many restaurants as a means of survival has continue to grow through the year aided by food delivery apps and services. Besides the proliferation of independent cloud kitchens, many restaurants have also jumped aggressively into the food delivery business by setting up their own cloud kitchens. Bengalureans have also started developing a keener interest in the food they eat, from the cuisine to the health factor. When going out was no longer an option, numerous individuals decided to step into the kitchen and try a hand at preparing their favourite dishes. This led to the emergence of home chefs, who helped cut the monotony of having to cook for oneself every day. As people began to adapt to this change of pace, staycations started coming into play. Hotels have devised new and unique ways to keep their patrons safe, offering them a multitude of packages and services that comply with social distancing norms and regulations. These safety measures have also encouraged people to travel to nearby destinations and resorts for short family vacations. Slowly, but surely, social gatherings too have started making a reappearance, albeit not with as many people as before. Innovations With the advent of the festive season, hotels and restaurants have gone out of their way to help create positive memories of this year by providing a variety of innovative menus and attractive offers. The patrons have, in turn, contributed by lapping them up. During the last couple of months, the younger population of the city has started returning to their favourite restaurants, bars and micro-breweries in larger numbers and with greater frequency. While existing restaurants have learnt to run leaner operations, it is the opening of some new restaurants under such difficult circumstances that has been really heartening. These small acts have served as beacons of light during the dark times and have helped rekindle the hope that this resilient industry will slowly but surely be able to return to its former glory.  (Abhijit Saha is chef, entrepreneur chef and F&B consultant)
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Metro tunnelling work drives residents out of their homes||Mohammed Nizamuddin and his family have been living away from their home in the bustling Dhanakoti Lane, near Thimmaiah Road in Shivajinagar, for the past several days. They are among the several families who have been asked to move away from their homes temporarily due to the disturbances caused by the ongoing tunnelling work by the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL). Mehboob Khan, a resident, claimed that due to vibrations, many houses had developed cracks and the sound had driven their sleep away. “My five-member family is now living with my daughter, who lives on Thimmaiah Road,” he said and added that those who don’t have relatives have been put up in hotels. On Saturday night, things came to a head when several residents rushed out of their homes and gathered on the street, demanding stoppage of the tunnelling work. Shivajinagar MLA Rizwan Arshad had to intervene and pacify the residents while also coordinating with the BMRCL engineers. “BMRCL is giving compensation of Rs. 1,500 for a family of four. While we are all for development, the only issue is the timing of the work,” he said and added that he would soon meet the managing director of BMRCL, the engineers and representatives of L&T, which is executing the work. The residents, meanwhile, complained that though BMRCL officials took their details and assured them of releasing compensation, they were yet to receive anything. Yashvant Chavan, BMRCL’s spokesperson, said the tunnelling work is being taken up in the underground section of the 21.25-km Gottigere-Nagawara line, with the tunnel boring machine coming to Shivajinagar from Pottery Town. He stated that before the work was taken up, BMRCL had conducted a building condition survey. “The condition of all buildings coming within 40 metres of the outer edge of the tunnel has been assessed by our engineers, though the ‘influence zone’ is 15 metres from the outer edge of the tunnel,” he said and added that the vibrations and other parameters were well within the international standards. “Safety is the first priority for BMRCL. In case of old buildings, our engineers have assessed the strength of the foundation and taken measures to safeguard the structure,” he added.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||SoP in place for reopening of schools in Mysuru||The district administration is bracing for reopening of schools for 10th Standard and II PUC students from January 1, 2021 while classes for 6th to 9th standard students will be held under the government’s Vidyagama programme. A set of protocols will have to be mandatorily followed by all concerned. Mysuru ZP CEO B.A. Paramesh told mediapersons here on Monday that it was compulsory for all schools in both rural and urban areas to be thoroughly sanitised and ensure that boiled and cooled water is made available for drinking purpose. Besides, an area of 200 meters from the boundary of the schools has to be sanitised and no eatables should be allowed to be sold in the open. Schools have to be sanitized on alternative days for the safety of both teachers and students. The existing infrastructure will have to be cleaned to make them fit for use again. This includes cleaning the overhead tanks used for storing drinking water. Students will be subjected to thermal screening and the practice of common assembly will be dispensed with and prayers will be held in classrooms. In case of shortage of teachers in high schools, steps will be taken to appoint guest lecturers and the schools have been instructed to prepare their requisition if any, and submit the same to the DDPI office. As no decision has been taken on reopening of primary classes from 1st to 5th Standards, the teachers here could be redeployed to handle higher classes. Every school has been instructed to ensure that there is an isolation room to shift any student displaying symptoms of COVID-19. The school headmasters should ensure that all students enrolled avail themselves of the benefit of Vidyagama programme and if a family has relocated in the interim, then the respective school principal or headmaster should ensure that the children attend classes in a nearby government school. As attendance to Vidyagama classes is not compulsory, steps should also be taken to prepare a timetable for conducting regular online classes where feasible. All teachers should also get themselves tested for COVID-19 and report for duty provided them have a negative report while it will be mandatory for both students and teachers to wear mask and also ensure social distancing, said Mr. Paramesh. A dedicated team of officials will also monitor whether the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) are being implemented by the schools. There are about 41,000 students enrolled for SSLC in Mysuru district and 35,000 for II PUC.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||IPS officer alleges irregularities in Safe City Project tender||D. Roopa, Secretary - PCAS, who is in the dock for allegedly making an unauthorised attempt to access the classified request for Proposal (RFP) of the Safe City Tender Project before it was published, has in a letter to Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department on Monday, described herself as a “whistle-blower” and alleged that the ongoing tender for the project has violated several norms and is “unfair and biased”. Her letter is also her rebuttal to the officer’s note that challenged her to produce proof that the project file was given to her by him, as she had claimed. In the latest letter, Ms. Roopa said she did not make notings in the file concerned because the file, “though personally given to me by ACS, Home Department to study, was not officially marked to me”. She also said she brought to the notice of the Chief Secretary issues with the tender, following which he invited her to a meeting of the State level apex committee. The State government has appointed Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant to hold an inquiry over her alleged unauthorised attempt to intervene in the tender. The letter further alleges “bias” and “irregularities” in the ongoing tender. The tender allows lower turnout, participation of a consortium and summing up of turnover of individual firms in the consortium, lowering the entry barrier for the tender, in violation of norms, her letter says. Hemant Nimbalkar, member, State level apex committee monitoring the tender, on Sunday, had claimed “there had been no complaints of the tender being biased, not even by the bidders”. Ms. Roopa has accused Mr. Nimbalakar of misleading the government and has demanded a probe into his role.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Fill potholes within 10 days’||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Administrator Gaurav Gupta has directed officials to fill all potholes in the city within 10 days. The direction was issued to all zonal chief engineers at a review meeting on pothole filling, annual road maintenance, functioning of street lights and use of mechanical sweepers, on Monday. According to a press release, the officials were directed to accelerate the pothole-filling process while maintaining quality of work. Two loads of asphalt from the hot mix plant would be sent to each of the eight zones for filling potholes, the release said. Mr. Gupta was reportedly dissatisfied with the functioning and maintenance of street lights.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Early to play||
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Misty morning||
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||2 cases of chain snatching in Whitefield||Muggers robbed gold chains from two women in separate incidents in Whitefield on Saturday. Susheelamma, a homemaker, was walking in front of her house in Siddapura in Varthur after dinner around 10 p.m. when two men on a bike confronted her. Before she realised it, the pillion rider snatched the chain from her neck. Susheelamma held on to her chain and raised an alarm for help. But the duo managed to escape with a part of the chain weighing 60 grams. The Varthur police have registered a case and are investigating. In another incident, a man robbed a 20 gram gold chain from a tea stall owner on ECE Road in Whitefield on Saturday afternoon.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Farmers take out ad against BDA||When Srinivas’s (name changed) family gave up their land for the formation of Anjanapura Layout, developed by the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA), little did they imagine that they would have to pay several times the compensation they received for the incentive site. In a first, several farmers have jointly taken out an advertisement in a popular Kannada evening newspaper drawing the attention of Governor V.R. Vala and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to the ‘injustice’ meted out to them by the BDA. In the advertisement, the aggrieved farmers stated that when the authority developed Anjanapura, Banashankari 6th Stage and Sir M. Visvesvaraya Layout, they were assured compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 7 lakh per acre, in addition to an incentive site. For every acre of land given up by the farmers, they would get an incentive site measuring 60ftX40ft at 25% of the public allotment rate. The BDA formed over one lakh sites in these three layouts. “However, the BDA, in 2018, decided to handover the incentive sites to farmers if they paid 70% of the market value. When the compensation is just around Rs. 7 lakh, the farmers will have to shell out Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 70 lakh for a site. When the compensation is not on par with present market value, why should they pay at market value for the site,” asked B.M. Shivakumar, RTI activist. He added that farmers who gave up their land have not been compensated and are now landless. The farmers are demanding compensation as was earlier agreed upon and gazetted. “Else, the farmers are ready to pay the compensation agreed upon plus interest for the land they have given up. However, that will not be fair to the site allottees,” he said. BDA Chairman S.R. Vishwanath, who is also Yelahanka MLA, said, “I will review the case with BDA officials on Tuesday.”
29 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Uproar in CPI(M) over chairperson||The displeasure in the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI (M)] over the party’s choice of Alappuzha municipal chairperson came out in open with a section of the party workers staging a protest march in Alappuzha town on Monday. Earlier, the CPI (M) district committee put forward Eravukadu councillor Soumya Raj’s (Indu) name to the post of chairperson of the Alappuzha municipality. Slogans raised However, it did not go well with a section of the party. They demanded that K.K. Jayamma, representing the Nehru Trophy ward and CPI (M) area committee member, be made municipal chairperson. The protesters, which included several women raised slogans against the party district leadership and levelled allegations against party leaders of accepting bribe in order to nominate Ms. Raj over the more experienced Jayamma. CPI (M) Alappuzha district secretary R. Nazar said that the party would take action against those party members who had taken part in the protest march. “We have launched an enquiry. If CPI(M) members are found to have participated in the protest, action will be taken against them,” Mr. Nazar said. Minister’s stand Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran denied discontent in the party over its choice of the municipal chairperson. Mr. Sudhakaran said that Ms. Raj’s name was nominated unanimously. The CPI(M) has sought an explanation from three branch secretaries. Meanwhile, Soumya Raj was elected as chairperson of the Alappuzha municipality in the election held on Monday. Her name was proposed by Ms. Jayamma. Ms. Raj got the support of 36 councillors out of the total 52.
29 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Soumya chosen Alappuzha municipality chief||Soumya Raj (Indu) of Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI (M)] was sworn-in as the chairperson of the Alappuzha municipality on Monday. In the election held to the post, Ms. Raj, representing Eravukadu ward in the municipal council, secured 36 votes in the 52-member council. The CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), which romped to victory in the elections to the municipality earlier this month with 35 seats, also got the support of an Independent councillor in the election to the chairperson post. The United Democratic Front (UDF), which fielded Suma Skandan, of the Congress bagged 11 votes, while the Bharatiya Janata Party candidate Suma got three votes. Two councillors abstained from voting. Meanwhile, P.S.M. Hussain of the Communist Party of India (CPI) was elected vice chairman of the Alappuzha municipality. In the election, Mr. Hussain polled 35 votes. Vote cast by municipal chairperson Soumya Raj was declared invalid. Cherthala In Cherthala municipality, Sherly Bharghavan, of the CPI(M) was sworn in as the chairperson, while T.S. Ajayakumar, of the CPI was elected vice chairman of the municipality. Haripad K.M. Raju, of the Congress was elected as the chairman of the Haripad municipality. Sreeja Kumari, of the Congress is the new vice chairperson of the civic body. Kayamkulam In Kayamkulam municipality, P. Sasikala, of the CPI (M) was sworn-in as the chairperson, while J. Adarsh of the CPI was elected vice chairman. Chengannur Congress’s Mariamma John Philip was elected as the chairperson of the Chengannur municipality. Sreejith G., of the Congress is the new vice chairman there. Mavelikara In Mavelikara municipality, the United Democratic Front (UDF) wrested power with the support of an independent councillor. K.V. Sreekumar, a CPI (M) rebel, who won the election from Umbarnnad ward of the civic body as an independent, was sworn-in as the chairman of the municipality. Following the elections, Mr. Sreekumar struck a deal with the UDF after it promised to make him the chairman of the municipality.In the election to the chairman post, UDF candidate Sreekumar bagged 10 votes in the 28-member municipal council. Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate Leela Abhilash, of the CPI (M) got nine votes. Votes cast by nine Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillors were declared invalid. Meanwhile, Lalitha Raveendranath, of the Congress was elected vice-chairperson of the civic body. Earlier, the elections to the Mavelikara municipality threw up a hung council with the UDF, LDF and BJP all winning nine seats each.
29 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||LDF seizes power in Thodupuzha||In an unexpected turn of events on Monday, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) seized power in Thodupuzha municipality after the United Democratic Front (UDF)’s informal arrangement with the UDF rebels on Sunday to share power collapsed. In the 35 member council, UDF has 13 seats, LDF 12, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) eight and there are two Congress rebels. On Monday, Congress rebel Saneesh George became the municipal chairman and UDF Independent Jessy Johny was sworn in as the vice-chairperson. The LDF got the upper hand in the tussle with the support of Mr George and Ms Johny with a single member majority in the council. On Sunday, the UDF camp had said that it would come to power in the municipal council after it made an arrangement with the rebels. As per the decisions at the UDF council meeting, the chairman post was to be given to the Kerala Congress Joseph faction for the first one year. However, the meeting which extended to midnight was inconclusive and a final decision on the vice-chairperson post was not taken. There were difference of opinion on which party should get the first term for the chairman post and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and the Congress argued that the general norm was to allot it to the party that got more seats. Though Kerala Congress Joseph faction has only two seats, Mr Joseph was adamant that the party should be allotted the first term. Though Thodupuzha was considered a stronghold of the Joseph faction, it could win only two of the seven seats it had contested. The Joseph faction was of the opinion that it was the rebel menace in the Congress that badly worked out against the UDF prospects in the elections. There was bedlam in the Congress camp as it was alleged that it was a missed chance by the party. Ibrahimkutty Kallar, DCC president, said that the decision to allot the chairman seat to Joseph faction was taken by the UDF State leadership. The Congress rebels and an IUML Independent raised objections leading to the developments on Monday. Meanwhile, Joy Vettikuzhy of Congress became the chairman in the Kattappana municipality where the UDF got a thumping majority.
29 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Prisoner found hanging||A remand prisoner was found hanging at a COVID -19 first line treatment centre at Mutton on Monday. Kanchiyar resident Kalathunkal Benoy John, 46, was found hanging inside the toilet at the toilet of the hospital in the morning, the police said. Though he was rushed to theThodupuzha taluk hospital, he was pronounced dead. After the COVID-19 test, the body was shifted to Kottayam medical college for autopsy. He was arrested in a POSCO case registered by Kumily police and was remanded on December 23. Suicide prevention number: 1059
29 December 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||New chairpersons take charge in Wayanad||New chairpersons and vice chairpersons took charge in three municipalities in Wayanad district on Monday following elections within the councils. Mujeeb Keyemthody of the Indian Union Muslim League was elected chairman for Kalpetta municipality, while K. Ajitha of the Congress was elected vice chairperson. Both won 15 votes in the 28-member council. CPI(M) councillor T.K. Ramesh was elected chairman of Sulthan Bathery municipality while Elsy Poulose, also of the CPI(M), was elected vice chairperson. Both candidates won 22 votes each while the UDF candidates got 11 votes. C.K. Ratnavalli of the Congress is the chairperson of Mananthavady municipality while P.V.S. Moosa of the IUML is the vice chairman. Both candidates secured 19 votes in the 36-member council. The elections for the posts of presidents and vice presidents for the three-tier civic bodies will be held on Wednesday.
29 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||160 COVID cases in Wayanad||A total of 160 people, including seven health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Monday, taking the total number of active cases to 2,504. All the persons were infected through local contacts. As many as 72 people recovered on the day.
29 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||LDF retains power in Iritty Municipality||The LDF came back to power in the Iritty municipality, where none of the political parties had an absolute majority, on Monday. The LDF came to power after the BJP and SDPI members abstained from voting. K Sreelatha, who won from Vikas Nagar ward, got 14 votes and was elected as the Chairperson of the Iritty municipality. The LDF is the largest single party, winning 14 of the 33 seats in the council. While the UDF has 11 seats, BJP has 5 and SDPI has 3 seats here. Meanwhile, of the seven municipalities, LDF came in power in four, whereas the UDF has come to power in three places. The LDF councillors V Sujatha from Kuthuparamba municipality, K.M. Jamuna Rani from Thalassery municipality, K.V. Lalitha from Payyanur municipality, and P. Mukundan from Anthoor municipality became Chairpersons of the respective urban bodies. Similarly, UDF councillors including Dr. K.V. Filomina from Sreekandapuram municipality and Murshida Kongai from Taliparamba municipality and V. Nazar from Panoor municipality were elected Chairpersons on Monday.
29 December 2020||Kannur,KERALA||T.O. Mohanan elected Kannur Mayor||United Democratic Front (UDF) nominee T.O. Mohanan was elected Mayor of the Kannur Municipal Corporation on Monday. The election was conducted at the corporation hall in the presence of District Collector T.V. Subhash. The Collector later administered the oath of office to Mr. Mohanan. Mr. Mohanan defeated N. Sukanya of the Left Democratic Front by bagging 33 votes. Congress rebel K. Sureshan, who won from the Kannathur division, also supported Mr. Mohanan. Ms. Sukanya got 19 votes. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate V.K. Shaiju, who won from the Palikkunu division, stayed away from the voting. A councillor of the Muslim League could not vote as she arrived late, whereas another vote of a league councillor became invalid. Mr. Mohanan is currently a member of the KPCC Executive Committee. He was the chairman of the Welfare Standing Committee in the Kannur Urban Council and the chairman of the Public Works Affairs Standing Committee in the first Kannur Corporation. The swearing-in ceremony was attended by K. Sudhakaran, MP, and other leaders including Sajeev Maroli, Satheesan Pacheni and Sajeev Joseph. Election On Sunday, the UDF chose Mr. Mohanan as the Mayoral candidate after he won 11 votes compared to his contender P.K. Ragesh, the former Deputy Mayor, who stood firm for the post, but managed to get only nine votes.
29 December 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Youth League activists stop IUML leaders’ car||A section of Muslim Youth League (MYL) activists on Monday blocked the car in which Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leaders Abdul Khader Moulavi and Abdul Kareem Cheleri were travelling, in protest against the decision to choose K. Shabeena for the post of Deputy Mayor in Kannur Corporation. They also engaged in a heated argument with the IUML leaders after stopping the car. The IUML leaders were returning after attending a United Democratic Front meeting. Resignation The protesters said IUML leaders failed to uphold democracy and were not ready to select the Deputy Mayor through vote as it was done in the Congress. Youth League Kannur regional general secretary Rashid Thayatheru resigned from the post in protest against the decision.
29 December 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||V.M. Muneer elected chairman of Kasaragod||In Kasaragod Municipality, UDF councillor V.M. Muneer was elected as the Chairperson on Monday. He won as the councillor from the 24 ward of Khasilane. In the election of the Chairperson, which was conducted in the presence of returning officer K Sajith Kumar, three of the 38 council members abstained from voting. While Mr. Muneer got 21 votes, the BJP councillor received 14 votes. Meanwhile, Shamzida Feroz of the UDF was elected as the Deputy Chairperson of the municipality. In Nileshwaram municipality, LDF candidate T.V. Shantha was elected as the new Chairperson. Kasargod Agriculture Deputy Director Susan Benjamin administered the oath of office. Meanwhile, P.P. Mohammad Rafi took over as Deputy Chairperson. In Kanhangad, fourth ward LDF councillor from Athiyamboor K.V. Sujatha was elected as the Chairperson. She received 26 votes. Meanwhile, B. Abdullah, councillor from ward 31 was elected as the Deputy Chairman of the municipality.
29 December 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Crime Branch starts probe in murder case||The Crime Branch has launched probe in the murder of DYFI activist Ouf Abdul Rahman, who was stabbed to death in Kanhangad recently. A team led by SP K.K. Moideen Kutty reached the spot of crime at Mundathode and collected details. The team will move the court on Tuesday seeking the custody of prime accused Irshad and others. MSF activist Hassan and Youth League activist Ashir are the other accused in the case. Irshad, who was being treated at Pariyaram Medical College, was shifted to Kanhangad district jail on Sunday night.
29 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||M.K. Varghese is new Thrissur Mayor||M.K. Varghese, Congress rebel who contested as an independent and won from the Nettissery division, was on Monday elected Mayor of the Thrissur municipal corporation, with the support of the Left. In its bid to retain the Corporation, the Left is learnt to have agreed to back him as Mayor for two years in return for support from him for the rest of the term. Consensus on making Mr. Varghese the Mayor was reached at the CPI(M) meeting held under the leadership of Minister A.C. Moideen. While the Left fielded Mr. Varghese, the UDF nominated N.A. Gopakumar and the BJP had Vinod Pollancherry as its Mayor candidate. As election to the Pullazhy division did not take place following the death of the Left candidate, all 54 councillors present voted. Mr. Varghese polled 24 votes, Mr. Gopakumar polled 23, and Mr. Pollencherry received six votes. A vote was invalid. A total of 48 councillors voted in the second round in which Mr. Varghese polled 25 votes and Mr. Gopakumar, 23. Mr. Varghese was sworn in by S. Shanavas, District Collector, who was also the returning officer. Agriculture minister V.S. Sunil Kumar, CPI(M) district secretary M.M. Varghese, and former Mayor Ajitha Jayarajan congratulated the new Mayor. Deputy Mayor CPI(M)’s Rajashree Gopan, who won from the Ramavarmapuram division, was elected deputy mayor. She polled two votes more than UDF’s Sindhu Anto Chacko in the election to the deputy mayor post. CPI’s Saramma Robson is the parliamentary party leader. Prioirity Mr. Varghese said that his priority would be to install more e-toilets in the city. “Comfort stations and e-toilets will be installed at various points in the city for people visiting the city. Promises given in the LDF manifesto will be implemented on priority. Support will be given to the needy irrespective of their political affiliations,” the new Mayor said.
29 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Load test being conducted on Vyttila, Kundannoor flyovers||The ongoing load test being done for Vyttila and Kundannoor flyovers will get over by Tuesday, and the results will be known in another two days, PWD sources said. While load test was mentioned in the agreement that the RBDCK had inked with the contracting firm which built the Kundannoor flyover, the department decided to rope in IIT-Madras to do the load test for the Vyttila flyover too. The tests - aimed at measuring deflection of the six-lane structures when fully-loaded lorries use them, were made mandatory in the wake of the Palarivattom flyover fiasco, where the four-lane structure located on NH Bypass developed cracks beyond the permissible limit of 0.3 mm. The delay in conducting the tests had invited considerable flak, since serpentine traffic snarls became the norm during the run-up to the Christmas holidays, at both Vyttila and Kundannoor which cater to over 1 lakh passenger car units (PCUs) - including inter-State lorries and container-laden lorries every day. Final lap On Monday, the PWD issued a release saying that safety tests at both the structures was in their final lap. They include both technical and safety tests, to verify their load-bearing capacity and durability. An expert team (comprising three chief engineers) would submit a report to the government shortly, based on the load-test results. On the work of the Vyttila flyover taking twice the 18-month deadline (the original deadline was May 2019), PWD officials said the pandemic, delay in making payments to the contracting firm and about two months stalemate due to safety concerns aired by an engineer of the PWD quality team delayed the work. The Kundannoor flyover, which ought to have been commissioned in March, suffered a delay due to the pandemic and a last-minute change of design of the southern side. There was also delay in the KWA completing pipeline works at the junction. Efforts were on to commission the twin flyovers in the first week of January 2021, they said. Officials of the PWD, RBDCK and the flyover designers were among those who are vetting the load tests, it is learnt.
29 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Chaos in council ahead of Deputy Mayor election||K.A. Ansiya of the CPI was elected Deputy Mayor of the Kochi Corporation on Monday, in a process that turned stormy with United Democratic Front (UDF) councillors claiming that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) councillors arrived late and the District Collector delayed the start of the proceedings. Chaos ensued with councillors of the two fronts coming close to blows, delaying the voting process by nearly an hour. The UDF councillors accused the Collector of not adhering to the protocol while conducting the election, and allowing the LDF councillors to enter the council hall even after 2 p.m., the time scheduled for the election. “The councillors who entered the council after 2 p.m. should be barred from participating in the election to the post of Deputy Mayor,” said UDF councillor Antony Kureethara, who submitted a written complaint to the Collector. “The Collector has been partial to the LDF in allowing their councillors to enter the hall after 2 p.m., the scheduled time at which the proceedings should have begun,” said UDF councillor M.G. Aristottil. “The UDF and BJP councillors were present in the hall by the scheduled time. The Collector also arrived, but some LDF councillors had not arrived yet. They were allowed to enter and sign the register marking attendance though they arrived late,” said Anthony Painuthara, Congress councillor. A harried District Collector S. Suhas tried to bring the council to order, insisting that the officer presiding over the election could decide at his discretion when the election should begin. The UDF councillors could seek legal recourse if they saw a problem, he said. In the first round of voting, Ms. Ansiya secured 36 votes, 32 votes went to UDF candidate Seena Gokulan and five to the BJP candidate Priya Prashant. The UDF councillors stormed out of the council hall after the first round and did not participate in the second round. Ms. Ansiya retained the same number of votes in the second round, to take the post of Deputy Mayor. Mayor M. Anilkumar administered the oath of office to her. Ms. Ansiya is a first-time councillor and is representing the Mattancherry division. If the UDF councillors had any allegation of irregularity, they could contest the irregularity, said Mr. Anilkumar.  UDF councillors can seek legal recourse if they see a problem S. Suhas District Collector
29 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||M. Anilkumar elected Mayor of Kochi||M. Anilkumar of the CPI(M) was elected Mayor of the Kochi Corporation on Monday, bringing a Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate back to the chair after a ten-year hiatus. Mr. Anilkumar secured 36 votes, defeating the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate Antony Kureethara who secured 32 votes in the 74-member council. In a first, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which had so far abstained from participating in the election to the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor, fielded candidates for both posts this time, propelled by their all-time highest tally of five seats in the council. Sudha Dileep Kumar, the BJP candidate for Mayor, secured the vote of all five NDA councillors. The councillors toed their respective party lines, with the Independent candidates sticking to the allegiances they had promised earlier. K.P. Antony, councillor from Manassery, who had contested as an Independent candidate, abstained from voting. The LDF had won 34 seats and then secured the support of two Independents, former IUML councillor T.K. Ashraf and councillor from Panayapilly J. Sanilmon. The UDF won 31 seats and also had the support of an Independent councillor, Mary Prakasan. Second round Since no candidate secured more votes that the total votes secured by the other two candidates combined in the first round, a second round was held after eliminating the BJP candidate who secured the least votes. CPI(M) leaders including district secretary C.N. Mohanan and K.J. Maxi, MLA, were present at the council to greet Mr. Anilkumar after his win. The new Mayor was sworn in by the District Collector. A lawyer, Mr. Anilkumar debuted as a councillor at the age of 25 in the year 2000, and was elected to the council for the fourth time this year. He held the post of the works standing committee chairman from 2008 to 2010, and was the CPI(M) candidate for the Ernakulam constituency in the 2016 Legislative Assembly election. At the council meeting that followed, Mr. Anilkumar said that the foremost priority of the new council would be the completion of the Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) housing project for the residents of Thuruthy, a project which has been stuck in limbo for years. The council would also cooperate with the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) to ensure swift rehabilitation of the residents of P&T Colony, said Mr. Anilkumar, who represents Elamakkara North. Coordination oordinating with all agencies working in the city and the district, including the district administration, Kochi Metro Rail Limited and the GCDA, would be crucial for the new council, he said, adding that the problems of the common people and the workers would take centre stage. After UDF councillors at the meeting reiterated that the LDF had failed to secure an absolute majority in the election, Mr. Anilkumar dismissed the matter, reminding the council that any decision would be taken only with the backing of all councillors irrespective of political affiliation. Waste management would also be a top priority for the council, he said later, while addressing the media in the Mayor’s chamber. The council will attempt to work out a decentralised waste management system to reduce its volume, rather than simply relying on a new waste-to-energy plant. Apart from implementing an existing study by Esteem Developers to deal with waterlogging in the city, detailed studies would have to be undertaken to resolve the issue, he said. Rather than focusing on just basic amenities, bringing about a cultural change in the city would be on the council’s agenda, said Mr. Anilkumar.  Waste management will be a top priority for the council, Mr. Anilkumar says.
29 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Jazzing up motor vehicles may invite hefty penalty||Zipping around in heavily altered motorcycles fitted with high decibel horns generating ear-splitting noise may soon attract penal measures beyond the Motor Vehicles Act. They may soon get the attention of the police as well and end up with far severe penalties, including imprisonment, under the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000. “A couple of years back the National Green Tribunal (NGT) passed a verdict calling for strict enforcement of the rules and it emerged that it fell under the domain of a police officer not below the rank of DySP. The Kerala State Pollution Control Board has now decided to impart training to cops to enforce the rules and measure noise pollution. We are also familiarising them with the equipment needed for enforcement,” says M.A. Baiju, chief environment engineer, PCB. The first of the three region-specific training for police personnel was held at the PCB regional office at Gandhi Nagar here on Monday. The sessions for uniformed men from Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode regions will be held on the next two days. V. Deepesh, senior scientist, presented the rule and demonstrated noise level monitoring equipment. The police submitted a list of 134 personnel and, hence, a decision was taken to conduct training sessions in different regions over three days adhering to the COVID protocol. The police, Mr. Baiju says, will have to go for stricter enforcement of the rules other than charging for mere public nuisance as has been done now considering that the NGT has taken a very serious view of the matter. Previously, noise pollution was subsumed in the Air Pollution Control Act till separate rules came into force in 2000. The rules are part of the larger Environment Protection Act and entail stringent punishments.
29 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||340 new cases in Ernakulam||The district recorded 340 new COVID-19 cases and 536 recoveries on Monday. The active case load is 8,213. Three health workers have newly tested positive. Kothamangalam recorded 14 new cases of the infection, while Thripunithura registered 12. After having tested over 7,000 samples on December 23, the district’s daily testing figures have been falling. The figure fell to 3,265 tests on December 26, climbed back up a little to 4,754 samples on December 27, and has fallen again to 3,187 samples collected on Monday. A total of 28,094 people remain in quarantine in the district. Active cases Of the people recovering from the infection, 6,665 are at home, 307 are at SLTCs, 195 at FLTCS, and 80 patients are at the Government Medical College Hospital.
29 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Remembering the doyen of industrial Kerala||The whole of Kerala holds him in great awe and reverence. M. K. K. Nair, the visionary chairman of the Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore, has left a legacy of great vision and leadership that will continue to influence the future. The community that is FACT today will celebrate his birth centenary on Tuesday. Chief Minister Pinaravyi Vijayan will inaugurate the birth centenary celebrations of M. K. K. Nair, at the FACT Udyogamandal Club at 4 p.m. Hibi Eden, MP, is among those expected to attend the inauguration. M. K. K. Nair was a 1947 batch IAS officer but remained a class apart. He was a confidant of the then Prime Minister and top leadership in New Delhi. He was chosen to take up many major projects and to shoulder immense responsibilities to help the rapid industrialisation of the country post-Independence. While Kerala remembers his visionary leadership in leading FACT to its great destiny, he was responsible for commissioning the Bhilai Steel Plant before taking up the task in Kerala. He remained at the head of FACT for a decade, during which period he made FACT the biggest public sector undertaking in Kerala with massive Central investments. He also spearheaded the industrial revolution in Kerala by sowing the seeds of many public undertakings in the State and Central folds. He left Kerala in 1971 to take up another assignment with the Planning Commission. M. K. K. Nair was more than a bureaucrat and an industrialist. He was also a lover and patron of the finer aspects of life and helped carry the fame of Kathakali, the traditional art of Kerala, across the world. He protected and nurtured several artistes and associated himself with the initial days of setting up Kerala Lalitha Kala Akademi, Kerala Kalamandalam, Kerala Management Association and the Centre for Management Studies at the Cochin University of Science and Technology.
29 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||VACB questions Kunju in hospital||Former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju was quizzed by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) on Monday in connection with the Palarivattom flyover corruption case at a private hospital in the city where he is undergoing treatment. The interrogation by the three-member VACB team led by Dy.SP Shyam Kumar that started in the morning lasted till the evening. VACB questioning, reportedly, pertained to the financial contracts of the flyover project. The Muvattupuzha Vigilance Court had allowed VACB to question the former minister at the hospital in strict adherence to certain conditions. VACB sources said that during the interrogation that lasted five hours, Mr. Kunju answered the questions. His statements will now be corroborated with the statements given by other accused. If there are discrepancies, he would be questioned again. Mr. Kunju was arrested by the VACB on November 18 on charges that he had conspired with bureaucrats and the contractor to illegally issue administrative sanction to start the construction of Palarivattom flyover violating the Rules of Business and Delegation of Powers.  If his statements are in variance with those of other accused, he will be questioned again
29 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Non-disclosure of names of victims: HC issues guidelines||The Kerala High Court has made applicable the guidelines on maintaining the anonymity of victims in rape and POCSO cases to victims in cases under the Juvenile (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. The guidelines make it clear that in all proceedings instituted by or on behalf of the victims and against them, documents, in which the identity of the victim is disclosed either required in terms of the rules of the High Court or produced by the parties concerned to substantiate their case, shall be filed in a sealed cover along with two self-sealing covers. Documents The parties producing documents disclosing the identity of victims need not have to keep or give copies of them to the opposite parties and they need only refer to such documents in their pleadings. If lawyers appearing against the victim want to peruse the documents in the sealed cover, they can do so with permission of the court. The victims could show name as X or Y while filing an appeal before the High Court. The name of victims should not be reflected in the cause list.
29 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Stir for expediting road connectivity||Even as Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) says that it is premature to comment on establishing road connectivity to Kochi Metro’s terminal station in Thripunithura, representatives of residents’ associations in Thripunithura are on the warpath, demanding clarity on the issue. They have decided to hold a hunger strike at East Fort Junction on January 1, deploring the “inordinate delay” in finalising road connectivity from SN Junction to Thripunithura railway station. No effort was being made to hew out a road, at the ground level. This was a challenge to members of the public, said Thripunithura Rajanagari Union of Residents’ Associations (TRURA). Metro authorities say that an elevated viaduct and stabling line have been envisaged in the corridor that would end near Thripunithura railway station. They also cite that land acquisition will be minimal for this. In this circumstance, commuters from Thripunithura, towns localed in Kochi’s eastern suburbs, Kottayam, and from Idukki would have to enter the station’s premises through the narrow entry of Thripunithura railway station, said V.P. Prasad, chairman of the association. Inadequate road connectivity, that also to a terminal station of the metro, woul lead to chaos and congestion. This would further hamper buses from entering the station premises, affecting last-mile connectivity and integration of the metro with buses and other modes of public transport. In this circumstance, TRURA members had decided to observe a token hunger strike from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on January 1, said V.C. Jayendran, convenor. The KMRL had laid survey stones on the stretch in the third quarter of the year.
29 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Stage artistes urge govt. to allow shows||Aghast at the Devaswom Board’s decision to hold festivals in a low key manner devoid of cultural programmes, the Mimicry Artists’ Association has demanded a revisit of the decision citing the pitiable state of stage artists. The association has urged the State government to permit stage performances by restricting the number of audience and in strict compliance with the COVID-19 protocol. At a press conference held here on Monday, the association office bearers, including its president and film director Nadir Shah pointed out how other workplaces had been opened up by either partially or fully over the months.
29 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Woman complains of harassment by flasher in mall||Close on the heels of an incident in which two persons were arrested after a popular woman actor had gone public on the social media about misbehaviour towards her at a mall in the city, another young woman has complained of being subjected to stripteasing at the same mall. The Kalamassery police have registered a case and launched a probe on the complaint registered by a resident of Alappuzha on being harassed on Christmas day when the mall was teeming with people. According to the complaint, a man exposed his private parts to her at the second floor of the mall during the busy hours. The police have registered a case under IPC Sections 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and Section 119 of Kerala Police Act (performing any sexual gestures or acts degrading the dignity of women in public places). Footage collected The police have started inspecting the video footage collected from the CCTV cameras at the mall as part of the investigation. Though the identity of the man remains yet to be confirmed as he was wearing a mask, the police remain confident of arresting the accused shortly. Actor’s complaint A young actor had complained two youngsters of outraging her modesty on December 18 while visiting a popular mall at Edappally with her family for shopping. Though the victim didn’t file a complaint, the police managed to track down the accused within a couple of days after registering a suo motu case.
29 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Withdraw new norm on scholarship: KCBC panel||The KCBC (Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council) Commission for Education has demanded withdrawal of the new stipulation that it said would prevent several students from the minority communities from receiving the pre-matric scholarships. Earlier, the scholarship was granted considering the affidavit on the parents’ income and the income in the ration card. There was no mention of income certificate being mandatory in the August 25 order or in the two subsequent orders. ‘Immense trouble’ But a new order days short of the December 31 deadline to apply for the scholarship has made income certificate mandatory, which is causing immense trouble to thousands of students who will now have to go to village offices for this certificate even as a pandemic is raging, the commission said. At least 50% marks and an annual income of Rs. 1 lakh is the condition for pre-matric scholarships by to students to Christian, Muslim, Buddhist, Jain, Sikh, and Parsi students. The last date of application was October 31. But it was revised to December 31. At least 50% of the applications have been submitted by principals online, but the new order says these are being returned, and should be corroborated with the income certificate. Schools have not received them yet, the KCBC Education Commission said in a mail to Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and the National Minorities Commission.
29 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Heads of four municipalities sworn in||Heads of four municipalities in the district including Kottarakara, Paravur, Karunagapplly and Punalur,took oath of office at separate functions held here on Monday. Kottarakara A.Shaju of Kerala Congress (B) and Anitha Gopakumar of Communist Party of India (Marxist) were elected as the chairperson and deputy chairperson of Kottarakara municipality respectively. Apart from Mr.Shaju, V.Philip of Congress and Arun Kadamkulam of BJP also contested in the election. All the 29 councillors were present and A.Shaju polled 16 votes while Congress and BJP candidates secured 8 and 5 votes respectively. A.Shaju, a councillor from Muslim Street ward, is the district president of Kerala Congress (B) and a former member of Kottarakara panchayat. Presiding officer and principal of Kerala Institute of Local Administration Extension Training Centre principal G.Krishnakumar administered the oath of office to the new chairperson. Vice chairperson Anitha Gopakumar from ETC ward is the village joint secretary of All India Democratic Women's Association. Parvaur In Parvaur, P.Sreeja of the Congress and Safar Khayal of CPI(M) were elected as the chairperson and vice-chairperson through draw of lots. In the 28-member council, both LDF and UDF have equal seats while BJP has four members. In the voting P.Sreeja and O.Shailja, candidates of UDF and LDF, received 14 votes each and then Ms Sreeja was declared elected through draw of lots. Former councillor and music teacher, P.Sreeja is the general secretary of Paravur Town mandalam Congress committee. Safar Khayal, who was also elected by draw of lots, represents Nerukadavu ward and is the member of CPI(M) area committee. Karunagappally The 35-member council of Karunagappally elected Kottayil Raju, who represents Nambaruvikala division, as the new chairperson of the municipality. A CPI(M) Town local committee member, he polled 25 votes in the election while A.Sunimol of CPI from Pullimon Library division was elected the vice chairperson. Punalur Nimmy Abraham of CPI(M) and V.P Unnikrishnan of CPI were elected as the chairperson and vice chairperson of Punalur municipality respectively. Elected from Town ward, Ms.Abraham is a member of CPI(M) Punalur West local committee. She secured 21 votes against 14 votes polled by UDF candidate Kanakamma. V.P.Unnikrishan, who, represents Mylakkal ward is a former councillor and vice chairperson.
29 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Prasanna Earnest elected Kollam Mayor||Prasanna Earnest of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) will preside over Kollam Corporation as she was elected the Mayor in an open ballot on Monday. A councillor representing Thamarakkulam division, this is for the second time she is donning the Mayor’s garb after a stint from 2000 to 2004. She was sworn in by District Collector B. Abdul Nasar. Later, Ms. Earnest administered the oath of office to Kollam Madhu of Communist Party of India (CPI) who was elected as the Deputy Mayor of the council. Among the 55 councillors, 39 favoured Ms. Earnest, while the UDF’s mayoral candidate Sreedeviamma secured 9 votes and the BJP’s B. Shylaja, five. Krishnendu, the only Socialist Democratic Party of India councillor from Chathinamkulam division, abstained from voting. The vote of BJP councillor Sajith Anand was considered invalid. Three in PPE kits The name of Ms. Earnest was proposed by S. Geethakumari representing the College division and seconded by Mr. Madhu. The candidature of Mr. Madhu was proposed by former Mayor Honey Benjamin and seconded by Vallikeezhu councillor S. Jayan. The election to the post of Mayor took place at 11 a.m. to that of the Deputy Mayor in the afternoon. Three councillors voted wearing PPE kits. Ms. Earnest, a senior politician, is also the district president of All India Democratic Women’s Association and a member of CPI(M) district committee. Mr. Madhu, the councillor representing Kavanad division, is the assistant secretary of CPI Anchalumoodu mandalam. The LDF has a brute majority of 39 in the 55-member council. While UDF has a total of nine members, including three Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) seats, the BJP has six councillors and the SDPI one. The meeting which followed was attended by LDF leaders, officials, religious heads, and people’s representatives.
29 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Minister opens renovated bank building||Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma inaugurated the renovated building of CSB Bank, Kundara branch here on Monday, apressnote issued here saidy. Bank zonal manager Jobins Chirakkal, cluster manager George Panicker, V.Aneesh and branch manager Anu Prakash also spoke on the occasion.
29 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||UDF gets five municipalities in Kottayam||The United Democratic Front (UDF) on Monday managed to take control in five out of six municipalities in Kottayam. Kottayam Although unable to win the minimum numbers in any of the municipalities, the coalition rode on luck and the support of Independents to win the floor tests in five municipalities. The most dramatic among these was the election at the Kottayam municipality, where the UDF-backed Independent Bincy Sebastian defeated LDF candidate Sheeja Anil in a draw of lots. With the UDF and LDF receiving 22 votes besides the seven votes to the NDA candidate Reeba Varkey in the first round, another round of election was held after excluding the candidate receiving the least number of votes. Though the second round too ended in a tie, the UDF candidate won in the draw of lots. While M. T. Mohanan, an LDF member who was in ICU for COVID-19 treatment, turned up for voting in an ambulance, three other councillors came for the council meeting wearing PPE kits. At the same time, a councillor of the NDA skipped the election after testing positive for the diseasec. In the election held after the return of Mr.Mohanan to the hospital, Congress councillor B. Goapakumar defeated LDF’s Jiby John by a margin of one vote to become the vice-chairman. Changanassery In Changanassery municipality, UDF-supported independent Sandhya Manoj defeated LDF’s Krishna Kumari Rajasekharan to become the chairperson. In the 37-member council, UDF secured 18 votes with the support of three Independents, while LDF candidates got 16 votes. Independent Benny Joseph was elected as vice chairman with the support of the UDF. Ettumanoor In Ettumanoor municipality, UDF’s Lovely George won 18 votes with support of three Independents to become the chairperson. While LDF candidates got 16 votes, NDA skipped the election. K. B. Jayamohanan was elected as vice chairman here. Erattupetta Indian Union Muslim League member Suhra Adbul Khader was elected as the chairperson of Erattupetta municipality. In the 28 member council, Suhra secured 14 votes, while the candidates of the LDF and SDPI got eight and five votes respectively. Muhammed Illyas was elected as vice-chairman here. Vaikom In Vaikom municipality, Congress member Renuka Ratheesh was elected by winning 11 votes. While the candidates of the LDF and NDA got 11 and four votes respectively, two Independents abstained from the election. P. P. Subhash of the UDF was elected vice chairman of the urban body. Pala Meanwhile in Pala, KC (M) member Anto Padinjarekkara and CPI(M) nominee Siji Prasad were elected as the chairman and vice chairman respectively.
29 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||241 test positive in Kottayam district||As many as 241 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday. Of the fresh cases, all contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 21 children and 77 persons aged above 50. With 47 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Changanassery with 18 cases. Kangazha reported 14 cases while Kadaplamattom witnessed 11 cases. With 301 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,519 active cases. Alappuzha The district reported 188 COVID-19 cases and 203 recoveries on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 182 patients contracted the disease through local contact. The source of infection of another four persons remains unidentified. Two persons who came from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,457. Kollam The district reported 174 new COVID-19 cases and 311 recoveries on Monday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 170 contact cases, one NRI, two health workers and one person without any known source. The case with no known source has been reported from Perinadu. A 29-year-old Kadakkal resident and 22-year-old Kalluvathukkal resident are the health workers who contracted the infection. The district currently has 11,607 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 5,74,286. While 1,277 people completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department has traced 1,36,939 primary and 12,694 secondary contacts of the positive cases. Pathanamthitta As many as 91 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 90 people contracted the disease through local contact and among these, the contact source of 49 cases were yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Pallickal reported 14 cases, followed by Thiruvalla municipality with 10 cases. Meanwhile, the disease claimed six more lives in the district. The victims were identified as a 60-year-old Puramattom native, 80-year-old Pramadam native, 63-year-old Vakayar native, 66-year-old Kadapra native, a Naranamuzhy native, and a 23-year-old Vadasserikara native, sources said. With 251 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,581 active cases. ( With contributions from Alappuzha, Kollam and Pathanamthitta bureaus )
29 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||City’s development helped LDF retain corporation, says Raveedran||Development initiatives and projects in the city seemed to have stood the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] in good stead in the recently concluded Kozhikode Corporation council polls. The credit for giving a facelift to the city in the past five years goes to outgoing Mayor Thottathil Raveedran. “Usually, any party in power for 40 years will face anti-incumbency. We have not only been able to overcome that negative sentiment but improved the performance of the front by increasing the number of seats from last time,” Mr. Raveendran said, adding that the LDF secured 51 seats in the 75-member council. He said the civic body had been able to upgrade facilities for people, especially public amenities despite floods in the past years and the COVID-19 lockdown this year. “The construction of parks and halls in different parts of the city will be an asset for the public in future,” he said. Mr. Raveendran said that the newly constructed S.K. Pottekkatt Hall at Puthiyara, community hall at Eranhipalam, roller-skating rink at Jawahar Nagar and the Garudankulam Park were some of the achievements. “Also, the foot overbridge with escalator linking the indoor stadium and the Kozhikode mofussil bus stand. The Rs. 11.35-crore project is the first of its kind in the State constructed under the Amrut project,” he said. e-governance Through the digitalisation programmes initiated by the State government, Mr. Raveendran said, the civic body had also improved governance and municipal services. The e-platform for remitting property tax online had also been a success. He hoped that the city would have a perfect sewerage system as well as a waste treatment plant in the coming years. The new council would also carry forward projects to ease traffic and scientifically improve major junctions in the city. “Hopefully, the focus will be to get into the Smart City Mission project,” he said. Defeat at division On the defeat of the CPI(M) candidate at the Chakkorathukulam division from where had won in 2015, Mr. Raveendran said that he had won the seat by a margin of 34 votes against the BJP candidate in a three-cornered fight then.
29 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Amrut, a challenge for civic bodies||A daunting task awaits new rulers of civic bodies in the State — the completion of projects envisaged under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. Latest figures show that a little over 50% of the projects — 576 out of the 1,006 projects — have been completed in the nine mission cities or municipal towns — Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kochi, Thrissur, Guruvayur, Palakkad, Kozhikode and Kannur — so far in five sectors. Kerala has submitted three State Annual Action Plans (SAAPs) approved by the Ministry for a total outlay of Rs. 2,357.69 crore. Previously, the Ministry had come down heavily on the alleged lethargy of the State government in executing projects on time. Annual plan Many of the projects, envisaged during 2015-16 fiscal, in fact was submitted only in 2018 through an Annual Action Plan for 2017-2020. The contribution of civic bodies is 20% while the State government shares 30% of the cost. The Centre contributes 50% of the remaining funds for projects. About 1,000 projects have been tendered so far. The delay in securing technical sanction for projects have been attributed to alleged tardy implementation of schemes, COVID-19 lockdown and floods. Figures also reveal that the State average on expenditure is 41.67%. Kollam Corporation (22.53%) is the worst performer while Alappuzha Municipality (54.44 %) tops the list of best performing civic bodies. The remaining are Thiruvananthapuram (39.87%), Kochi (41.44%), Kozhikode (34.20%), Thrissur (41.99 %); Kannur (51.46 %) and Palakkad (39.35%). Thiruvananthapuram tops the chart with 270 total projects while Guruvayur has only 34 projects. Thiruvananthapuram has completed 161 out of the 270 projects; Thrissur 63 projects out of 110; Palakkad 82 out of 152 projects; Kozhikode 30 out of 50 projects; Kannur 16 out 38; Kollam 28 out of 59; Kochi 63 out of 98; Guruvayur 10 out of 34 and Alappuzha 123 out of 195. Water supply Sector wise, most projects have been implemented in the field of water supply (55.95%) and stormwater drainage (52.17%).
29 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Municipal heads elected in Kozhikode||Elections to the post of chairpersons and vice chairpersons in the seven municipalities in Kozhikode district were held on Monday. In Koduvally, Vellara Abdu (V. Abdurahman) of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) was elected as the chairman while Sushini K.M of the Congress was elected vice chairperson. CPI(M) councillor K.P. Sudha is the new chairperson of Koyilandy Municipality while former chairman K. Sathyan is the new vice chairman. In Payyoli Municipality, Vadakkayil Shafeek of the Congress is the new chairman while C.P. Fathima is the new vice chairperson. K.P. Bindu of the CPI(M) is the new chairperson of Vadakara Municipality while P.K. Satheeshan is the new vice chairman. P.T. Babu of the CPI(M) was elected as the chairman of the Mukkam Municipality with the support of an IUML rebel councillor. K.P. Chandini is the new vice chairperson in Mukkam. IUML Councillor N.C. Abdul Razak is the new chairman of Feroke Municipality while Reeja is the new vice chairperson. Bushra Rafeek of the IUML is the new chairperson of Ramanattukara Municipality while Suresh Kumar.K. of the Congress is the new vice chairman.
29 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mayor, Deputy Mayor sworn in||Left Democratic Front (LDF) nominees Beena Philip, who was elected from Pottammal ward, and C.P. Musafir Ahamed, who was elected from Kappakkal ward, sworn in as the new Mayor and Deputy Mayor respectively of the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation on Monday. After a long, COVID-19-induced break, the Kozhikode Corporation council hall once again came alive for the swearing-in of the new leaders. The LDF has a strength of 51 councillors while the United Democratic Front (UDF) has 17 and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seven in the 75-member council. In the Mayor election, Beena Philip bagged 49 votes while her opponents K.C. Shobhita of the UDF and Navya Haridas of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) bagged 18 and six votes respectively. Only 74 votes were polled as T. Reneesh of the BJP was on leave. One vote became invalid as a councillor failed to put signature on the voting slip. The LDF candidate losing a vote and the UDF candidate getting an extra vote was a matter of discussion in the council hall for some time. Later, it was revealed that one of the CPI(M) councillors had accidentally voted for the wrong candidate. No confusion However, there was no such confusion in the afternoon session for the Deputy Mayor election. Of the 74 votes polled, C.P. Musafir Ahamed of the LDF bagged 51 votes and K. Nirmala of the UDF 17 votes, while T. Reneesh of the NDA, who himself was absent, scored six votes. District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao was the Returning Officer for both the elections while Corporation Secretary Binu Francis was the polling officer. Outgoing Mayor Thottathil Raveendran handed over the Mayor’s gown to new Mayor Beena Philip while the Collector administered the oath. Later, the new Mayor administered the oath to the Deputy Mayor. Several political leaders such as Elamaram Kareem, MP, A. Pradeep Kumar, MLA, K.C. Mohammed Riyas and K. Mohanan were present during the swearing-in ceremonies.
29 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||New Mayor to focus on WTE pant||The new Mayor of Kozhikode, Beena Philip, wants to develop the waste-to-energy (WTE) plant coming up at Njeliyanparamba as a successful model so that the public will have more faith in waste management projects. Speaking to reporters after her swearing-in on Monday, Ms. Philip said that she seriously wanted the new plant to be a success. “Whenever there is a waste management project planned, there is always a certain amount of protest from people in the vicinity of the proposed sites. We need to prove that their apprehensions are baseless if we need to have more waste management projects,” she said. Ms. Philip said that fulfilling the promises in the LDF election manifesto would be the top priority for the newly elected council. “We will also check out the pending projects of the previous council and strive to complete them. Also, more projects will be incorporated into the plan after direct interactions with the public,” she said. Earlier, in her address after swearing-in, Ms.Philip sought the support of the whole council, irrespective of differences in ideologies, for the development of Kozhikode city. “Positive criticism is always welcome. But they should not be personal,” she said. Later, appreciating Musafir Ahamed on his being elected as the Deputy Mayor, she said that his ability and experience in the council and as a social worker would add to her strengths.
29 December 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||UDF chairpersons in nine Malappuram municipalities||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) members were elected chairpersons in nine of the 12 municipalities in Malappuram district on Monday. The CPI(M)-led LDF has three municipalities. When the LDF got Ponnani, Perinthalmanna and Nilambur Municipalities, the UDF captured Malappuram, Kottakkal, Manjeri, Tirurangadi, Kondotty, Parappanangadi, Tirur, Tanur and Valanchery muncipalities. Muslim Youth League (MYL) State secretary Mujeeb Kaderi was elected chairperson and Congress’s Fousiya Kunhippa was elected vice chairperson in Malappuram Municipality. In Manjeri Municipality, IUML’s V.M. Subaida was elected chairperson and Congress’s Beena Joseph became vice chairperson. In Tirurangadi Municipality, UDF’s K.P. Mohammed Kutty was elected chairperson and C.P. Suharabi was elected vice chairperson. In Parappanangadi Municipality, UDF’s M. Usman and K. Shaharban were elected chairperson and vice chairperson respectively. In Kottakkal Municipality, former minister U.A. Beeran’s daughter-in-law Bushra Shabeer was elected chairperson and P.P. Ummer was elected vice chairperson. This was the second term as chairperson for Ms. Bushra. In Valanchery Municipality, UDF’s Ashraf Ambalathingal and Ramla Mohammed were elected chairperson and vice chairperson respectively. In Tirur Municipality, UDF’s A.P. Naseema was elected chairperson and Pangat Ramankutty was elected vice chairperson. In Tanur Municipality, UDF’s C.P. Shamsuddin and C.K. Subaida were elected chairperson and vice chairperson respectively. In Kondotty Municipality, C.T. Fatimat Zuhara was elected chairperson and Sanoop Master was elected vice chairperson. In Perinthalmanna Municipality, LDF’s P. Shaji was elected chairperson and A. Naseera was elected vice chairperson. In Nilambur, LDF’s Mattummal Saleem was elected chairperson and Aruma Jayakrishnan was elected vice chairperson. In Ponnani, LDF’s Sivadas Attupuram and Bindu Siddarthan were elected chairperson and vice chairperson respectively.
29 December 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Priest alleges insult by CM||Malankara Orthodox Church representative Father Thomas Kurian alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan insulted him and the Church at a meeting of community and opinion leaders here on Monday. Fr. Kurian said the Chief Minister not only evaded his questions about the Christian community, but also behaved rudely with him. He said he lashed out at the government at the meeting for its failure in addressing the dispute between the Jacobite and Orthodox sections. Fr. Kurian said that the Chief Minister criticised him for raising a question about the church dispute. He said Mr. Vijayan insulted him by referring to his attire. The Chief Minister said that the dispute continued as the Church was not willing for a settlement. “When I asked the Chief Minister to listen to my version after his speech, I was told to sit down,” said Fr. Kurian, who came out of the meeting in a huff.
29 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Noisy scenes in Palakkad municipality||Palakkad municipality elected its chairperson and vice chairperson after dramatic scenes that led to heated arguments between BJP and opposition councillors on Monday. The dispute began when BJP’s senior councillor V. Natesan wanted to withdraw his ballot after “mistakenly” voting for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate M.V. Usha in the chairperson election. Noisy scenes followed as the LDF and the United Democratic Front (UDF) opposed Mr. Natesan’s attempt and the BJP councillors supported him. Mr. Natesan’s vote was later declared invalid. Palakkad BJP’s K. Priya was elected chairperson in Palakkad. She defeated UDF’s Jyothi Mani by 11 votes. When Ms. Priya got 27 votes, Ms. Mani polled 16 votes and LDF’s Ms. Usha, seven votes. BJP district president E. Krishnadas was elected vice chairperson. The BJP has 28 seats in the 52-member council. The UDF has 14, the LDF has seven and the Welfare Party one. There are two independent members too. When an independent member stayed away from voting, K. Bhavadas, who was expelled from the Congress, and the Welfare Party member voted for the UDF. LDF’s K.L. Kavitha was elected chairperson of Chittur Thathamangalam municipality. She defeated UDF’s Anita Kuttappan by a margin of five votes. Ms. Kavita got 17 votes when Ms. Anita got 12. The LDF has 16 members, the UDF 12 members, and the SDPI one member in the council. LDF’s M. Sivakumar was elected vice chairman. He defeated UDF’s K.C. Preet by a margin of four votes. Cherpulassery LDF’s P. Ramachandran was elected chairperson of Cherpulassery municipality. He polled 18 votes against UDF’s K.M. Ishaq, who got 13 votes. When the lone Welfare Party member supported the UDF, two BJP members did not vote. LDF’s Safna Parakkal was elected vice chairman in Cherpulassery. She defeated UDF’s V.P. Suharabi by polling 18 votes against 13. Ms. Safna is a candidate of the CPI(M). The vice chairpersonship will be given to the CPI after two-and-a-half years. LDF’s Janaki Devi and K. Rajesh were elected chairperson and vice chairperson respectively of Ottapalam municipality. They defeated UDF’s and NDA’s candidates. The LDF has 16 members in the 36-member council. The UDF has 11 members and the NDA nine. The LDF will rule the municipality despite falling three seats short of a simple majority. In Mannarkkad municipality, UDF’s Fayeda Basheer was elected chairperson. He defeated LDF’s T.R. Sebastian by a margin of three votes. Mr. Basheer got 14 votes against Mr. Sebastian’s 11 votes. Three NDA members and an independent stayed away from voting. Shoranur In Shoranur municipality, LDF’s M.K. Jayaprakash was elected chairperson. He polled 17 votes in the 33-member council, including one vote by the SDPI member. The LDF has 16 members, the BJP nine members, and the UDF seven members. LDF’s P. Sindhu was elected vice chairperson. LDF’s O. Lakshmikutty was elected chairperson and We for Pattambi leader T.P. Shaji was elected vice chairperson of Pattambi municipality. When LDF polled 16 votes, the UDF got 11 votes. A lone BJP member stayed away from voting. The LDF wrested Pattambi in association with the We for Pattambi collective led by Mr. Shaji, who was expelled by the Congress.
29 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta will have the youngest local body head||At 21, Reshma Mariam Roy is getting the kind of attention that many politicians could only dream of, even after years in office. But this is quite understandable. After becoming the youngest candidate to contest in the recently local body elections, this BBA undergraduate is now also set to become the youngest to lead any local body in the State. Having won from the ward 11 (Oottupara) of the Aruvappulam grama panchayat in Pathanamthitta, she will be appointed as the president of the local body where the LDF has captured power after a gap of two decades. A decision to entrust the young woman the administration of this forest-fringe village was taken during a meeting of the CPI(M) area committee the other day. When asked what it is like to be a panchayat president at such a young age, Reshma said she had been formally conveyed about the party’s decision only the previous day and hence a detailed plan of action for the panchayat would be charted out after due consultations with all stakeholders. “All that I have with me is a set of principles. To make them practical, I will have to work hard day in and day out and take the support of experts,” she says. Priorities According to her, Aruvappulam panchayat requires a comprehensive development in its infrastructure capability. The concerns of farmers and Adivasi communities have to be addressed. “Among the several projects that merit immediate attention, my personal priority is the construction of a new building for the anganwadi in my ward,” she adds. SFI member Ms. Roy, an active member of the Students Federation of India, who passed out of the college earlier this year, turned 21 — the minimum required age to contest in an election — on November 18, a day before the last day for filing nominations. In the election, she won the ward, a sitting seat of the UDF, by a margin of 70 votes. Ms. Roy now plans to pursue a degree in law through correspondence so as to manage her work hours along with higher studies. Her father Roy P. Mathew is a timber merchant and mother Mini Roy works at a college.  Reshma Mariam Roy is a BBA undergraduate and plans to pursue a degree in law
29 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||LDF bags 2 municipalities in Pathanamthitta||Riding on the momentum it attained during the local body polls, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has captured power in two out of the four municipalities in Pathanamthitta district. The United Democratic Front, with support from the SDPI, is set to lead the Thiruvalla municipality while the BJP-led National Development Alliance, which won a simple majority in Pandalam, has taken control of the municipal council there. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, T. Sakkeer Hussain of the CPI(M) has been elected the chairperson while Amina Hyderali, a UDF rebel, is the new municipal vice-chairperson. Riding on the support extended by the three UDF rebels in the 32-member municipal council, Mr.Hussain won 16 votes as against the 13 votes to the UDF candidate M.C. Sherif. The SDPI, which has three seats in the council, abstained from voting. Thiruvalla Meanwhile, the uncertainty over the formation of administrative council in Thiruvalla ended with Bindu Jayakumar of the United Democratic Front being elected as chairperson of the municipality. Philip George is the new vice-chairman. Ms.Jayakumar won 17 votes against the 15 votes received by the LDF while the BJP, which has seven members, stayed away from the final round of voting. The UDF also received the support of the SDPI councillor while the independent councillor backed the LDF. Adoor In the 28-member Adoor municipality, D.Saji of the Communist Party of India won 16 votes including that of the two independents to become the chairman while Divya Reji Muhammad of the CPI(M) has become the municipal vice-chairperson. The UDF candidate won 11 votes while the lone BJP member in the Adoor council abstained from the election. Pandalam In the 33-seat Pandalam municipality, the NDA sprang a surprise by nominating Susheela Santosh as the municipal chairperson. U.Ramya is the new vice-chairperson.Ms. Santosh, who won 18 votes in the election on Monday, had been nominated to the post after a meeting of the BJP district leadership earlier in the morning.
29 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) defeats CPI in Nedumangad||Discord between the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] and the Communist Party of India (CPI) came to the fore in the Nedumangad municipality as they fielded separate candidates for the election to the post of vice-chairpersons on Monday. The strife within the Left Democratic Front (LDF) became a blot on its unity, only a few hours after CPI(M)’s C.S. Sreeja was elected chairperson with the backing of councillors of both the parties. Four-time CPI(M) councillor P. Harikesan Nair, who garnered 24 votes, was elected vice-chairman after contesting against CPI’s S. Raveendran who had the backing of only three CPI members, including himself. N. Fathima of the United Democratic Front (UDF) and Tara Jayakumar of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) were the others who made failed attempts with eight and four votes respectively. With the issue threatening to disrupt unity in the LDF, the CPI(M) State leadership intervened later in the day to restore peace by deciding to cede the post to the CPI. Following a meeting of the CPI(M) district secretariat attended by Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, Mr. Harikesan Nair was directed to tender his resignation to pave way for the CPI to stake claim. Ms. Sreeja, however, had a comfortable ride to the chairperson’s post by securing all 27 votes of the LDF councillors. While NDA’s Vinodini won four votes, the UDF contingent decided to abstain from voting with none of the councillors being eligible to the post reserved for Scheduled Castes (SC) women councillors. CPI’s decision to field Mr. Raveendran, who had resigned from the CPI(M) six years ago, was the bone of contention within the LDF camp. While the senior CPI councillor was largely tipped to become the vice-chairman, the CPI(M) Nedumangad area committee raised objections and threatened to take over the post if the CPI did not field any of its other two councillors. However, the parties decided to field their own nominees with both sides sticking to their positions. Following his victory, Mr. Harikesan Nair accused Mr. Raveendran of working against the interests of the CPI(M) ever since he had left the party to join the CPI.
29 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Country’s youngest Mayor takes charge in city||Twenty-one-year-old Arya Rajendran of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] was sworn in as the Mayor of the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation, after she secured 54 votes in the 100-member council in the election held on Monday morning. She has become the youngest Mayor till date in the country. P.K. Raju of the Communist Party of India (CPI) was sworn in as the Deputy Mayor. Ms. Rajendran as well as Mr. Raju got the support of three Independent councillors, in addition to the 52 seats of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) . However, in the voting for the Mayor post, the vote of the LDF’s councillor from Kachani was declared invalid as she failed to note down her name and affix her signature on the ballot paper. The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, which has 34 seats and the support of an Independent councillor, fielded Simi Jyothish, the former chairperson of the Corporation’s tax appeal standing committee, for the Mayor post. The United Democratic Front, which has 10 seats, fielded councillor Mary Pushpam. The BJP candidate secured 35 votes, while the UDF candidate got nine votes, as the councillor from Mulloor ward, under COVID-19 observation, was absent. As soon as the election process was over, District Collector Navjot Khosa administered the oath to the new Mayor. Ms. Rajendran walked into the podium accompanied by spirited sloganeering from CPI(M) members who had gathered in large numbers on the occasion. Crackers went off outside the Corporation office as the Collector handed over the Mayor’s gown to her. She was later accompanied to the Mayor’s chamber by former Mayors K. Chandrika, V.K. Prasanth, MLA, and K. Sreekumar. 55 votes In the election to the Deputy Mayor post held in the afternoon, Mr. Raju secured 55 of the total of 99 votes polled. The BJP had fielded Palkulangara ward councillor P. Ashokumar, who secured 34 votes. The vote cast by the BJP’s councillor from the Chempazhanthy ward was declared invalid as he had signed instead of marking his vote. UDF candidate S. Sureshkumar of the Akkulam ward got nine votes. Call for united effort Addressing the first council meeting after the elections, Mayor Arya Rajendran said that all the members need to work together to ensure that Thiruvananthapuram was turned into a model Corporation. “For the Corporation to become a model, we should all work towards turning our individual wards into model wards. We need to work united with everyone, beyond all barriers of politics, religion and caste,” she said. The leaders of various fronts congratulated the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor. Later, the LDF councillors led by the Mayor, and accompanied by CPI(M) and Students Federation of India activists marched to the martyr’s column and paid floral tributes.  For the Corporation to become a model, we should all work towards turning our individual wards into model wards Arya Rajendran Mayor, Thiruvananthapuram Corporation
29 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||P.K. Rajamohanan to helm Neyyattinkara municipality||P.K. Rajamohanan of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has been elected chairperson of the Neyyattinkara municipality. Priya Suresh, the Kerala Congress (M) candidate from the Panagattukari ward, has been elected municipal vice-chairperson. Mr. Rajamohanan secured 18 votes in the election to the chairperson’s post on Monday. Elected from the Moonnukallinmoodu ward, Mr. Rajamohanan defeated Jose Franklin (Muttakkadu ward councillor) of the United Democratic Front (UDF) who secured 16 votes. Though the LDF had fallen short of majority in the 44-member council, it is the single largest party in the council with 18 seats. The UDF was one seat short at 17. The BJP had won nine seats. Being the single largest party and in the absence of any winning Independent candidates, the LDF did not face any problems in coming to power Mr. Rajamohanan who quit as the CPI(M) Neyyattinkara area secretary to contest the polls had been the face of the LDF election campaign. In the first round of voting, he secured 18 votes, while the UDF got 16 votes. One UDF vote became invalid. Shibu Raj Krishna of the Bharatiya Janata Party secured nine votes. In the next round of voting in which Mr. Krishna was not considered, Mr. Rajamohanan again secured 18 votes against Mr. Franklin’s 16 votes, while one UDF vote became invalid yet again. Vice chairperson In the election to the vice chairperson’s post held in the afternoon, Priya Suresh, the lone Kerala Congress (M) candidate, secured 18 votes to defeat Ajitha R. of the UDF who got 17 votes. Ms. Suresh will remain vice chairperson for the entire tenure of the council, the LDF said, denying that the post would be shared with any of its other constituents. Mr. Rajamohanan, the new chairperson, told The Hindu that an electric crematorium for the town and effective waste management with plastic segregation and recycling would be the top priorities of the LDF. Both these projects had been on the manifestos of all the coalitions for long but were yet to be realised. The LDF intended to fix a date to seek the opinion of the public on the comprehensive development of the town and on the basis of inputs would prepare a master plan. The LDF would also need to look into its surprise loss in four wards — Elavanikkara, Mullaravila, Chaikottukonam, and Pullamala — that slightly upset its calculations, Mr. Rajamohanan said.
29 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||S. Kumari to steer Attingal again||S. Kumari of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] was sworn in as the chairperson of the Attingal municipality for the second term after she secured 18 votes in the 31-member council in the election held on Monday. G. Thulaseedharan Pillai of the CPI(M) was sworn in as the vice chairperson. In the election to the chairperson post held in the morning, only 30 votes were cast as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor Suji was not allowed to vote as she arrived late. The move by the presiding officer led to protests from the BJP councillors. Ms. Kumari, who won from the Thachoorkunnu ward, secured all the 18 votes of the Left Democratic Front members, while United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate Rema Devi and BJP candidate Deepa Rajesh secured six votes each. 18 votes In the election to the vice chairperson post, Mr. Pillai, who won from the Ramachamvila ward, secured 18 votes, while the BJP candidate got seven votes and the UDF candidate got six votes. The LDF has ruled the Attingal municipality in all terms, except once, since 1979.
29 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sabarimala temple to open on Dec. 30 for Makaravilakku||The mandatory virtual queue booking has started for pilgrims visiting the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple for the Makaravilakku festival that begins on December 31. Devotees undertaking the pilgrimage can book online atsabarimalaonline.org. The temple will be opened on December 30 at 5 p.m. for Makaravilakku. The entry to the temple will be allowed for pilgrims from December 31 morning. After Makaravilakku, the temple will close on January 20.  Certificate mandatory The entry to the temple is limited to 5,000 pilgrims daily. RTPCR/ RT-Lamp/ Express Nat COVID-19 negative certificate taken within 48 hours of the pilgrimage is mandatory. Those who do not have a COVID negative certificate will not be allowed to move from the base camps at Nilackal and Pampa to Sabarimala. There will be no COVID-19 testing facility at Nilackal.
29 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF wrests power in Varkala||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) wrested control of the Varkala municipality with the support of two Independent councillors, one of whom was rewarded with the post of vice-chairperson on Monday. K.M. Laji, who won from the Teachers Colony ward, was elected chairman after he secured 14 votes against National Democratic Alliance (NDA)’s councillor R. Anil Kumar who won 11 votes. All seven councillors of the United Democratic Front (UDF) abstained from voting. Following a stiff electoral battle recently, the LDF and the NDA had won 12 and 11 votes respectively, making the political choice adopted by the three Independents decisive in identifying the ruling front. On Monday, Independent councillors Kumari Sudarshini and Amina Aliyar voted in favour of the LDF and enabled the front to extend rule in the Varkala municipality. The third Independent councillor N. Sreyas abstained from the voting process. Hours later, Ms. Sudarshini who had contested as a Congress rebel candidate also secured 14 votes to defeat NDA’s Priya Gopan to become the vice-chairperson. Mr. Laji, a former president of the Varkala block panchayat, is currently a member of the CPI(M) Varkala area committee. After being sworn in as chairman, he listed his priority areas that included steps to enhance educational and health-care facilities in the Varkala town. Drinking water supply He also pledged the local body’s efforts in addressing the inadequate drinking water supply from the Vamanapuram river. A full-fledged crematorium will also be established in the municipal area. Priority will also be ensured to improve sanitation to bolster Varkala’s image as a tourist spot.
29 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Row over denial of certification to film||The denial of certification to Malayalam film Varthamanam by the regional office of the Central Board of Film Certification and a tweet by a member of the board citing reasons for the same has kicked up a row. The film, directed by Sidhartha Siva and written by Congress leader Aryadan Shoukath, stars Parvathy as a researcher in Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), studying the life of freedom fighter Mohammed Abdur Rahiman. ‘Dangerous trend’ Mr. Shoukath told The Hindu that the CBFC officials had only informed him that it had to be sent to the revising committee.  “They have denied us certification without citing any reason. But what surprised me was a tweet by one of the members who seemed to suggest that censorship was denied because it was written by me. This sets a dangerous trend of judging a film based on the writer’s or director’s clan or religion, instead of judging the film. It is a film which speaks the message that humans should remain united beyond the borders of religion or caste. We will do everything to ensure that people get to see this film,” said Mr. Shoukath. Tweet deleted In a tweet, which has now been deleted, censor board member V. Sandeep Kumar, who is also the BJP SC Morcha State vice president, said, “Today, I watched the movie Varthamanam as a member of the censor board. Its subject was the oppression of Dalits and Muslims in the JNU agitation. I opposed that. Because, Aryadan Shoukath is the scriptwriter and producer of the film. Surely, the film’s theme is anti-national.” The regional officials of the CBFC were unavailable for comment. Mr. Shoukath said that the censor board now had several political appointees who had no knowledge of cinema.
29 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2 new species of ginger found from northeast||The Mahabharatha epic describes Bhima, the second among the five pandava brothers, going in search of the Kalyanasaugandhika , a flower with a heavenly fragrance, to satisfy Panchali’s desire. Scientists have deduced that the mythological plant described by Vyasa is Hedychium coronarium, also known as white ginger lily. Now researchers from the Malabar Botanical Garden and Institute of Plant Sciences, Kozhikode, have discovered a close relative of Hedychium coronarium from the northeastern region. It was during a floristic expedition in the eastern Himalayas that the team comprising of M. Sabu and V.S. Hareesh came across the new species Hedychium mechukanum from a location at Quing and Tato near the Mechuka valley in Shi-Yomi district, Arunachal Pradesh, at an altitude of 1,400 m. Pleasant fragrance The species has large white flowers with a pleasant fragrance. It was found to be largely similar to other plants of the Hedychium genus found in northeast India and China, but different in several attributes. The discovery was published in Gardens Bulletin , Singapore. The paper notes that the plant grows in open areas of evergreen forests. Flowering is from mid-June to September and fruiting from September to November. The species was named after the small town Mechuka bordering China. The area from where the specimens were collected was under threat from road-widening. The scientists observed that Hedychium mechukanum could be widespread in the region. They have assessed the species as Data Deficient under the IUCN guidelines. The second new species named Amomum arunachalense was collected from Nirjuli in Papum Pare district, Arunachal Pradesh, by V.S. Hareesh and M. Sabu from Malabar Botanical Garden and Dipankar Borah from the Rajiv Gandhi University, Itanagar. As many as 11 species of the Amomum genus are distributed in the northeastern and southern regions of India and the Andaman and Nicobar islands.  Distinguishing features The new species is distinguished from others in the genus mainly by a white rhizome with a pale brown centre. The scientists have reported the discovery in the December 8 issue of Annals Botanici Fennici , a research journal published from Helsinki. The authors collected 20 specimens of the plant from moist, sloping locations along streams. They have noted that deforestation and extraction of shoots for medicinal purposes are major threats to the species.
29 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Testing dips, but test positivity stays up||Kerala reported 3,047 new COVID-19 cases on Monday when 32,869 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Testing has dipped by nearly half of that normally done on week days but the test positivity rate has remained at 9.27%. The cumulative case burden of the State has risen to 7,43,563 cases. The active case pool of the State now has 64,028 cases. With 4,172 recoveries being reported on the day, the cumulative recoveries in the State till date has touched 6,76,368. The addition of 14 new deaths that occurred in the State in the past few days to the official list of COVID-19 deaths has taken the toll till date to 2,990. Thiruvananthapuram reported five of these deaths, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kannur two each while Ernakulam, Kozhikode and Kasaragod reported one death each. Of the 3,047 new cases reported on Sunday, in 35 cases, the Health Department has reported a history of travel outside the State while 3,012 are locally acquired infections. Amongst the locally acquired infections, in 275 cases the source of infection remains untraced while 30 are healthcare workers. Among districts, Malappuram has 504 cases, Kozhikode 399, Ernakulam 340, Thrissur 294, Kottayam 241, Palakkad 209, Alappuzha 188, Thiruvananthapuram 188, Kollam 174, Wayanad 160, Idukki 119, Kannur 103, Pathanamthitta 91 and Kasaragod 37 cases.
29 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Energy awards announced||V.K. Damodaran has been chosen for the Kerala State Akshaya Oorja Award 2019 for lifetime contribution for energy conservation. Power Minister M.M. Mani on Monday announced the awards instituted by the Agency for Non-Conventional Energy and Rural Technology (ANERT) for popularising renewable energy options and energy conservation by institutions and individuals. The award for industries was shared by Malayala Manorama Limited and the Kozhikode-based Neelambari Exports. The award for commercial institutions was shared by Calicut University Cooperative Stores Limited and Clinic Dentistry, Thrissur. The National Skill Training Institute, Kozhikode, won the award for educational institutions. Care Home - Helping Hands, Kozhikode, won the award for non-profit organisations, while Perinjanam panchayat in Thrissur won the award for local bodies. Another award for industries was shared by Go Green Solar Private Limited and Spectrum Techno Products of Ernakulam.
29 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||188 cases in capital||The district recorded 188 COVID-19 cases and 262 recoveries on Monday. The number of active cases is 3,455. The district administration placed 1,160 persons under quarantine.
29 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||COVID cells to ensure safety in schools||As class 10 and 12 students start trickling into schools in the district for doubt clearing, revision, and practicals from January 1, classes will be held strictly following the COVID-19 protocols. Deputy Collector (Disaster Management) E.M. Safeer chaired a meeting at the Collectorate on Monday to review the arrangements made for students to return to school. COVID-19 cells have been formed under Principals or head teachers in every school for strict implementation of the COVID-19 safety protocols. Ward members or councillors, PTA presidents, doctor or nurse from primary health centres are all members of these cells. Classes will be held in two shifts — morning and afternoon —from January 1. Disinfection on school campuses is under way. Schools that were functioning as COVID first-line treatment centres have been disinfected and handed over to the General Education Department. No lunch Students with COVID-19 symptoms or coming in contact with those having the infection should not come to schools. Students will not be allowed to bring lunch to school. All should bring their own drinking water since it should not be shared in the COVID-19 situation. All schools should have sanitiser, thermal scanner, and other safety equipment. Masks are compulsory. Only 50% teachers Only 50% teachers will be deployed when schools reopen. Teachers and ‘jagratha samithis’ should ensure that the pandemic guidelines are observed.
29 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fire breakout at two places||Two major incidents of fire breakout were reported in the rural areas of the district in the early hours of Monday. The first incident was reported from Parvathypuram Gramam near the KSRTC bus stand in Attingal around 1 a.m. Two old houses in an agraharam and two makeshift shops adjacent to them were gutted in the fire. Fire and Rescue Services personnel led by Attingal station officer Jishad battled for close to three hours to bring the fire under control. Fire engines from the Varkala, Venjaramoodu and Kazhakuttam fire stations were also deployed to control the fire, said officials of the Attingal fire station. Rubber godown The second incident was reported from a rubber godown in Pazhayakunnummel in Kilimanoor around 3 a.m. Fire engines had to be sent from Kadakkal, Chenkalchoola, Venjaramoodu and Attingal fire stations. The fire was brought under control only by around 7.30 a.m.
29 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Interview for guest lecturer in commerce||Interview to the post of a guest lecturer in commerce at MMS Government Arts and Science College will be held on Tuesday, the Principal has informed. Those interested should appear at the college at 10 a.m with documents proving eligibility, age and experience, a release here said.
29 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Logos invited for sea food restaurants||The Fisheries Department has invited suitable logos for its sea food restaurants that are to be launched soon. The winning entry will get a cash prize of Rs. 5,000. The logo designs can be sent tosaf4help@gmail.com. The last date for sending entries is January 5, 2021. For more information - 0484-2607643,www.safkerala.org.
29 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Keralite bags 3 awards at science festival||Former Additional Director of Agriculture G.S. Unnikrishnan Nair has won three awards in the India International Science Festival (IISF) 2020. Return of the Holy Grain directed by Mr. Nair won the jury award comprising Rs. 50,000, trophy and certificate. The film Cheruvayal Raman Effect got a special jury mention consisting of trophy and certificate. The jury was chaired by veteran wildlife filmmaker Mike Pande. In the video contest organised as part of the Biodiversity Conclave, Mr. Nair’s film on Attappady Black Goats won the best film award. The festival was held on virtual platform this year.
29 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minimum wages revised||The government has notified the revised minimum wages for the employees of the computer software industrial sector. The Department of Labour and Skills has issued the detailed notification on December 18, an official release said.
29 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Congress rebel Varghese sworn in as Thrissur Mayor||Congress rebel M.K. Varghese was sworn in as Thrissur Corporation Mayor on Monday. He will be Mayor for the first two years. Consensus on making Mr. Varghese Mayor was reached at the CPI(M) meeting held under the leadership of Minister A.C. Moideen. CPI(M) and CPI will share power over the next three years. It was after much suspense and speculation that the Mayor post was given to a person outside the LDF. M.K. Varghese, who was denied a seat by the UDF, had contested and won the election against the official UDF candidate from Nettissery division of the Thrissur Corporation. His support became crucial for both the UDF and the LDF, as in the 55-member council, the LDF won 24 seat and the UDF won 23. Election to the Pullazhy division was postponed following the death of the LDF candidate. Both fronts tried to get the support of Mr. Varghese. Finally, he decided to stand with the LDF on the condition that he be made the Mayor. The LDF ensured their rule by granting him the post for the first two years. Rajasree Gopan of the CPI(M) is the deputy mayor. CPI was given a parliamentary party leader post, and Saramma Robson is the parliamentary party leader.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Threat to pedestrians||
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Steeped in history||
29 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government buildings get a colourful look||While searching for a government building in Anantapur city, there is every chance of you might miss it in the first instance. A dilapidated boundary wall with moss growing over it due to years of rainwater flowing on used to be the usual look of a government building, but during the COVID-19 lockdown period there was a magical transformation of the streets where government buildings are located. Mana Anantha - Sundara Anantha, a cleanliness drive along with improving green cover in the Anantapur Municipal Corporation limits launched on January 26 this year, brought a huge transformation with Mohammed Ali and Gopinath, artists from Vijayawada and Tirupati, who were commissioned by Anantapuramu-Hindupur Urban Development Authority (AHUDA) and the Anantapur Municipal Corporation (AMC), giving a major facelift to the streets. Collector’s brainchild The brainchild of District Collector and AMC Special Officer Gandham Chandrudu, the programme was basically launched to inculcate the habit of self help with regard to cleanliness, as part of its extension, beautifying the city roads was taken up with Anantapur MP Talari Rangiah initially donating a month’s salary (Rs. 1.75 lakh) for providing a new weather-proof paint coating for all the government/public buildings. The total project in the current phase will cost over Rs. 2 crore. After several marathon sessions with all stakeholders, trainee IAS officers posted in the district, several educative themes were selected to adorn the walls through which they tried to mirror the local cultural traditions, historical places, special food items peculiar to the region, agricultural practices, they have been depicted in the most lucid and attractive form with bright colours bringing out the exuberance of the people involved in those art forms or activity. Oliga, raagi mudda, jonna rotti and uggani are very common food items consumed all over Anantapur and parts of other Rayalaseema districts, which have depicted on the boundary wall of Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Learning, Anantapur campus on the Kadiri Road, and you can find practices of growing all the horticultural crops in the district -- papaya, banana, pomegranate, sweet lime, and guava. Various places of historical importance adorn the small parapet walls of the two flyovers in the city.
29 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mala Mahanadu leaders call on Snehalatha’s parents||Mala Mahanadu president Gadamandla Chennaiah along with party leaders visited the house or slain SBI Outsourced Employee Snehalatha on Monday, and demanded the immediate suspension of I Town Circle Inspector Prathap Reddy for his alleged negligence in protecting the girl despite her mother making a complaint to him. Party leaders consoled the parents of Snehalatha and demanded stringent punishment to the accused. Speaking to the mediapersons, Mr. Chennaiah criticised the police for taking things lightly. Demanding immediate trial in the case and conviction within 21 days as per the Disha Act, he said Dalit groups would agitate in big way throughout the State if it was not done. He alleged that the number of atrocities on Dalits had increased enormously after the YSRCP government came to power.
29 December 2020||BHIMAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roosters getting ready for Sankranti fight||With Sankranti, the biggest festival for farmers, approaching fast, cockfight organisers are busy making arrangements for the traditional game known as 'kodi pandelu' in local parlance. Flood lights, cockfight arenas, food stalls, VIP visits and punters carrying different varieties of roosters to the venues will be seen in villages during the three-day harvest festival, celebrated on a grand scale in Andhra Pradesh. Celebrities, NRIs, public representatives, realtors, businessmen and film actors from the U.S., Canada, Australia, Singapore and other countries, and from the neighbouring Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and other States will throng the venues to enjoy the fights. Cockfights will be conducted at several places in the State. However, West Godavari and Krishna districts are known for the tradition and arenas, called ‘kodi pandela barulu’) which will be arranged at more than 1,000 places in the two districts. “There would be no Sankranti, also known as 'Pedda Panduga' without cockfights. The game will be organised like previous years but with all COVID-19 precautions this Sankranti. We will arrange the game in coconut orchards and in island villages,” said an organiser B. Raju of Veeravasaram in West Godavari district. Some villagers and farmers are giving training to the fowls for the fight. Special training is being given to roosters for the last few months. A few villagers train the roosters throughout the year. “We feed roosters with almonds, cashew, eggs, mutton and other special diet. Cocks in my farm practise for about five hours a day. We get them bath in hot water, train them in swimming and other techniques to enhance the stamina,” said trainer P. Ranga Rao of Attili village. Fowls are named as ‘Nemali’, ‘Dega’, ‘Hamsha’, ‘Kaki’, ‘Tella Nemali’, ‘Kaki Dega’ and other names, which will be fixed as per their colour, height and weight. Punters buy the cocks as per the advice of astrologers. High rates “Organisers sell and buy fowls at high rates. Each fowl is sold at Rs. 50,000 and above, and the highest price is around Rs. 3 lakh. People from Karnataka, Telangana and other States buy roosters from our farms,” said a resident of Gurvayipalem village in Krishna district. Punters invest in high stakes and crores of rupees change hands during Bhogi, Sankranti and Kanuma festival days. For the last few years, organisers have been using online apps for transferring money. Punters booked hotels in Vijayawada, Gudivada, Guntur, Bhimavaram, Palakol, Razole, Jangareddygudem, Nuzvid, Kaikalur, Avanigadda, Nagayalanka, Machilipatnam, Eluru, Kovvur and other towns in advance for the harvest festival.
29 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor worth Rs. 20 lakh seized in Chittoor||The Chittoor police on Monday night seized a stock of liquor bottles worth around Rs. 20 lakh, allegedly smuggled from Karnataka, from a hideout at Kukkalapalle village under Chittoor municipal corporation limits. Acting on a tip-off, Additional SP Y. Rishant Reddy formed a special party and conducted the raids, leading to the seizure. Two youth of Chittoor were nabbed and two others are at large. A case has been registered and further investigation is on
29 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinta rebuts BJP claim on Tirupati development||Former Union Minister Chinta Mohan has criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders for, what he called, making claims that the NDA government sanctioned projects worth Rs. 50,000 crore for the Tirupati parliamentary constituency. Speaking to the media at Tirupati on the occasion of Congress Party’s Foundation Day on Monday, Dr. Chinta Mohan refuted the BJP’s claim, and termed it a big lie. The Congress leader observed that it was he who got a number of projects sanctioned for Tirupati during the regime of the Congress-led UPA. They include Rs. 20,000-crore Dugarajupatnam port, Rs. 70,000-crore NH project, international airport, Mannavaram BHEL-NTPC project, development of SVIMS hospital and new railway projects such as doubling of Katpati-Tirupati line and coach repair unit. “Unfortunately, along with the BJP, the Telugu Desam and the YSR Congress Party had worked against many projects meant for Tirupati during the last one decade,” Dr. Chinta Mohan said. He alleged that the NDA government also stopped housing scheme worth Rs. 300 crore for the poor in Tirupati. Farm laws The former Minister said that the three Farm Acts would be more detrimental to Andhra Pradesh, where marginal and small farmers form 70%.
29 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Village, ward secretariats to get remote learning centres||Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy on Monday said that the State government would set up ‘Remote Learning Centres’ (RLC) at the village and ward Secretariats, which would broadcast content on academics and technology, apart from offering online courses. Speaking at the inaugural session of a conference on ‘Computer vision, High performance computing, Smart Devices and Networks (CHSN-2020)’ at the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Kakinada (JNTU-K), prof. Hemachandra said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had mooted setting up the RLCs, through which the content on academics and technology would be broadcast. “The RLCs will come up by the end of next year. The centres are being designed to offer online courses in coming years. They will broadcast the content to be developed by the central learning management system,” he said.  Research university Meanwhile, the State government has decided to establish a new university for the advanced research. “The Chief Minister has given his consent to set up the university that will act as a mentor to all the technological universities. Faculty from foreign universities will be roped to guide the technological universities in the research in various disciplines,” said prof. Hemachandra. Speaking at the conference, JNTU former Vice-Chancellor Allam Appa Rao appealed to the APSCHE and technological universities to come up with new courses on various disciplines. “The artificial intelligence and big data technologies should be explored by encouraging research,” he said. Rayalaseema University Vice-Chancellor A. Ananda Rao, his JNTU-K counterpart M. Ramalinga Raju, JNTU-K Registrar Ch.Satyanarayana also spoke on the occasion. Prof. Hemachandra and prof. Appa Rao presented the best researcher awards to the winners.
29 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nod for four more scanning centres||The East Godavari District Advisory Committee on the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act, 1994 (PCPNDT Act), led by District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, on Monday granted permission for four new scanning centres and renewed the term of nine centres. The East Godavari district has 306 scanning centres, including 268 in private hospitals. In an official release, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy asked the officials concerned and district monitoring team on the PCPNDT Act to intensify the raids on the scanning centres to put check on sex determination tests. Special judge C. Satya Vani, Joint Collector Ch. Kirthi, and other officials were present.
29 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||SriVani devotees to have darshan from nearer point||The TTD has ordered restoration of status for SriVani ticket holders in the darshan of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala. The decision comes in the wake of the episode on Vaikunta Dwadasi when a section of devotees who had purchased the Rs. 11,000 SriVani tickets questioned the propriety of the management in overlooking the darshan protocols meant for them. Though it was categorically mentioned on the tickets that they will be permitted in ‘Maha laghu’ not beyond Jaya and Vijaya idols, the devotees complained that they came to know about the stipulation only after the purchase of tickets. Direction to staff TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy swung into damage control mode and gave directions providing them darshan from a further nearer point. The orders came into effect from Triodasi on Sunday. Record hundi collection According to statistics, about 1.80 lakh devotees had the darshan of the deity on Vaikunta Ekadasi and Dwadasi during the previous festival season as against a little over 83,000 devotees this year in view of COVID-19 restrictions. The temple hundi registered a record income of Rs. 7.37 crore in two days.
29 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD lodges complaint against FB page||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Monday lodged a complaint with police against ‘Talapatra nidhi’ a Facebook URL page and others for allegedly depicting an electrical image set up atop the temple complex as a holy cross and thereby insulting the sentiments of the Hindus. The TTD clarified that the electrical image was of a ‘Poorna Kumbham’ (kalash/pot) that finds a regular place in the decoration of the main temple complex on festive occasions. Speaking to the media, TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy termed it as a deliberate and mischievous attempt aimed at tarnishing the image of the institution. The official of the TTD also suspected a conspiracy by some vested interests behind the wrongful propaganda and warned that strict action would be initiated against the offenders.
29 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Single-use plastic posing a major environmental hazard: Venkaiah||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu stressed the need for curbing environmental pollution being caused by single-use plastic, while highlighting the indispensability of plastic material for its durability. Addressing the faculty and students at the Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology (CIPET) at Surampalli in Krishna district on Monday, Mr. Venkaiah Naidu said that the positive dimension was the wide-ranging applications of plastic, which was of immense utility during the coronavirus pandemic in the form of personal protection equipment (PPE) and other medical supplies. “Life has become unimaginable without use of plastic which, along with other polymers, has formed an integral part of petrochemicals. However, single-use plastic poses a major environmental hazard as it is being discarded irresponsibly,” said Mr. Venkaiah Naidu. He said that marine ecosystem around the globe was being polluted with plastic waste. But, banning or avoiding single-use plastic was easier said than done. However, people must refrain themselves from littering the habitations, water bodies and etc., he suggested. The Vice-President said he was happy to visit CIPET, Vijayawada, one of the 36 institutions sanctioned to Andhra Pradesh post-bifurcation. Bifurcation blues He recalled that he had impressed upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi, when he was in the Central government, to give Andhra Pradesh the institutions it desperately needed to overcome the crisis caused by bifurcation. “The location of most of the industries, businesses and sources of revenue in Hyderabad at the time of bifurcation was a cause for concern. We did our best for the development of Andhra Pradesh by getting various institutions and projects sanctioned,” he said.
29 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Notices served on 72 loan app organisers, say police||The online instant call money operators are allegedly harassing customers by adopting coercive methods for recovery of loans. The loan app organisers are reportedly charging 30% and above interest rate. In case of a default in repayment, within a matter of hours they are allegedly contacting the friends and relatives of customers in an attempt to discredit the borrowers. They are said to be using highly abusive language and insulting customers. There have been instances of some customers getting driven to suicide. “The financiers are targeting women, friends and relatives of customers using unparliamentary language,” lamented a customer. Stern action “Instant loan apps are being operated from China, Japan, the U.S. and other countries. Some applications are being run from Delhi, Noida, Gurgaon and other places in North India. We are probing the role of NRIs in the racket,” an investigation officer said. Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu told The Hindu that 72 online apps have been identified and notices served to the organisers. The app operators were collecting not less than 30% interest. “We are investigating the role of app organisers, local employees and alleged foreign links. The police have booked a few cases against the operators. Stern action will be taken against the erring app organisers,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. The Police Commissioner also appealed to the public not to borrow loans from private and instant online financiers who are running the trade illegally.
29 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan Kalyan warns of laying siege to Assembly||Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan warned the government that the party would lay siege to Legislative Assembly if a compensation of Rs. 35,000 per acre was not paid to farmers who had lost their crops to the rain caused by Cyclone Nivar. Mr. Pawan Kalyan addressed the media and people outside the Krishna district Collectorate in Machilipatnam, and later a gathering at Gudivada after submitting a memorandum to District Revenue Officer on Monday. “Thousands of farmers, unemployed youth and others will be roped in to mount pressure on the government to bail out the farmers,” he said. Pointing out that the Telangana government had covered all the 58 lakh farmers under its Rythu Bandhu scheme, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said that Andhra Pradesh government was covering only 40 lakh of the 84 lakh farmers in the State under the Rythu Bharosa Scheme. Around 70% of the farmers in the State are tenant farmers and they are facing troubles in proving their identity before the village secretariat volunteers, he said. “The Centre has provided a financial aid of Rs. 2,000 each to nine crore farmers in the country, but the State has not announced any help yet,” said Mr. Pawan Kalyan.
29 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh demands Rs. 50,000 per ha. aid for loss of commercial crops||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national general secretary Nara Lokesh on Monday interacted with the family members of the farmers who allegedly ended their lives, unable to bear the severe losses and mounting debts incurred owing to the heavy rains and cyclone, as part of the ‘Rythu Kosam’ programme being organised by the party in Krishna district. He demanded that the State government gave a compensation of Rs. 30,000 per hectare for regular crops and Rs. 50,000 per hectare for commercial crops. ‘Indifferent government’ “The farmers would not have resorted to the extreme steps, had the State government provided compensation to them in time,” said Mr. Lokesh after paying tributes to the deceased farmers by garlanding their photographs. He also visited the damaged crop fields at Majeru in Challapalli area. Accusing the State government of being indifferent to the farmers’ woes, Mr. Lokesh said the debt-ridden farmers ending their lives due to losses ‘failed to wake up Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy from slumber’. “More than 766 farmers ended their lives in just 19 months of the YSRCP’s tenure, he said. At Chintalamada in Avanigadda Assembly constituency, Mr. Lokesh paid homage to the photo of deceased farmer Sambasiva Rao. He consoled the farmer's family members. “Sambasiva Rao’s family members told me that he had taken five acres of land on lease for cultivation. But, his entire crop was damaged in the rain. The looming debts had his life. They did not receive compensation in time,” said Mr. Lokesh. “The Agriculture Minister was watching dances when farmers were facing a life and death situation on account of crop losses. More than 50 lakh acres were damaged in the kharif and the farmers suffered a loss of Rs. 10,000 crore,” he added.
29 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Amma Vodi’ scheme to be launched on January 9||The government on Monday issued a G.O. MS No. 63, permitting the Director of School Education to launch the ‘Jagananna Amma Vodi’ scheme on January 9, for the 2020-21 academic year. The order issued by Principal Secretary (School Education) B. Rajasekhar said that a financial assistance of Rs. 15,000 per annum would be provided to each mother or a recognised guardian in the below poverty line (BPL) household, irrespective of number of children in that family studying from Class I to XII in all recognised government private aided and private unaided schools/junior colleges including residential schools and junior colleges in the State. The scheme is aimed at enhancing access to schools, ensuring quality education, regulating attendance, retention and better learning outcomes, apart from ensuring overall development of the children , leading to higher gross enrolment ratio.
29 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to set up substation on airport premises mooted||AP Transco officials have proposed the establishment of a 132KV substation on the premises of Vijayawada International Airport for better and uninterrupted power supply. The officials met Airport Director G. Madhusdhana Rao on Monday and submitted the proposals which would be forwarded to higher officials for approval. Transco officials also sought land to an extent of 2.5 to 3 acres on the airport premises for the substation. Mr. Rao assured sanction of the land required after taking up the issue with higher officials concerned. According to Mr. Rao, currently, the airport was receiving power supply from Gunadala sub-station.
29 December 2020||VISAKHAPATAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sandalwood, ganja seized||The Chodavaram police on Monday seized 499 kg dry ganja worth Rs. 10 lakh near Chodavaram in Visakhapatnam district. Similarly, in another incident, police intercepted a vehicle and seized about 105 kg of sandalwood. In this case, two persons were arrested, it is learnt. More details are yet to be ascertained in the case.
29 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crime against women, ganja cases see an increase in district||Crimes against women and ganja smuggling cases have seen a marginal increase, while property offences and road accidents have reduced in the year 2020 in Visakhapatnam district police limits. The district reported as many as 459 cases against women during 2020, as against 370 in 2019. Among these cases, 146 pertain to domestic violence as against 164 in 2019. The district also reported 64 rape cases in 2020 as against 45 in 2019. Out of the 64 rapes, 29 were committed on the false promise of marriage and cheating, while 31 were registered under POCSO Act. It may be noted that during the year 2019, rape cases registered under POCSO were just 20. Similarly, various women harassment cases reported in 2020 were 249 while in the year 2019 it was only 161. Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao said that in 2020, a number of women came forward to report about incidents with the police, which is a good sign. Several initiatives were launched to encourage women to approach police for help without any stigma, he said. “Of the rape and POCSO rape cases, chargesheets were filed in 45% cases within the stipulated period of 30 days. In a case under Kotlavuratla police station limits, the district police filed a chargesheet within seven days and in another incident in Anakapalle rural limits, chargesheet was filed in 18 days,” he said. Addressing the media during the annual press conference here on Monday, Mr. Krishna Rao said that the district registered as many as 12,874 crimes in 2020, as against 6,982 in 2019. However, 8,235 of these cases were COVID-19 violations, he said. The SP also said that enforcement work has seen an improvement this year compared to previous one. In the year 2020, the total number of enforcement cases booked were 5,972 and during 2019, it was 4,860. There was an increase a 25% increase in NDPS cases. In 2019, as many as 199 ganja smuggling cases were booked in which 23,172 kg ganja was seized. But in 2020, the number of ganja smuggling cases reported were 243 in which 42,434 kg ganja was seized. He said that 739 bodily offences were reported in 2020 as against 722 in 2019. Murders, attempt to murder and kidnapping cases have come down this year. House break-ins declined by 52% compared to the previous year. Only 91 H.B.s were reported in 2020, as against 190 in 2019. “During this year, 153 property offences were detected in which 159 persons were arrested. Police had recovered property worth Rs. 1.18 crore,” he said. Mr. Krishna Rao said that there was a 13% decrease with 302 deaths in road accidents this year as against 370 in 2019. The SP also said that as many as 499 police personnel from all wings of district police were affected by COVID-19 in the discharge of their duties. Among them, four had died, he said.
29 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speed up lower rotary works of NAD flyover, Botcha tells officials||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA & UD) Botcha Satyanarayana inspected the NAD flyover works here on Monday. Expressing optimism on completion of the flyover works by January-end, the Minister instructed the officials to speed up lower rotary works, apart from carrying the beautification, electrical and related works. Electrical works Mr. Satyanarayana instructed the officials to allow traffic from NSTL towards Marripalem and the airport. He said that vehicles were already being allowed from the airport towards Gopalapatnam and NSTL. He enquired with the officials about the progress since the last one month. The Minister also instructed the representatives to complete the pending works of lower rotary by January 31. He said that electrical works and painting works of upper rotary completed within 15 days.  Lower rotary works Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao said that the lower rotary works were going on at a brisk pace. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao, Collector V. Vinay Chand, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana and other officials were present.
29 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Blue Flag’ hoisted at Rushikonda Beach||Rushikonda Beach in the city has become the first in Andhra Pradesh and among eight beaches in India to be awarded the Blue Flag, the prestigious eco-label which places it in the league of world-class beaches. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao hoisted the flag at Rushikonda on Monday. Union Minister of Environment, Forests and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar hoisted the flags at the eight beaches simultaneously through a video conference from Delhi. Mr. Srinivas Rao said the coveted certification features Rushikonda prominently in the league of world-class beaches. The certification was done based on 33 parameters like environment education, environment protection, management, quality of water and bathing facilities.  Star hotels Mr. Srinivasa Rao appealed to the Union Minister to consider development of nine other beaches in A.P., including the beach near Erramatti Dibbalu in Visakhapatnam, Suryalanka in Guntur district, Kakinada and Chintalamori in East Godavari, Perupalem and Mulaparru in West Godavari district, Manginapudi in Krishna district, Ramapuram in Prakasam district and Mypadu in Nellore district, as Blue Flag would help in attracting tourists from across the globe. He said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was according top priority to promotion of tourism in A.P. as part of which the State government had declared the new tourism policy recently. The State with a vast coastline line of 944 km had immense tourism potential and was second in tourism after Kerala. He, however, said that tourism infrastructure development in the last decade was not up to the mark. Efforts were being made to establish either 5 or 7 Star hotels at 12 places in the State. A.P. Tourism Authority CEO Pravin Kumar, District Collector V. Vinay Chand and officials of the Tourism Department attended the programme.
29 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) seeks justice to LG Polymers victims||The CPI(M) has appealed to the Chief Secretary to do justice to the victims of the styrene vapour leak at LG Polymers India Limited in Visakhapatnam. In a memorandum to the Chief Secretary at Amaravati on Monday, party leaders Ch. Narasinga Rao B. Ganga Rao recalled the tragedy, which had claimed 13 lives on May 7, 2020 and another three lives in hospitals, subsequently. They said that 585 people turned sick and were treated at hospitals. Crops were burnt to ashes and water was polluted and rendered useless. The groundwater in the villages of R.R.Venkatapuram and Venkatadri gardens, was not potable and the borewell water was highly polluted due to the vapour leak, they said. The State government had paid ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore to each of the families of the 12 persons who died on the day of the tragedy, but ignored three orther victims, who died later, they said. The government promised to construct a super specialty hospital in RR Venkatapuram and the foundation stone was also laid. A temporary hospital was commenced with a single doctor. But of late, the hospital is run by ASHA workers and nurses, said Mr. Narasinga Rao. There is no laboratory even for blood tests. The promise of the government for a super specialty hospital did not materialise even seven months after the tragedy. Even the health cards issued are of no use, they alleged. A committee was formed with Purushotham, a professor in KGH, to monitor the situation. But the said doctor expired due to COVID-19 and the panel became non-functional. The high-power committee recommended shifting of the LG Polymers factory to a faraway place. But no action was taken so far in this regard, they said.
29 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VARWA, NIVAS oppose tax hike proposals||The Visakha Apartment Residents Welfare Association (VARWA) and NIVAS (Greater Visakha Residential Colony Associations Federation) demanded cancellation of the proposed hike in property tax, underground drainage charges and water tax. VARWA representative N. Prakasa Rao said that the association was organising various programmes and trying to create awareness among the citizens on the proposed reforms in tax collections, which would cause a huge burden on the common people. The plan was to collect UGD tax based on the number of commodes in a house, which was ridiculous. A flat rate would be collected for water tap connections at the moment but later water meters would be installed and the charges would be increased exorbitantly. A protest would be staged at the GVMC Office on January 6, he added.
29 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held for ‘murder’ of rowdy-sheeter||Three youth were arrested and a juvenile was taken into custody in connection with the murder of a rowdy-sheeter Korada Sai, which was reported on December 26th night, here on Monday. The arrested were identified as Khadir Riyaz (22), Nammi Srinivas (22) and Sheikh Sameer (24), all from Arilova. According to police, earlier the four accused reportedly used to work like associates with Korada Sai. Later they allegedly started ignoring him. Sai allegedly abused them and asked them to join him again. Investigation on Anticipating some threat from Sai, the accused allegedly murdered him beating him with an iron rod and slitting his throat while he was going home. Further investigation is on.
29 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Modi praises Vizag man in ‘Mann Ki Baat’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme on Sunday mentioned Venkata Murali Prasad from Visakhapatnam, who came up with an innovative idea of an ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat Chart (ABC)-2021’ in a letter to him. Mr. Modi praised the ‘ABC chart’, in which Mr. Venkata Prasad mentioned the items that are being used regularly at home by everyone, divided them and opined that if those were manufactured locally, the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ goal could be achieved. Describing the idea as ‘innovative’ and ‘eye-opener’, Mr. Modi said this shows that there is a change in the attitude among people in India towards the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. ‘ABC-2021’ Mr. Murali Prasad, in his chart, categorised day-to-day essentials in six categories. In the electronic category, he mentioned air conditioner, television, phone and related items, refrigerators, kitchen appliances. In the ‘self care’ category, he put toothbrush, soap, shampoo, shaving kit, cosmetics, sanitiser and others. In 'kitchen’ category, he put water bottles, crockery, tea/coffee, beverages, while gadgets, bag and others found place in ‘office and work’ category. In ‘others’ category, he mentioned cycle, two-wheeler, car, furniture, and others.
29 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VCCI hails new tourism policy||The new tourism policy announced by the State government will attract private investments and entrepreneurship in tourism sector, Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry (VCCI) president G. Veera Mohan and its secretary Ravi Godey have said. Addressing a media conference here on Monday, the VCCI leaders hailed Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao for coming out with a host of incentives to position the State as a premier world-class tourism destination. The State government has come out with a slew of incentives to help the tourism and hotel industry to tide over the crisis due to the pandemic situation. These include reimbursement of 100% of net SGST accrued to the State for all new units for a period of five years from Commercial Operations Date (COD) or up to realisation of 100% fixed capital investment, whichever was earlier, fixed cost power reimbursement to new tourism units at Rs. 2 per unit for a period of five years from COD for all new tourism projects, reimbursement of 100% of stamp duty and reimbursement of 100% of stamp duty and 100% waiver of land use conversion charge.
29 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Outreach programmes yielding results’||SP B. Krishna Rao has said that the community welfare programmes being initiated by the district police are yielding positive results in the tribal areas this year. Speaking about focus areas in the coming year, he said that the district police would continue to ensure people-friendly policing and provide better services to the citizens. Addressing the annual press conference here on Monday, Mr. Krishna Rao said that the district reported as many as 34 extremist offences in the year 2020. Among the offences, include murder of two tribals by the extremists recently after branding them as ‘informers’. Apart from it, two tribals were also killed in a landmine blast which was planted by extremists. The year also saw three Exchanges of Fire, he added. Seven extremists and 15 Militia members were arrested, while 14 Militia members had surrendered, he said.
29 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 13 new COVID cases, 1 death||The district reported 13 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 59,579, as per the bulletin released on Monday. After almost 11 days, the district registered a COVID-19 death. According to the district bulletin, the death toll stands at 522.
29 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trial run of multi-level car parking project conducted||A trial run was conducted of the multi-level car parking project (MLCP), which is being set up as part of smart city works near Jagadamba Junction, here on Monday. Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development (MA&UD) Botcha Satyanarayana inspected the trial run along with GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana and instructed the officials to complete the pending works by month-end. The G+5 MLCP project was being taken up by a Pune-based private company at a cost of Rs. 9.7 crore. The facility, which is completely computerised and mechanical, can accommodate 100 cars. It may be remembered that the project was delayed last year due to some reason and again due to COVID-19 this year. Executive Engineer, Smart City works, GVMC, Sudhakar, said that the project was in the final stage of completion. He was also hopeful of bringing the project to use from January.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not the time to relax||
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sowing time||
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remembering the roots||
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Making a splash!||
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘ESIC a role model for medical education’||Union Minister of State for Labour and Employment Santosh Kumar Gangwar, who felicitated COVID-19 warriors at ESIC Medical College, Sanathnagar, on Monday, said that the college is functioning as a role model for medical education. A super speciality hospital, too, is located on the same premises where patients suffering from various ailments, including COVID-19, are attended. The Union Minister of State said that he had heard several positive things about the medical college, and was, therefore, visiting the college. He was apprised of the various initiatives and functioning of the hospital. At a programme held on Monday, employees of the hospital at various levels, such as security wing, housekeeping, nurses and doctors, were felicitated. The oldest and youngest COVID survivors as well as those who fought the virus for over five weeks were congratulated. Prior to the programme, the faculty and students explained to the Minister about the various innovations with regard to cutting down transmission of the virus.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||It was a tumultuous year gone by for the GHMC||The Year 2020 will be forever etched in the institutional memory of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) for more than one reason. The year will be remembered for bouts of tumultuous activity for GHMC staff, apart from, and sometimes in dereliction of, their regular duties. The roller coaster ride began with the onset of COVID-19 pandemic in the first quarter, and continued up to the GHMC elections at the fag end of the year. Since March this year, the circle and zonal level officials were involved lock, stock and barrel in COVID-19 operations, along with their counterparts from the Health, Police and Revenue departments. Special surveillance teams were formed initially with active role by GHMC, to track down all the foreign returnees and enforce home isolation or hospitalisation. Later on when the numbers rose uncontrollably, the same teams were deployed for monitoring of COVID-19 containment zones, and contact tracing of all the coronavirus infected persons. As the pandemic had rendered thousands of persons in the city unemployed and without shelter, it became GHMC’s responsibility to feed them and provide shelter. Annapurna canteens began to provide free meals for the destitute, waiving of even the Rs. 5 per plate meals charged earlier. In order to meet the demand, the number of canteens was increased from 150 to over 370 by the month of May, serving up to 1.5 lakh hungry per day. Free meals were distributed across various localities through close to 260 mobile Annapurna centres. The Sanitation & Entomology teams of GHMC worked tirelessly, cleaning and disinfecting the containment zones and localities surrounding the isolation facilities on regular basis, even while discharging the regular sanitation and vector control duties. More than 30 of GHMC’s own staff majority of whom were deployed in containment zones, tested positive for COVID-19. Even after the government’s focus on COVID-19 began to wane with the Unlock guidelines, the corporation’s staff had little respite, as they were deployed almost entirely on collection of property data for uploading into Dharani portal. Devastating floods followed on the heels of torrential downpour in mid-October, wrecking the city in every nook and corner. Hundreds of localities were submerged, and more than 50 people were washed away in the floods. More families have been displaced, and even at the turn of the year, several are unable to return to their homes as flood water refuses to recede. GHMC officials who busied themselves in the rescue and rehabilitation operations, were also given the additional responsibility of the flood relief distribution ahead of civic polls. The distribution was mired in controversy, as many of the affected alleged irregularities by the GHMC staff. Even while the corporation claimed disbursal of Rs. 65 crore by way of flood relief, selection of beneficiaries is still shrouded in opacity. The final bout of frenzied activity came by way of GHMC elections, which will make 2020 a watershed year for the very outcome.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||From record cultivation to new ideas, farmers saw it all||The calendar year 2020, which comprises Yasangi (Rabi) of 2019-20 and Vanakalam (Kharif) of 2020-21 agricultural seasons, that is about to set into history has been one of the most eventful in the recent past for the agriculture sector in Telangana, in spite of the COVID-19 pandemic having its impact. Foremost, the year would be remembered for experimenting with the regulated system of cropping pattern in the just concluded Vanakalam season. Eventually, it was the only season that saw the experimentation as the State government did not prescribe it for the current Yasangi season, although it has suggested the farming community not to cultivate maize ub regular extent for the second season in a row. Ultimately, the government has come to decision that it would be good not to issue any guidelines on the cropping pattern after burning its fingers with the experiment in the last season and observed that there is no need for regulated farming and the farmers could take a call taking into account the market and local conditions with the help of Rythu Vedikas. Central laws The State government has also cited the implementation of new farm laws brought in by the Centre as a reason for backing out from most of its responsibilities, hitherto, associated with procurement of several food crops. The Vanakalam season saw cultivation of crops on a record extent of about 1.36 crore acres and an estimated production of nearly 98 lakh tonnes food crops and another 82 lakh tonnes of other crops. Record production “Although excess rains in October have impacted the yield of major crops, the production is still likely to be in a record quantity for the season,” a senior official of the Agriculture Department said. As the government has asked the farmers to follow the regulated cropping pattern in Vanakalam, their expectations on both procurement and price were also high. However, damage caused by the excessive rains to crops like paddy and cotton have resulted in a lot of disappointment initially during the procurement. “The despair that was there about the price, particularly in case of the superfine variety of paddy which was cultivated on over 10 lakh acres out of nearly 53.34 lakh acres of all varieties of the major cereal crop, has given way for hope and joy within weeks of the commencement of procurement exercise. Arrival of traders from several neighbouring and others States have helped the farmers get a price up to Rs. 2,400 per quintal against the support price of Rs. 1,888 per quintal for ‘A’ grade paddy”, B. Janardhan Reddy, Secretary (Agriculture) told The Hindu . As the pandemic has affected the supply chain of many agricultural and horticultural crops during the year, the concept of online sale of fresh fruits has also picked up with some entrepreneurs making most of the situation. Some farmers have even taken to sale of processed products such as rice, instead of paddy, to make up their losses and make some good returns. Mobile rice mill A mobile rice mill has also helped several such farmers in the combined Karimnagar district by milling paddy at the farm-gate.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hidden agenda behind lifting of procurement centres: BJP||A day after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced withdrawal of procurement centres of farm produce from villages as farmers were permitted to sell their stocks anywhere under the new farm laws of the Centre, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sensed a “conspiracy” and said any attempt to blame the Central government for the farmers woes in Telangana using this as a ruse will be strongly opposed on Monday. “We will appreciate if Mr. Rao really believes in the Farm Acts but if there is a selfish motive, we will take the fight to his farmhouse. He is saying procurement centres will be removed on this premise, it is not there in any Act. In fact, we have been demanding the government to increase the number of procurement centres and also convert farmers centres,” said party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar. At a press conference, he demanded the government take up awareness programmes in all villages on agriculture operations for farmers benefit across the State to convince people of the true intent of supporting the Farm Acts because there is a debate everywhere about the hidden agenda behind the latest u-turn. Flanked by MLC N. Ramchander Rao, ex-MP Vivek Venkatswamy, general secretary Premander Reddy and others, Mr. Sanjay Kumar went ballistic against the Chief Minister calling him - “U-Turn CM.” “Did he not change his mind on supplying free fertilizer to farmers? Is he not doing the same with the registration process? Did he not brush off Coronavirus and is now sporting a face mask and sanitiser? What happened to his regulated farming, and demanding farmers grow fine rice,” he questioned. The BJP chief advised Mr. Rao to shed his “monarch-like” attitude and “feudal approach” and hold discussions with domain experts and Opposition before taking up any major decision. His policies, which can even “put Tughlaq to shame” has led to heavy losses to the farmers, big dent to the exchequer and affected the poor the most.” The TRS should also pay for damages caused to properties during the “sarkari bandh” recently in which no farmer from the State participated, he said. “There is something amiss in his change of attitude since he has a record of deceiving people by diverting attention. How can he claim loss of Rs. 7,500 crore for procurement when the Centre is paying for everything?,” he wondered. Mr. Sanjay Kumar also released a mobile app brought by Mr. Ramchander Rao for the forthcoming MLC polls.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hexagon arm sets up country’s first AI community centre in Hyderabad||An Artificial Intelligence community centre that will offer courses free of cost to school students and engineering graduates as a step towards democratising AI knowledge cum skill has been established in the city by Hexagon Capability Center India (HCCI). Set as part of HCCI’s corporate social responsibility education outreach, HexArt Institute, the facility, was inaugurated by Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan on Monday. Announcing the 2,000 sq ft fully equipped facility at Mehdipatnam is now open to residents of Telangana, a release said the courses and certification programmes have been designed by industry professionals. While the courses on fundamentals of AI are for students in Classes 8-12, the advanced level programmes will be for senior engineering graduate. The centre has been established at a cost of Rs. 64 lakh and HCCI will invest further Rs. 30 lakh annually to manage it. Online mode Until a decision on reopening of schools is taken by government, HexArt Institute will offer the courses online. On how many students stood to benefit, HCCI VP and General Manager Navaneet Mishra said, “COVID changed many of the parameters, because earlier we were only thinking classrooms and 350 students a year.” With the pandemic, it was decided to upload everything on the Cloud. Though it involved additional expenditure, the switch to Cloud is likely to push up the number of beneficiaries too. About 600 students are likely to be benefitted now, he said. The release said NASSCOM Foundation was the CSR partner for the initiative and shared its expertise in setting up such learning centres. Li2 Technologies has been onboarded as implementation partners to design and execute the courses along with administrative responsibilities. Year of AI Noting that the community centre is an attempt to demystify AI, as it now was perceived as a technology to be explored by only those fluent in English and highly qualified, Mr.Ranjan cited the efforts of Telangana government to promote such emerging technologies. Year 2020 was commemorated as the year of AI in the State, he said, adding the focus will continue in the coming year and beyond as well. Head, Membership and Outreach of NASSCOM Srikanth Srinivasan congratulated HCCI on setting up the first AI community centre in the country.
29 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Crime against women sees a rise in Rachakonda||The year 2020 was a year of mixed results for Rachakonda police with the overall crime rate dipping by 12% when compared to last year even as the crimes against women and crimes against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes show an upward trend. Similarly, percentage of bodily offences, including attempt to murder also went up this year. Presenting the crime statistics to the media persons at the annual press meet here on Monday, Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh M. Bhagwat attributed the decline in crime rate from a year ago owing to factors like COVID-19 lockdown among others. So far this year, the police registered 20,641 cases, which shows a reduction of 11 % over 23,127 such cases last year. However, cases of rape have increased by 13 % this year with police registering 329 cases as compared to 314cases in 2019. Substantiating the claims, the Commissioner said that rapes include both technical as well as actual. Technical rapes denote sexual assault on women by a promise marriage and other baits, he said. Cases against SC/STs has increased to 339 when compared to last year’s 327 cases. Further touching upon the effectiveness of traffic police in safety of motorists, Mr. Bhagwat said that the overall accident rate decreased notably. “The number of lives lost in accidents so far this year was 533 as against 739 deaths last year,” he said, adding that 3,203 drunk drivers were booked, of whom 324 were imprisoned. Even the total number of road accidents has seen a sharp decline with 2,047 cases being reported so far when compared to 2,990 cases in 2019. However, road accidents on the Nehru Outer Ring Road were a tad less as compared to previous year. “This year so far 31 accidents took place on ORR with 15 deaths, while the number of accidents last year was 33 with 21 deaths,” Mr. Bhagwat said. As with the increase in online activities amid COVID-19 pandemic, cyber crime remains an area of concern with an increase of over 200 % since last year. So far, a total of 704 cyber crimes were registered against 334 last year. As many as 704 Cyber Crime cases have been reported in Rachakonda police commissionerate as against 334 cases last year. “Customer care frauds in the name of insurance, online dating was on the rise with 330 cases followed by 104 social media frauds cases and 81 cases pertaining to frauds on OLX and online marketplace,” the Commissioner said. One of the important cases being the arrest of a Nigerian and his accomplice in New Delhi who cheated a victim to the tune of Rs. 30 lakh in the name of charity. He said that come 2021, the Rachakonda police will start Cyber Yoddha, an awareness driver on online frauds.
29 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Proposal to rename Telugu University||A proposal to rename the Telugu University after Suravaram Pratapa Reddy was made during the poet-journalist-thinker’s 125th birth anniversary celebrations in Hyderabad on Monday. “We will look into the proposal and bring it to the notice of the Chief Minister about renaming the Telugu University after Suravaram Pratapa Reddy to recognise his contribution to the literature of Telangana,” said IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao. The proposal was first floated on the dais by S. Niranjan Reddy, Agriculture Minister, who represents the Wanaparthy Assembly constituency. “Suravaram Pratapa Reddy’s life was a struggle. But its lesson is such that we still remember his contribution to the society after 125 years of his birth. His is an example of the message that it is not important ‘how long we lived but how we lived’,” said Mr. Rama Rao. “The proposal to name the university after him is one of them. We are still thinking about honouring him in a way that befits him and for future generations to remember him,” he added about the founder of Golconda Patrika. Earlier, K.V. Ramanachary, Adviser to Telangana Government, spoke about how Suravaram Pratapa Reddy was instrumental in restoring Telangana pride and identity. “Stung by a remark about how there are very few poets in Nizam’s dominion, Suravaram discovered 354 poets in the region. He bought out the Golconda Kavulu Sanchika to prove the richness of literature in the region,” informed Mr. Ramanachary at a large gathering.
29 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||More Rohingya expected to come to Hyderabad||Influx of Rohingya into the city is being monitored closely with different levels of intelligence inputs, as there are clear leads pointing to the fact that those skipping banishment to Bangladesh Island are heading to India. “With Bangladesh government shipping most of the refugees to an Island, there is clear pattern emerging that these people are heading to India, and especially Hyderabad,” Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh M. Bhagwat said. Assessing the growing number of Rohingya in Rachakonda Commissionerate, he said that door-to-door profiling of refugees including collecting their biometrics has almost been completed. Tracing and tracking of these refugees and their social assimilation is an ongoing task, he clarified. “There are over 4,500 Rohingya in Rachakonda, and most of them are already documented. Their data is available with us,” he said. The involvement of these refugees in crimes is a cause of concern as they were already booked in 66 cases for their involvement in different cases, including drugs, fraudulently obtaining Indian identity cards including voter IDs, passports, Aadhaar cards etc. Two of them were already convicted for their offences, Mr. Bhagwat said, and added that two more refugees were booked recently for their illegal stay in the camps. When asked whether the convicted Rohingyas would be deported,the Commissioner said that there are no such instructions as of now on deportation.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State to raise Rs. 1,000 cr. more through RBI||Telangana has opted for another tranche of Rs. 1,000 crore open market borrowings through the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to meet immediate financial requirements. The State has offered to sell securities through auction to be conducted by the RBI on Tuesday. While it has notified an amount of Rs. 750 crore, it has opted for additional borrowing of another Rs. 250 crore through the green shoe option. The latest open market borrowings take the total borrowings during the current month to Rs. 7,000 crore. The government has raised Rs. 6,000 crore so far in the form of State Development Loans during the four auctions conducted by the RBI starting December 1. The government had, in fact, notified loans to the tune of Rs. 4,500 crore, but availed additional borrowing of another Rs. 1,500 crore through the green shoe option in the first four auctions. Given the precarious financial situation faced due to the impact of the COVID-19 during the current fiscal, the State had joined five others which showed highest increase in the Ways and Means utilisation as a per cent of the limit available. The RBI said, in its half yearly review, that the financial accommodation availed by the States under various facilities available with it had risen significantly higher during the current year compared to the same period in previous years, particularly for Ways and Means Advances (WMA) and Special Drawing Facility. The RBI recalled that it had increased the WMA limit available with States by 60% as a measure to ease financial pressure and smoothen the borrowing calendar for States. “State-wise, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Nagaland and Telangana showed the highest increase in WMA utilisation as a per cent of the limit available,” the RBI’s said. The average daily WMA utilisation as per cent of the limit allowed for Telangana stood at around 40% as against the 20% during the same period in the previous fiscal. It may be recalled that the State kept the option of raising Rs. 35,500 crore as public debt and this component was included in the capital receipts during the budget presented to the Assembly in March. Of this, Rs. 34,000 crore was planned through open market borrowings, Rs. 1,000 crore as other loans, Rs. 400 crore as loans from Central government and Rs. 100 crore as floating debt. However, given the steep decline in the revenue receipts after the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, the State was forced to raise resources of more than Rs. 40,000 crore during the first nine months to meet its commitments, including crediting of two instalments of Rythu Bandhu, first instalment during June and the second starting Monday, amounting to around Rs. 14,000 crore.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tech that! Woman constable’s skills bring her recognition||Hard work always pays off. In the case of D. Shiva Rani, a woman police constable, it is consistent hard work. She is one of the few women in the police department in the entire country to win an award for significant contribution in implementation of Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS). Holder of M.Tech. degree, she is working in Uppal police station of Rachakonda commissionerate covering the eastern part of the State capital. Unlike other police personnel, Ms. Rani’s work does not involve chasing or catching criminals. Her main task is to upload the data of crimes and criminals to CCTNS. After completing her training, she was first posted to Uppal. On learning of her technical qualifications, higher-ups assigned the work of uploading data to CCTNS. On the face of it, the work appeared to be easy. But soon she realised that data of crimes from the year 2013 had to be fed into the CCTNS. That was a mountainous work, but the young constable vowed to finish it. She would start early in the day, continue to work till midnight and sometimes beyond it. “It was a challenge but I decided to complete it,” Ms. Rani says. She had to upload seven integrated forms like Crime Detail Form, Case Diaries Part I and II, seized properties, arrest card, charge-sheet and final report. Eventually, she had to enter court case numbers, court case diary, details of any compromise in Lok Adalat and final judgments. What made Ms. Rani different from the others was the interest she took to update the data by approaching colleagues in the police station. Slowly, she uploaded entire records of the police station from 2013 till date. “There are no pending file in our police station to be uploaded barring the fresh cases,” says the confident constable. Third among four siblings, Ms. Rani lives with her younger brother and mother. Her elder sister and brother are married and live separately. Her father died when she was very young. Her mother worked as labourer to support the family. Hailing from Ghatkesar on city’s eastern fringes, Ms. Rani completed schooling there. While in the final year of engineering programme, she reached final stages of selection for a couple of top IT companies in campus placement. “Since I was not thorough in English language, I could not score well in group discussions and was not selected,” she recalls. She taught math to school students to support the family while taking up an assistant professor job at a private engineering college. But the salary was meagre. When she got selected as a constable, she jumped at the opportunity since she had to support her ageing mother and younger brother who suffers from hearing-related problems. “I have no regrets. My mother simply said to continue the hard work on learning about the award. Hard work always pays off,” says Ms. Rani.  There are no pending files in our police station to be uploaded, barring the fresh cases.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS records 205 new COVID cases||Telangana recorded 205 COVID-19 cases on Sunday as only 27,244 people were tested. This is the lowest number of cases detected in a day since July. The last time such low number of cases were recorded in June. In November, comparatively more cases were detected when less than 27,244 samples had been tested. On Nov. 15, when 17,296 people were tested, 502 were detected with the virus. Two more COVID-19 patients died on Sunday. The new 205 cases include 54 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 15 from Rangareddy and 13 in Karimnagar. No case was recorded in Narayanpet and Kamareddy while only one each was reported from Wanaparthy and Mahbubnagar. From March 2 to December 27, a total of 67,50,954 samples have been examined and 2,85,068 have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Of the total cases, 6231 were active while 2,77,304 have recovered, and 1,533 have died.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Another UK returnee tests COVID-positive||Another person who arrived in Telangana from the United Kingdom (UK) has tested positive for COVID-19. His infection status was detected on Monday. From December 9, a total of 1,216 people have come to the State from the UK, and 1,060 were tracked in the last 72-hours. Of them, 21 were detected with the virus, and six have left for other countries. Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) has sent genome sequencing report to Health departments of Central government and Telangana government. Samples collected from the UK returnees who tested positive for coronavirus, were sent to CCMB for the sequencing to know if new variant of the virus is present in them. Meanwhile, Health department officials, till Sunday evening, said 92 of those 1,216 belong to other States, the number was brought down to 58 on Monday. They had also said that 154 were yet to be traced. A day later, they said the number stood at 156. The remaining 996 were tested. Of them, 966 were negative and 21 were positive. Results of nine persons were awaited. The 21 COVID patients include nine from Medchal-Malkajgiri, four from Hyderabad, two from Jagtial, one each from Mancherial, Nalgonda, Rangareddy, Sangareddy, Siddipet and Warangal Urban. They were admitted in separate wards in different hospitals. As addresses and phone numbers of 156 UK returnees are incorrect, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao has appealed to people who have returned from UK or via UK after December 9 to provide details by calling on 040-24651119, or message on WhatsApp (91541-70960). Samples for coronavirus tests would be collected from their home.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cong. hits out KCR for his decisions on procurement, MSP||The Congress party has criticised Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for announcing that the State Government would not indulge in procurement of the agricultural produce with minimum support price from the next season. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said on Monday that instead of protecting the farmers from exploitation by traders, the State Government was planning to escape the responsibility by stating that procurement centres would not be opened from the next season. He stated that the Congress party would strongly oppose the move and would take up a struggle until justice was done to farmers. Mr. Reddy further said opening procurement centres in villages was not new concept, he said it was during the previous Congress Government the procurement was taken up with the help of Indira Kranthi Patham (IKP) groups. Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy sought to know whether Rs. 7,500 crore, a spend for farmers, loss incurred by the TRS Government with procurement of crops during the last seven years would be weighed in terms of profit and loss. He criticised the Chief Minister who had supported the bandh against the new farms laws and taken a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi during GHMC elections was seen supporting the new farm laws now with his decision on discontinuing procurement of agricultural produce. Congress Legislature Party Leader M. Bhatta Vikramarka, Kisan Congress leader M. Kodanda Reddy, former TPCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah, senior leaders Mallu Ravi, T. Jayaprakash Reddy and others, who spoke in Hyderabad and at other places, demanded that the Chief Minister sought an apology from the farming community for deceiving them. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao had initially supported the farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws but had starting supporting the laws now by stating that providing support price and opening procurement centres was not possible and suggesting the farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country since there were no barriers now. They also faulted Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao for not visiting the agitating farmers during his recent Delhi visit and sought to know whether he had reached at a tacit understanding with BJP. They termed Mr. Rao’s actions as Tuglaq acts citing his decision to go back on implementation of new registration system and now on regulated farming.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SBI MD pats staff for work during pandemic||State Bank of India managing director Challa Srinivasulu Setty, who is on a visit to Hyderabad, on Monday inaugurated an office, interacted with officials and as part of a CSR initiative of SBI, handed over a van each to two orphanage homes. A press release from SBI Hyderabad Circle said Mr.Setty conducted the local board meeting at LHO Hyderabad. He interacted with ground level functionaries in Telangana and addressed officials through video conferencing besides felicitating top performers in business and operations in the State. Over video conference, he inaugurated the new premises of Regional Business Office, Kothagudem. Interacting with representatives of officers’ association and staff union, he appreciated the contribution made by the staff during the pandemic and for ensuring uninterrupted service to customers across branches. He expressed condolences to the families of the 202 SBI employees, across the country, who died during the pandemic. Mr.Setty handed over the keys of Maruti EECO 7 seater van each to orphanage homes Anaadha Vidyarthi Gruha, L.B. Nagar, and Abhi Sai Dutta Trust in Uppal under SBI’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives. He said the CSR activities were being undertaken in a project mode through SBI Foundation. SBI Hyderabad Circle Chief General Manager Om Prakash Mishra said the circle has spent Rs. 2.70 crore thus far this financial year on various CSR activities and is committed to spend Rs. 80 lakh more by March.
29 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||11 held for organising ‘obscene’ dance||Eleven people were arrested and five women were rescued by Keesara police of Rachakonda on Sunday evening for indulging in obscene dance and acts. Acting on a tip-off a police team led by Keesara inspector J Narendar Goud conducted a raid at Forest Ridge Villas in Timmayipally of Keesara and found the accused persons indulging in obscene activities. The arrested persons organised a success meet for their business and brought the victims from Andhra Pradesh. The victims were sent to shelter homes.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC gears up for virus vaccination||A meeting chaired by Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, on Monday, discussed the preparedness for COVID-19 vaccination to be administered to one lakh healthcare workers in the city in the first phase. Mr.Ram Mohan has asked officials to identify government schools and colleges where sufficient space is available for waiting halls, vaccination and observation rooms. A total of 1,100 such centres are needed with capacity to administer vaccine to 100 persons each, he told officials, and asked them to complete the preliminary work of identifying and mapping the centres, by January 10. In the second phase, the vaccine will be administered to the police and municipal workers, while in the third phase, it will be given to persons over 50 years of age and those below 50 with chronic ailments. It has been decided to take up an awareness campaign about the vaccine. GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar, and Additional Commissioner Badavath Santhosh attended the meeting.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||LVPEI institute for vision rehab bags award||National Association for the Blind presented Sarojini Triloknath National Award in the best institution category to L.V. Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI)’s Institute for Vision Rehabilitation during a virtual ceremony. Over the past 30 years, LVPEI has rehabilitated over two lakh people with low vision and blindness. Through various centre-based and community-based approaches, it aims to empower people with incurable vision loss, leading to an independent and dignified life. The services offered include various aspects of care for every age group, starting from early intervention services for children to prescribing low vision devices to mobility, technology and employment training for adults. Besides training in specific or multiple trades through ‘Livelihood Skill Development Program’, the institute offers support to people with vision loss and their family members in upscaling their trade ventures.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Transmission rate more in new strain, says Governor||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has said that the new strain of coronavirus was transmitting fast abroad but instead of panicking, people must be cautious and adhere to all the preventive norms to break the chain. The Governor was responding to a series of questions during an interaction with netizens on her Twitter with the hashtag #AskDrTamilisaiGuv on Monday. She said it was in the hands of people to prevent spread of new strain of virus by strictly adhering to all preventive norms.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Uttam tells partymen not to get disheartened||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has said that it is only the Congress party that is working for the country and its people and told the party’s rank and file not to get disappointed with the recent performance in elections. Speaking after hoisting the party’s flag at Gandhi Bhavan here on Monday on the occasion of its 136th foundation day, he said Congress will form the next government in the State. He stated that the party was founded in 1885 with the ideology of getting the country freed from the British rule and develop it as a welfare state. In spite of emergence of umpteen number of parties in the country, the Congress party has a special place in the hearts of people and that is the reason why its flag is continuing to fly high in all parts of the country. The basic difference between Congress and other parties is that it does not create rift among people for political ends and it is Congress that brought independence to the country as well as given statehood to Telangana, he said. In the initial days after attaining freedom, the Congress government had established many public sector undertakings and made them premier organisations with huge asset base and had brought green revolution in the country with the slogan of “jai kisan” to meet the foodgrain needs of the country and later achieving surplus position. However, the present BJP government is trying to sell the PSUs to corporate companies, he alleged. Several senior leaders of the party participated in the party’s foundation day event. A ‘tiranga yatra’ was also taken up on the occasion. Earlier, Mr. Reddy along with other leaders of the party garlanded the statue of P. Janardhan Reddy, former Leader of Congress Legislature Party, on his 13th death anniversary in Khairatabad.
29 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Impressive gains for AIMIM in 2020||The year 2020 marked impressive gains for the Hyderabad-based All India Majlis-e-Itteahadul Muslimeen (AIMIM). Not only did it manage to retain its seats in the recent Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, but also managed to improve its strike rate. The party did not stop at that: it also expanded its political turf in the Bihar Assembly elections. For the past few years, the AIMIM has tried to gain a foothold in Bihar, especially in the Seemanchal region, known for its socio-economic backwardness. The party has been active in providing relief whenever floods hit the region. Its leaders have also spoken time and again of its poverty, even as they attacked the Bihar government for what they described as its failure to develop the region. The party fielded 20 candidates in the Bihar Assembly polls and managed to bag five seats – Amour, Kochadhaman, Jokihat, Baisi and Bahadurgunj. The Bihar State president Akhtarul Iman contested from Amour and won against a six-time Congress legislator with a massive vote margin of over 52,000 votes. Plans for West Bengal Soon after the Bihar Assembly elections were announced, party president Asaduddin Owaisi, addressing the media, said that the party would contest the upcoming West Bengal Assembly elections. He lashed out at Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury for branding him a ‘vote-splitter’, and said that his party would ‘go to’ Murshidabad, Malda, and Dijanpur. In the 2016 GHMC polls, the AIMIM had fielded its candidates in 60 wards and won 44. This year, the party’s decision to field 51 took several people by surprise. The party, did not even release its final candidate list officially to the media. Despite this, the party managed to retain its numbers. It won 44, thereby improving its strike rate. Party leaders Asaduddin Owaisi and Akbaruddin Owaisi were engaged in a war of words with Bharatiya Janata Party leaders who alleged that there were several Rohingya, Pakistani and Afghans in voter lists. They also defended verbal attacks from BJP leaders who said that they engage in ‘surgical strikes’ on the Old City. While it wrested the Ghansibazaar seat from the BJP, it lost its Jambagh seat to the BJP. The AIMIM now has two parliamentarians – Asaduddin Owaisi representing Hyderabad and Imtiaz Jaleel representing Aurangabad. Further, apart from the five legislators in Bihar, it has two legislators in Maharashtra and nine in Telangana (including two MLCs). It also has presence in local bodies in Telangana and other States, including 33 in Uttar Pradesh
29 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Ryots at the mercy of middlemen: Bhatti||The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka on Monday launched a blistering attack on the TRS dispensation in the State accusing it of trying to shirk its bounden responsibility of ensuring minimum support price for farmers and leaving the peasants at the mercy of middlemen by toeing the line of the BJP regime at the Centre. Mr Vikramarka led a huge rally christened Rythu Kavathu, organised by the District Congress Committee (DCC) here on Monday to express solidarity with the ongoing agitations by farmers against the Centre's new farm laws. The “flag march” coincided with the 136th Foundation Day of the Congress party. The CPI (M) district secretary N Nageswara Rao and the CPI district secretary P Prasad and others took part in the rally expressing their solidarity with the agitating farmers. Addressing a huge gathering at the Dharna Chowk, Mr Vikramarka came down heavily on Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao alleging that he took a u-turn within a few days after opposing the Centre's farm laws by saying it was not possible for the State government to procure the farm produce any more.
29 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Kalam statue to be unveiled tomorrow||A life-size bronze statue of former President A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, popularly known as “Missile Man” of India, will be unveiled at Mustafanagar in the town on December 30 by Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar. The Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) took the initiative to install the statue in the heart of the town as a mark of respect to Dr. Kalam.
29 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Farmers at their wits end||Sanjeeva Reddy is a farmer of Nizmpur in Sadasahivapet mandal. He cultivated five acres of fine variety (Sanna Rakaalu) paddy during the season. He took the decision of sowing fine variety as it was suggested by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at the beginning of season. Even the agriculture officers who visited villages suggested farmers to for the variety. Four months down the lane, he incurred a loss of Rs. 1.5 lakh. Kasula Narasimha Rama Sharma is another farmer from Ismailkhanpet. He too cultivated paddy. As there was no remunerative price for the produce, he got paddy milled and kept part of it for his family needs, besides selling the remaining part of it. ‘CM misguided us’ The cases of these two farmers represent the plight of several ryots in the district. “We were misguided by the Chief Minister. If there is no assurance for the promise made by the Chief Minister, then whom should we meet? What is the alternative left to us?” asked Mr. Sanjeeva Reddy. Confused lot The farmers are also confused over the purported statement issued by the Chief Minister that there will be no buying from farmers by the State government agencies and they can sell the farm produce wherever they get better price. “Few weeks ago, Mr. Rao himself called for a bandh against the new farm Acts passed by the Union Government and all the Ministers were directed to participate in the agitation and they blocked the highways keeping several travellers wait for hours. Some of the Ministers asked how the farmers can sell the produce at some other place and if it is possible. Now the same Chief Minister is telling farmers to sell their produce wherever better price is available. He has no moral right to continue in that position. What a paradox?” said another farmer, not wanted to be identified. ‘Awareness needed’ “An awareness needs to be created among farmers that they have to change the pattern of crops and sow the crops in demand. There will be a revolt from farmers if they are left on the road without a solution to sell their produce,” commented another farmer.  There will be a revolt if ryots are left on the road without a solution to sell their produce. A farmer
29 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BJP Dalit Morcha stages dharna||Demanding the government to implement the promises made to dalits, the BJP Dalit Morcha held dharna before the mandal revenue office here on Monday. The agitation was led by district unit president K. Aswanth. He said that the government had failed to fulfil promises like three acres land to dalits, double bedroom houses, 125 feet high statue of Dr. Ambedkar and making a dalit as the Chief Minister.
29 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Siddipet will be role model for development’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao, who participated in several programmes on Sunday, including a water fountain inauguration at Sriramunikunta Vaikunthadhamam said Siddipet will be a role model in terms of development.
29 December 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||‘Numbers rose, but crime rate declined’||Enforcement actions led to the rise in number of first information reports (FIRs) by over 500 compared to 2019, but the rate of grave crimes in the district declined by 26%, District Superintendent of Police R. Bhaaskaran said on Monday. Speaking to media persons, disclosing the annual crime report, he said more people had approached the police and utilised services, evident from the rise in FIRs, 31% rise in weekly grievance day petitions and overall, 13,219 petitions (13,390 in 2019), despite the COVID-19 lockdown. Appreciating his staff, Mr. Bhaaskaran said the average response time for dial-100 calls was 14 minutes. He recollected the services of all personnel during and in the implementation of the COVID-19 lockdown. The figures produced by laser speed guns on Highways, to check reckless driving, have almost tripled from 11,129 in 2019 to 33,283. The figures is glaring considering the fact that it is during the period when lockdown was in force. Similarly, 203 persons were killed in road accidents compared to 257 last year. The special drives by Suryapet police, to arrest illegal transport of PDS rice, sand and liquor, and contraband such as gutkha and ganja, has shown results. Suryapet police in 2019 had booked 637 persons for drinking in public, the corresponding number this year leapt to 2,737, showing that punishment did not deter people from breaking the law.
29 December 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Rs. 5.85 cr. worth marriage assistance distributed||Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy said the two marriage assistance schemes in the State – Kalyana Lakshmi and Shaadi Mubarak – serve as a reflection of Chief Minster K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s vision. On Monday, he distributed Kalyana Lakshmi and Shaadi Mubarak cheques worth over Rs. 5.85 crore to 587 beneficiaries, in a meeting organised in the town. Another 37 were also handed cheques of the Chief Minster’s Relief Fund.
29 December 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Sand reaches in Suryapet||Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy on Monday instructed officials to open sand reaches in Suryapet, and sand depots in Kodad and Huzurnagar to ensure sand availability for consumers at attractive rates. He said sand reaches will come up at Thatipamula, Vardhamanukota, Peraboinagudem, Kasarabad, Dosapahad and Anajipuram in the district. To operationalise the business soon, Mr. Reddy said tractors in the respective villages must register with the mandal officers. Officials of the Telangana State Mineral Development Corporation were also alerted for permissions and related notifications.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Identify locations for bridges across Musi’||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed the officials concerned to identify dense-traffic locations to construct more bridges across the Musi river. Construction of more bridges across the river will open up more areas and this will have a significant impact on the development of areas in the vicinity. The Chief Secretary was addressing the 12th meeting of the board of directors of Hyderabad Road Development Corporation Limited on Monday. Mr. Somesh Kumar complimented the HRDCL officials for constructing missing link roads which resulted in ensuring good connectivity in the city. The corporation took up works on 37 missing link roads with an estimated Rs. 313.65 crore. Of these, 23 works taken up under phase I were in advanced stages or nearing completion. The remaining works were proposed to be taken up under phase II. Road development plans were under preparation and the works would be completed in the next two years. The meeting reviewed the works relating to construction of bridges and road overbridges and road underbridges. The officials were directed to take up works in a more planned manner. Municipal Administration Secretary Arvind Kumar, Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao and other senior officials were present.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Building permissions plummet post-lockdown||COVID-19 lockdown has had major impact on the Real Estate sector of the city, as evident from the number of building permissions granted, and the revenue garnered thereof since January this year. The building permissions have come down by over 36 per cent when compared with average number granted over the previous four years, while the revenues have been whittled by close to 22 per cent. This year, since January, the GHMC has granted 10,541 building permissions, netting a revenue of Rs. 686 crore. While the calculation is for calendar year of 12 months, it pales in comparison with the number of permissions granted during the financial year ending with March, 2020. Between April 2019 and March 2020, the corporation has garnered Rs. 986 crore from 17,538 building permissions. This is 40 per cent downfall in terms of permissions and 30 per cent in terms of revenue. Further, the number for the calendar year, which constitutes the revenue of more than three pre-lockdown months, might further erode, if projected for the coming financial year end. Of the total 10,541 building permissions, 8,938 were granted for independent houses, while 1,359 pertained to group housing. Permissions were also granted to 113 commercial buildings, 117 high rise residential buildings, 24 high rise commercial buildings, and two multiplexes. In terms of building permissions, the current year’s number has plummeted to lower than the four years’ average before formation of Telangana as separate State. Between 2010 and 2014, GHMC granted 45,820 permissions, garnering a revenue of Rs. 2,189.2 crore, while between 2014 and 2019, 65,953 building permissions were granted with total revenue reaching up to Rs. 3,508 crore.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||50 shades of revelry||
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Khalsa Aid opens ‘Kisan Mall’ at Singhu||After the success of ‘Kisan Mall’ at the Tikri border, international NGO Khalsa Aid opened its second one at the Singhu border on Sunday. The ‘mall’ opened right behind the Khalsa Aid counter at the protest site saw farmers queuing up for their turn through a small entrance after showing their token on Monday. Volunteer Kulvir Singh said the mall at the Tikri border was essentially a dry run to open the one at Singhu. “There is more crowd here and we needed to understand the hurdles we would face and the overall response for it. The reaction to the mall was absolutely unexpected and we opened this,” he said. Mr. Singh explained that at Tikri they faced chaos because of initial mismanagement and long queues. Therefore, they changed the plan here. “At Tikri, we were handing out the tokens right outside the mall but here, we gave out tokens a night before,” he said. Every night, Khalsa Aid volunteers visit trolleys and give tokens to the farmers to ensure that only they would benefit from this initiative. On Saturday night, about 350 tokens were handed out and on Sunday night, the number doubled to 700. “The problem with open system was that those who were not even in need took things. Also, this is a dignified way of getting essentials,” he said. According to Mr. Singh, the farmers are “so nice” that they are only taking what they need and not hoarding. Credential check At the entrance, the farmers need to give their tokens after which they’re given a slip to fill their name, mobile number, Aadhaar number and tick mark the things they need from the listed items. They’re allowed entry only after this process. Inside the ‘mall’, items including toothbrush, paste, bath soap, washing soap, slippers, oil, shampoo, thermals, vests, under garments, heating pads and garbage box among other thing are stacked. Talking about their experience, Bhuta Singh from Gurdaspur said he doesn’t mind standing in the queue because only farmers stand to benefit from this. “The problem with open ones is that they work on first come first serve basis, without any check,” he said. Another protester who identified himself as Gursevak Singh said that not all of them were given tokens. People at the rear end of the protest haven’t been given yet, he said.
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||At Singhu border, kirtans replace protest speeches||The crowd at Delhi-Haryana’s Singhu border on Monday morning sat mesmerised in front of the stage. For the past two days, spiritual sermons replaced speeches and announcements for donations. Protesting farmers on Sunday and Monday commemorated the martyrdom of Guru Gobind Singh’s family and continued with kirtan, vichar and katha . Over 20 groups from Amritsar’s Golden Temple and a popular one from Chandigarh had come to perform kirtan at the site. “We have come here voluntarily and in support of the farmers. We stand by them,” said Hazoori Ragi Shi Darbad Sahib Bhai Devinder Singh. Chandigarh’s Kawisher Jatha’s Bhai Mehal Singh, who had come with his sons, has performed across the country and abroad. “The most important aspect of this protest is that it is peaceful...They are not causing any inconvenience to anyone. In fact, are feeding people and taking care of their needs,” said Mr. Mehal’s son Gurlal Singh (28). “This event doesn’t mean it’s a religious protest. It’s in the honour of a Sikh Guru. No one from any other State has told us that they have a problem with it,” said a farmer leader, who didn’t wish to be named. The event attracted scores of locals. Two women and their children from Tilak Nagar — who came to the site on Monday — said they had come for the kirtan and also wanted to mark their presence at the protest. “We believe in Guru Gobind Singh ji and when we got to know about the kirtan , we wanted to pay a visit,” said an attendee, Amarjeet Kaur (65). A farmer from Haryana, Sahab Singh, said he and his fellow farmers don’t understand the language but support the event. “We all know only one language — farming,” he said. At the protest site on Monday, farmers and visitors were in for a surprise with green coloured jalebis (sweet). Another highlight was dudh ka theka — an initiative by a Ludhiana-based organisation. “Punjab was becoming infamous for drugs and alcohol, so we started putting up doodh ka langar outside wine shops and named it dudh ka theka ,” said Gurpreet Singh, a volunteer.
29 December 2020||New Delhi,||SC Bar Association condemns raid on Delhi lawyer’s residence||The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) on Monday expressed “deep shock and concern” over the “illegal and brazen” exercise of power by the Delhi Police in raiding the residence of advocate Mehmood Pracha, who is representing many north-east Delhi riots accused. SCBA president and senior advocate Dushyant A. Dave said, “I strongly condemn the lodging of FIR against Mr. Mehmood Pracha and the raid carried out at his place. While acknowledging that Delhi Police is a fine professional organisation, I must say that their investigations into Delhi riot cases are sadly biased and perhaps motivated”. He further said, “Far from catching the real culprits who instigated the riots and who happen to be powerful politicians, innocent people belonging to a certain section are being targeted. Likes of Mr. Pracha are helping the vulnerable section of society who are being targeted unnecessarily and so they find themselves being targeted by the government”. The SCBA, in a statement. condemned the “brutal assault” of a lawyer in Etah district of Uttar Pradesh by police. The Association said the search and seizure by the police on the premises of an advocate in a proceeding not pertaining to or relating to a member of the Bar was a malicious act that defeated the rights of an advocate to practise his profession without fear or favour. “It’s intimidatory” It said that the search and seizure at Mr. Pracha’s premises were “intimidatory and designed to abuse the due process by coercing an advocate to succumb to police threats and methods unheard of in legal annals”. “Such a search/seizure is in the teeth of the specific provisions of law which recognise the client lawyer relationship and protects all correspondence between the advocate and his client,” the SCBA said. “The seizures of confidential information which is protected by lawyer-client privilege, in a search conducted by the very police authorities who are prosecuting the lawyer’s clients, will prejudicially affect the rights and guarantees of the accused,” it stated. The Association contended that “the grant of a warrant by the Magistracy to search a lawyer’s office in a routine mechanical manner, particularly in respect of a lawyer’s communication and correspondences, was antithetical to rule of law and constitutes a disturbing violation of this privilege directly affecting the administration of justice”. Call to police The SCBA called upon the police to “immediately forbear, cease and desist from using the information available on the devices so seized”. On the lawyer assault in Etah, the Association said it was “atrocious and unacceptable”. It expressed “serious concern on the reprehensible conduct of the police in both these cases and calls upon all concerned authorities to take serious punitive action against all concerned for their atrocious conduct which denigrates and violates the mandate of the Rule of law”.  Far from catching the real culprits who instigated the riots and who happen to be powerful politicians, innocent people belonging to a certain section are being targeted SCBA president Dushyant A. Dave
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Stop playing loud and festive music at stir site’||A group of youth from a dsitrict in Punjab, Nawan Shahr, has initiated an attempt to put a stop to those playing loud music while driving at the protest site. Harpinder Singh (30) said he and his friends arrived at the Singhu border a week ago. They said they have been seeing people drive towards the protest stage on their trucks and trolleys while playing loud and festive music. ‘This is a fight’ “It was quite amusing because nearly 40 farmers have lost their lives during the protest. This is a fight. There is nothing festive about it,” he said. He then made a placard in Punjabi saying: “ Kisan Shaheed ho rahe hain, humain samajh nahi aa raha ki gaane kis khushi main chalaye jaa rahe hain [Farmers are dying, we are unable to understand why is music being played].” Jaskaran Singh, a member of the group, said they just hold the placard and stand in front of those who play loud music. “There are some who read the placard and either reduce the volume or stop the music. But there are many who completely ignore and drive away,” he said. On Sunday morning, an advocate from Jalalabad, who had been protesting at Delhi’s Tikri border, ended his life. In a note left behind addressed to PM Narendra Modi, he reprimanded the black laws and blamed him for favouring “Ambanis and Adanis”.
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Youth kills grandmother for refusing him money||A 19-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing his 73-year-old grandmother after she refused to give him money for New Year’s party in Shahdara on Sunday night, the police said on Monday. Money to party Karan, who is pursuing BBA from a college in Meerut, was into bad company and under debt, they said. He needed money to repay the loans he took from his friends and also for the party. The police on Sunday morning said they had received a PCR call stating that an old woman died after she was hit on the head in Rohtash Nagar. A team reached the spot. The woman, Satish Kumari, was hit multiple times on the head with a hammer. “The body was lying on a chair. A hammer was also lying next to the body. The woman used to live on the ground floor while other family members were on the second floor. Two tenants live on the first floor,” said an officer. Kumari is survived by two sons — the elder one lives on the second floor of the same building and the younger one in nearby area. The crime came to the fore on Sunday morning when her son found her room locked from outside. He called his brother and enquired about her and found that his mother was not at his place as well. Later, his younger brother reached the spot and they broke open the lock. On entering, they found her lying dead and immediately, called the police. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC was then registered, an officer said. During probe, one of the tenants told the police that the landlord’s grandson had come to him last night, asking for a hammer as he had to fix a nail. “Karan was not found in the house. Later, the family members contacted him and called him home. He then confessed to the crime,” the officer added. The incident took place on Saturday at 8 p.m. when the accused asked for money from his grandmother. When she refused, he committed the crime and fled the spot with Rs. 18,000. The money has been recovered, they added.
29 December 2020||New Delhi,||Man killed by speeding car||A 50-year-old man was killed and another injured after a speeding car hit them when they were crossing road in here on Saturday, the police said on Monday. The incident took place on BP Marg when a sedan car hit two persons, they said. The victims were rushed to AIIMS where one of them died. The injured has been identified as 75-year-old Kanhiya Lal. A case under relevant sections has been registered. “The accused driver, Rahul Shrivastav [54] from GK-I, has been arrested. He is an advocate and was allegedly under the influence of alcohol at that time,” said DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur.
29 December 2020||New Delhi,||New passenger tracking system at IGI airport||Delhi airport’s Terminal 3 has installed a new passenger tracking system that would help manage the flow of people, reduce waiting time and ensure social distancing. “The Xovis passenger tracking system (PTS), a queue management system, displays live waiting time, taken at various processes like check-in, security check etc., on screens put up at various places,” said a press release by Delhi airport’s operator DIAL. Since flight operations are currently less than pre-COVID levels, only Terminal 2 and Terminal 3 of the Delhi airport are handling aircraft movement. In this PTS, passengers are counted and tracked anonymously using the ceiling-mounted sensors. The PTS receives data streams from the sensors and provides the airport operator with valuable key performance indicators (KPIs) such as waiting times, process times and passenger throughput. “The KPIs are visualised on an intuitive dashboard, enabling airports to quickly identify crowded areas and bottlenecks,” the Delhi International Airport Limited said. PTS display screens are placed at check-in hall, arrival pier junction, etc.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Average speed on roads in Capital dropped after rollback of lockdown||The mean travel speed on some Delhi stretches dipped from 46 kmph during the lockdown period to 29 kmph after it as the reopening of the economy led to a rebound in congestion, the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said in a report on Monday. The report is significant as the level of congestion on roads has a strong bearing on vehicular pollution. "The rebound of congestion post-lockdown indicates Delhi is not prepared for transformational changes to cut down the volume of traffic," the CSE said. It tracked this change with the help of data from the Google Mobility Report on different categories of visits classified as retail and recreation, groceries and pharmacies, parks, transit stations, workplaces, and residential. It also analysed traffic speed data from Google as a proxy to understand the level of congestion that has a strong bearing on vehicular pollution, which is significant in Delhi. The selected 12 major roads included the MG Road, NH44, Sardar Patel Marg, Outer Ring Road, Dr KB Hegdewar Marg, Sri Aurobindo Marg, NH 9, Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, GT Karnal Rd, Lal Bahadur Sha, Dwarka Marg and Najafgarh Marg. The CSE’s travel speed data analysis shows that the mean travel speed on the selected stretches increased from 24 kmph pre-lockdown to 46 kmph during lockdown — a 90% increase — when fewer vehicles came on the roads as only essential travels were allowed. But the mean speed reduced again to 29 kmph post-lockdown, it shows. During peak hours, the travel speed on the selected stretches increased from 23 kmph pre-lockdown to 44 kmph during lockdown. But this again reduced to 27 km per hour post-lockdown, it says.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Flower power||
29 December 2020||AHMEDABAD,||3 siblings locked up in room for a decade rescued in Rajkot||Three siblings in the age group of 30 to 42 years were rescued from a room in which they had allegedly locked themselves up for nearly a decade in Rajkot on Sunday by a local NGO with the help of their father. Members of Saathi Seva Group, the NGO that works for homeless people, broke open the doors to see them lying like skeletons. “The siblings. Amrish, Bhavesh and Meghna, had locked themselves up in the room for nearly a decade since the death of their mother,” Jalpa Patel of the NGO said. “It was appalling to see them in that condition. The room was stinking with human faeces, stale food and scattered papers. They were lying in the room as if they were skeletons,” she said. Both Amrish and Bhavesh did not have their hair cut. Their beards had grown almost up to their waist. After bringing them out of the house, the volunteers brought a barber to shave their beards and hair, and they were bathed and given new clothes. None had any clothes except some towels wrapped around them. Their father, Navin Mehta, is a retired government employee. He said he used to get food parcels and leave them outside the door. According to him, his children are well educated. “My eldest son, Amrish, 42, was a practising lawyer with BA, LLB degrees, while Meghna (39) is an MA in Psychology. My youngest son is BA in Economics and was also a promising cricket player,” he said. “My wife started keeping ill and she died five-six years later, which affected my children deeply, following which they locked themselves up,” he said. He added that neighbours and some relatives had told him that his children were victims of some black magic performed on them by relatives.
29 December 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai’s sexpert Dr. Mahinder Watsa dead||Mumbai’s most popular sexpert Dr. Mahinder Watsa died here on Monday at 96, his family said. Through his Ask the Sexpert column published in Mumbai Mirror for the last 15 years, Watsa educated and entertained his readers with witty replies. “Dad was a man of many dimensions. He lived a glorious life and on his terms,” read a statement by his children. In a country where discussing sex openly is still a taboo for many, Watsa, son of a military doctor, had a sort of fan following. Be it erectile dysfunction or middle-aged pregnancy, no query was off the limits for this sexpert. Watsa’s unabashed responses to the closeted sexual dysfunctions of our populace were refreshing and upfront. He was literally what the doctor ordered to give some much needed light-heartedness. “The #Sexpert has gone. Mumbai institution Dr Mahinder Watsa is dead. He wrote for @MumbaiMirror from the day it started in 2005 until the last edition nine days ago without a single days break,” tweeted Mumbai Mirror Editor Meenal Baghel. For the first 40 years of his career, Watsa practised as a gynaecologist and obstetrician. As a consultant for the Family Planning Association of India, he pushed for a sexual counselling and education programme. In 1974, the organisation launched a sex education, counselling and therapy centre, the first in India. Watsa left his practice for counselling and education in the early 1980s. “The world was divided into people who wrote to Mahinder Watsa and people who read Mahinder Watsa,” tweeted an admirer, praising his witty responses to those who wrote to him seeking advice.
29 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Teenager held for molesting woman on train||The Vashi Government Railway Police (GRP) on Sunday arrested a teenager from Mankhurd who allegedly molested a 45-year-old woman in the ladies compartment of a moving local train. The woman, a resident of Ghansoli, works at Parel. She alighted at Vashi railway station via a train on the Trans Harbour Line and was waiting for a CSMT-bound train to go to work around 8.30 a.m. on Friday. When she boarded the train, the accused, Ayan Azim Beg (19) from Mankhurd, who was also at the station, got into the ladies compartment at the same time. On finding the woman alone, the accused started molesting her. The lady resisted him, and after the train reached Mankhurd, Beg alighted from the train and fled. The woman went to her place of work and later on Saturday, she lodged a complaint at Vashi railway police station. The GRP filed a case of molestation against the accused and traced him through CCTV footage. “We suspected that he might try to do the same crime again and hence laid a trap at Vashi and Mankhurd railway stations. On Sunday, we found him loitering at Vashi station and nabbed him. We found that he was a habitual mobile phone snatcher too. He is in our custody till Tuesday,” senior police inspector Vishnu Kesarkar from Vashi GRP said.
29 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Navi Mumbai sees its lowest daily case surge since July 1||Navi Mumbai on Monday reported a mere 49 new COVID-19 cases, its lowest daily surge since July 1 when it was 265. The total cases recorded under the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) since March are 50,791, of whom 1,046 have died and 48,822 have recovered. Currently, there are 923 active patients. Till date, 4.27 lakh people have undergone a COVID-19 test — RT-PCR test was run on 1.65 lakh and a rapid antigen test was conducted on 2.62 lakh. While the recovery rate in Navi Mumbai has gone up to 96%, the death rate has come down to 2%. Of the 13 COVID-19 centres run by the NMMC, 12 have been shut due to lack of patients. On August 20, the city registered its highest number of cases at 477. The fresh cases had first crossed 100 on May 30. The second lowest case surge was recorded on December 15, with 52 cases.
29 December 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra reports more recoveries than fresh cases||While cases outweighed recoveries in the last few days, Maharashtra rebounded once more on Monday with the State reporting 4,501 patient discharges as opposed to 2,498 new COVID-19 cases. As per the State Health Department figures, the active cases have dipped to 57,159 while the total case tally stands at 19,22,048. As many as 50 fatalities saw the death toll climb to 49,305. Again, the low surge must be witnessed in the context of a mere 41,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 18,14,449 while the State’s recovery rate is 94.4%. “Of a total 1,25,43,772 laboratory samples tested thus far, 19,22,048 (with the case positivity rate dipping to 15.32%) have returned positive with over 41,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the case fatality stood at 2.57%. Pune district reported over 300 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,70,962 and just one death (as per the State Health Department figures), taking its toll to 7,726. As per the district administration figures, the active cases have dropped further to 7,161 while its recovery rate stands at 95.61%. Mumbai city reported 557 new cases to take its total tally to 2,91,471 of whom only 8,862 are active. As many as 12 fatalities saw the city’s death toll reach 11,088. Nagpur district in Vidarbha recorded more than 350 new cases, pushing the district’s total cases to 1,24,278 of whom 4,491 are active. No deaths saw the toll remain constant at 3,194. In western Maharashtra, Satara registered a single death to take its toll to 1,751 while just 38 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 54,343 of whom 955 are active. Neighbouring Sangli added only 11 cases and no deaths as the district’s reported cases touched 50,066 of whom only 352 are active. Its fatality count remains at 1,765. Kolhapur reported a mere eight cases and not a single fatality as its total cases went up to 49,098 of whom just 495 are active. The death toll remains constant at 1,658. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district logged 132 cases and three deaths as its total case tally reached 1,14,416 of whom 2,375 are active. Its fatality toll climbed to 1,836. Jalgaon recorded just 18 new cases and two deaths as its total cases touched 55,956 of whom only 540 are active, while its death toll rose to 1,439. Dr. Awate said that currently, 4,52,535 people across the State were in home quarantine and 3,138 were in institutional quarantine facilities.
29 December 2020||Pune,||Anna Hazare threatens to commence his ‘last protest’ for farmers||Social activist Anna Hazare has threatened to go on a hunger strike if his demands on issues concerning farmers are not met by the Union government by the end of January next year, and has said that it would be his “last protest”. Speaking to reporters in his Ralegaon Siddhi village in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra on Sunday, Mr. Hazare said he had been holding protests for cultivators for the last three years, but the government had done nothing to resolve the issues. “The government is just giving empty promises due to which I do not have any trust left (in the government)... Let’s see, what action the Centre takes on my demands. It has sought time for a month, so I have given it time till January-end. If my demands are not met, I will resume my huger strike protest. This would be my last protest,” the 83-year-old said. On December 14, Mr. Hazare wrote a letter to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar warning of a hunger strike if his demands like the implementation of the M.S. Swaminathan Committee’s recommendations and granting autonomy to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), were not accepted. Senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra Assembly Speaker Haribhau Bagade recently met Mr. Hazare to explain to him the details of the three farm laws introduced by the Central government. Mr. Hazare observed a fast on December 8 in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer organisations demanding a repeal of the agriculture laws. Farmers have been protesting at borders of Delhi for over a month against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The three farm laws, enacted in September, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting tillers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the minimum support price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Star fascination||
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||China defends progress of Pak. corridor||China on Monday said reports suggesting it was seeking additional guarantees from Pakistan before sanctioning a loan for a key project under the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), a flagship plan under President Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), were “baseless”. Beijing also defended the progress of the CPEC plan, following reports in the Pakistani press last week that concerns over Pakistan’s ability to pay back loans as it grapples with the impact of the pandemic had emerged in recent negotiations. The Express Tribune newspaper reported China had sought additional guarantees before sanctioning a $6 billion loan for Main Line-1 (ML-1) project, which includes upgrading an 1,872-km rail line from Peshawar to Karachi, due to the “weakening financial position of Pakistan” and had “proposed a mix of commercial and concessional loans against Islamabad’s desire to secure the cheapest lending”. This was raised at the third joint ML-1 financing committee meeting held earlier this month, the report said. The Chinese Foreign Ministry denied that it had sought the additional guarantees and said CPEC projects were on track despite the pandemic. Baseless reports “These reports are simply baseless,” spokesperson Zhao Lijian said. “As an important pilot project of the BRI, CPEC has maintained positive momentum of development since its inception in 2013. Amid the COVID-19 epidemic, there is no stop of the construction, no job cut and no withdrawal of workforce of the CPEC projects, which effectively supports Pakistan in fighting the epidemic and stabilising the economy.” He said at a meeting last week of the CPEC Joint Working Group held in Xinjiang in western China, both sides “reiterated their commitment to implementing the consensus of leaders, giving priority to industry, agriculture, science and technology and livelihood and extending to underdeveloped areas, in a bid to build CPEC into a demonstration project of quality BRI cooperation.” “I want to stress that China’s input in the BRI, including CPEC, has increased despite global economic recession,” he added. “In the first three quarters this year, China’s direct investment in non-financial sectors in BRI partner countries grew by around 30% year on year.” The progress of CPEC, China’s most ambitious BRI project that aims to build a network of roads, railway lines and power projects throughout Pakistan with an estimated value of more than $60 billion, has been under scrutiny this year. India has voiced concerns about the CPEC plan, one main reason why it has stayed out of the BRI, as it includes projects in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) as part of a corridor connecting Xinjiang with Pakistan. Earlier this year, China’s Embassy in Pakistan released a statement, saying CPEC projects were on track in response to questions about delays, and that 32 projects had “achieved early harvests” over the past five years. “This has significantly improved local transportation infrastructure and power supply, created over 75,000 jobs directly and contributed one to two percent of the GDP growth in Pakistan,” the statement said. Debt issue The statement also hit out at criticism from the U.S. that said Chinese projects were leaving huge debt burdens. “Regarding the so-called debt issue, according to statistics from the State Bank of Pakistan, the total foreign debt of Pakistan is $110 billion,” the statement said. Loans from CPEC were about $5.8 billion, accounting for 5.3% of Pakistan’s total foreign debt, with a repayment period of 20-25 years and an interest rate of approximately 2%, according to the Embassy, with repayments to start in 2021 of around $300 million annually. However, the ML-1 project loan, currently being discussed, will likely be far larger than previous deals, according to reports in Pakistan, with as much as $6 billion being negotiated for the estimated $6.8 billion project.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Chinese citizen journalist jailed over Wuhan reports||A court in China on Monday jailed a citizen journalist for four years for her non-sanctioned reporting from Wuhan as the COVID-19 outbreak unfolded earlier this year, accusing her of “provoking trouble”. Zhang Zhan (37) is a former lawyer who, like several other Chinese citizen journalists, travelled to Wuhan in late January and early February, motivated to tell the story of what was unfolding in the city, which had been locked down on January 23. At the time, information coming out of Wuhan was sparse, with authorities only on January 20 confirming the new virus, circulating in the city since early December, could spread between people. Ms. Zhang’s live video reports showed a city in full lockdown and the situation in hospitals, and she was often critical of the government’s belated response during the early stages of the outbreak. Her case was heard on Monday by a Shanghai court after seven months spent in detention, in a country where the courts are controlled by the ruling Communist Party. The sentence accused her of “picking quarrels and provoking trouble”, and said she had spread “fake information” to foreign media outlets such as the U.S. government-funded Radio Free Asia. Ms. Zhang’s lawyers had expressed concerns over her health, as she has been on a hunger strike while in detention since this summer. She had been force-fed through feeding tubes and her hands had been restrained so she could not stop the feeding, lawyers said. Ms. Zhang, who had travelled from Shanghai to Wuhan in early February, wasn’t the only citizen journalist who ventured to the site of the coronavirus outbreak. The accounts of other “citizen journalists” such as Chen Qiushi and Li Zehua provided a stark contrast to State media reports describing a situation that had been completely under control. Mr. Chen’s video reports from hospitals reported at the time of shortages of testing kits and personal protective equipment (PPE), when Wuhan’s hospitals were being flooded. City hospitals had since late December reported a surge in pneumonia patients, but local authorities until mid-January officially reported no major uptick in cases and did not confirm that human-to-human transmission was possible. Wuhan was locked down on January 23, and stringent measures across China, coupled with mass testing and tracing, subsequently allowed authorities to bring the virus under control by the summer, with much of China now returning to normalcy.
29 December 2020||LONDON,||U.K. warns of ‘bumpy’ transition||Four days after sealing a free trade agreement with the European Union, the British government warned businesses to get ready for disruptions and “bumpy moments” when the new rules take effect on Thursday night. Businesses were scrambling on Monday to digest the details and implications of the deal sealed by the EU and the U.K.. EU Ambassadors, meanwhile, gave their unanimous approval on Monday to the Brexit trade deal with the U.K. Germany, which holds the EU presidency, said the decision came during a meeting to assess the Christmas Eve agreement. “Green light,” said Germany’s spokesman Sebastian Fischer. The approval had been expected ever since all EU leaders warmly welcomed it. It still needs approval from the EU’s legislature. The U.K’s House of Commons is expected to approve it on Wednesday. The U.K. left the EU almost a year ago, but remained within the bloc's economic embrace during a transition period that ends on December 31. The deal will ensure Britain and the 27-nation bloc can continue to trade in goods without tariffs or quotas. That should help protect the £660 billion in annual trade between the two sides, and the hundreds of thousands of jobs that rely on it. But the end to Britain’s membership in the EU’s vast single market and customs union will still bring inconvenience and new expenses for both individuals and businesses — from the need for tourists to have travel insurance to the millions of new customs declarations that firms will have to fill out. “Businesses will need to make sure that they’re ready for new customs procedures and we as individuals will need to make sure that our passports are up to date because they need to have at least six months before expiry on them in order to be able to travel abroad,” said Michael Gove, the British Cabinet Minister in charge of Brexit preparations. “I’m sure there will be bumpy moments but we are there in order to try to do everything we can to smooth the path,” he told the BBC.
29 December 2020||WEST PALM BEACH,||Trump signs COVID-19 aid, sparks GOP fight||Shelving his objections, President Donald Trump has signed a $2 trillion-plus COVID-19 and annual federal spending package providing relief for millions of Americans, even as Congress returns to confront the White House on remaining priorities in a rare end-of-session showdown. Mr. Trump appears to have accomplished little, if anything, from the days of drama over his refusal to accept the sweeping bipartisan deal. While the President’s demands for larger $2,000 pandemic relief checks seem destined to fail, his push served up a political opportunity for Democrats, who support the larger stipends and are forcing Trump’s Republican allies into a tough spot. On Monday, the Democratic-led House is set to vote to boost the $600 payments to $2,000, sending a new bill to the Senate. There, Republicans have the majority but reject more spending and are likely to defeat the effort. The showdown offers more symbol than substance, and it’s not expected to alter the package that Mr. Trump signed into law late on Sunday after golfing at his Florida club. The $900 billion in COVID-19 aid and $1.4 trillion to fund government agencies will deliver cash to businesses and individuals and avert a federal government shutdown that otherwise would have started on Tuesday. Defence Bill Together with votes on Monday and Tuesday to override Mr. Trump’s veto of a sweeping Defence Bill, the action is perhaps the last standoff of the President’s final days in office as he imposes fresh demands and disputes the results of the presidential election. The new Congress is set to be sworn in Sunday. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-California, seized on the divide between the President and his party, urging Mr. Trump to put pressure on his Senate GOP allies to pass the Bill. “The President must call on Congressional Republicans to end their obstruction and to join him and Democrats in support of our legislation to increase direct payment checks to $2,000,” Ms. Pelosi said in a tweet.
29 December 2020||Riyadh,||Suspended sentence paves way for early release of Saudi activist||A Saudi court on Monday handed prominent activist Loujain al-Hathloul a prison term of five years and eight months for terrorism-related crimes but a suspended sentence will allow her release within months, her family said. Ms. Hathloul, 31, was arrested in May 2018 with about a dozen other women activists just weeks before the historic lifting of a decades-long ban on female drivers, a reform they had long campaigned for, sparking a torrent of international criticism. Her potential release next year could help stave off an early confrontation with the incoming U.S. administration of Joe Biden, who has pledged a tough stance on the Kingdom over human rights after it largely got a free pass under President Donald Trump. The women’s rights activist was convicted of “various activities prohibited by the anti-terrorism law”, the pro-government online outlet Sabq and other media allowed to attend her trial cited the court as saying. The court handed down a prison term of five years and eight months, but suspended two years and 10 months of the sentence “if she does not commit any crime” within the next three years, they added. “A suspension of 2 years and 10 months in addition to the time already served (since May 2018) would see her (released) in approximately two months,” Lina al-Hathloul, the activist’s sister, wrote on Twitter. Another source close to her family and the London-based campaign group ALQST said she would be released by March next year. The court also banned the activist from leaving the Kingdom for five years, her sister and the source said. This verdict was a “face saving exit strategy” for the Saudi government after coming under severe international pressure for her release, the source told AFP. A motion to appeal can be filed within a month, local media reported. ‘Deeply troubling’ The Geneva-based UN Human Rights office described the activist’s conviction and sentence after she was “arbitrarily” detained since 2018 as “deeply troubling”. “We understand early release is possible, and strongly encourage it as matter of urgency,” it said on Twitter. Saudi Arabia, an absolute monarchy, has faced growing international criticism for its human rights record.
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chinese delegation meets NCP leaders||A high-level Chinese delegation led by a vice-minister of the Communist Party of China met top Nepal Communist Party leaders on Monday and discussed the political situation in the country, amid an intensified effort by Beijing to patch up differences between Nepal’s feuding leaders. Vice-minister of the International Department of the CPC Guo Yezhou, who arrived here on Sunday in what is believed to be China’s desperate attempt to avert a vertical split in the NCP, on Monday met Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’’, who claims control over the ruling party after removing Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli from the posts of the party’s parliamentary leader and chair. Contemporary politics, especially that has arisen after Mr. Oli’s move to dissolve the House of Representatives, the possibility of bringing the two factions of the NCP together and Nepal-China cooperation figured during the talks, The Kathmandu Post reported, quoting Mr. Prachanda’s secretariat. Later, the Chinese delegation met former Prime Minister Madhav Kumar Nepal, who has replaced Mr. Oli as chairman of the Prachanda-led faction. Monday’s meetings came a day after the four-member team led by Mr. Guo held separate talks with President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister Oli to patch up differences. Prime Minister Oli, after his meeting with Mr. Guo at his official residence in Baluwatar, said Nepal and China have promoted and strengthened the bilateral relations to a new height in recent years. “China has been supporting Nepal as a close neighbour and a friend of Nepal,” Mr. Oli said. China has been providing support and assistance in each and every sector of Nepal and it would be continued in the coming days as well, Mr. Oli’’s Foreign Affairs Adviser Rajan Bhattarai said. “Nepal and China as well as the two Communist parties have been enjoying excellent bilateral relations for a long time,” he said. ‘Widening ties’ Mr. Guo conveyed President Xi Jinping’s New Year Greetings to Mr. Oli. The Chinese side expressed happiness over the deepening and widening of ties between the two countries and the two parties based on mutual interest and respect, the sources said. Mr. Guo, who personally knows all senior NCP leaders, will also meet the main Opposition party Nepali Congress (NC) president Sher Bahadur Deuba and Janata Samajbadi chair Upendra Yadav. Meanwhile, the NC held a mass protest rally in the capital demanding the reinstatement of the House. The demonstration is a part of its nationwide protests in all 165 electoral constituencies against the dissolution of the House.
29 December 2020||Shenzhen,||Trial of 10 of the ‘Hong Kong 12’ begins in China||The trial in China of a group of Hong Kong pro-democracy activists who tried to escape the city by speedboat for sanctuary in Taiwan opened on Monday, as the U.S. urged the immediate release of dissidents it says “fled tyranny”. Ten of the so-called “Hong Kong 12” were in court in the southern city of Shenzhen facing charges linked to an illegal border crossing. Chinese authorities took them into custody after their boat was intercepted on August 23. Court officials stayed tight-lipped about the case and the trial — like many in China’s opaque legal system — was not open to foreign reporters or diplomats. At least two of the group face around seven years in jail for organising the attempted escape from a city where democracy activists last year led massive protests against Beijing’s rule. “Their so-called ‘crime’ was to flee tyranny,” a U.S. Embassy spokesperson said. Urging their “immediate release”, the spokesperson said: “Communist China will stop at nothing to prevent its people from seeking freedom elsewhere.”
29 December 2020||BERLIN,||WHO calls for expanded measures to find variants||The head of the World Health Organization said on Monday that it’s important to step up genomic sequencing worldwide to ensure that new variants of the coronavirus are detected as the pandemic enters its second year. New variants detected in Britain and South Africa that appear to be more infectious have caused concern and triggered new travel restrictions this month. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Monday from Geneva that “there will be setbacks and new challenges in the year ahead — for example new variants of COVID-19 and helping people who are tired of the pandemic to continue to combat it.” He said that the WHO is working closely with scientists across the world to “better understand any and all changes to the virus” and their impact.
29 December 2020||Cox’s Bazar,||Dhaka moves refugees to barren island||Bangladesh on Monday started moving a second group of Rohingya refugees to a controversial flood-prone island in the Bay of Bengal despite opposition from rights activists. More than 1,600 of the Muslim minority from Myanmar were taken to Bhashan Char earlier this month, and Foreign Minister A.K. Abdul Momen said just under 1,000 were in the latest batch heading for what he called a “beautiful resort”. Buses took the Rohingya from camps in Cox’s Bazar, where nearly one million refugees are packed, to Chittagong port where they will be taken to the barren island. “They are going voluntarily,” Mr. Momen said.
29 December 2020||Moscow,||17 fishermen feared dead after boat sinks in Arctic Russia||Seventeen fishermen were missing and feared dead on Monday after a Russian boat capsized during a storm and sank in the freezing waters of the Barents Sea. Officials said that two of the 19 people aboard the trawler had been rescued during a search-and-rescue operation.AFP
29 December 2020||BEIRUT,||ML--Lebanon-Hezbollah||The leader of Lebanon’s Hezbollah said on Sunday his group now has twice as many precision-guided missiles as it had a year ago, saying Israel’s efforts to prevent it from acquiring them have failed. Hassan Nasrallah said his group has the capability to strike anywhere in Israel.AP
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The BJP is at the gates in West Bengal||Of the five States where Assembly elections are scheduled in 2021, the political battle in West Bengal is likely to become the most fierce, given the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s aggressive bid for power in the State for the first time in history. Till 2014, BJP had remained a marginal player in Bengal politics contesting the Lok Sabha polls as a junior ally of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in 1998, 1999 and 2004. However, for Assembly elections, such as in 2001 and 2006, TMC chief Mamata Banerjee preferred the Congress over the BJP as the party’s ally. In the 2011 Assembly polls too, when the TMC finally unseated the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Front in an alliance with the Congress, the BJP ploughed a lonely furrow, securing only 4.1% of the vote share.  The decline of the Left Front It was the ‘Modi wave’ of 2014 that enabled the BJP to achieve a breakthrough of getting 17% of the popular vote in West Bengal and winning two seats without any alliance. With the vote shares of the TMC and the Congress remaining largely unchanged between 2011 and 2014, it was clear that disgruntled Left voters had started shifting their allegiance towards the BJP. While this development rung alarm bells among many, the CPI(M) leadership both in Kolkata and Delhi remained complacent and unwilling to undertake any corrective action. In the 2016 Assembly election, while the TMC contested alone, the CPI(M)-led Left Front forged a State-level alliance with the Congress for the first time in West Bengal. This alliance received a combined vote share of 39% against TMC’s 45%, finishing a distant second. What was more disastrous for the CPI(M)-led Left Front, however, was that it was relegated to the third position in the Assembly with 32 seats behind the Congress’s 44. Paradoxically, this dismal result was interpreted by the CPI(M) leadership as a “success” because the BJP’s vote share had declined from 17% in 2014 to around 10% in 2016. What was missed entirely was that the Left Front’s vote share had further eroded by 3% between 2014 and 2016 despite the alliance with the Congress, which meant that the votes lost to the BJP in 2014 did not return to the Left Front in 2016. Having lost the principal Opposition status within the Assembly to the organisationally weaker and politically subdued Congress in 2016, the CPI(M)-led Left Front receded further while the BJP started asserting its presence as an aggressive opposition to the TMC. A string of communal riots was engineered across districts in 2016 and 2017, which sharpened communal polarisation. These were planned and orchestrated by the Sangh Parivar outfits on the one hand and aided and abetted by TMC’s non-secular, inept governance on the other. A massive vote shift With every by-election in West Bengal since 2016, the BJP has gained in vote share at the cost of the Left Front. This vote shift from the Left to the BJP peaked in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, with the BJP winning 18 of the 42 seats in the State. The BJP’s vote share shot up from about 10% in 2016 to over 40% in 2019, with the Left Front’s vote share collapsing from 27% to 7.5%, the Congress’s vote share declining by nearly 7%, and the TMC’s by about 2%. An informally coined grassroots slogan “ agey Ram porey Bam (First Ram, then Left)” gripped the masses — in absolute numbers, over 1 crore voters seem to have shifted from the Left Front to the BJP between 2016 and 2019. The 2019 election was a watershed in two ways. First, the TMC’s aura of invincibility fell apart and discontent against Ms. Banerjee’s rule became apparent. Second, the BJP emerged as the preferred alternative to the TMC rather than the CPI(M)-led Left Front or the Congress. Despite a plethora of populist schemes, the day-to-day repression practised by the TMC party-state in the rural areas have alienated large sections of the rural populace. Over one-third of the seats in the 2018 Panchayat elections were won by the TMC without any contest, reflecting the extent of the battered opposition. In the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, there was large-scale misappropriation of relief funds through the elected representatives of the TMC, compelling Ms. Banerjee to order her party functionaries to return the ill-gotten money. The Calcutta High Court has ordered the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India to conduct financial and performance audits of Amphan relief disbursement in response to several PILs alleging wrongdoings. Ms. Banerjee is trying hard to beat anti-incumbency by doling out more benefits through her populist schemes, but the BJP already seems to have gained much traction by engineering defections from the TMC. Former Minister Suvendu Adhikari’s recent switchover to the BJP along with nine more MLAs (six from the TMC and one each from the CPI(M), the CPI and Congress) and one sitting TMC MP is the latest instance. While the TMC continues to put up a brave face, with its campaign manager Prashant Kishor recently characterising the BJP surge as “hype amplified by a section of supportive media” and stating that the BJP will not cross double digits, the ground beneath the TMC’s feet has become visibly shaky with the Modi government deploying its entire might to dislodge the TMC government, and the Governor almost running a parallel government from Raj Bhavan. No credible alternative The recently announced Left Front-Congress alliance, which failed at the hustings in 2016, does not offer a credible alternative to the TMC. With no common alternative programme or organisational cohesion behind it, the only basis of the Left Front-Congress alliance is their leaders’ empty rage against Ms. Banerjee and a subjective desire to unseat her from power. Such a platform is more likely to facilitate the BJP’s project of capturing power in West Bengal than help the TMC by cutting into the BJP’s share of anti-incumbency votes, which had already crossed the 40% threshold in 2019. The anticipated entry of Muslim parties into the fray, especially the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen which has been emboldened by the Bihar election results, will further muddy the waters for the TMC. In this backdrop, the TMC may be better placed to take on the BJP’s challenge by forging a broader secular alliance, especially with the Congress. Given Ms. Banerjee’s own experiences at coalition building, it is inexplicable why the TMC has not made serious attempts yet in that direction. Hubris or excessive reliance on outsourced strategic thinking may inflict heavy costs on it. West Bengal is a border State with a nearly 10 crore population of which 27% belong to the Muslim minority. It is also home to millions of post-Partition refugees, a significant section of whom belong to Scheduled Caste communities like Rajbangshi and Namasudra. If the BJP comes to power, armed with the citizenship matrix of the National Register of Citizens-National Population Register and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act of 2019, and determined to weed out “1 crore Bangladeshi infiltrators” as imagined by its State President Dilip Ghosh, what lies ahead for the State’s social fabric is anybody’s guess. Unfortunately, so far none of the secular political forces appear to have a coherent strategy and appropriate tactics to prevent such a predicament. Prasenjit Bose is an economist and activist
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Dealing with India’s two-front challenge||Till recently, any mention of a two-front war evoked two contrasting opinions. India’s military was firmly of the view that a collusive China-Pakistan military threat was a real possibility, and we must develop capabilities to counter this challenge. On the other hand, the political class in general and the mainstay of the country’s strategic community felt that a two-front threat was being over-hyped by the military to press for additional resources and funds. They argued that historically, China has never intervened militarily in any India-Pakistan conflict and that the economic, diplomatic, and political ties between India and China rule out any armed conflict between the two countries. As a result, Indian strategic thinking was overwhelmingly focused on Pakistan and the security considerations emanating from there. Intrusions change things In the Indian military’s thinking, while China was the more powerful — and therefore strategic — foe, the chance of a conventional conflict breaking out was low. The reverse was true of Pakistan, with a greater likelihood of conflict along the western border possibly triggered by a major terror attack emanating from Pakistan. The Chinese intrusions in Ladakh in May this year, the violence that resulted from clashes between the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army, and the deadlock in negotiations have now made the Chinese military threat more apparent and real. The direct result of this, then, is the arrival of a worrisome two-front situation for New Delhi. Even if the current India-China crisis on the border is resolved peacefully, China’s military challenge will occupy greater attention of Indian military planners in the months and years to come. This comes at a time when the situation along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan has been steadily deteriorating. Between 2017 and 2019, there has been a four-fold increase in ceasefire violations. Some media reports had indicated that Pakistan had moved 20,000 troops into Gilgit-Baltistan, matching the Chinese deployments in Eastern Ladakh. China-Pakistan military links For sure, the Sino-Pakistan relationship is nothing new, but it has far serious implications today than perhaps ever before. China has always looked at Pakistan as a counter to India’s influence in South Asia. Over the years, the ties between the two countries have strengthened and there is a great deal of alignment in their strategic thinking. Military cooperation is growing, with China accounting for 73% of the total arms imports of Pakistan between 2015-2019 (https://bit.ly/37V6FWq). In his remarks on the (recently concluded) Shaheen IX Pakistan-China joint exercise between the Pakistan Air Force and People’s Liberation Army Air Force, the Pakistan Chief of Army Staff said, “The joint exercise will improve combat capacity of both air forces substantially and also enhance interoperability between them with greater strength and harmony.” It would, therefore, be prudent for India to be ready for a two-front threat. In preparing for this, the Indian military needs to realistically analyse how this threat could manifest itself and the type of capabilities that should be built up to counter it. In a two-front scenario, the larger challenge for India’s military would come if the hostilities break out along the northern border with China. In such a contingency, there is a likelihood that Pakistan would attempt to take advantage of India’s military preoccupation by limited military actions in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), and attempt to raise the level of militancy in Kashmir. It is unlikely that Pakistan would initiate a large-scale conflict to capture significant chunks of territory as that would lead to a full-blown war between three nuclear armed states. In such a contingency, the damage to Pakistan’s economy and military far outweighs the advantages of capturing some pieces of ground. Pakistan would prefer the low-risk option of pursuing a hybrid conflict that remains below the threshold of war. Dilemmas for India A two-front conflict presents the Indian military with two dilemmas — of resources and strategy. Ashley J. Tellis, in his 2016 article, “Troubles, They Come in Battalions: The Manifold Travails of the IAF” (https://bit.ly/3hoZ3i7) estimates that about 60 combat squadrons are needed to deal with a serious two-front threat. This is double the number of squadrons currently with the Indian Air Force (IAF). Obviously, it is neither practical nor feasible to build a level of capability that enables independent war fighting on both fronts. A major decision will be the quantum of resources to be allocated for the primary front. If a majority of the assets of the Indian Army and the Indian Air Force are sent towards the northern border, it will require the military to rethink its strategy for the western border. This is the second dilemma. Even though Pakistan may only be pursuing a hybrid war, should the Indian military remain entirely defensive? If it does so, it may encourage Pakistan to continue with its actions in J&K with a level of impunity and even raise the level of its involvement on the western front. Adopting a more offensive strategy against Pakistan could draw limited resources into a wider conflict. It is impossible to define with any certainty the contours of a two-front conflict and how it would actually play out. However, what is certain is that the threat cannot be ignored and therefore we need to develop both the doctrine and the capability to deal with this contingency. Developing a doctrine will require close interaction with the political leadership. Any doctrine that is prepared without a political aim and guidance will not stand the test when it is actually to be executed. Capability building also requires a serious debate, particularly in view of the fact that the country’s economic situation will not permit any significant increase in the defence Budget for the foreseeable future. There is too much focus on major platforms such as aircraft, ships, and tanks, and not enough on future technologies such as robotics, artificial intelligence, cyber, electronic warfare, etc. The right balance will have to be struck based on a detailed assessment of China and Pakistan’s war-fighting strategies. Diplomacy is crucial Diplomacy has a crucial role to play in meeting the two-front challenge. To begin with, New Delhi would do well to improve relations with its neighbours so as not to be caught in an unfriendly neighbourhood given how Beijing and Islamabad will attempt to contain and constrain India in the region. The government’s current engagement of the key powers in West Asia, including Iran, should be further strengthened in order to ensure energy security, increase maritime cooperation and enhance goodwill in the extended neighbourhood. New Delhi must also ensure that its relationship with Moscow is not sacrificed in favour of India-United States relations given that Russia could play a key role in defusing the severity of a regional gang up against India. Even as the Quad, or the quadrilateral security dialogue (India, Australia, Japan and the U.S) and the Indo-Pacific seem to form the mainstay of India’s new grand strategy, there is only so much that a maritime strategy can help ease the Sino-Pakistan pressure in the continental sphere. Outreach to Kashmir Politically, the stark military reality of a two-front challenge, one that is likely to grow stronger over the years, must serve as a wake-up call for the political leadership in New Delhi, and encourage it to look for ways to ease the pressure from either front. Easing pressure on the western front requires political will more than anything else. From a long-view perspective, therefore, a well-choreographed political outreach to Kashmir aimed at pacifying the aggrieved citizens there would go a long way towards that end. This could also lead to a potential rapprochement with Pakistan provided, of course, Rawalpindi can be persuaded to put an end to terrorist infiltration into Kashmir. It is important to remember that China, a rising and aggressive, superpower next door, is the bigger strategic threat for India, with Pakistan being a second-order accessory to Beijing’s ‘contain India strategy’. New Delhi would, therefore, do well to do what it can politically to reduce the effect of a collusive Sino-Pakistan containment strategy aimed at India. Lt. Gen. Deependra Singh Hooda (retd.), a former northern army commander, and Happymon Jacob, an associate professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University, recently co-founded the ‘Council for Strategic and Defense Research’, a New Delhi-based think tank. The views expressed are personal
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Reforms with the future and farming needs in mind||The major objections and fears relating to the new Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act ((https://bit.ly/3mPmCBD andhttps://bit.ly/34Ov7H6)are that the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC) will be eventually closed, the Minimum Support Prices (MSP) will be stopped, corporates will take over agriculture trade, and farmers’ land will be taken over by powerful corporates. The sides to the debate Some experts and farmer leaders feel that these apprehensions and fears are imaginary, unrealistic and a part of deliberate narrative created to stop reforms in agriculture and prevent India from modernising agriculture and becoming a global power in agriculture. Those who oppose these Acts have focused mainly on threats and adverse effects and refrained from talking about the potential benefits of the new Acts; they are also ignoring the reasons for changing the regulatory system of agriculture. Another set of reputed experts such as Kaushik Basu have reiterated their support for changing archaic laws in agriculture but opposed the new Acts. Basis for reforms There are quite a few major reasons for undertaking the reforms in agriculture (https://bit.ly/3nYjqVN). The gap between the agri-income of a farmer and that of a non-agriculture worker increased from Rs. 25,398 in 1993–94 to Rs. 1.42 lakh in 2011-12. There is widespread feeling of agrarian distress. Aggregate food demand has fallen short of domestic production necessitating the export of a large quantity to prevent domestic prices from falling very low. We are already sitting on excess stock of 60 lakh tons of sugar and nearly 72 million tons of extra buffer stock of wheat and rice which is causing a huge drain on fiscal resources. India’s agri-exports are getting difficult to push, imports are turning attractive as domestic prices are turning much higher than international prices. Rural youth including farmers’ children are looking for jobs outside agriculture and there is a serious problem of unemployment in the countryside. There are numerous instances of market failure to the detriment of producers and consumers. This is turning farmers to look at the government for remunerative prices through MSP for most agricultural products. Indian agriculture production and the market are not moving to the next stage of development. The growth rate in agriculture is driven by heavy support through various kinds of subsidies and output price support.  Net revenue receipt of the Central government is below 9% of GDP. If farmers are to be ensured remunerative prices for their produce through procurement at MSP, as per the demand put up by the protesting farmers, these costs and losses and subsidies will take away most of the tax revenue of the central government. Such facts need to be shared with the farmers’ leaders. I do not think they will ask for something which will lead to a collapse of the fiscal system of the government. The way forward then for ensuring remunerative prices to farmers is through increased competition for sale of their produce, development of modern value chains, value addition, export, and processing as a part of rural economic revitalisation. There is also a need to understand that the APMC has nothing to do with payment of the MSP. Crops other than paddy, wheat and cotton are selling at prices below the MSP in the APMC mandis of Punjab on an almost regular basis. The necessary and sufficient conditions for the MSP are procurement by the government, with or without the APMC. Experience shows that even after fruits and vegetables were de-notified from the APMC, they continued to arrive at APMC mandis in large quantities while farmers got additional options. The threat to the APMC comes from the action of States to use these mandis for extra revenue generation. The protesting farmer leaders have raised a genuine concern to keep the level-playing field for the APMC and private players, and the Agriculture Minister has shown agreement to address this fully. Some of the criteria Another provision of the New Trading Act under attack is the simple requirement of a PAN card for a trader. Protesting farmers favour stringent criteria and registration for traders in a trade area. As in the existing provisions, after having a PAN card, even a farmer can go for trading, his son can do agri-business and other rural youth can undertake purchases of farm commodities for direct sale to a consumer or other agribusiness firms. If a stringent criteria such as bank guarantee, etc. are included in the registration of traders then agriculture trade will remain in the hands of the trading class and the spirit of the new law to facilitate farmers and rural youth to become agribusiness entrepreneurs will be lost. On contract farming The experiences of contract farming which is already going on in various pockets in India show the critics and protesting farmers are mixing contract farming with corporate farming. The new Act intends to insulate interested farmers (especially small farmers), against market and price risks so they can go in for the cultivation of high-value crops without worrying about the market and low prices in the harvest season. The Act is voluntary and either party is free to leave it after the expiry of agreement. It prohibits the farming agreement to include the transfer, sale, lease, mortgage of the land or premises of the farmer. The Act will promote diversification, quality production for premium price, export and direct sale of produce, with desired attributes to interested consumers. It will also bring new capital and knowledge into agriculture and pave the way for farmers’ participation in the value chain. The policy reforms undertaken by the central government through these Acts are in keeping with the changing times and requirements of farmers and farming. If they are implemented in the right spirit, they will take Indian agriculture to new heights and usher in the transformation of the rural economy. Ramesh Chand is Member, NITI Aayog. The views expressed are personal
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Granting bail is the rule||Discussions on bail reform usually arise when exceptional cases capture public attention. However, bail reform must begin by addressing two key facets of the criminal justice system: judicial discretion and monetary surety bonds. Judicial discretion The power to grant bail is a discretionary power vested in judges and it is meant to be exercised liberally. The Supreme Court has consistently reiterated that “bail is the rule, jail is an exception”. The primary purpose of bail is to ensure the accused person’s compliance with investigation, and subsequent presence at the trial if they are released after arrest. The refusal to grant bail deprives individuals of liberty by confining them in jails without trial and conviction. At present, the power to grant bail is exercised sparingly. Subordinate courts even routinely reject bail for specific offences like minor excise offences. It is pertinent to note that a majority of those policed under excise laws belong to marginalised communities. Without grant of bail by the lower courts, the accused persons are required to approach the High Court or the Supreme Court. Consequently, most accused persons remain incarcerated as undertrials for extended periods of time. Two-thirds of India’s prison population comprise undertrials from Dalit, Adivasi and Other Backward Classes communities, often accused of minor offences. The pendency of bail applications has particularly increased during the pandemic — both due to the shutting down of courts and the exacerbation of arrests for minor offences by the police. Despite the Supreme Court’s orders to decongest prisons, arrests for minor offences continued unabated, according to a study of pandemic policing in Madhya Pradesh by the Criminal Justice and Police Accountability Project (CPAProject). The system of bail typically requires sureties to furnish a bond for some property valued at the amount determined by the concerned judge. The bail amount in subordinate courts, even for petty offences punishable by less than three years, is a minimum of Rs. 10,000. In cases of bail before the High Courts and the Supreme Court, this amount usually exceeds Rs. 30,000. However, even this amount is a rare mercy. For instance, a 14-year-old minor’s surety for four cases of theft and house breaking was set at Rs. 2 lakh by the sessions court in Bhopal. This is a form of injustice when a majority of citizens are landless with meagre incomes. A report by Azim Premji University highlights that even among regular wage workers, 57% Indians earn less than Rs. 10,000 per month. Official data from the Socio-Economic Caste Census pegs rural landlessness at 57%, and this is higher if you are Dalit or Adivasi. Therefore, those without assets, even when granted bail, end up languishing in jails or incur debt by paying others to stand as fake sureties to secure their freedom. A bogey of middlemen has also emerged due to these high bail amounts. This economy of exploitation receives scant attention in discussions of reform. The grant of bail on a personal bond without sureties i.e., release on one’s own guarantee without any monetary amounts, although permissible in law, is rare. In the 1978 Supreme Court case of Moti Ram v. State of Madhya Pradesh , Justice V. R. Krishna Iyer identified the issue of unreasonably high sureties as a human rights problem. The court then suggested that surety amounts be determined by considering relevant variables such as the socio-economic location of the accused person. Preposterous bail conditions During the lockdown, the Gwalior Bench of the M.P. High Court deemed it fit to impose peculiar conditions while granting bail to certain applicants. These included installing a non-Chinese LED TV at the District Hospital, registration as a “voluntary COVID-19 warrior” and donating money for COVID-19 relief. This continued despite the Principal Bench of the High Court stating that bail orders requiring the deposit of cash amounts are “unjust, irregular and improper”. Bail indiscretions by judges of lower courts and High Courts have passed by with little accountability or oversight by the apex court. Even when not ridiculous, bail conditions can transgress personal liberty and are often paternalistic. Courts introspect little about standards of liberty, reasonableness and proportionality when deciding bail matters. A report by the Centre for Law and Policy Research recommends the creation of checklists to address individual discretion while deciding bail applications. Yet, the reflection of our society’s inherent caste and class biases in judicial decisions is likely to persist even with checklists. The legacy of Moti Ram has been honoured more in breach than in its spirit. Nikita Sonavane and Srujana Bej are with the CPAProject. Ameya Bokil contributed to the article
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Is BJP going the Congress way?||All indicators demonstrate that the Congress is suffering from a terminal disease. What is not so evident is that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is beginning to suffer from the same malaise. There are three major ingredients that determine the health of a political party in a democracy: shared ideology, dedicated cadres, and inner party democracy. All of them have been absent in the Congress for decades. Charisma can be fickle Inner party democracy was never a major characteristic of the BJP as it was the top brass of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) that decided who would lead its political arm. This tradition continues with one major difference. Earlier, even the tallest leaders of the party including Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L.K. Advani could not create a cult of personality around them thanks in part to the RSS’s control. This has changed drastically under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The fortunes of the party have become inextricably tied to the durability of Mr. Modi’s charisma. Echoes of “Indira is India” can be heard in the slogan “ Modi hai to mumkin hai (if Modi is there, it is possible)”. But as Indira Gandhi’s resounding defeat in 1977 demonstrated, charisma can be very fickle. If Mr. Modi’s charisma loses its shine, so would the standing of the party. Thanks to its parent organisation, the RSS, ideological commitment and dedicated cadres have been the BJP’s strongest attributes. However, now the BJP appears to be following in the Congress’s footsteps by diminishing its esprit de corps and organisational cohesion and thus diluting its ideology. The latter is compromised once esprit de corps declines as a result of a vast array of people with diverse or no political persuasions joining the party in search of power and its attendant perks. Switching sides One can already see this happening at the State level where in many instances there is fierce competition within the BJP for the benefits of office. The danger of this virus becoming more virulent is becoming evident as the BJP uses all sorts of enticements to attract politicians from other parties to switch loyalties in order to bring down non-BJP governments. It did so successfully in Karnataka where more than a dozen MLAs from the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) joined the BJP with almost all of them rewarded with ministerial berths thus creating heart burn among existing contenders for office. It won an even greater prize in Madhya Pradesh by inducing a leading light of the Congress, Jyotiraditya Scindia, to switch sides, along with several of his followers, thus bringing down the Kamal Nath government. It almost succeeded in doing the same in Rajasthan but failed because Sachin Pilot lost his nerve at the last moment. This drama is being re-enacted in West Bengal with Trinamool Congress members, including some very important figures, being lured into switching to the BJP with attractive offers. The rot However, in the long run, this strategy is likely to be counterproductive because the “ aya rams ” of today can easily become the “ gaya rams ” of tomorrow as they do not have the same ideological commitment or the esprit de corps as do the members who have been socialised into the party’s culture by their association with the RSS. Such temporary successes hide the rot gnawing away at the party’s core. The BJP is slowly but surely turning it into a mirror image of the Congress. Just as the glue that held the Congress together for several decades was the allurement of power, increasingly the adhesive holding the BJP together is the appeal of office and the privileges that go with it. But this attraction can dissipate and be replaced by disillusionment leading to defections at the slightest indication of a reversal in the BJP’s fortunes or its inability to accommodate defectors in high offices. Given present trends, it is possible that the BJP will repeat the Congress’s trajectory. Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Easing off||As 2020 draws to a close, Indians will look forward to the new year with wariness and hope after suffering one of the worst years in history, health-wise (nearly 1,48,000 registered deaths due to COVID-19) and economically (loss of livelihoods). The pandemic continues to rage — daily infections and deaths are scaling fresh peaks in Europe, the U.S. is closing in on 20 million confirmed cases and 3.4 lakh deaths and in some countries in Latin America, cases have remained high and are rising. In contrast, while India still registers the highest number of daily infections and deaths in Asia, the daily rate has come down significantly to a seven day rolling average of less than 24,000 cases and 250 deaths between December 20-26, from the peak of close to a lakh and more than a 1,000 deaths a day in mid-September. These are much lower numbers compared to the U.S. and comparably fewer than those registered in the larger countries in Europe and Latin America. India still tests a middling number: 732 tests and 15.8 confirmed cases per million people, compared to the rest of the world. The testing numbers have fallen slightly in the past month, but the significant drop in recorded deaths suggests that, rather than experiencing a new peak in daily infections and deaths, India still remains in the “down phase” since the September peak. That the case and death curves are headed further south is a good sign for the health infrastructure. While no other country barring the U.S. has reached or crossed the per day peak of nearly one lakh cases that India registered in September, the lower number of cases registered recently even as the country eased its physical distancing measures and travel restrictions and went through a festive season might come as a surprise. But as virologists Jacob John and M.S. Seshadri have argued, the peaking in September denoted the pandemic’s widespread nature in urban and semi-urban areas and was reflected even more apparently in the ICMR’s serosurveys. These serosurveys revealed a much higher number of undetected infections, many of them asymptomatic, before the September peak. As the virus ravaged the urban centres and spread to rural areas, the virologists estimated that nearly a third of the population had already been exposed, indicating that half of the “herd immunity” level required to end the spread had already been reached by mid-September. This explains why daily case and fatality rates stay low and also suggests that after India begins its vaccination drive, the epidemic should ease further and could become endemic. This does not lessen the dangers of local outbreaks and the complications of the spread of new variants from abroad. The standard safety measures — mask wearing, hand hygiene, absence of crowding and renewed testing and tracing — must remain.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||War and words||With the Afghan government and the Taliban preparing to resume talks in Doha next week, one of the pressing problems Afghanistan is facing remains unaddressed — the surging violence. The year 2020 was one of the bloodiest in Afghanistan’s 19-year-long conflict. It saw a U.S.-Taliban agreement in February where the Americans promised to withdraw troops in return for the insurgents’ assurance that they would not allow terrorist groups such as al-Qaeda to operate from Afghan soil. In September, the Afghan government and the Taliban began peace talks for the first time in Doha. But despite these diplomatic openings, both sides have continued their attacks. In the quarter that ended on September 30, violence surged by 50%, according to the U.S. Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction. Afghanistan also saw increased targeted killings, especially of media professionals. On December 10, Malala Maiwand, a TV host, was shot dead along with her driver. In less than two weeks, Rahmatullah Nikzad, a freelance photographer, was killed in Ghazni. The Taliban have denied any role, but government officials say the insurgents, who banned TV and turned print and radio into propaganda platforms when in power in the late 1990s, were behind the attacks as they seek to silence critical voices. The peace talks are a complicated process. The U.S. first cut a deal with the Taliban and then arm-twisted the government to join the talks. Abdullah Abdullah, who challenged the 2019 election results and formed a short-lived parallel government questioning the legitimacy and authority of President Ashraf Ghani, is heading the government delegation in the talks. Mr. Ghani’s Vice-President, Amrullah Saleh, the former intelligence chief, is known for his strong anti-Taliban views. Despite the divisions within, the government had demanded a ceasefire, but the Taliban resisted such demands and emphasised other talking points such as prisoner swaps and the future governance system. As a result, violence continued even as both sides negotiated ways to end the war. Earlier in December, after three months of talks, the Taliban and the government delegation agreed on a set of “rules and procedures” for the talks. But a ceasefire is still elusive. The Trump administration, in its quest to get out of the war, failed to extract any major compromise from the Taliban when it rolled out the peace process. The insurgents, who control most of the countryside, are already upbeat. The next American administration should carry out an honest review of the entire peace process and push the Taliban to make concessions. The talks are vital to finding a lasting solution to the conflict. But it should not be on the Taliban’s terms, which could erase whatever little progress Afghanistan has made since the fall of the Taliban.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Student’s conference||The attendance at the Student’s Conference became meagre on the last day and after hot discussion in the Subjects Committee the open conference was resumed last night at 7. Lajpat Rai was President. He opened the proceedings by making a short speech contradicting certain rumours set afloat about his Presidential Address. He said he had heard it remarked that in his written speech he was strongly against Non-Co-operation clauses relating to school and and colleges but that in his verbal address he changed his attitude completely. He explained that such a statement was a baseless lie. He had not written an address but had only written down a few pages dealing with the general prevailing opinion about the value of modern civilisation and the value of authority. It was only a part of the address, which he wanted to complete by discussion on Non-Co-operation at Nagpur, but which he never completed for want of time and lack of information as to the aims and objects of the conference and the resolutions drafted by the Reception Committee.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||LS poll likely on Feb. 28 or March 1||The Chief Election Commissioner, Mr. S.P. Sen Verma said here to-day [New Delhi, Dec. 28] that polling for the mid-term elections to the Lok Sabha should begin on February 28 or March 1, 1971. The Election Commissioner told newsmen he would recommend to the President that the notification calling for the elections should be issued on January 27. Mr. Sen Verma said he had received no formal intimation from the Government on holding the mid-term elections to the West Bengal Assembly. He indicated that the Lok Sabha poll would be spread over three or four days in some States such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar — the two largest States in the country. Mr. Sen Verma said that all arrangements for conducting the general election to the Lok Sabha were ready and complete. “Therefore, I can make my recommendation to the President requesting him to issue the writ notifications calling the general election even within two days. But I have some weighty considerations, for not doing so,” he said. The important consideration was that various political parties in the country should be given sufficient time for selecting their candidates to contest from various parliamentary constituencies. The total number of parliamentary constituencies is 520.
29 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Maintaining inflation target at 4% is appropriate: RBI paper||Maintaining the inflation target at 4% is appropriate for India, according to a working paper titled “Measuring Trend Inflation in India”. “The paper seeks to estimate trend inflation in India to find the answer to a question that goes to the root of flexible inflation targeting (FIT) – is the choice of the target for inflation consistent with its trend?,” according to authors Harendra Kumar Behera, Director and Michael Debabrata Patra, Deputy Governor. The 4% target for inflation — with an upper tolerance limit of 6% and a lower limit of 2% — was set by the Centre in consultation with the RBI in 2016 and its validity expires on March 31, 2021. “The paper finds a steady decline in trend inflation to 4.1- 4.3% since 2014.” “A target set too [significantly] below the trend imparts a deflationary bias to monetary policy because it will go into overkill relative to what the economy can intrinsically bear in order to achieve the target,” the paper said. “Analogously, a target that is fixed above the trend renders monetary policy too expansionary and prone to inflationary shocks and unanchored expectations. Hence, maintaining the inflation target at 4% is appropriate for India,” it added. The RBI placed the paper on its website under the Reserve Bank of India Working Paper Series. Central to the design and conduct of monetary policy is the concept of trend inflation, the level to which actual inflation outcomes are expected to converge after short-run fluctuations die out, the authors said.
29 December 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Bank profitability may rise in FY22 on better asset quality’||Improved asset quality and consequently lower credit provisions could drive better profitability next fiscal for banks, ICRA Ratings said in a report. It added that this would provide an impetus to lenders as well as rejuvenate their lending decisions. Low interest rates, improved business volumes, better job prospects and income levels could also stimulate credit demand next year, it added. “This, coupled with better competitive positioning of banks vis-a-vis other lenders driven by steep decline in cost of deposits could improve bank credit growth to 6-7% in FY2022 from an estimated 3.9-5.2% in FY21 and 6.1% in FY20.” ICRA said. “As the moratorium on loan repayments is over and ... we await the Supreme Court directive on asset classification, the Gross NPAs and Net NPAs for banks are likely to rise in near term to 10.1-10.6% and 3.1-3.2% respectively by March 2021, from 7.9% and 2.2% respectively as of September 2020 and the resultant elevated credit provisions during H2 FY2021 as well,” it said. However Net NPAs and credit provisions would subsequently trend lower in FY2022 as banks have reported strong collections on their loan portfolio with most banks reporting collections of over 90%, it said. “The loan restructuring requests [which are] much lower than previously estimated have been supported by sharper-than-expected improvement in economic activities as well liquidity support through the emergency credit line guarantee scheme. Accordingly, ICRA revised its loan restructuring estimates downward to 2.5-4.5% of advances as against 5-8% estimated earlier,” it said. Anil Gupta, sector head, Financial Sector Ratings, ICRA Ratings, said, “With expectations of sustained collections and lower restructuring, the asset quality is expected to improve further with net NPAs declining to 2.4-2.6% by March 2022. This will lead to lower credit provisions and better profitability in FY2022.” ICRA expects credit provisions to decline to 1.8-2.4% of advances in FY22 from an estimate of 2.2-3.1% in FY21 and 3.1% in FY20, leading to an improvement in banks’ return on equity (RoE). The RoE for private banks is estimated to improve to 9.5-10.5% in FY22 (2-7.5% in FY21 and 6.5% for FY20). Stating that the capital position for large private banks was strong, it said they could withstand the stress-case scenario for asset quality after they have raised Rs. 544 billion of capital in the first 9 months of FY21.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Hiring surge in telecom technology to continue’||The year 2020 saw a 15% rise in demand for telecom technology talent, according to TeamLease. This surge in hiring was driven largely by telecom infrastructure companies, mobile-enabled services and telecom OEMs, observed the staffing firm. “In fact, with greater as well as widespread adoption of the Internet, demand for better telecom networks, and roll-out of 5G technology, the need for talent in the space is expected to grow even further in 2021,” it said. “The sector is expected to see an 18-20% increase in demand for talent in 2021,'' said Gautam Vohra, V-P and business head, telecom and engineering staffing, TeamLease Digital. According to TeamLease, the government’s thrust on encouraging equipment manufacturing by offering sops such as the production-linked incentive scheme would also boost hiring. This would help provide job opportunities in areas of transmission equipment, wireless equipment, consumer premise equipment, IoT device and enterprise equipment manufacturing hubs.
29 December 2020||MUMBAI,||CV sales may take more time to recover: Ind-Ra||Domestic commercial vehicle (CVs) sales could take longer to recover than expected, despite the improving macroeconomic indicators such as the Index of Industrial Production, India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) said in a report. “This is primarily due to the spare capacities created in the system driven by the peak sales achieved during FY18-FY19 and implementation of revised axle load norms coupled with reduced fleet utilisation,” according to the report. It said while medium and heavy commercial vehicle (MHCV) sales are unlikely to recover before Q4 FY22, sales of light commercial vehicles have started to recover as they provide the last-mile connectivity and because of increased e-commerce activities. The agency also said inadequate freight rate increases would dent the profitability of fleet operators.
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Resolve telecom issues quickly: COAI to Centre||Telecom service providers expect the government to take immediate steps to resolve the issues of the sector which has played the role of an enabler for other key industry verticals and supported 30-35% of GDP during the COVID-19 crisis, industry body COAI said. COAI director general S.P. Kochhar told PTI that the telecom sector needs to make huge investment in infrastructure and needs regulatory support, review of the adjusted gross revenue (AGR) definition, GST exemption on AGR dues etc. “Telecom is not a vertical industry in itself; rather, it is an enabler of horizontal growth across industries. Thus, the concerns affecting telecom become the concerns of these industries, and so, the issues of telecom need to be addressed as an issue affecting the overall economy of the country. They should be given priority,” Mr. Kochhar said.
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Supply chain shift from China may benefit India’||India could benefit from the likely shift in global supply chains from China to other economies in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to a survey. The FICCI-Dhruva Advisors Survey conducted this month covered more than 150 companies in India.  “[A] major outcome of COVID-19 is the likely shift in global supply chains away from China to other economies. Nearly 70% of the survey participants have said India could benefit from this move and they expect a fair share of manufacturing to shift from China to India in the near future,” said FICCI. Moreover, the prospect of introduction of a vaccine against COVID-19 early next year has improved the confidence level of businesses, with almost 74% of the participants foreseeing a significant positive impact on their business once the vaccine is made available.  However, to capitalise on the opportunities, there is a need to strengthen the country’s manufacturing ecosystem. “The results of the survey are encouraging. This momentum needs to be built upon and now, all eyes are on the upcoming Budget,” FICCI president Uday Shankar said.
29 December 2020||Bengaluru,||3i Info to sell product unit for Rs. 1,000 cr.||Technology services firm 3i Infotech has decided to sell its global software products business through a ‘slump sale’ to Mumbai-based Azentio Software, a wholly-owned subsidiary of private equity firm Apax Partners, for Rs. 1,000 crore, as per a regulatory filing. 3i Infotech’s product division posted a revenue of Rs. 442.98 crore for the year ending March 31, accounting for 38.8% of its consolidated turnover of Rs. 1,141 crore. The company’s software product business has intellectual property and employees in India, the U.S., the U.K., Kenya, UAE, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and Saudi Arabia. The sale of the division is expected to be completed by March 31, 2021.
29 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Equity fund raising surges to Rs. 1.8 lakh cr.||The devastating pandemic failed to dampen the primary and secondary capital market issuances with the year closing with the highest-ever fund raising from the equity markets, growing 116% to Rs. 1.78 lakh crore in IPOs and other issuances, as per a report. Despite the entire 2020 having been overshadowed by the pandemic, an all-time high fund raising through public equity markets at Rs. 1,77,468 crore was recorded. This was 116% higher than the Rs. 82,241 crore raised in 2019, according to Pranav Haldea, MD, Prime Database. The previous highest amount raised in a year was Rs. 1,60,032 crore, in 2017.
29 December 2020||New delhi,||‘Office space leasing drops 44% on WFH’||Net office space leasing fell 44% year-on-year during 2020 to 25.82 million sq. ft across seven major cities as corporates deferred expansion plans and adopted ‘work-from- home’ (WFH) policies for employees because of the COVID-19 pandemic, as per JLL India. Net leasing of office space stood at 46.5 million sq. ft in 2019 across seven cities — Delhi-NCR, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Pune and Bengaluru. JLL India, however, noted that office space demand rose 52% during October-December to 8.27 million sq. ft over the previous quarter.
29 December 2020||new delhi,||‘More norms likely for virtual assets’||The use of crowdfunding websites create additional risk and the year 2021 will see a lot of regulatory effort channelled towards virtual assets, a senior SBI official said on Monday. Addressing a virtual ‘AML/CFT Conference 2020,’ Sujit Kumar Varma, SBI’s DMD (Corporate Accounts Group), said trade-based money laundering remains a significant risk. “The use of crowdfunding websites, although not entirely new, create an additional risk as these can be misused for terror financing,” he added.  “2021 will see a lot of regulatory effort channelled towards virtual assets and also likely witness the introduction of more regulations for virtual assets service providers.”
29 December 2020||Mumbai,||Adani Port JV raises $300 mn via U.S. bonds||Adani International Container Terminal Pvt. Ltd., a joint venture of Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ), said it has raised $300 million through issuance of U.S. dollar bonds. “The issue saw large participation from marquee investors with interests coming from around 220 accounts, leading to almost 10 times oversubscription,” it said in a statement.
29 December 2020||Mumbai,||Bank of Baroda unveils digital lending platform for retail customers||Bank of Baroda (BoB) has unveiled a digital lending platform to enable prospective retail clients to get loans digitally through a paperless process. “The bank envisages outpacing the banking industry growth by 1.5 times at CAGR of 16% over the next five years by adopting digital-first lending approach,” said Vikramaditya Singh Khichi, executive director, Bank of Baroda.
29 December 2020||New Delhi,||SEBI plans to rope in agency to trace entities||Markets regulator SEBI is looking to rope in an independent agency to trace accused entities against whom notices have been issued by the authorities, and serve summons to them. The work is expected to be carried out through competent manpower such as ex-servicemen. The scope of the work includes tracing the entity based on records and addresses provided by the regulator.PTI
29 December 2020||Melbourne,||India takes a firm grip on the proceedings||A depleted Indian attack ripped through Australia's top-order to leave the World No. 1 team just two runs ahead and in deep trouble on Monday after day three of the second Test. At stumps, Australia was 133 for six with Cameron Green on 17 and Pat Cummins on 15 in its second innings. Setback India’s attack was weakened after Umesh Yadav pulled up in his fourth over with a calf problem and limped off the field. a setback for India, already missing injured regulars Mohammed Shami and Ishant Sharma. But the remaining bowlers, led by Ravindra Jadeja (2/25) and Jasprit Bumrah (1/34), admirably picked up the slack. India was all out for 326 in its first innings on the stroke of lunch, adding just 49 to the overnight 277 for five in reply to Australia's 195. That brought a 131-run lead courtesy Rahane's magnificent 112 and Jadeja's 57. Opener Matthew Wade did well with a fighting 40 off 137 balls before being trapped leg before by Jadeja. But, Steve Smith, Marnus Labuschagne and Joe Burns all failed. Burns lasted just 10 balls, caught by Rishabh Pant off Umesh for four to follow his first-innings duck. Labuschagne fell to Ashwin for 28, caught by Rahane. Smith again went cheaply, bowled by Bumrah for eight. After Wade departed, Travis Head became a victim of debutant paceman Mohammed Siraj, slashing to Mayank Agarwal. Captain Tim Paine fell to Jadeja for one, leaving Green and Cummins to knuckle down in a 34-run partnership and take the Test into a fourth day. India started the day at a chilly MCG in front of 24,995 socially-distanced fans with an 82-run advantage. But Australia quickly made inroads. Jadeja, back in the team after missing the first Test injured, dabbed Nathan Lyon to point and set off for a single as he looked to bring up his 50. Rahane responded, but wasn't quick enough with Paine whipping off the bails after Labuschagne's throw.
29 December 2020||Mount Maunganui,||Kiwis have Pakistan in a bind||Not even a broken toe could stop New Zealand’s pace attack dominating day three of the first Test against Pakistan here on Monday, but efforts to quickly wrap up the innings were slowed by Mohammad Rizwan and Faheem Ashraf’s late century stand. Interruption As intermittent showers and an unseasonal hailstorm disrupted proceedings, the Black Caps’ pace foursome took five for 50 in the first two sessions before Pakistan rallied to be all out for 239 at stumps, still 192 in arrears. Rizwan and Ashraf provided a face-saving partnership for Pakistan with 107 for the seventh wicket before Rizwan was run out for 71 by Mitchell Santner’s smart underarm throw from square-leg. Ashraf soldiered on to a career-best 91 before he became the last to fall. Ignoring pain Kyle Jamieson returned the best figures for New Zealand with three for 35, while Neil Wagner ignored the pain from a broken toe to charge in for 21 overs and take two for 50. He hobbled off at stumps describing it as one of the toughest days of his career and revealed he needed painkillers to keep going. “After the first rain break I just went ‘dammit I can’t bear the pain’ and I got a jab and that took the pain away a little bit... but it started wearing off pretty quickly,” said Wagner, who broke a toe on his right foot when batting on day two. “Injuries happen and it’s unlucky but I can still do things and run and it’s not going to stop me. It’s sore and it’s bloody uncomfortable but its just one of those things you’ve got to deal with and I still felt that I didn’t want to let my teammates down.”
29 December 2020||Dubai,||Last decade belongs to Kohli||India captain Virat Kohli on Monday headlined the ICC top honours for the decade, winning the Sir Garfield Sobers award for the best male cricketer of the past 10 years. Kohli was also picked for the ODI Cricketer-of-the-Decade award. Former India skipper M.S. Dhoni won the ICC Spirit-of-Cricket award, chosen by fans for his gesture of calling back England batsman Ian Bell after a bizarre run out in the Nottingham Test in 2011. The International Cricket Council (ICC) made the announcements via Twitter, bestowing the top honours on Kohli, who scored 66 of his 70 international hundreds, in the ICC Awards period. During this time, he was also the batsman with most fifties (94), most runs (20,396) besides having the best average (56.97) among players with 70 plus innings. Kohli was also part of the World Cup-winning India squad in 2011. Australia’s Ellyse Perry swept the women's awards, securing the Female Cricketer-of-the-Decade along with ODI and T20 Cricketer-of-the-Decade awards.  The winners: Virat Kohli: Sir Garfield Sobers Award for Male Cricketer-of-the-Decade and men's ODI cricketer; Ellyse Perry: Rachael Heyhoe-Flint Award for Female Cricketer-of-the-Decade, women's ODI cricketer and women's T20I cricketer; Steve Smith: Men’s Test cricketer; Rashid Khan: T20I cricketer; Kyle Coetzer: Men's Associate cricketer; Kathryn Bryce: Women's Associate cricketer; M.S. Dhoni: Spirit of Cricket award.
29 December 2020||Melbourne,||Wade unhappy with Paine’s dismissal||Unhappy with skipper Tim Paine’s dismissal in the second innings of the ongoing Boxing Day Test against India here on Monday, Australia’s makeshift opener Matthew Wade has called for consistent implementation of the Decision Review System (DRS). Wade made the statement after Paine was given out, caught behind off Ravindra Jadeja on the third day. The wicketkeeper-batsman was ruled out after the on-field call by Paul Reiffel was overturned by third umpire Paul Wilson. Comparison Paine didn’t hide his disappointment over the decision while leaving the field, prompting Wade to compare it with Australia’s review of Cheteshwar Pujara on the second day’s play on Sunday. “From what I’ve seen it looked pretty similar to the first ball of yesterday, the one we actually referred, I think it was off Pujara. “So from all reports and what I’ve seen, Snicko showed a very similar thing, one was given out and one was not out. That’s the way the cookie crumbles sometimes, but that’s what it looked like from where we’ve been sitting and watching,” Wade said. “I heard a noise on the Pujara one, I was at first slip at the time, and his bat was the only thing out there, and then we saw what you guys saw on the ground, which was a small spike. Either way if it was out or not out, consistency is all you want.”
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dhawan at the helm||The return of skipper Shikhar Dhawan and a fit-again Ishant Sharma gives Delhi a formidable look in the upcoming Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 (SMAT) tournament.  The 20-member team will travel to Mumbai on January 2 and following the mandatory quarantine period, takes on the host in its campaign-opener on January 11. In the league phase, Delhi is placed in Elite ‘E’ with Mumbai, Andhra, Kerala, Haryana, and Puducherry. The squad includes all the regular members, including Nitish Rana, Himmat Singh, Jonty Sidhu, Lalit Yadav, Anuj Rawat, with Pradeep Sangwan making a return from injury. The notable omission is former captain Dhruv Shorey.  The squad: Shikhar Dhawan (Capt.), Ishant Sharma, Nitish Rana, Himmat Singh, Kshitiz Sharma, Jonty Sidhu, Hiten Dalal, Lalit Yadav, Shivank Vashisth, Manjot Kalra, Siddhant Sharma, Anuj Rawat (wk), Pradeep Sangwan, Simarjeet Singh, Pawan Negi, Ayush Badoni, Vaibhav Kandpal, Lakshay Thareja (wk), Pawan Suyal and Karan Dagar .
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The champion that ‘got people talking about the real issues’||With tennis, like so much of the world, shut down because of the coronavirus pandemic, Naomi Osaka found herself with time to read and think. And while she won the U.S. Open for her third Grand Slam title, she also stood out for speaking out about racial injustice and police brutality. As noteworthy in 2020 for her activism away from the tennis court as her success on it, Osaka was selected by The Associated Press as the Female Athlete of the Year in results revealed on Sunday after a vote by AP member sports editors and AP beat writers. “It was difficult to be isolated from my family for large parts of the year, but that’s nothing compared to others. It was sad to watch and read the news of people suffering from COVID-19, and the economic and social effect on so many — losing jobs, mental health. It was such a tough year for so many people,” Osaka wrote in an email interview. “And then watching the police injustices like George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Jacob Blake (to name just a few) in the summer broke my heart. I am proud of my U.S. Open victory, but more so that I got people talking about the real issues.” Osaka went 16-3 during the coronavirus-truncated tennis calendar — the professional tours took about a five-month hiatus; Wimbledon was canceled for the first time since 1945 — and ended the year ranked No. 3. The defining stretch of Osaka’s season came in August and September, when she compiled an 11-match winning streak that included the U.S. Open. It was during a tuneup tournament in New York that Osaka — whose father is Haitian and mother is Japanese — declared she would not play her semifinal, joining athletes from the NBA and elsewhere in protesting the police shooting of Blake. ‘Right time to speak up’ “There are clearly so many worthy issues. This one especially resonated with me because of my own personal up-bringing; and also while the tennis tour was paused, I was able to watch and read news at length for the first time in my life. This summer in the U.S., tensions were high and reached boiling point,” Osaka said. “It was the right time for me to speak up.” Taking her lead, that tournament shut down completely for a day. During the U.S. Open, Osaka brought attention to Black victims of violence by arriving for matches wearing face masks bearing the names of Floyd, Taylor, Tamir Rice, Elijah McClain, Trayvon Martin, Ahmaud Arbery and Philando Castile. “To be honest, I really didn’t stop to think about what others would think of my actions,” Osaka said.
29 December 2020||Madrid,||Messi coy about Barca future||Lionel Messi remained coy on his future at Barcelona in a long interview broadcast on Sunday in which he called the Catalan giants “my life”. Speaking to Spanish TV channel La Sexta, Messi insisted that he was “excited” to play under coach Ronald Koeman this season despite trying to leave the club where he has played his entire senior career last summer. He said that at the time he felt like he “needed a change”, but his attempted exit was blocked amid a spat with former Barca president Josep Maria Bartomeu. Free to negotiate Messi’s contract expires at the end of the season and from next month he will be free to negotiate a move away from Catalonia. “Barca is my life, I’m in love with the club. And the city, my children were born here,” Messi said in an interview conducted earlier this month. “It’s true I had a bad time in the summer. It came from everything that happened before the summer, how the season ended, the burofax (how Messi communicated his desire to leave), all of that. I carried that into the start of the season a little bit.”  Bartomeu stepped down in October and a new Barcelona president will be elected on January 24, after which 33-year-old Messi is expected to begin talks over whether to extend his career-long stay.  Messi said he is under no illusions over the position Barca finds itself in, with the financial problems exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic likely to hamper player recruitment. “I know the club is going through a difficult period and that makes everything surrounding Barcelona difficult, but I am motivated,” he said. Neymar not possible He described Barca’s situation as “really bad” and poured scorn on the idea that Neymar could make a shock return to Catalonia. “To do that you need money, and there is no money. Neymar would cost a lot,” Messi said.
29 December 2020||KOCHI,||Blasters sign Lopez to replace Cidoncha||Kerala Blasters has signed Spanish midfielder Juan De Dios Lopez to replace the injured Sergio Cidoncha for the rest of the Indian Super League season. The 34-year-old defensive midfielder who made 69 appearances for Real Betis in LaLiga, later played for Westerlo in the Belgian League and for Perth Glory in Australia’s A-League. “I am very excited to be a part of a great franchise like Kerala Blasters FC, a club which has the best fans in the entire country,” said Lopez. “Lopez is a very experienced player who will be a good replacement for Cido. He will bring us his experience and maturity. He is a player who can play different roles across the midfield. Though he is joining the squad much later, I hope to see him showcase his leadership skills on the boys,” said Karolis Skinkys, Blasters’ sporting director.
29 December 2020||KOCHI,||Anamika and Ajins triumph||Regional Sports Centre’s Ajins T. Saji and Anamika Johns won the men’s and women’s singles titles in the Ernakulam District table tennis championships organised by the Table Tennis Association of Kerala.  The results (finals): Men: Ajins T. Saji (RSC) bt Emmanuel Sunil (YMCA TTA, Ekm) 11-5, 11-8, 10-12, 11-5.   Boys: Youth: Ajins T. Saji (RSC) bt Thomas Biju (RSC) 11-5, 11-6, 15-13. Junior: Tony Joe (Island Cl.) bt Sabari Ganesh (RSC) 18-16, 11-9, 13-11. Sub-junior: Anand Shaji (RSC) bt Daniel Deepak (Island Cl.) 11-9, 11-7, 9-11, 11-7. Cadet: Lal Krishna (Island Cl.) bt Rithik Roshan (Island)11-5, 12-10, 11-9.   Veterans: Gladyson Correya (YMCA TTA, Kadavanthra) bt Vineet S. Pillay (Everready Ind.) 6-11, 7-11, 11-8, 11-7, 14-12.   Women: 1. Anamika Johns (RSC), 2. Jasmin Sunny (RSC) (finished first and second in the league).   Girls: Youth: Bhavana Menon (RSC) bt Kareena Jeralda Fernandez (RSC) 11-8, 9-11, 11-8, 11-6. Junior: Jyothika Hemant (RSC) bt S. Shikha (KRPMTTA) 11-7, 8-11, 11-6, 11-4. Sub-junior: Angel Maria Sajan (Island Cl.) bt Ann Maria (St. Theresa’s CGHSS) 11-4, 6-11, 2-11, 11-7, 11-9. Cadet: Ann Maria (Island Club, Nja.) bt Agnus Maria (KRPMTTA, Kak) 8-11, 11-9, 11-6 .
29 December 2020||Mumbai,||Revisit ‘umpire’s call’: Tendulkar||The legendary Sachin Tendulkar on Monday urged the ICC to thoroughly revisit the concept of ‘Umpire’s Call’ in the Decision Review System (DRS) after India ended up on the wrong side of the rule on the third day of the second Test against Australia in Melbourne. The ‘Umpire’s Call’ primarily comes into the picture if a review has been sought for LBW. In a situation where the umpire has ruled not out, even if the ball is shown to be hitting the stumps on review, the TV umpire has no powers to change the decision.  The only consolation for the bowling team is that its review remains intact. “The reason players opt for a review is because they’re unhappy with the decision taken by the on-field umpire. The DRS system needs to be thoroughly looked into by the @ICC, especially for the ‘Umpires Call’,” Tendulkar tweeted. This was after Australian batsmen Joe Burns and Marnus Labuschagne were lucky to survive LBW appeals despite replays showing that the ball would have gone on to clip the bails.
29 December 2020||London,||West Brom holds Liverpool||Liverpool offered the chasing pack in the Premier League title race a late Christmas gift by throwing away two points at home to struggling West Brom in a 1-1 draw on Sunday, as Tottenham was also held 1-1 at Wolves. The defending champion edged three points clear at the top of the table, but dropped points in the league at Anfield for just the second time in 34 games after failing to make the most of a dominant first-half performance. Sadio Mane opened the scoring with a classy finish on 12 minutes while Semi Ajayi late header stopped Liverpool’s winning run. Meanwhile, Manchester City’s visit to Everton on Monday was postponed after multiple new positive tests for coronavirus were detected at City, the club confirmed. “Based on strong medical advice the Premier League, in consultation with both clubs, have decided to postpone the fixture,” City said in a statement.  The results: Crystal Palace 1 (Zaha 58) drew with Leicester 1 (Barnes 83).   Sunday: West Ham 2 (Johnson 60, Soucek 82) drew with Brighton 2 (Maupay 44, Dunk 70); Liverpool 1 (Mane 12) drew with West Brom 1 (Ajayi 82); Wolves 1 () drew with Tottenham 1 (Ndomble 1).
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna holds Aronian||P. Harikrishna came up with a flawless defensive plan to thwart Levon Aronian’s designs for an eighth draw from nine rounds in the $200,000 Airthings Masters online rapid chess tournament on Monday. Having drawn with Alexander Grischuk, leader Hikaru Nakamura and Nepomniachtchi in the previous three rounds, Harikrishna is placed 10th with four points.  The results:   Round nine: Levon Aronian (Arm, 5) drew with P. Harikrishna (4); Alexander Grischuk (Rus, 4.5) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 5); Hikaru Nakamura (USA, 5.5) bt David Anton Guijar (Esp, 3); Wesley So (USA, 5) drew with Teimour Radjabov (Aze, 5); Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus, 5) bt Daniil Dubov (Rus, 4.5); Anish Giri (Ned, 4) bt Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra, 3.5).   Round eight: Harikrishna drew with Nepomniachtchi; Carlsen drew with Giri; Dubov drew with Nakamura; Radjabov drew with Aronian; Radjabov drew with Aronian; Vachier drew with So.       Round seven: Nakamura drew with Harikrishna; Carlsen drew with Vachier; Aronian drew with So; Nepomniachtchi drew with Radjabov; Grischuk drew with Dubov; Giri drew with Anton. Round six: Harikrishna drew with Grischuk; Anton drew with Carlsen; Dubov bt Giri; Vachier drew with Aronian; So drew with Nepomniachtchi; Radjabov drew with Nakamura .
29 December 2020||CHENNAI:,||Lohith, Sai Samhita win||Lohith Aksha and Sai Samhita clinched the men’s and women’s titles in the Match Point Tennis Academy-TNTA-State-ranking tennis tournament held here recently.  The results (finals):   Men: Lohith Aksha bt Yeshwanth Loganathan 7-5, 6-1; Women: Sai Samhita (S2) bt Arthi Muniyan 6-1, 6-2 .
29 December 2020||Chennai,||TNCA to comply with Lodha recommendations||The Tamil Nadu Cricket Association has decided to amend its constitution to be in compliance with the Lodha Committee recommendations at its Annual General Meeting on Monday. One of the amendments will be to have only one vice-president instead of the two the TNCA has with one representing the city and the other a representative of the districts. Currently, T.J. Srinivasaraj is the vice-president of City while Dr. P Ashok Sigamani is the District vice-president and one of them will have to resign from the post. Another amendment will incorporate the disqualification criteria like age limit and cooling-off period will now apply for Apex Council members as well and not just office-bearers as before. Meanwhile, Murugappa, SSN College, Guru Nanak College and SRMC will be the four venues for the Syed Mushtaq Ali Plate Group matches that will be held in Chennai with the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium being readied to host two Tests against England in February.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Past performances have helped me: Siraj||India pacer Mohammed Siraj said the work he put during the lockdown and India-A tours helped him to be ready for his Test debut in Melbourne. The pacer has picked up three wickets so far in the match. “The performance in domestic cricket and India-A tour helped me focus on the basics consistently. During the lockdown, I worked on my fitness and also my bowling. I did well in the IPL and that gave me the confidence that I can do well for India also,” said Siraj after the third day’s play on Monday. Patience is the key The Hyderabad pacer, who picked up a wicket on the third day as the Indian bowlers reduced the host to 133 for six after taking a 131-run lead, said there was not much help for the bowlers and that patience would be the key to bowling out Australia soon on the fourth day. “The wicket has become slow and, there is not much swing either. So we have to be patient and bowl in one area,” said the 26-year-old. Siraj said the team focussed on squeezing the runs after Umesh Yadav limped off the field. “After Umesh Bhai left, we tried to focus on bowling maiden overs and build the pressure.” The pacer also credited the role of bowling coach Bharat Arun in his career as the latter had worked with Siraj when he was coach of the Hyderabad team a few years ago. “He used to tell I could take the wicket of any batsman and always encouraged me.”
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Stephen Eze gets Jamshedpur full points||A headed goal from Stephen Eze, 11 minutes from time, earned Jamshedpur FC a 1-0 win over Bengaluru FC (BFC) at the Fatorda Stadium on Monday. The Nigerian’s third strike of the season helped his side leapfrog BFC into third position (13 points) and left coach Carles Cuadrat to digest back-to-back defeats for the first time in the ISL since February-March 2019. With just over 10 minutes left, midfielder Alex Lima, a vibrant presence all through the evening, released Aniket Jadhav on the right. The 20-year-old whipped in a fine cross which Eze attacked bravely ahead of BFC’s burly defender Juanan and was duly rewarded. Rahul Bheke could have salvaged a point for BFC, but his header from point-blank range in the 85th minute was fisted away by Jamshedpur’s T.P. Rehenesh. BFC paid for its profligacy in the first half. Just after the half-hour mark, Suresh Wangjam started a move from midfield, and after exchanging passes with Sunil Chhetri and Kristian Opseth found himself with just Rehenesh to beat. The 20-year-old unselfishly chose to square it for Cleiton Silva to tap into the empty net but the pass was weak and Rehenesh recovered ground. Immediately after, Chhetri sent a fine cut-back by Wangjam from the left wing wide. In the 17th minute, an unmarked Nerijus Valskis skied a low cross from Jadhav and in the very next minute the Lithuanian was thwarted by an excellent tackle by Bheke. In the 62nd minute Gurpreet came up with a superb reflex save to deny defender Peter Hartley from close range when the latter tried a toe-poke after a goal-mouth scramble. But even the India custodian’s best efforts couldn’t keep BFC afloat.  The result: Jamshedpur FC 1 (Eze 79) bt Bengaluru FC 0.   Tuesday’s match: Chennaiyin FC vs ATK Mohun Bagan, 7.30 p.m .
29 December 2020||Madrid,||To miss last match of 2020||Lionel Messi will miss Barcelona’s last match of the calendar year after the Catalan giant announced on Sunday that ankle treatment will keep him out of its midweek LaLiga match with Eibar. In a statement, Barca said Messi “is completing the treatment for his right ankle, and is expected to return to training after the FC Barcelona v SD Eibar match”. Messi has already missed two matches for Barca in December.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting ready||
29 December 2020||BENGALURU,||Double for Ishaan and Rishon||Ishaan Madesh and Rishon Rajeev won a double each, while the Maini brothers — Arjun and Kush — split victories in the Senior Max categories in the opening two rounds of the Meco FMSCI NKC Rotax Max Karting Championship here.  The results (winners):   Round 1: Micro Max: Ishaan Madesh (Peregrine Racing Intl.) 12:55.661s; Junior Max: Rishon Rajeev (Birel Art) 14:11.259s.   Senior Max: Kush Maini (NK Racing) 18:10.725s   Round 2: Micro Max: Ishaan 13:37.211s; Junior Max: Rishon 14:24.473s; Senior Max: Arjun Maini (NK Racing) 16:56.551s .
29 December 2020||Melbourne,||Oz Open: Federer out, wild-card for Murray||Twenty-time Grand Slam champion Roger Federer will miss the Australian Open for the first time in his career as he continues his recovery from two rounds of knee surgery, organisers said on Monday. The 39-year-old Swiss has been out of action since February but recently resumed training and was on the entry list for the year's opening Grand Slam, which will make a delayed start on February 8. Meanwhile, former World No. 1 Andy Murray, a five-time Australian Open finalist, was given a wild-card entry. Tiley welcomed the 33-year-old back to the tournament, two years after his first-round exit prompted fears his career was at an end.
29 December 2020||Los Angeles,||Mavericks thrash Clippers||Dallas Mavericks powered to an NBA-record 50-point half-time lead on the way to a 124-73 demolition of the short-handed Los Angeles Clippers on Sunday. The Mavs took full advantage of the absence of injured Clippers star Kawhi Leonard. Point-guard Luka Doncic scored 18 of his 24 points in the first half and the half-time score of 77-27 gave Dallas the largest margin at the break ever in the NBA, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. In Charlotte, Gordon Hayward scored 28 points as the Hornets cooled off red-hot Brooklyn, handing the Nets their first defeat of the season 106-104. Terry Rozier — Hayward's former teammate in Boston — added 19 points and P.J. Washington chipped in 14 points and 12 rebounds for the Hornets.  The results: Indiana Pacers 108 bt Boston Celtics 107; Cleveland Cavaliers 118 bt Philadelphia 76ers 94; New York Knicks 130 bt Milwaukee Bucks 110; LA Lakers 127 bt Minnesota Timberwolves 91; Chicago Bulls 128 lost to Golden State Warriors 129; Charlotte Hornets 106 bt Brooklyn Nets 104; Washington Wizards 113 lost to Orlando Magic 120; Sacramento Kings 100 lost to Phoenix Suns 116; New Orleans Pelicans 98 bt San Antonio Spurs 95; LA Clippers 73 lost to Dallas Mavericks 124.
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Arun Jaitley’s statue unveiled at the Kotla||Union Home Minister Amit Shah unveiled a life-size statue of former union minister and president of the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA), the late Arun Jaitley, at the premises of Ferozeshah Kotla ground here on Monday. Made by noted sculptor Ram Sutar — the 96-year-old man behind the “Statue of Unity” depicting Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in Gujarat — the statue is the first for any politician-cum-sports administrator at a sporting facility in recent times. The event was to mark Arun Jaitley’s 68th birth anniversary. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, DDCA president and Arun Jaitley’s son Rohan, and cricketer-turned-Member of Parliament Gautam Gambhir were among those who attended the function. The move to install the statue faced sharp criticism by former Test captain Bishan Singh Bedi, who demanded the removal of his name from one of the stands. Reaching to Bedi’s remarks, Rohan Jaitley said, “Bedi ji is the “Bhishm Pitamah” of Delhi cricket. If he has reservations, there are better ways of discussing them. “I’m a youngster and expect to be guided by the elders in the fraternity. His name on the stands is his legacy, an honour bestowed upon him. The DDCA will request Bedi ji to withdraw his demand.”
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy for Aarush Sports||Aarush Sports defeated G.K. Academy by nine wickets in a low-scoring encounter of the first Tripathi Premier League.  The scores: G.K. Academy 44 in 21 overs lost to Aarush Sports 48/1 in 11 overs .      Sangam Shahi’s deadly spell of 5/28 followed by half-centuries from Piyush Kumar (88) and Hardik Sharma (60) set up Golden Hawks Club’s seven-wicket win over R.K.B. Academy in the seventh S.N. Dubey (u-16) tournament.  The scores: R.K.B. Academy 202 in 39.2 overs (Kartikey Rana 74, Karan Kashyap 72, Sangam Shahi 5/28, Shivraj Kumar 3/36) lost to Golden Hawks Club 203/3 in 38.4 overs (Piyush Kumar 88, Hardik Sharma 60) .      Half-centuries from Aryan Gaur, Arihan Vatsayan and Mayank Gosai helped Ashish Nehra Academy beat K.G. Colts by six wickets in the Skillz Youth Cup (u-19) tournament.  The scores:   K.G. Colts 245/8 in 40 overs (Rahul Kumar 60, Yogesh Kandpal 59, Gaurav Kumar 58, Saurav Yadav 34, Kshitij Negi 3/27) lost to Ashish Nehra Academy 246/4 in 32.2 overs (Aryan Gaur 90, Arihan Vatsayan 57, Mayank Gosai 51, Mehul Chaudhary 33).      Aarsh Chadha (4/23) and Aryan Dabas (56) helped Turf Academy beat Endurance Academy by seven wickets in the Endurance (u-15) tournament.  The scores:   Endurance Academy 119 in 34.4 overs (Netik Mathur 46, Aarsh Chadha 4/23) lost to Turf Academy 120/3 in 13.4 overs (Aryan Dabas 56, Shrey Goel 35 not out).
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Arjuna’s chariot||When we think of the war between the Kauravas and the Pandavas, what leaves an indelible impression is the advice which Lord Krishna gave to Arjuna on the battlefield. The Bhagavad Gita shows us the path to moksha, and tells us that we must perform our duties, and yet be indifferent to the results. But while the Lord’s advice is recalled by us often, how often do we think of Arjuna’s chariot and meditate on the chariot? We must meditate on Arjuna’s chariot, said V.S. Karunakarachariar, in a discourse, and explained why. Vedanta Desika shows that Arjuna’s chariot represents the pranava mantra. Those who have understood the meaning of the pranava mantra will think of Arjuna’s chariot, every time they chant the pranava. The fist akshara in pranava is ‘a,’ the middle akshara is ‘u’. and the last akshara is ‘m.’ Now visualise the chariot. Who is in the front portion of the chariot? It is Krishna, for He is Arjuna’s charioteer. And the letter ‘a,’ which is the first letter of the pranava, indicates Lord Narayana. So, Krishna, the One who is referred to by the very first letter of the Sanskrit alphabet, is in front. Arjuna is behind Him, inside the chariot, and the letter ‘m’ of the pranava, indicates Arjuna. In other words, ‘m’ represents the jivatma. So in the chariot, we see the Paramatma in front, with the jivatma behind Him. The letter ‘m’ is the twenty-fifth letter in the Sanskrit alphabet, and this too reinforces the jivatma concept. There are 24 tattvas, which are acetanas. The 25th tattva is the jivatma, which is a cetana (sentient being). The akshara ‘m’ indicates the jivatma. So, the Lord in the driver’s seat, with Arjuna the jivatma behind Him, is a representation of the pranava mantra. So, Arjuna’s chariot must be visualised, when the pranava is chanted.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 08:40 IST,||Sudoku - December 29, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Glory lost and found||Congested Tamil Sangam Road in the heart of Madurai holds everything that makes a town: hotels and restaurants, shops dealing in steel scrap and auto spare parts, furnishing and electronic showrooms, even a Sunday flea market, besides vendors, pedestrians and vehicles in all shapes, sizes and speeds. On a busy weekday, it is tough to imagine that this was once a serene hub of intellectuals and littérateurs. Hidden in this chaos is the 120-year-old building of the fourth Tamil Sangam (the first three were believed to have submerged in the sea much before the 1900s). It was initially established with a learning centre, printing press and a library. Today, it holds Senthamil College standing like a silently crumbling edifice. Started as Senthamil Kalasalai, the Tamil Sangam offered pravesam, bala pandidham, pandhidam , vidhwan and pulavar — the successive courses required to become a Tamil pundit. In 1957, it got rechristened as Senthamil and Oriental Arts college. In course of time, it introduced UG, PG, M.Phil and PhD courses in Tamil affiliated to the Madurai Kamaraj University. A Anand Joseph who graduated from Senthamil College in 1988 recalls a degree from here was sacrosanct. The opportunity to learn chaste language were few and only those seriously interested in Tamil literature and culture joined here. “There used to be silence all around as we attended classes. There were only nine of us in my batch in the prestigious institution patronised by the Sethupathis of Ramanathapuram,” says the proud alumnus, continuing, “Nobody can challenge the quality and notable work done at Madurai Tamil Sangam during the first quarter of the 20th Century to promote Tamil learning, research and literature.” The Pandian Library inside the Tamil Sangam currently has 52,500 books in Tamil. Of these 7,000 are rare books not found anywhere else. Besides 1400 research papers, there are 200 palm leaf manuscripts that include some of the oldest Thirukural and Silapadikaram. Septuagenarian resident of Madurai K Kalavathy remembers her mother N Soundaravalli, a Tamil Pundit who studied in the institution in the early 1940s. “The stalwarts of those times supported women’s education and learning Tamil was a matter of pride and prestige and a status symbol back then,” she says. While only few got the opportunity to enter the hallowed halls of the Tamil Sangam after clearing a strict exam, their seats get filled easily now, says college principal, K Venuka. There are 600 students on the campus but students seriously interested in Tamil as a subject are not even in double digits. Given the demand for Tamil speakers in schools, colleges, media houses and TV channels, people learn just enough to acquire basic knowledge for jobs, believes Anand. Venuka says the institute is able to hold on to its relevance due to globalisation. “Many foreign institutes are keen in setting up Tamil departments as part of their government outreach programs. There is a Tamil Chair in the Yunnan Minzo University where native Chinese students master the language for cultural exchanges and likewise in the US and the UK too,” says Venuka. Students can use the institution’s resources for deep learning but the available research papers remain under-utilised. “We merely support them to prepare for various competitive exams like the union and state public service commissions,” she adds. One thing, however, Venuka has been able to achieve to her satisfaction recently is the name of the bus stop near college. “The bus conductors now call out Tamil Sangam stop and not as Bell Hotel stop!”  With the greats The Tamil Sangam was conceived as a nationalist project by Vallal Pandithurai Thevar who announced its formation at the Madras sessions of the Congress in 1901 and remained the life and soul of the Madurai Tamil Sangam till he lived. He was its first president and served from 1901 to 1911. Several scholars including U V Swaminatha Iyer, V G Suryanarayana Sastri (Parithimal Kalaignar), Seithur brothers Subramaniya and Kandaswami Kavirayar, and Arasan Shanmuganar of Sholavandan actively worked in the progress of the Tamil Sangam. Famous alumni include Na. Mu Venkatasamy Nattar, Sennapulavar Karmegha Konar, Devaneya Pavanar and novelist Na. Parthasarathy among others.   Wealth called books The Pandian Library inside the Tamil Sangam currently has 52,500 books in Tamil. Of these 7,000 are rare books not found anywhere else. Besides 1400 research papers, there are 200 palm leaf manuscripts that include some of the oldest Thirukural and Silapadikaram.
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||One me, voices two||Sushant Divgikar’s début single has been a long time coming; the former Bigg Boss (Hindi) contestant has made no secret of his desire to craft a career in music. For someone who says “music has always been my first love”, Sushant’s acquaintance with Salman Khan, who is the host of Bigg Boss , helped him land a couple of opportunities with Bollywood composers. The two tracks he recorded for films, however, were not picked up and his musical career did not get off to the beginning he expected. “To my face, people have told me that you are too gay for the art forms I have pursued, be it dance or music,” says Sushant, who has been open about his sexual orientation. “We don’t get the exposure because we are queer. I want to tell people to take a chance on us. We don’t need special favours... just give us equal opportunities,” he says. When opportunity didn’t present itself, Sushant took matters into his hands. The result is ‘Diamond’ — a track that features him in his drag persona as Rani Ko-He-nur and has him sing in his distinctive falsetto. On the concept of the track, Sushant says, “A diamond only takes form after it has gone through a process. Likewise, all of us have our own journeys and struggles. The struggles are real for all and no one person’s experience is superior or inferior to the other person.” He adds: “I wanted to send a positive message that self love is above all love. Once you start accepting your true self, other people’s narratives won’t define you or dictate how you wish to live your life.” Sushant, who is also a qualified industrial psychologist, says that ‘Diamond’ was filmed in his house during lockdown. On his use of the drag persona, he says, “I created this avatar because I wanted people to understand that drag is a performance art, and it is not just cross dressing.”
29 December 2020||December 29 2020 00:00 IST,||The year of Malayalam cinema||The year 2020 began with much fanfare and trumpets for Malayalam cinema. There was a growing interest over the industry, which was getting noticed for its cinematic excellence and narrative choices. The pandemic, however, caused a heavy blow to the entertainment industry ever since the nationwide lockdown in March. Looking at the bright side, here are a few dominant trends that emerged in Malayalam cinema, despite a raging pandemic and the devastating losses suffered by scores of workers, who had to remain without work as the arc lights were turned off.  And the wait continues  A cluster of big-ticket films such as Priyadarshan’s magnum opus Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham , Santhosh Viswanathan’s One , Mahesh Narayanan’s Malik , Rajeev Ravi’s Thuramukham , and Srinath Rajendran and Vini Viswa Lal’s Kurup was originally slated to release on festivals such as Vishu, Onam and Ramzan. They continue to remain in cans, as the makers await the theatres to reopen. The shooting of other biggies such as Blessy’s Aadujeevitham , Santosh Sivan’s Jack and Jill and Basil Joseph’s Minnal Murali are yet to be completed. Box-office diary Of the handful of movies that released in theatres, Anjaam Paathira, starring Kunchacko Bobban and directed by Midhun Manuel Thomas, and Tovino Thomas’ Forensic, did well at the ticketing window. Although Mammootty and Mohanlal had a release each, both did not live up to expectations. Ayyappanum Koshiyum, the Prithviraj-Biju Menon starrer, released in February. Directed by the late scriptwriter-turned director Sachi, it struck gold at the box office, thanks to its interesting storyline involving two egoistic men at loggerheads.  Varane Avashyamund , marking Shobana’s comeback to Malayalam cinema after seven years, had a lot going for it. Starring Suresh Gopi, Urvashi, Dulquer Salman and Kalyani Priyadarshan, the feel-good film, directed by Anoop Sathyan, was a hit among audiences. Fahadh Faasil’s highly anticipated Trance with Anwar Rasheed hit the bull’s eye, despite its duration (three-hour-long) and narrative glitches. Neeraj Madhavan’s Gauthamante Radham did reasonably well. The Anna Ben-starrer Kappella was having a great run at the cinemas when the nationwide lockdown came into effect in March, forcing theatres to shut operations. The ‘new’ normal While there was much outcry over Malayalam films opting for a digital release, Vijay Babu went ahead with the release of Sufiyum Sujatayum on Amazon Prime. Starring Aditi Rao Hydari, Dev Mohan and Jayasurya, the film was directed by Naranipuzha Shanavas. It was among the films to have an OTT release.
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Feels like previous rides as train is running quite smoothly’||Driverless train operations on the Delhi Metro’s 37 km-long Magenta Line began on Monday after Prime Minister Narendra Modi flagged off the first train, via videoconferencing, from the Jasola Vihar-Shaheen Bagh metro station. According to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), currently, five such driverless trains will be operational and by June 2021, the fully automated driverless trains will be extended to the Pink Line (Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar) as well. Officials said that during the initial few months, a DMRC operator will be stationed inside the driver’s cabin to overcome teething issues, if any. Faster system “In Driverless Train Operations [DTO], initially, the train operator will be present in the train to instil a sense of confidence and assistance. Earlier, drivers had to spend almost an hour prior to operations to manually check all the features in the trains. However, the new system will help reduce this time manifold. The “wake-up” time and “going to sleep” time of trains have been fed into the system already,” a DMRC official said. The public transporter added that the new system also facilitates regulating the number of trains in service based on demand dynamically without dependence on the availability of crew. However, the driverless trains can only be introduced in Phase 3 and the upcoming Phase-IV networks because of the communication-based train control (signalling) system, officials said. Despite announcements inside the metro coaches, most commuters taking the first automated train were caught unawares of the fact with some expressing concerns when informed. Rajesh Meena, a central government employee travelling from Janakpuri West to Palam metro station said, “It looks like a good experience so far and the control system looks great. I am not a regular commuter but use the metro whenever I am in the city.” ‘Not much difference’ Travelling from Dashratpuri to Jasola Vihar-Shaheen Bagh metro station, S.Z. Nair another commuter said, “There’s not much difference that I can feel. It still feels like previous rides as it is running quite smoothly and stopping at stations and starting the journey seamlessly.” Kamlesh Kaur, another commuter added, “When I boarded the train I had no idea that it was driverless. However, now that I have been informed, I am feeling slightly nervous as I have never been on such a train before. So far, I could not make any difference and hopefully it will be a good experience.” Commuters will also be able to use the National Common Mobility Card on the 23 km-long Airport Express Line. The DMRC plans to upgrade the entire network by 2022 to facilitate travel by the NCMC.
29 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||I am with farmers, says Hooda||Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda reached the sit-in site at Makdouli toll on Monday to support the agitating farmers. Mr. Hooda said he had not seen such a democratic, peaceful and disciplined movement in his political life. ‘Demands justified’ Addressing the farmers, Mr. Hooda said he had been supporting the farmers’ agitation as their demands were justified and they were fighting for their rights. “I am with the farmers from the very first day when they started protesting soon after the ordinances were issued. It is the duty of every person who eats the food grown by our farmers to rise above caste, religion, region, language and political beliefs to support this movement,” he said. Mr. Hooda lauded the farmers for running a democratic, peaceful and disciplined movement on the borders of the national capital for more than a month. “I have never seen such a disciplined movement in my life. For this, I salute the passion and commitment of every farmer. I demand that the government abandon its adamant attitude and accept the demands of the farmers as such stubbornness has no place in a democracy,” he said. Mr. Hooda said this was a movement not only for the farmers, but also for every worker and consumer as the three agricultural laws would also have a major impact on their lives. “If these laws are implemented, then the labourers and the poor sections will stop getting get subsidised foodgrains over a period of time,” he warned. Mr. Hooda said the prices of pulses, vegetables and grains would rise as the limits on hoarding were being removed. He said the government should repeal these three laws which adversely affect every citizen and provide a law that guarantees minimum support price (MSP) for the welfare of the farmers.
29 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Have decided to reduce reserved COVID-19 ICU beds’||The AAP government has informed the Delhi High Court on Monday that the decision to reduce to 60% the number of ICU beds reserved for COVID-19 patients in 33 private hospitals here was taken based on recommendation by a de-escalation committee. Justice Subramonium Prasad was informed by the government that the decision was taken on December 27 after a two-member panel, comprising the AIIMS director and a NITI Aayog member, endorsed the recommendations of the de-escalation committee to reduce from 80% to 60% the ICU beds reserved in the hospitals. Justice Prasad listed the case for further hearing on January 8 after Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jai, representing the Delhi government, said that the reservation would be revisited on January 5. The de-escalation committee (COVID-19) was constituted to assess the current position of hospital admissions and discharges and recommend reduction in the number of beds dedicated for COVID-19 patients. Graded manner It had recommended that “de-escalation may be carried out in a graded manner, preferably, in Delhi government and private sector hospitals”, but not in Central government hospitals. The court was hearing a plea by the Association of Healthcare Providers to quash the Delhi government’s September 12 order to reserve 80% ICU beds for COVID-19 patients in 33 private hospitals here. On November 12, the High Court had allowed the city government to reserve 80% ICU beds for COVID-19 patients in 33 private hospitals in view of the spike in number of cases. The High Court had then vacated a single judge’s interim order staying the city government decision.
29 December 2020||New Delhi,||City records lowest cases in 7 months||The Capital witnessed 564 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours — lowest in over seven months — taking the total number of cases to 6,23,415, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. This is the lowest new cases since May 26, when 412 new cases were reported in a day. A total of 57,463 tests were done in the past 24 hours, which is less, as it is the number of tests done on Sunday. Lesser number of tests are done on most Sundays. Also, 21 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,474 . Of the total cases, 6,06,644 people have recovered and there are 6,297 active cases. The positivity of COVID-19 cases was 0.98% on Monday, very less than the average daily positivity in November, which was 11.65%. On Friday, the positivity was 0.88%. The overall positivity till now was 7.41%, as per the bulletin. Out of the total 18,774 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 86.6% were vacant, as per the bulletin. About 2,499 people were admitted in hospitals and 3,153 patients were under home isolation. As per the bulletin, the death rate in the past 10 days was 2.95%. There were 4,563 containment zones in the city as of Monday. Meanwhile, 23 people, who travelled from the U.K. since November 25 and their contacts, have tested positive till now. This is, apart from the 11 people from four flights from the U.K. last week, who tested positive for the virus, a Delhi government official said
29 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Activists upset with new Food Commission||The much awaited formation of the Food Commission in Rajasthan, with the appointment of government officers as its ex-officio chairperson and members, has left the social activists disappointed. Activists said this would result in the officers sitting in judgment on their own acts against which the complaints will be made to the Commission. The State government has appointed Naveen Jain, Secretary, Food and Civil Supplies Department, as the Commission’s chairperson and the directors of five departments as its members. These departments are responsible for implementation of the National Food Security Act (NFSA), 2013, in the State. Write to Gehlot Social activists Aruna Roy and Harsh Mander have shot off a letter to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, pointing out that the Food Commission had been constituted in “gross violation” of the principles of natural justice, which dictated that no one should be a judge in their own cause. The complaints would be redirected to the very departments whose work was to be evaluated, said the activists. “The intention behind establishing the Commission was that if the government does not implement or inadequately implements NFSA, depriving the exploited and vulnerable groups of its benefits, then there should be an independent body with the powers to hold the government accountable for the deficiencies,” the letter stated. While the Commission could help eliminate hunger from the State, the ex-officio appointments were contrary to the spirit of laws, said the two activists. They said the Commission’s formation was ignored for the last seven years and it was eventually constituted “with a conflict of interest”. Though the State government had followed the letter of the law in terms of qualifications and conditions of appointment of chairperson and members, the Commission in its present form could not monitor and evaluate the implementation of NFSA or investigate complaints. “Our question relates to whether an executing department will evaluate its own works and advise itself,” Ms. Roy and Mr. Mander said. Hunger and pandemic The letter reminded the Chief Minister of a recent survey of the Centre for Equity Studies and Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan, which had revealed that the scope of hunger had increased during the last nine months of COVID-19 pandemic and the consumption of edible items had decreased compared to the pre-lockdown period. The Food Commission’s role had assumed significance when the people were often forced to sleep on an empty stomach. While asking what was the compulsion to appoint such a Commission, the activists demanded that an “active and independent” Food Commission be constituted in the State with the appointment of persons of eminence in public life who had the knowledge and experience in agriculture, human rights, food policy, health and social service. This will ensure proper implementation of the food security law and monitor the system.
29 December 2020||New Delhi/Dehradun,||Uttarakhand CM Rawat admitted to AIIMS||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who tested positive for COVID-19 recently, was admitted to Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Monday with an infection in his lungs. Lung infection He was taken to Delhi in a helicopter in the morning on the advice of doctors after a slight infection was found in his lungs, an official said here. Mr. Rawat has undergone some important tests at the AIIMS, he added. Mr. Rawat’s physician N.S. Bisht is also with him, the official said. The Chief Minister, who was in home isolation since December 18 after testing positive for the infectious disease, was shifted to the Government Doon Medical College here after he developed fever on Sunday evening. Dr. Bisht said the Chief Minister is alright, adding that his fever has also gone down since Sunday night but there is a slight infection in his lungs.
29 December 2020||New Delhi,||AQI may turn ‘severe’ on New Year’s Eve||The air quality of Delhi, Noida and Gurugram improved to the “poor” category on Monday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The air quality of the national capital is expected to improve slightly on Tuesday. However, it is expected to deteriorate on Wednesday and Thursday. “The AQI is likely to improve to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ to ‘poor category’ for December 29. The AQI is likely to deteriorate thereafter, to the middle-end of the ‘very poor’ category by December 30. Due to the low ventilated condition, the air quality is likely to touch the higher end of ‘very poor’ category on December 31 and may touch the severe category for a shorter period on New Year’s Eve,” said a statement by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). The minimum temperature on Monday was 5.6 degrees Celsius, which is lower than the season’s average by one degree and the maximum was 20.9 degrees Celsius, which is normal for this time of the year, according to the IMD. The minimum temperature on Tuesday is predicted to be around 4°C and maximum about 20 °C. Stubble burning The effect of stubble burning on the city’s air quality remained low on Monday. But apart from pollutants, two meteorological factors strongly impact the air quality. The “mixing layer height”, which is the height from the ground level up to which pollutants can be dispersed, increased to “moderate” from “low”. This led to lesser accumulation of pollutants near the surface. But the speed of surface-level winds remained “low” on Monday, which aided the accumulation of pollutants. Faster surface winds help in the dispersion of pollutants. The speed was predicted to pick up speed. “Under the influence of approaching western disturbance isolated rainfall and better ventilation condition is likely for the next 48 hours,” SAFAR said. The AQI of Delhi was 253 on Monday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 226 and 225 respectively.
29 December 2020||Agartala,||Schoolteachers continue dharna over termination||Terminated government schoolteachers announced that their sit-in demonstration here would continue for an indefinite period till the State government announces their direct employment. The agitation, which began outside the City Centre on December 7, entered the 22nd day on Monday. The forums representing terminated teachers called the protest amid cold weather to press their demand for direct employment in the State government departments. Altogether 10,323 teachers lost their jobs under an order of the Supreme Court in a case that originated at a session’s court in Tripura over flawed recruitment procedures followed by the previous government. Children, spouses and parents of the teachers have also joined the protest. Former teachers announced that on January 1 they will report to the schools they served for years as a mark of protest.
29 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Political parties have been part of farmer movements’||From public contributions for the cause to political support, several parallels exist between the ongoing protests by farmers at Delhi’s borders and the peasant movements of the first half of the 20th Century in Punjab, said historian Mridula Mukherjee. Delivering the Professor S.C. Mishra Memorial Lecture organised by the Indian History Congress, Prof. Mukherjee spoke on the “legacy of heroic non-violent resistance” in Punjab’s farmer protests. From ‘Pagri Sambhal Jatta’ movement in 1907, peasant struggles in Punjab were always linked with political parties. However, today, the farmers protesting against the recently passed agriculture laws have tried to distance themselves from political parties, Prof. Mukherjee said in the online address. She said: “Success of a movement, whether or not it is a movement of peasants, heavily depends on what kind of support you can garner from other sections of society, from broader political forces, from political parties. Which is why today the government is so keen to say political parties should not be seen in this, as if there is something wrong about movements being connected to political parties or political parties coming to play a role. Somehow even the peasant movements themselves are wary of this because they fear that this will be used against them.” But, she added, the history of peasant struggles showed that political parties were involved. In another parallel, the ongoing protests have seen individuals and groups donating everything from blankets to food to massage chairs. Prof. Mukherjee, a retired JNU professor, said the traditional pattern from pre-Independence of political workers going house-to-house to collect grains and other things for langars has continued. “This is the pattern you are seeing today on a bigger scale. We are so unfamiliar that it seems odd. It is part of the living tradition,” Prof. Mukherjee told The Hindu .
29 December 2020||CUTTACK,||CDS lauds Odisha police for tackling LWE challenges||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) of India General Bipin Rawat on Monday commended the Odisha police by applauding the force’s efforts in successfully tackling the challenges of the Left-Wing Extremists (LWE) with the help of Central paramilitary forces. Delivering the keynote address in virtual mode at the ongoing 62nd Senior Odisha Police Officers’ Conference here, General Rawat also extolled the Odisha police in maintaining high standards of law and order in the State. “The Odisha police have earned very high standards of law and order in the State and have succeeded in tackling the challenges of LWE with good results,” the CDS said adding that the State police have managed to achieve this in close coordination with all other Central Armed Police Forces operating in the region. Asserting that the police, being the most visible representatives of the government and first responders during any crisis, General Rawat termed the police force the “pioneers of security”. Hoping that the Conference would help the police leaders to look to the future as guardians of internal security to face the challenges ahead, the CDS said the Odisha police will continue to be the pillar of strength, security and confidence for all the people of Odisha. On national security, General Rawat said the fallout of events such as climate change, deglobalisation, regionalisation, popular protests, trade wars have raised the risks of destabilisation and disruptions. “Also, asymmetric warfare has brought in greater challenges,” he said and pointed out that in this background, the role of police in ensuring internal stability is “critical”.
29 December 2020||New Delhi,||CM trying to take credit for metro feat: BJP||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s flagging off of the first driverless Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) train here, on Monday congratulated the people of Delhi triggering allegations of attempting to seek credit for work accomplished by the Centre. The BJP was quick to react and accused Mr. Kejriwal of being habituated to doing so. “Congratulations Delhiites! From today onwards, automatic-driven metro trains started in Delhi Metro without a driver. Today your ‘Delhi Metro has been included in selected cities of the world. Our Delhi is developing rapidly” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted. In response soon after, the BJP went after Mr. Kejriwal stating that it was infact Mr. Modi who was committed to the development of the Capital. “Taking credit for the works of the Modi government is an old habit of Chief Minister Kejriwal. The reason due to which it became possible, due to which Delhi got this gift, is the PM of this country, Vikas Purush Shri @narendramodi Please thank him, Mr. Chief Minister! The Modi government is committed to the development of Delhi [sic],” the Delhi BJP tweeted in response
29 December 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- brief||On the birth anniversary of former Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta and State Organisation General Secretary Siddharthan paid floral tributes to his portrait at the party’s State office here on Monday. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri also distributed blankets, fruits and masks among the elders at an old-age home in Gautam Puri in south Delhi on the occasion.
29 December 2020||New Delhi,||BJP leaders abused our councillors: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday alleged that the BJP leaders of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation misbehaved and abused its councillors during the House proceeding. “AAP raised the demand of a CBI inquiry into the Rs. 2,500-crore scam and then the BJP leaders attacked us,” said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak.
