30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||GDP growth slows to a 11-year low of 4.2%, Q4 slumps to 3.1%||Economic growth slowed to a 11-year low of 4.2% in 2019-20, according to provisional estimates released by the National Statistical Office on Friday. The final quarter of the fiscal year, the January-March period, saw the expansion in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) slump to 3.1%, reflecting the impact of the first week of the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown, which began on March 25. Fourth-quarter growth, while the slowest in 44 quarters, however, was still faster than the 2.2% pace predicted by most economists and ratings analysts. “Agriculture and government expenditure have been the saviours,” said Devendra Pant, chief economist at the Fitch Group’s India Ratings. Agricultural output and the mining sector picked up steam in the fourth quarter, growing at rates of 5.9% and 5.2% respectively, even while manufacturing contracted further, with output shrinking by 1.4%. Public administration, defence and other services grew at 10.1%. Although the budget estimate for GDP growth in 2019-2020 had been pegged at 8.5%, the NSO’s previous estimates had pushed the projection down to 5%. On Friday, the NSO also revised downward its estimates for the first three quarters, and pegged its growth estimate for the full year at 4.2%. GDP expanded by 6.1% in 2018-19. Demand weakening “The most disturbing news is that the three components of demand have fallen — consumption demand has slowed, while investments and exports are both in negative territory,” said D.K. Srivastava, chief policy advisor for Ernst and Young India and a member of the Advisory Council to the 15th Finance Commission. He also expressed concern about the data from the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) showing that the Centre’s fiscal position worsened. “CGA’s data indicates that the Centre’s gross tax revenues have contracted by 3.4% in 2019-20. This is unprecedented. Fiscal deficit has increased to 4.6% of GDP, well above the revised estimate of 3.8%,” he added. “Please note that this has all happened in the year prior to COVID,” remarked Dr. Srivastava. “In the five years before the 2008 crisis, we maintained an 8% GDP growth, so the capacity to endure and recover was stronger. Now we are faced with a weaker economy and much weaker public finances and fiscal capacity.”
30 May 2020||MANGALURU,||Private buses in Mangaluru to introduce Chalo Card||Private city buses in Mangaluru will resume their services on June 1 with an added attraction of offering passengers the option of paying travel fares through smart cards. According to Dakshina Kannada Bus Operators Association president Dilraj Alva, 50 % of 325 private city buses will resume their services on Monday. It also meant that 50 % of buses will operate on th allotted routes. The smart cards (or travel cards called Chalo Card) will not be introduced on all routes at a time. They will be introduced in a phased manner covering all routes from Monday. Mr. Alva said that the association has tied up with a private company for issuing smart cards to passengers. Passengers can purchase the cards at the association’s office at Milagres. In addition, they can be purchased at kiosks to be set up near Mangaladevi Temple, at State Bank of India bus terminus and at Surathkal. Each card is valid for a year. They can be re-charged from a minimum amount of Rs. 100 to a maximum amount of Rs. 10,000. If a passenger purchased only the card without re-charging at the time of purchase, one has to pay Rs. 35 as the cost of the card. If purchased along with re-charging the minimum amount and more, the card cost will be waived and the amount re-charged can be fully utilised during the travel. Mr. Alva said that the conductors are now being trained on the use of smart cards. Some conductors will be trained on the bus during the travel. They will have to deduct the amount based on the travel point of passenger. He said that smart cards had been introduced on a trial basis on route number 27 (State Bank-Mangaladevi) even before the lockdown. In all, 56 cards had been sold on the route then. Once the smart cards become popular, the association will make them available for purchase from conductors itself. With this, passengers need not go to any kiosk to purchase them. He said that when the cards are used, both the passenger and the conductor are free from the hassle of exchanging the cash. The association now has 1,500 cards ready with it. They will be made and issued depending on the response from passengers.
30 May 2020||MANGALURU,||Deep sea fishing ban period reduced from 61 days to 47||The State government has reduced deep sea fishing ban period along coastal Karnataka from the earlier 61 days to 47 effective on June 15. Usually, the fishing ban is scheduled from June 1 to July 31. The State government issued a notification on Friday by revising its previous order on the ban. The main objective of banning deep sea fishing during June and July is to protect fish wealth as commercially important species breed during this period. It is to prevent juvenile fishing and excessive fishing. This year, deep sea fishing activities have been banned for 47 days from June 15 to July 31 (both days inclusive), a statement said here on Friday. Mechanised boats and traditional boats fitted with inboard or outboard engines of 10 hp and above are banned from carrying out fishing activities during the 47-day period. However, fishing boats fitted with engines of up to 10 hp will be allowed to carry out fishing during the period. Action will be taken against those who violate the ban order. Violators will become ineligible for subsidised diesel for the whole year, the statement said. It said that this decision has been taken keeping the interests of fisheries sector across the State’s coast in mind. Speaking to presspersons here on Friday, Minister for Fisheries, Ports, Inland Water Transport and Muzrai Kota Srinivasa Poojary said that the Union government has allowed deep sea fishing this year till June 15 in view of hardship faced by fishermen due to the lockdown and COVID-19 situation. The State government too has extended the same facility accordingly. Usually, the ban on deep sea fishing became effective on June 1. The Minister said that he has already held a meeting in Bengaluru to promote inland fisheries in the State. His department will chalk out plans to promote the production of fish seedlings in the State in the next 10 years.
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||Lockdown 5.0 to be strictly implemented in 13 cities||The government is all set to announce Lockdown 5.0 for two weeks, with strict implementation in 13 cities that have recorded 70% of the total COVID-19 cases. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) will issue revised guidelines soon, a senior government official said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday and is learnt to have given him the feedback he received from the Chief Ministers. Mr. Shah called all the Chief Ministers on Thursday, and sought their views on extending the lockdown. Even as the new guidelines are set to be announced, there were 7,707 new COVID-19 cases and 263 deaths on Friday, the highest on a single day. This takes the total number of cases to 1,73,052 and fatalities to 4,970. In the new set of relaxations planned, all kinds of religious places will be allowed to open, but malls and restaurants are expected to remain shut. The lockdown, imposed first in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic on March 24, has been extended four times. The ongoing phase is in force till May 31. The Centre is not in favour of running metro trains as most routes fall in the containment zones in cities. Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba held a meeting on Thursday with Municipal Commissioners and District Magistrates of the 13 worst- affected COVID-19 regions: Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi/New Delhi, Ahmedabad, Thane, Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata/Howrah, Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Jaipur and Jodhpur (Rajasthan), Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur (Tamil Nadu). The State governments will be given more autonomy in implementing the MHA’s guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. “States can improvise to make them more stringent, but they cannot dilute the provisions,” said the official.
30 May 2020||MARKOOK,||KCR hints at ‘surprise’ package for Telangana||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said on Friday that with the abundant availability of Godavari water under different projects across the State, Telangana is going to produce crops worth Rs. 1 lakh crore every year. He also announced that a new scheme for the people of Telanagana is in the offing and it would be unveiled in a week or 10 days and the entire nation will be surprised by the scheme. Speaking to media after releasing water to Kondapochammasagar at this mandal headquarters town along with Chinna Jeeyar, Mr. Rao termed Kaleshwaram project an engineering miracle with multi-stage lifting of about 80 tmcft of water. “This is a historical movement. Before the formation of State, everyone ridiculed Telangana but within six years of formation we have constructed reservoirs and as much as 165 tmcft of water is being added to the existing storage through different reservoirs. Kondapochammasagar is the 10th lift reservoir where water is being lifted up to 618 metres. Two more reservoirs – Seethammasagar and Sammakkasagar with a capacity of 35 tmcft and 7.5 tmcft respectively- are coming up,” said KCR adding that Telangana has provided 63% of the national foodgrains and this was revealed by D V. Prasad, Food Corporation of India (FCI). “I am thanking and bowing my head to all the oustees from KalesHwaram barrage to Kondapochamma who sacrificed their lands for the construction of reservoirs. Three villages- Mamidyala, Bahilampur and Thenadarpally- got submerged in this project. Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony was constructed at Tunkibollaram and food processing industry would come up which would provide employment to youth. Another colony with about 6,000 houses is coming up,” said Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao. The Chief Minister said that Mallannasagar will be the second largest reservoir in the State and water would be pumped to Haldivagu, Manjeera and Singur. Informing that about 4,800 MW power was needed to run these projects, he said the government will pay up to Rs. 10,000 crore towards power and will not charge from the farmers. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao, Endowments Minister Indrakaran Reddy, Agriculture Minister Niranjan Reddy, Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy and others were present.
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi records 1,000-plus cases second day in a row||As many as 1,106 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 17,386, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin released on Friday. This is the biggest single-day jump in the number of cases in the city so far and the second consecutive day of more than 1,000 cases being recorded. Of the total cases, 7,846 people have recovered and there are 9,142 active cases. The total number of deaths also rose to 398 with 82 more fatalities being reported, 13 of them happening in the past 24 hours. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said at a press conference that the rest of the 69 deaths took place in the last 34 days. “The 52 deaths from Safdarjung hospital are very old... they submitted it to us two days ago and we have added it after auditing,” he said.  ‘Do not panic’ Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said of the total novel coronavirus patients in Delhi, the recovery rate is about 50%. “There is no need for us to panic. Around 80% to 90% of infected people are recovering in home quarantine,” he said at the same press conference Mr. Jain addressed. The Health Minister said there are more than 5,000 beds for COVID-19 treatment in Delhi. “The number of patients currently on ventilator is 28. We have more than 300 dedicated ventilators available currently in Delhi. Our aim is to double the number of beds in the coming days,” he said. On Friday, 18 more people from a Delhi government-run night shelter on the AIIMS premises tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of cases from the shelter to 42. “Around 50 people are quarantined at the night shelter and the government is in the process of moving them to a nearby school,” said a Delhi government official.
30 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam MLA granted bail in sedition case||The Gauhati High Court on Friday granted bail to All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) lawmaker Aminul Islam, who was lodged in central Assam’s Nagaon jail more than a month ago on sedition and other charges, including circulation of a provocative video related to COVID-19 quarantine on social media. District officials said he is likely to be released on Saturday after the bail order is received. Mr. Islam, MLA from the Dhing Assembly constituency, was booked under four sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 124A dealing with sedition and 153A related to promoting or attempting to promote communal disharmony. He was arrested at 1 a.m. on April 7 after the district police informed and sought the permission of Assembly Speaker Hitendra Nath Goswami. Nagaon’s Superintendent of Police Gaurav Abhijit Dileep had said Mr. Islam confessed to having made and forwarded an audio clip containing objectionable statements. Mr. Islam’s mobile phone was seized for ascertaining whom the audio clip was forwarded to. A voice in the clip, said to be his, was heard saying people were being kept in quarantine centres to be killed. This was in reference to some of the Nizamuddin event attendees who tested COVID-19 positive after returning to Assam.
30 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Two more COVID deaths, 62 positive cases in State||Kerala reported two more COVID-19 deaths on Friday, taking the toll to nine. As many as 62 positive cases were reported and 56 of these are cases of infection imported from outside the State. Kerala recorded its eighth COVID death with the passing of a 65-year-old Thiruvalla native who had returned from Sharjah and had been in treatment at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kottayam. He had been admitted to an institutional quarantine centre in Pathanamthitta since his return and did not exhibit any symptoms of the disease. He was shifted to the Pathanamthitta District Hospital on May 18. He was shifted to the Kottayam MCH on May 25 after his condition worsened. A 38-year-old man died from COVID-19 at Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, taking the toll to nine. According to officials, the person, hailing from Pandanad in Chengannur, had come from Abu Dhabi on May 27. “The patient developed haematemesis on Friday morning while at a COVID care centre. He was immediately transferred to the MCH. He died at 2.15 p.m,” said R.V. Ramlal, medical superintendent, MCH. The deceased was suffering from chronic liver disease. Results of his throat swab came back positive after the death, the official added. Of the 62 new cases, 33 cases were reported in expatriates who had returned home from abroad and 23 in persons who had returned to the State from other parts of the country, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, said here on Friday. The imported cases apart, the new cases include two cabin crew of Air India who had come on one of the flights to the capital, two remand prisoners at Neyyattinkara special sub-jail in the capital, one health-care worker ing Palakkad, and one person in Ernakulam who is believed to have acquired the infection through contact with known/unknown source of infection. Palakkad accounted for 14 cases, Kannur 7, Thrissur 6, Pathanamthitta 6, Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram 5 each, Kasaragod and Ernakulam 4 each, Alappuzha 3, Wayanad and Kollam 2 each, while Kottayam, Idukki, and Kozhikode reported one case each. Ten persons were also reported to have recovered from their disease. The number of hotspots in the State went up to 101, following the addition of 22 new hotspots.
30 May 2020||BELAGAVI,||Denying rumours, Umesh Katti says MLAs met for lunch only||The former Minister Umesh Katti has denied allegations that he was trying to topple the BJP government in the State by leading a dissident group against Chief Minster B.S. Yediyurappa. In a video clip released in Bengaluru on social media on Friday, he said that he had invited some legislators for lunch at his Bengaluru home twice this fortnight, but there was no discussion on politics. “I am neither involved in dissident activities, nor am I engaged in a plot to overthrow the government. North Karnataka MLAs had not had proper North Karnataka style lunch for two months and we had lunch together. It was also a long time that we had met,’’ he said. “I had gone to the Chief Minister to request him to nominate my younger brother Ramesh Katti to the Rajya Sabha from the State unit of the BJP, so that the party’s Central unit considered it. He had come to know of the lunch I was hosting at my home and asked me about it. I told him it was non-political. Mr. Yediyurappa asked if he could join for the next lunch and I requested him to come. But he did not come,’’ he said. He urged his followers not to misunderstand his gesture and requested media houses not to politicise the issue. However, Ramesh Katti maintained that they will keep requesting the party high command for a Rajya Sabha membership for him and for a ministerial berth for Umesh Katti. “I had lost the last Lok Sabha polls by just 3,000 votes. But I was not given party ticket this time. Mr. Yediyurappa promised me that I would be sent to the Rajya Sabha. We met Mr. Yediyurappa to remind him of his promise,’’ he said. He said that some leaders were upset that powerful Lingayat MLAs were being neglected by the State party leadership. He denied rumours that he and his brother were engaged in dissident activities.
30 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Worker’s body found in train toilet in Jhansi||The body of a migrant worker was found in the toilet of one of the coaches of a Shramik Special train that had returned from Gorakhpur at Jhansi station on May 27 evening. The passenger had boarded the train from Jhansi to Gorakhpur on May 23, meaning the train made the round trip before the body was discovered. The body of Mohan Lal Sharma (37) was discovered while the empty train that had returned from Gorakhpur after dropping off migrant workers was being sanitised on May 27, said a railway official on Friday. Manoj Kumar, spokesperson for the Jhansi Division of North Central Railway (NCR), said a doctor was immediately summoned and after confirming the death, the body was handed over to the Government Railway Police. He said the passenger had boarded the train from Jhansi to Basti, around 70 km west of Gorakhpur, where he hailed from. Questions are being raised as to how the body, which appeared swollen and blackened, went undetected between May 23 and May 27 when the death, the reasons for which are being investigated, took place. Mr. Kumar said the train coaches remained locked till the time it was to be sanitised on May 27. The NCR said on Twitter that no railway official was supposed to check the coach toilet before it was taken for maintenance at Jhansi on May 27. The NCR also said that Mohan had boarded the train only after COVID-19 medical screening. “No medical assistance was sought by him or anyone for him during the journey,” it said. Mohan had reached Jhansi in a bus from Mumbai, where he worked as a driver. He was identified by his Aadhaar details. Other belongings such as soap and Rs. 28,000 were found on him. The deceased has left behind a wife and four young children. Akash Sharma, the deceased’s nephew, said while boarding the train he had called his wife but when they did not hear from him even after a day, they contacted the local police outpost. “We thought the train had been diverted,” he said from Basti. Kanhaiya Lal Sharma, another relative, said it was a “lapse” on the part of the Railways that the body reached Gorakhpur and back to Jhansi. Mr. Akash said his uncle did not complain of any illness and that the autopsy report said he had suffered a stroke.
30 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Knowledge-based economy the way forward: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said Kerala had no option but to create a knowledge-based economy if it were to generate employment, produce wealth, power innovation and drive manufacturing in a precarious post-COVID-19 world. The State would edge closer to the goal with the commissioning of the Kerala Fibre Optic Network (K-Fon) in December, he said at his COVID-19 news briefing here. Mr. Vijayan reviewed the Rs. 1,500-crore Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board-funded project, which promised to provide high-speed Internet access to the State’s population. It would provide Internet free of charge to an estimated 20 lakh BPL (below the poverty line) households. A consortium of private and public companies, including Bharat Electronics Limited, is responsible for the scheme. Faster, cheaper The power distribution grid of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) would host the fibre optic cables to ensure faster and deeper Internet penetration at the domestic level. The grid would also provide commercial Internet service at less than market rates to schools, hospitals, colleges, government offices and private sector establishments. K-FON would drive the digitisation of the State’s economy. The robust high-speed Internet backbone would induce global businesses to shift to Kerala. K-FON would also ensure that customers in Kerala were not held ransom to the fluctuations in the spectrum market. Mr. Vijayan said the pandemic had forced society to rely more on the Internet to transact business, share information and connect. Virtual world The world was increasingly becoming virtual, given the restrictive physical distancing norms impelled by the pandemic. It was increasingly using the Internet to bridge distances and push life and trade forward. Kerala had no choice but to adapt to the new normal. It had to march in lockstep with competing economies and ensure others did not steal a march on its vital interests.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||We will decide our present, future, PM tells nation||Marking the first anniversary of his second successive full majority government at the Centre, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a letter addressed to all Indians, reminded them not only of the bold decisions taken by his government in the last year, but, in a reference to the raging COVID-19 pandemic, exhorted them to “remember that the present and future of 130 crore will never be dictated by an adversity”. “We will decide our present and future,” Mr. Modi said. He recapped the many decisions taken by his second successive government in its first year, describing the vote as one for continuity of the work his government had done between 2014-19 and squarely addressed the way his government was handling the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Modi said when the pandemic broke, everyone assumed that India would flounder in its handling.
30 May 2020||vijayawada,||HC reinstates Ramesh Kumar as SEC||In a setback to Andhr Pradesh government, the High Court on Friday struck down the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Ordinance (No.5 of 2020) and the consequential GOs 617, 618 and 619 through which it cut short the term of the State Election Commissioner (SEC) from five to three years, resulting in the expulsion of Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar from the post. A two-judge Bench, comprising Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy, directed the government to reinstate Mr. Ramesh Kumar with immediate effect. This leads to the exit of V. Kanagaraj, a retired judge of the Madras High Court, who was appointed as SEC soon after Mr. Ramesh Kumar was forced to demit office. The court found merit in Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s argument that the power conferred under Article 213 of the Constitution to promulgate ordinances was not an absolute entrustment, but was conditional on the satisfaction that the circumstances existed for such an action. The court also agreed with Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s view that the impugned ordinance was in violation of Article 243-K, which states that a SEC could not be removed, except in the same manner as provided for a High Court judge. The crux of the matter was Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s decision to postpone elections to urban and rural local bodies just a few days before polling on the ground that the COVID-19 pandemic would flare up if the elections were held as per schedule. This prompted YSR Congress Party leaders and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy himself to attribute motives to the decision. Mr. Ramesh Kumar then approached the High Court. Opposition hails ruling The State government is learnt to have decided to challenge the judgment in the Supreme Court. A senior advocate representing the government confirmed it, suggesting that the grounds on which the ordinance was promulgated were justified. All Opposition parties — the TDP, the BJP, the CPI(M), the CPI and the JSP — have welcomed the verdict. TDP Polit Bureau member and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said the government should honour the verdict. BJP Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao and State vice-president S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy hailed the verdict. Mr. Rao said the government should realise that hasty decisions would result in humiliation. CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu said the government’s comments against the SEC were not appropriate. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said the verdict was laudable. The government should start the process of elections to the local bodies afresh, he said. The JSP said the verdict strengthened people’s faith in democracy.
30 May 2020||YADGIR,||There is no disappointment against Chief Minister’s leadership: BJP MLA||“There is no disappointment against the leadership of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and at no point of time, I will go against the Chief Minister,” Narasimha Naik (Rajugowda), MLA from Surpur, has said. Talking to The Hindu over phone from Surpur, Mr. Naik said, “I was invited for dinner by senior MLA Umesh Katti at his residence. I participated and there were 13 other BJP MLAs. But there was no discussion among us against Mr. Yediyurappa.” Reacting to the issue of senior MLA from Vijayapura Basanagouda Patil Yatnal’s inclusion in the Cabinet, Mr. Naik said that he (Mr. Yatnal) is a senior party leader and he may have said it [about his Cabinet aspirations] openly. Mr. Naik said that he met the Chief Minister in Bengaluru on Thursday night before leaving for Surpur to request him to sanction a COVID-19 test laboratory for Surpur.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Long ride home||
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Trump did not talk to Modi on China’||The government on Friday rejected U.S. President Donald Trump’s claim that he had spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China, or that the two leaders spoke at all. Government sources said India would not accept Mr. Trump’s offer to mediate on the stand-off at the LAC, and this was conveyed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to his American counterpart on Friday. “There has been no recent contact between PM Modi and President Trump. The last conversation between them was on 4 April 2020 on Hydroxychloroquine [HCQ],” said sources in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA).
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Nature’s pyrotechnic||
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Fresh spike of 874 cases takes T.N. past 20,000-mark||In yet another high, Tamil Nadu reported 874 cases of COVID-19 on Friday, pushing the tally past the 20,000-mark. There was a massive surge in cases in Chennai as well, with the city recording its highest single-day spike yet — 618 cases. The people who were discharged after treatment numbered 765, taking the total to 11,313. The State’s total number of positive cases rose to 20,246*. It had crossed the 10,000-mark on May 15. With Chennai seeing no respite from a high number of COVID-19 cases, its tally climbed to 13,362. There were nine more deaths, including that of a 32-year-old man in Chennai, taking the toll to 154. A public health expert said that Chennai required a number of measures urgently — a micro plan in which streets that continue to report cases should have a separate strategy; aggressive testing and facility quarantine of all asymptomatic contacts; shops should not be allowed to reopen on these streets until aggressive testing was completed for all contacts and barriers should be re-evaluated. Along with this, bed capacity should be increased, the expert added. Experts said that restrictions should continue on places of worship, educational institutions, cinemas, malls and public transport, while calling for routine testing of healthcare workers, strict implementation of masks in workplaces and public places. Of the nine deaths, five persons died at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) and four in private hospitals. Four of the deceased were women. The 32-year-old man, who tested positive for COVID-19, was admitted to RGGGH at 12.35 a.m. May 28. He died at 9.20 p.m. the same day due to cardiopulmonary arrest, COVID-19 pneumonia, type I respiratory failure, hypoxic encephalopathy and acute respiratory distress syndrome. The number of COVID-19 cases has been steadily rising in Chengalpattu. With 61 new cases, the district’s total of positive cases reached 1,000 on Friday. There were 14 cases in Tiruvannamalai, 12 in Kancheepuram, nine in Tiruvallur, five each in Cuddalore and Kallakurichi, four in Tirunelveli, one each in Ariyalur, Dindigul, Kanniyakumari, Tiruchi and Villupuram. The fresh cases included a total of 141 persons who had returned from other States and tested positive for COVID-19. Out of this, 129 persons had returned from Maharashtra. A total of 72 of them, who were under railway quarantine, tested positive, while the remaining tested positive in districts including Tiruvannamalai, Tirunelveli and Kallakurichi. Three persons from Kerala, and one person each from West Bengal, Telangana and Karnataka have also tested positive. Six persons, who had returned to the State from Maharashtra in a flight, also tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 4,66,550 samples have been tested so far, including the day’s samples of 11,334. One more testing facility has been approved in the government sector — the Communicable Diseases Hospital, Chennai. As of now, there are 43 testing facilities in the government sector and 28 in the private sector. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||GST Council to meet in mid-June||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council is likely to meet in mid-June after repeated demands from the States anxious for their GST compensation dues pending since December. However, information on GST revenue since March — which may see a sharp fall due to the lockdown — is likely to be withheld at least until July.page 13
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||We will decide our present, future: PM||Marking the first anniversary of his second successive full majority government at the Centre, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a letter addressed to all Indians, reminded them not only of the bold decisions taken by his government in the last year, but, in a reference to the raging COVID-19 pandemic, exhorted them to “remember that the present and future of 130 crore will never be dictated by an adversity”. “We will decide our present and future,” Mr. Modi said. He recapped the many decisions taken by his second successive government in its first year, describing the vote as one for continuity of the work his government had done between 2014-19. Mr. Modi said when the pandemic broke, everyone assumed that India would flounder in its handling.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Core sector output shrinks 38% in April||The lockdown resulted in core sector output contracting 38% in April 2020 compared to the same month in the previous year, according to Commerce Ministry data released on Friday. This is the second straight month in negative territory for the index of eight core sector industries, after a 9% fall in March 2020.page 13
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Surge in COVID cases as 169 test positive||With 169 new COVID-19 positive cases reported in Telangana on Friday, the highest single-day tally since the outbreak of the pandemic, their number has gone up to 2,425. The number of deaths has also gone up to 71 as four more persons succumbed to the infectious disease. According to an official health bulletin issued on Friday night, the new cases reported include 82 in GHMC areas, 14 in Rangareddy district and two each in Medak and Sangareddy districts. The day’s positive cases also include five migrants and 64 deportees, local persons who returned from other countries. Of the reported positive cases in the State so far, 1,381 have been discharged from hospitals and 973 are still undergoing treatment. The bulletin issued by the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare also stated that four persons died due to coronavirus on Friday taking the total to 71 so far. The four persons who died of COVID also had other co-morbidities. The persons who died on Friday include: A 53-year-old male who was also suffering with carcinoma thyroid; a 59-year-old male suffering from multiple myeloma ; a 62-year-old male suffering from hemiplegia and another 60-year-old female patient.
30 May 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Jharkhand flies its workers back from Leh||The Jharkhand government on Friday arranged to have 60 migrant workers stranded in Leh flown back to Ranchi, making it the first State to use flights to help its stranded citizens return home during the lockdown in the wake of the SC’s order.
30 May 2020||New delhi,||‘JNU student and activist charged under UAPA’||Natasha Narwal, a JNU student and activist associated with women’s student collective Pinjra Tod, was arrested on Friday under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for her alleged role in the communal riots in north-east Delhi in February, a senior police officer said on Friday.
30 May 2020||Gurugram,||Chaos as movement across border stopped||Commuters headed towards Gurugram on NH-48 had a harrowing time on Friday morning with Gurugram Police ensuring strict implementation of restrictions on cross-border movement, allowing only those with valid passes.
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Fish kill in Kommaghatta lake again||Hundreds of dead fish were found floating in Kommaghatta lake, near Kengeri, much to the dismay of residents and environmental activists who expressed worry about the health of the lake and its ecology.
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,||State sees 248 cases, one death on Friday||About 91% of the 248 cases reported on Friday in Karnataka are passengers who had come from other States. With 248 new cases — the highest so far for a single day in State — the total number of positive cases in Karnataka stands at 2,781. As many as 227 of the new cases were people who had domestic travel history.
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Travellers to Karnataka have to pay for tests||International air passengers and inter-State air and train passengers arriving in State will have to now get their COVID-19 “pooled sample test” done in a private lab that would cost them Rs. 650. The government, however, will pay for those who cannot afford it.
30 May 2020||KALABURAGI,||Officer says life threat was issued to him||District Officer of the Backward Classes Welfare Department Ramesh G. Sanga approached the University Police Station in Kalaburagi on Friday alleging that Prabhu Hadimani, a corporator from Kalaburagi City Municipal Corporation, and Chandrakant, a BJP activist, had issued a life threat to him and sought action against them. However, his written complaint has not been accepted. According to the complaint, Mr. Hadimani and Mr. Chandrakant, said to be supporters of Dattatreya Patil Revoor, BJP MLA from Gulbarga Dakshin constituency, took serious objection to his interaction with a visual media representative involving the MLA that went viral and issued the threats. Speaking to The Hindu , Police Commissioner N. Satish Kumar said that Mr. Sanga did not actually submit the complaint as he took it back stating that he would come with a revised copy. Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat took exception to the conduct of his subordinate officer stating that the officer should have brought the issue to the notice of the government or his superior officers instead of approaching the media. Talking to the media without obtaining government permission is violation of rules, he added. Mr. Sanga had, in an interview to a news channel on Thursday, made allegations against the MLA.
30 May 2020||Chennai,||Rs. 300 crore scheme to help rural enterprises||The State government has launched a Rs. 300 crore scheme for rejuvenation of rural enterprises. Called the ‘COVID-19 Assistance Package’, the scheme is part of the World Bank-assisted Tamil Nadu Rural Transform-ation Project and will cover 1.39 lakh beneficiaries.
30 May 2020||Chennai,||30 convicts test positive in Puzhal Central Prison||Thirty convicts lodged in the Puzhal Central Prison-I tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, triggering panic among other prisoners and their family members. As a majority of the patients are asymptomatic, prison officials have quarantined them in a separate block.
30 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Karnataka cases swell as 248 test positive||Kerala reported another COVID-19 death on Friday, taking the toll to eight. It also recorded 62 positive cases, of which 56 were cases imported from outside the State. A 50-year-old woman from Chickballapur, Karnataka and one individual in Andhra Pradesh also passed away. Besides the imported cases, the new ones in Kerala included that of two cabin crew of Air India who had come on a flight to Thiruvananthapuram; two remand prisoners at Neyyattinkara special sub-jail; one health-care worker in Palakkad; and one person in Ernakulam who is believed to have acquired the infection through contact with a known/unknown source. Kerala’s latest COVID-19 death was that of a 65-year-old person from Thiruvalla who had returned from Sharjah and was being treated at Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. The Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, said on Friday that the rising case graph should not be a cause for concern as Kerala had devised its containment strategy, fully aware that there would be an exponential increase in cases when the lockdown was eased. Of the 62 new positive cases, 33 were expatriates and 23 were from other States. The State had tested 62,746 samples, of which 60,448 were negative. Of 11,468 sentinel surveillance samples, 10,635 were negative. The number of hotspots went up to 101, following the addition of 22 new hotspots. Karnataka’s turn About 91% of the 248 cases reported on Friday in Karnataka — which is the highest so far for a single day — were passengers who had come from other States. The new cases — the highest so far for a single day — raised total positive cases in Karnataka to 2,781. As many as 227 had domestic travel history and a majority had returned from Maharashtra. One patient had an international travel history. Andhra Pradesh had 3,330 positive cases, including 85 (33 local and 52 migrant) new ones. Patients discharged stood at 2,226 and active cases at 1,044. The death toll was 60 after one person died during the 24-hour period. Continuing its trajectory of rising cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19), Tamil Nadu reported 874 cases on Friday and the overall tally breached the 20,000-mark. There was a massive surge in Chennai, with a highest single-day spike of 618 cases. Discharged cases were 765, taking the total number of people discharged to 11,313. The State’s case total rose to 20,246, and it had crossed the 10,000-mark on May 15. With Chennai continuously reporting a high number of COVID-19 cases, its overall tally climbed to 13,362.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada and Chennai Bureaus)
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Trump did not talk to Modi on China’||The government on Friday rejected U.S. President Donald Trump’s claim that he had spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China, or that the two leaders spoke at all. Government sources said India would not accept Mr. Trump’s offer to mediate on the stand-off at the LAC, and this was conveyed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to his American counterpart on Friday. “There has been no recent contact between PM Modi and President Trump. The last conversation between them was on 4 April 2020 on Hydroxychloroquine [HCQ],” said sources in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). According to Defence Ministry sources, Mr. Singh, who discussed issues around COVID-19 and the defence partnership with U.S. Defense Secretary Mark Esper during a telephone call on Friday, used the occasion to convey India’s firm commitment to resolving issues with China bilaterally, “through the established mechanisms that exist between India and China.” Mr. Singh is understood to have also stressed that the resolution of the month-long stand-off at different points along the LAC in Ladakh and Sikkim could “take some time” but that India and China had in the past managed to resolve border issues without mediation by others. ‘Taken by surprise’ Government officials told The Hindu that they were taken by surprise by the U.S. President’s comments, particularly his reference to Mr. Modi’s “mood” when Mr. Trump claimed to have spoken to him. “I can tell you, I did speak to Prime Minister Modi. He’s not – he’s not in a good mood about what’s going on with China,” Mr. Trump told reporters at White House on Thursday (Friday morning India time). When asked by reporters about his offer of mediation on the “raging border dispute” between India and China, made first in a tweet on Thursday, Mr. Trump said he would be willing to broker talks between the two countries if “it would help”. “I would do that. You know, I would do that. If they, if they thought it would help if I were the mediator or the arbiter, I would do that. So, we’ll see,” Mr. Trump told a correspondent from PTI news agency who asked him about his tweet. However, the MEA sources reiterated that the Ministry’s official spokesperson Anurag Srivastava “made it clear” on Thursday that India was “directly in touch with the Chinese through established mechanisms and diplomatic contacts.”
30 May 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan farmers, officials in night-long fight against locusts||Farmers in Rajasthan are assisting officials of the Agriculture Department in their operations to control locust swarms, which have spread over 20 districts, posing a threat to the vegetation. The officials have been destroying locusts with insecticide, mostly in night-long operations. Agriculture Minister Lal Chand Kataria had recently asked the officials to alert the farmers and get their “active cooperation” in the anti-locust operations. In a midnight operation in Garh village in Bassi tehsil of Jaipur district, locusts perched on neem and acacia trees. They were almost completely eliminated in a 42-hectare area on Thursday. Assistant Director (Agriculture) Rekha Chaudhary, who led the operation, told The Hindu that a survey was undertaken to determine the affected area. Five teams of tractor-powered sprayers were formed for spraying high-intensity insecticide. “Though the Department’s supervisors were present in our team for monitoring the operation, the farmers guided us to the affected areas in the surrounding foothills through their fields,” she said.  Radheshyam Prajapat, 45, a farmer who owns 10-bigha land at Garh, said the villagers, reeling under the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown, were willing to render help to the officials in order to save their crops. The villagers were also trying to scare away the tropical locusts by beating drums, tin cans and plates and bursting firecrackers.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘States show variations in testing contacts’||States that are grappling with the highest burden of COVID-19 are those that least tested the contacts of persons who were confirmed positive, suggests data from an analysis of nearly 1,00,000 individuals tested for the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus and published by a core group of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) scientists and independent epidemiologists leading India’s COVID-19 testing. A large proportion of both — those tested and those found positive — were asymptomatic family contacts. Kerala, which is among the States that have contained the initial surge of the pandemic, tested an average of 40 contacts per confirmed positive case. On the other hand, Maharashtra, which on Friday had 38,948 active cases and 1,982 deaths, had tested only eight contacts per positive case. Gujarat, which had 6,599 cases and 960 deaths, only tested 12 contacts per confirmed positive case. ‘Wide variations’ “States demonstrated wide variations in contacts tested per case. It represents the robustness of contact tracing. While exposure to different contacts could vary per case, the reason for this variation needs to be further explored to improve tracing and testing strategies,” says the paper, published on Friday in the Indian Journal for Medical Research . According to the paper, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Goa, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand were among the States that had tested greater than the 75th percentile of contacts. Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi were among those with less than 50th percentile of the contacts tested. Testing contacts and isolating suspects is a critical aspect of restricting fatalities and ensuring that infections don’t spread rapidly. For the analysis, the researchers studied individuals who had tested positive between January 22-April 30. Cases in India started to measurably pick up only after March 5, and by March 23, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had declared a lockdown. Highest proportion The proportion of positive cases was highest among symptomatic and asymptomatic contacts, two-three-fold higher than among those with severe acute respiratory infections, or those with an international travel history, or among healthcare workers. The attack rate (based on the number of positive cases in a category) per million by age was highest among those aged 50-69 years (63.3%) and was lowest among those under 10 years (6.1%). The attack rate, or a fraction of a population testing positive, was higher among males (41.6%) than females (24.3%). The secondary attack rate (based on positive cases among contacts of primary cases) was 6%. Tests for COVID-19 were conducted in 99% of 736 districts in the country, and 71% of these districts reported positive cases. Cough and fever Of the 40,184 positive cases until April, 25.3% were asymptomatic family contacts, 10.6% were symptomatic contacts, and 10.5% were SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection) patients. Among the 12,810 cases with reported symptoms at the time of specimen collection, cough and fever were the most commonly reported symptoms (64.5% and 60%, respectively). As on Friday, 1.65 million people in India had tested positive, the highest in Asia.
30 May 2020||MURKOOK,||KCR hints at ‘surprise’ package for farmers||Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) said on Friday that with the abundant availability of Godavari water under different projects across the State, Telangana is going to produce crops worth Rs. 1 lakh crore every year. He also announced that a new scheme for the farming community is in the offing, it would be unveiled in a week or 10 days, and “the entire nation will be surprised by the scheme”. Speaking to media after releasing water to Kondapochammasagar at this mandal headquarters town along with spiritual guru Chinna Jeeyar, Mr. Rao termed the Kaleshwaram project an engineering miracle with multi-stage lifting of about 80 tmcft of water. “This is a historical movement. Before the formation of State, everyone ridiculed Telangana but within six years of formation we have constructed reservoirs and as much as 165 tmcft of water is being added to the existing storage through different reservoirs. Kondapochammasagar is the 10th lift reservoir where water is being lifted up to 618 metres. Two more reservoirs — Seethammasagar and Sammakkasagar, with the capacity of 35 tmcft and 7.5 tmcft, respectively — are coming up,” Mr. Rao said. “Telangana has provided 63% of the national food grains and this was revealed by D.V. Prasad, Food Corporation of India (FCI)”, he added. “I am thanking and bowing my head to all the oustees for the Kaleshwaram barrage to Kondapochamma, who sacrificed their lands for the construction of reservoirs. Three villages — Mamidyala, Bahilampur and Thenadarpally — got submerged in this project. Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony was constructed at Tunkibollaram and food processing industry will come up, which would provide employment to youth. Another colony with about 6,000 houses is coming up,” said Mr. Rao. ‘Second largest’ The Chief Minister said that Mallannasagar will be the second largest reservoir in the State and water would be pumped to Haldivagu, Manjeera and Singur. Stating that about 4,800 MW power was needed to run these projects, he said the government would pay up to Rs. 10,000 crore towards power and would not charge farmers for it.
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||Donald Trump’s gaffe on call with PM Modi is not a first, but a pattern||Government officials have dismissed U.S. President Donald Trump’s claim that he spoke with Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the situation at the Line of Actual Control with China, as untrue. While this is the first time Mr. Trump has been accused by New Delhi of fabricating a conversation entirely, it is not the first time Mr. Trump has run into controversies by revealing details of conversations with the PM, including with their most recent conversation on April 4 on hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), the drug Mr. Trump favours as a cure for COVID-19. In its readout of the call of the same day, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) made no mention of hydroxychloroquine, noting instead that the two leaders had spoken about the pandemic, its impact on the global economy, and even on the “significance of practices such as Yoga and Ayurveda” during these times. However, a few hours later, Mr. Trump revealed to the press that the reason for his call was to request the PM to relax India’s export ban on HCQ, which the Directorate General on Foreign Trade had strengthened only a day before that. Even as India reconsidered its decision, Mr. Trump spoke again, this time appearing to threaten New Delhi if it did not release the drug to the U.S. “If [PM Modi] doesn’t allow it [HCQ] to come out, that would be OK, but of course there may be retaliation,” Mr. Trump said, adding insult to his earlier indiscretion. Once the government lifted its ban, as it did not just for the U.S., but for more than a hundred other countries, Mr. Trump showered India and PM Modi with praise. The impression he left by revealing his conversation with the PM was that the U.S. had browbeaten the Indian government into ensuring HCQ supplies. The diplomatic dissonance over HCQ resembled Mr. Trump’s comments in 2018 about Indian tariffs on American Harley Davidson bikes, where he even mimicked PM Modi in remarks to the press. “The PM, who I think is a fantastic man, called me the other day. He said we are lowering [tariffs] to 50%,” Mr. Trump announced, adding that he still wanted the tariffs to be reduced to “zero”. What had made his comments more problematic was that at the time PM Modi had made the call, India had not officially announced the decision to cut tariffs on imported motorcycles, which made Mr. Trump’s delivery of the comments even more cause for discomfort. Just weeks before the HCQ fracas this year, Mr. Trump had been in India for a bilateral visit, his first as U.S. President. While the country focused on preparations for the unprecedented joint rally planned at the Sardar Patel stadium, Mr. Trump stunned all with his account of another conversation with PM Modi. “PM Modi said we will have millions and millions of people. He thinks we will have 5-7 million just from the airport to the new stadium,” said Mr. Trump, speaking to the press on February 12, a day after the visit was announced. At a rally in Colorado Springs a few days later, Mr. Trump upped his estimate of the crowd in Ahmedabad to “6-10 million people”. The assertion cast a blush on Indian officials making arrangements, who explained that given Ahmedabad’s entire estimated population was 7 million people, Mr. Trump was unlikely to receive the crowds he imagined. Eventually, however, Mr. Trump said he was very pleased with the more than 1 lakh people who attended the joint rally at the stadium and the “hundreds of thousands of everyday citizens who came out and lined the streets in a stunning display of Indian culture and kindness”. While Mr. Trump has caught the government by surprise with his offer to mediate between India and China this year, last year, it was his offer to mediate between India and Pakistan that grabbed the headlines. A few weeks after PM Modi met with President Trump at the G-20 summit in Osaka, Mr. Trump met with Pakistan PM Imran Khan at the White House and announced he would “love to be a mediator” on Kashmir. Kashmir question “I was with PM Modi two weeks ago and we talked about this subject and he actually said, ‘Would you like to be a mediator or arbitrator.’ I said ‘where?’, he said ‘Kashmir’,” Mr. Trump said then. India’s consistent policy is to resolve issues bilaterally, and it has always pushed back on offers of mediation, thus Mr. Trump’s comments were denied by the government in no uncertain terms after a furore in Parliament. No lasting damage was done by the comment or the denial, however, and less than two months later, Mr. Trump and Mr. Modi stood together at a joint rally in Houston. MEA officials say they have come to expect the unexpected when Mr. Trump speaks, and acknowledge that his habit of discussing publicly conversations held with a world leader are a breach of protocol. However, they point out that despite the comments, the India-U.S. relationship remains strong, and Mr. Trump and Mr. Modi remain on the best of terms.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Avoid travel by train unless it is essential’||In the wake of some deaths on the Shramik Special trains, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday said the “few unfortunate cases” were related to pre-existing medical conditions. Mr. Goyal put up a Twitter post appealing to people “suffering from serious ailments, pregnant women and those above 65 years and below 10 years” to travel on Shramik Special trains only if necessary. The railways started running the trains from May 1 to ferry migrants stranded due to the nationwide lockdown. As per reported data, at least nine migrants have lost their lives while travelling on them. “Indian Railways has been running Shramik Special trains on a daily basis throughout the country to ensure that migrants can travel back to their homes. It has been observed that some people who are availing this service have pre-existing medical conditions which aggravates the risk they face during the COVID-19 pandemic,” Mr. Goyal’s post said. “...Ministry of Railways makes an appeal that persons with co-morbidities (for example - hypertension, diabetes, cardio-vascular diseases, cancer, immune deficiency conditions), pregnant women, children below the age of 10 years and persons above 65 years of age may avoid travel by rail, except when it is essential,” the post said. The railways were working 24x7 to ensure that services were provided to all the citizens of the country needing to travel, the post said. He further said that the safety of passengers was “our biggest concern. So, we seek the cooperation of all citizens in this matter.” As of May 28, the railways had operationalised 3,736 Shramik Specials across the country, transporting around 50 lakh passengers to their home States.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Reports of ‘lost’ trains fake, says Railways||Railway Board Chairman V.K. Yadav on Friday termed reports of Shramik Special trains “getting lost” as “fake news,” and said only four trains of a total of 3,840 run so far since May 1 have taken more than 72 hours to reach their destinations. He said only 1.8% of all such trains run so far, or 71 trains, were diverted and even that only between May 20 and 24, as 90% of the Shramik Special trains run in the four days were bound for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and this had led to network congestion. Among the destination-States of the diverted trains were Bihar (51), Uttar Pradesh (16), Jharkhand (2) and Assam and Manipur (1 each). Among the originating-States were Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan. The statement comes amid severe criticism of the Indian Railways for Shramik Special trains taking longer routes and lack of proper food and drink. “In normal times, catering is done by IRCTC via contractors,” said Mr. Yadav. “In the beginning, many of them didn’t want to distribute food inside the trains due to coronavirus... Initially, we started keeping food packets as per the number of passengers in the train... some issues came up in sharing the food, which is understandable... These incidents happened in some 2-3% of the trains. “These are not normal times... whatever lessons we learnt, we used them to improve services.” He stressed that 90% of the trains, in fact, were running at greater speeds that the normal Mail Express trains, and there was a delay of a couple of hours in about 10% of them. To a query on the incidents of death on board such trains, Mr. Yadav said the Railways was compiling a list of people who died on the Shramik Special trains from the State governments. “The set protocol is that local State police investigate the deaths, including the reason for the death. We have seen reports that people died due to starvation. We have analysed them and there was no shortage of food and drinks on these trains.” Till May 28, Mr Yadav said, 3,840 Shramik Specials operated ferrying a total of 52 lakh passengers.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Tension unlikely to escalate, say former diplomats||The ongoing border tensions with China along several points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) are unlikely to escalate into a conflict with China, two former senior Indian officials said on Friday. “The most important thing is to not view every single border skirmish as the beginning of another war,” said M.K. Narayanan, former National Security Adviser who has also served as the Special Representative on the boundary talks. “We should be careful in not being driven by, I’m sorry to say, what the media and many people are saying.” Mr. Narayanan said the problem with China was because “we have an undefined and undemarcated border” with differing perceptions of the LAC. “Both sides have by and large tried to follow the political parameters and guiding principles we agreed to in 2005. Until such time as the border is finally demarcated, we will face some kind of problem or the other. It is true once we strengthen infrastructure on the border it may seem to the other side, that we are more or less saying we have demarcated the border without formal concurrence, so therefore this may well be the reason why there is a certain amount of skirmishing.” Vijay Gokhale, who was Foreign Secretary until January 2020 and is a former ambassador to China, said the communication between the two leaders through the informal summits in Wuhan in 2018 and in Chennai in 2019 had helped build trust. Relations had been strained in 2017 during the Doklam stand-off. Informal communication “I have seen media reports which suggest because something is happening on the LAC, there is somehow a breakdown in informal communication that the two leaders have. I beg to differ on this. Whenever leaders talk, the chances of mishaps are minimised,” he said. “I believe after 2017, the two summits have created a certain degree of understanding and trust. It doesn’t mean we have solved every problem. Two leaders together can’t solve every problem in two meetings, but I believe the trust they have created will prevent a mishap from happening.” Both former officials were speaking at a webinar organised by the Chennai International Centre. Mr. Narayanan said he was of the view that neither China nor India wanted conflict. “Both sides tend to play, in our case chess and for the Chinese weiqi [or Go, a strategy game]. And between the two, we are caught in a hotspot in many ways. It is too much to call this a military stand-off. It is true both sides have strengthened their troops. The last thing we want is a conflict and I am fairly certain while China wants the rest of Asia to feel they are superior to India, I do not think it will be through firing guns across the border.”
30 May 2020||Kozhikode,||Veerendra Kumar, a man who donned many hats with ease||No leader of contemporary Kerala politics has donned so many roles as did M.P. Veerendra Kumar, Independent MP backed by the CPI(M)-led LDF, who died on Thursday night — he was a writer, orator, media baron and an environmentalist all rolled into one. He was also the chairman and managing director of the widely circulated Malayalam language newspaper Mathrubhumi . Veerendra Kumar was an affable socialist, whether the parties he represented were with the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front or the Congress-led United Democratic Front. From the mofussil town of Kalpetta in Wayanad he worked his way up to make his voice heard in the national capital. He was the first person from the hill district to become a legislator, a member of Parliament and a State and Central Minister. He was for a while the chief of Janata Dal (Secular) in Kerala, but differences with the Left Front over seat-sharing forced him to form his own party, the Socialist Janata (Democratic), which eventually merged with Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), a constituent of the UDF. As MP representing Kozhikode constituency in 1996 and 2004, his detractors, including a section of the CPI(M), may have unfortunately seen him as an under-performer. But he was a man of conviction, as evidenced by his stubborn refusal to compromise with the then CPI(M) State secretary Pinarayi Vijayan when he was denied the Kozhikode seat in 2009, or his quitting the JD(U) when Nitish Kumar joined hands with the BJP in 2017. He later floated the Loktantrik Janata Dal. Veerendra Kumar unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha polls from Kozhikode in 1971. But he soon returned to State politics. He became the Forest Minister in the E.K. Nayanar Cabinet only to step down within 48 hours after his order that no trees inside forests should be felled rattled party leadership. He was also Minister of State in the I.K. Gujral Cabinet in 1997. For him, writing came naturally. He was also an environmentalist who fought against the setting up of nuclear power plants and flagged the neglect of the fragile ecosystem of the Himalayas. He was a recipient of the Kendra Sahitya Akademi award for his travelogue Haimavathabhoovil . Veerendra Kumar openly challenged the liberalism of the neo-capitalist, perhaps driven by an ideological trait he acquired from socialist stalwarts Jayaprakash Narayan and Ram Manohar Lohia during his formative days. He was more a Left liberal, though many disliked his esoteric doomsayer’s arguments against globalisation.  As a prudent socialist tycoon, he maintained the thin line between politics and business. His demise comes at a time when the Kerala unit of the Loktantrik Janata Dal is facing an existential crisis and preparing to merge with the Janata Dal (Secular).
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka looks to agritourism||Karnataka has decided to embark upon agritourism to introduce various aspects of agriculture and rural life to urbanites, to increase the incomes of farmers, and to boost the tourism economy. A meeting on developing the concept of agritourism was held here on Friday with the involvement of the Departments of Tourism, Agriculture, and Horticulture. Tourism Minister C.T. Ravi told The Hindu that farmers will be the main stakeholders under this concept. “Tourists from the city will not only get a first-hand experience of farming, but also the cultural aspects associated with agriculture and rural life, including rural sports,” he said. Measures will also be taken to allow farmers to directly sell their products to tourists, he noted. The government is thinking of developing theme-based agritourism concepts, such as coffee and various other crops, he said. To make such concepts sustainable, the Tourism Department is thinking of linking them with nearby tourist places so that the tourism sector too gets benefits, he explained. Plans are also afoot to draw up such concepts for urban schoolchildren so that they would know about farming and rural life, Mr. Ravi said. A co-ordination committee has been formed to identify the places for launching the theme-based initiative, the Minister said. It may take nearly an year for the actual concept to be implemented in a full-fledged manner. Mr. Ravi has also asked Social Welfare Department authorities to help develop a ‘Dalit Heritage Tourism’ concept to promote Dalit heritage, especially folklore. Similarly, authorities concerned have been told to develop ‘Lambani Heritage Tourism’ concept. “I have suggested that a village of Lambanis near Hampi be identified for this purpose so it would be possible to attract foreign tourists who come to Hampi tothe Lambani heritage village,” he added.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nascent Arabian Sea cyclone may delay monsoon arrival||Uncertainty clouds the monsoon’s arrival over Kerala. While the official date this year remains the June 5, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday evening that “conditions were favourable for onset” on June 1. The uncertainty is primarily due to a prominent weather model that hints at the development of a cyclone in the Arabian Sea after May 31; the strength and trajectory of this weather system could, in the worst case scenario, delay the monsoon’s progress. “One model — of the European Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting — is showing a cyclone as developing in the Arabian Sea. However, our own models are showing that it wouldn’t be that intense and would likely become a Deep Depression, at most,” said Madhavan Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences. “It could mean a few days delay if it's too strong. Once the monsoon season sets in, there’s a certain uncertainty too in all weather models,” he added. Storms that develop in the sea begin as ‘Low Pressures’ and graduate to Depressions, Deep Depressions and then onto three categories of cyclone. The most recent being the Super Cyclone Amphan in the Bay of Bengal. Another depression is likely to form in the Arabian Sea over the weekend but will turn towards Oman and not significantly influence the monsoon. While such depressions are normal during the advent of monsoon and usually aid the monsoon’s advent and progress in India, a particularly strong storm can hinder the monsoon. Last year, Cyclone Vayu that formed in the Arabian Sea stalled the monsoon after it entered Kerala on June 8. Rainfall measure A key criteria to declaring the monsoon as having arrived is that at least 8 of 14 meteorological stations in Kerala and Karnataka consistently measure more than 2.5 mm of rains for two continuous days. That such rains are already being registered in these States gives G.P. Sharma, president of Skymet Weather Services, confidence that the monsoon will have set in latest by May 31. On May 15, he had forecast the monsoon’s arrival date as May 28. That same day, the IMD had forecast a four-day delay in the onset to June 5, largely because of the influence of Amphan. “We have a 100 automatic weather stations in Kerala and the data clearly shows the rainfall requirement being met as well as the required windspeeds. But officially, monsoon arrives when IMD says it does,” Mr. Sharma added.  Rainfall apart, sustained windspeeds of 30-40 kmph at 5 to 6 kilometre from the sea level were a key criteria.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rahul asks govt. to tell nation what’s happening with China||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday asked the government to ‘come clean’ on the reported border tension with China and inform the nation what exactly is happening. “The Government’s silence about the border situation with China is fuelling massive speculation and uncertainty at a time of crisis. The government of India must come clean and tell India exactly what’s happening”, he said on twitter. His tweet came a day after United States President Donald Trump claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was ‘not in a good mood’ over the border row and offered to mediate between India and China, something that was both denied and rejected by India. Last Tuesday, Mr Gandhi said he expected the government to be transparent about the border tensions with China and Nepal but refused to make any specific comment. “I think on the India-China issue, we would like to see some more transparency on what is going on. It becomes very difficult for us to have a position without understanding the facts. I think the Government should make clear to the people of India, what exactly is happening on the border. We are hearing different stories. So, I don’t want to go into conjecture but it is important that the Government of India makes it clear what is happening on the border,” he had said. On May 5, Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a violent face-off on the eastern Ladakh border that prompted a meeting of local commanders to ‘disengage’ from such skirmishes.
30 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Jharkhand flies its workers back from Leh||The Jharkhand government on Friday arranged to have 60 migrant workers stranded in Leh flown back to Ranchi, making it the first State to use flights to help its stranded citizens return home during the lockdown in the wake of the Supreme Court’s order. “All our 60 migrant workers flew down to Delhi from Leh and they undertook further air journey from New Delhi to Ranchi,” Chief Minister Hemant Soren said, welcoming the arriving workers at Birsa Munda Airport. “This has marked the first formal step towards bringing back stranded workers by flights,” he added. The workers from Jharkhand had been stranded in the Batalik — Kargil sector, where they were working on a Border Roads Organisation (BRO) project. Using Twitter, they had on May 10 urged the Chief Minister to assist them in returning home. According to an official at the Chief Minister’s office, Mr. Soren had urged the administration of the Union Territory of Ladakh to provide assistance while the State Control Room got in touch with the workers and got them registered on the State’s portal. All 60 workers were transported by the BRO to Leh and put up in a transit camp.The journey cost Jharkhand about Rs. 8 lakh. As of now 4.5 lakh of 8 lakh registered workers have returned to Jharkhand. Mr. Soren has directed officials to fly back stranded workers from the Andamans and northeastern States too.
30 May 2020||Bhopal,||‘Rozgar Setu’ for skilled workers in M.P.||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has announced the launch of the ‘Rozgar Setu’ scheme, saying it would help secure employment for skilled workers who have returned. “The State is the first to devise such a work plan. We are surveying skilled workers who were employed at industries elsewhere, but have now returned,” said Mr. Chouhan. “We are identifying the skills they possess.” Stating that the attempt was to provide work to the maximum number of returned skilled workers, he said, “After such workers requiring employment are identified, the government will contact factory, workshop owners and contractors overseeing infrastructure projects such as road and bridge construction.” He added, “We will bring our skilled brothers and sisters on a platform and connect them with those needing them. The State government will act as a setu [bridge] between workers and employers so that both are benefited.” This would fulfil the manpower requirement of industries as well as provide employment to workers during the COVID-19 pandemic, he explained. “A survey of such workers was launched on May 27,” he said. Moreover, Mr. Chouhan hailed the Centre’s ‘Swamitva yojana’ under which rural areas would be surveyed to help prepare land records. Land ownership records “The rural population will be given land ownership records as proof of their right over plots of land. This scheme is like a gift for them,” he added. In current financial year, the scheme will cover 10,553 revenue villages of 10 districts, such as Morena, Sheopur and Bhopal, in the first phase. The budgeted expenditure in realising the scheme is Rs. 97.97 crore in three years.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ajit Jogi, first CM of Chhattisgarh, dead||Former Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Ajit Jogi, 74, died on Friday after being hospitalised in Raipur following a heart attack. His death was announced on Twitter by his son Amit Jogi. The former bureaucrat-turned-politician, who was the incumbent MLA from the Marwahi seat, was the first chief minister of Chhattisgarh after it was carved out of Madhya Pradesh as a separate State in November 2000. Tributes poured in from across the political spectrum. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, offering his condolences to the family, tweeted,“Shri Ajit Jogi Ji was passionate about public service. This passion made him work hard as a bureaucrat and as a political leader.” “Jogi ji’s death is an irreparable loss to the State. He laid a roadmap for the development of the State and delivered an important role as a skilled politician and administrator in its progress,” said Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, who declared a three-day State mourning. Mr. Jogi lost power in the 2003 Assembly elections but continued to be one of the tallest leaders of the Congress party until he and his son got embroiled in a controversy over a leaked audio tape towards the end of 2015, amid allegations that they “had forced” Manturam Pawar to withdraw his nomination as the Congress party’s official candidate in a bye-election. After the controversy, the Jogis formally quit the Congress in 2016 and floated a regional outfit, the Janata Congress Chhattisgarh. Throughout his career, Mr. Jogi also faced repeated scrutiny over his claim of being an Adivasi. Several petitions and cases were filed against him and all of them were legally challenged by him. A seasoned politician In November 2000, when the new State of Chhattisgarh was created, Mr. Jogi was chosen by Sonia Gandhi to head the State, pipping veterans like Moti Lal Vohra and the late Vidya Charan Shukla. After losing power to the BJP in the State in 2003, he returned to the 14th Lok Sabha as a member of Parliament from the Mahasamund seat. But a car crash during the 2004 election campaign left him and wheelchair-bound. In 2008, he successfully contested the Assembly elections from the Marwahi Assembly seat, a reserved constituency. But after the Congress could not to wrest back the State from the BJP, he once again became a Lok Sabha member in 2009, but failed to win his seat in 2014. Through his life, Mr. Jogi always fought the odds to make a comeback but his dream of returning as the Chief Minister remained unfulfilled as he was out of the Congress long before his former party became the ruling party in Chhattisgarh.
30 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Spurt in reverse migration of NoRKs expected after June 13||Kerala expects a spurt in reverse migration after Phase II of the Vande Bharat mission ending on June 13 as 80% of the Non-Resident Keralites (NoRK) who arrived in repatriation flights and ships from abroad are in the prioritised category. Of the 4.75 lakh NoRKs from 175 countries who registered on the portal of the Department of Non-Resident Keralites Affairs, only 10,526 have reached the State in the past 12 days after the repatriation process was initiated by the Centre. The prioritised category comprises pregnant women, senior citizens, sick, those needing immediate medical care, gone on visit visa, availing amnesty schemes of various countries, deported for offences, and students. “It is too early to look into the profile of the NoRKS who came by the repatriation flights as they are in the distressed category. We are expecting a spurt in reverse migration only after the Phase II of the Vande Bharat mission,” a NoRKA official said. Registration of stranded NoRKs for returning to Kerala is continuing even now. NoRKA expects the real reverse migration of those who have lost their jobs to commence only from June 13, he said. For the State and NoRKA, profiling of the returnees is essential to work out their rehabilitation. So far 6,129 males, 4,394 females, and three transgenders have returned to the State. As much as 9,166 arrived by flights operated by Air India and Air India Express and 1,360 by ships of the Indian Navy. While 4,338 reached Kochi, 1,903 Kozhikode, 1,500 Thiruvananthapuram, and 1,419 Kannur. The majority hails from five districts with 11.08% from Ernakulam, Thrissur 10.29%, Malappuram 10.02%, Kannur 9.66%, and Kozhikode 9.41%.
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||CCMB cultures may help make vaccines, drugs||CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) has established stable cultures of COVID-19 from patients’ samples in the last one-and-a-half months. Virologist Krishnan H. Harshan and his research team have isolated infectious viruses from several isolates. The ability to culture in the lab enables to work towards vaccine development and testing potential drugs to fight COVID-19, said director Rakesh Mishra. “The premier research institution could become a potential donor of the culture to other authorised centres that can continue growing the virus for their own use,” he said, pointing out that the virus is known to infect epithelial cells in human respiratory tract. It makes viral proteins first and then starts to replicate the genomic RNA to make more copies of itself. This meant the virus needs a set of host factors to replicate. “Currently, primary epithelial cells generated from human origins do not grow for many generations in labs, which is key to culturing viruses continuously. CCMB and other labs are growing the virus through an ‘immortal’ cell line using kidney epithelial cell lines,” he said. This ‘cultured SARS-CoV-2’ can help in making vaccines, antigens, test drugs and so on. Vaccines trigger immune response in host organism that can be used as protection from infection from viruses. Usually, proteins specific to such pathogens are good candidates as vaccines as they trigger antibody response in the host that could be long-term or short-term. Such killed viruses are used as vaccines in several cases like polio. Though the inactivated virus cannot initiate infection, their structural proteins trigger antibody production. The efficacy of inactivated SARS-CoV-2 as vaccine candidate is currently being investigated by several groups. Inactivated viruses can trigger antibody response in other mammalian hosts like mice, horses and camels. Antibodies generated in these can be purified and processed for injecting into humans to trigger antiviral response and limit the infection. These antibodies are not vaccines, but can be considered as antidote against the virus, he said. Lab culture of virus will also help in testing of antibodies because neutralising antibodies can bind to viruses preventing them from infecting cells.
30 May 2020||BENGALURU,||Karnataka BJP MLAs hold ‘dinner meeting’||In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is yet again facing rebellion in his ranks. A “dinner meeting” held by a section of MLAs from North Karnataka on Thursday night points to simmering discontent in the ruling BJP bubbling up once more. The impending elections to the Rajya Sabha and the Legislative Council in June seem to be the triggers that have brought the politicking back. The Chief Minister had earlier hinted at ministerial expansion after theelections.  Ministerial aspirants  As many as 13 BJP MLAs met at senior MLA and ministerial aspirant Umesh Katti’s Bengaluru residence on Thursday night. Most of those who attended the meeting have also been ministerial aspirants. While Mr. Katti and Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, senior MLA, tried to downplay the significance of the meeting and called it a “casual dinner”, Mr. Yatnal conceded that he was upset with the Chief Minister, but denied that it was linked to his ministerial aspiration. He claimed that he was upset that the development funds for his constituency were being held up. While he denied “rebellion” against the Chief Minister, he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah were his leaders and Mr. Yediyurappa was “only the Chief Minister.” When quizzed whether there was a demand to change the Chief Minister, he said: “It is for the high command to decide. I would tell my opinion on the present leadership only to the high command and not publicly.” Sources confirmed that this was not the first such meeting and at least two more have taken place over the last one week. To defuse the crisis, Mr. Yediyurappa had earlier promised many leaders of making them MLCs during the June polls to the Council. He had also promised several leaders of ministerial berths besides hinting that Cabinet expansion may take place soon after the Council polls. It may be recalled that two anonymous letters demanding a change of leadership were widely circulated in February around Mr. Yediyurappa’s birthday, a campaign that took a backseat with the COVID-19 pandemic. However, Mr. Yediyurappa seems to have taken a tough stance on dissidence this time. On Friday morning, he clarified on Twitter that he had not called for any emergency meeting of his party legislators, as was being reported in a section of media, indicating he was in no mood to talk to dissidents. He held several meetings, mostly related to handling the pandemic, as scheduled. A close confidante of the Chief Minister termed the series of meetings by disgruntled leaders as “political lobbying and pressure tactics for a Cabinet berth” that has kicked in and will unlikely snowball into a bigger crisis. “In normal course, Cabinet expansion would have happened as scheduled. But with COVID-19 crisis on hand, it is now left to the Chief Minister and the high command to take a call,” he said. Other MLAs who attended the dinner meeting were Rajugouda, Dattatreya Patil, Halappa Achar, Paranna Munavalli, Siddu Savadi, Mahadevappa Yedavad, Shivaraj Patil, Balachandra Jarkiholi. They have all been ministerial aspirants and were part of similar meetings earlier. Mr. Yatnal is a new addition to the rebels group.
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rajendranagar leopard caught on CC camera||The leopard which had caused panic by making an appearance on Katedan road a fortnight ago was surmised to have returned to its natural habitat in the reserve forest of Gaganpahad now. A CCTV camera footage showing a leopard on the borders of the reserve forest has lent credence to the belief, though it can never be ascertained if it was the same leopard that had entered the city. The leopard, which had appeared on the Katedan road, escaped into a large-sized farm on the way to Shamshabad, when pursued by the Forest officials and the police. Though several camera traps and cages were set up on the farm to zero in on the feline, it was smart enough to decamp from there without anybody’s notice. On Thursday night, a leopard with similar physical features was captured by the CC camera installed on the compound wall of the Greyhounds training centre in Rajendra Nagar limits. The animal was caught sauntering across the border of the reserve forest in Gaganpahad which falls just behind the training centre compound. Forest officials together with the police conducted a joint inspection of the area, to observe the trail left by the leopard and take stock of the situation. Forest officials said no efforts would be made to capture the animal as it was back in its natural habitat. However, camera traps numbering 20 have been placed at different locations across the region, to keep a track of the movement of the feline. “The leopard must have strayed into the city while finding way from one reserve forest block to another. The Gaganpahad forest area is flush with prey base and water too, so it may not venture out again,” said an official.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||We will decide our present, future: PM||But, Mr. Modi said the country displayed its unity and resolve in all spheres in dealing with the disease outbreak. “In a crisis of this magnitude, it can certainly not be claimed that no one suffered any inconvenience or discomfort. Our labourers, migrant workers, artisans and craftsmen in small scale industries, hawkers and such fellow countrymen have undergone tremendous suffering,” he wrote. “However, we have to take care to ensure that inconveniences that we are facing do not turn into disasters. Hence it is very important for every Indian to follow rules and guidelines. We have displayed patience so far and we should continue to do so,” he wrote a day before Lockdown 4 is to end, adding that it was a “long battle” against COVID-19, but that “victory was our collective resolve.” The Prime Minister also took the opportunity to comment on the spirit behind many of the bold decisions that his government had taken or had to react to. “(The dilution of ) Article 370 furthered the spirit of national unity and integration. The Ram Mandir judgement, delivered unanimously by the Honourable Supreme Court of India, brought an amicable end to a debate persisting for centuries. The barbaric practice of Triple Talaq has been confined to the dustbin of history. Amendment to the Citizenship Act was an expression of India’s compassion and spirit of inclusiveness,” he wrote. For the future, the Prime Minister Modi dwelt at length over the economic challenge posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, stating that the spirit of self reliance or atmanirbharta was the only way forward. “At such a time, there is also a widespread debate on how the economies of various countries, including India’s will recover. However, given the way India has surprised the world with its unity and resolve in the fight against coronavirus, there is a firm belief that we will also set an example in economic revival,” he said. He added that the initiatives announced by his government as part of the Rs. 20 lakh crore package will “usher in a new era of opportunities for every Indian, be it our farmers, workers, small entrepreneurs or youth associated with start ups.” He quoted a Sanskrit shloka that translated to “if we have action and duty on one hand, then success is assured on the other” signing off as “Pradhan Sewak” or “chief servitor.”
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||GDP growth slows to a 11-year low of 4.2%||“Going forward, with private expenditure growth dwindling due to shut down and labour migration; investment demand contracting due to weak consumption demand and stretched corporate balance sheets; government expenditure will again be the growth engine in 2020-21,” said Dr. Pant. Although weak commodity prices and import demand would also provide some support to growth, the economy would contract this year for the first time since 1980, he said. Congress reaction The Congress on Friday said the low GDP growth in the last quarter of 2019-20 is ‘a telling commentary on its economic management’ by the BJP government and its misplaced priorities. In a series of tweets, former Finance Minister P Chidambaram said the GDP numbers do not fully capture the impact of the four stages of lockdown that started on March 25 . “We had forecast that GDP for Q4 will touch a new low at below 4%. It has turned out to be worse at 3.1%. Remember, this is pre-lockdown. Of the 91 days of Q4, lockdown applied to only to 7 days. It is a telling commentary on the economic management of the BJP government,” Mr. Chidambaram said.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Major Suman Gawani chosen for UN award||Major Suman Gawani of the Indian Army, who served as a women peacekeeper with the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) in 2019, has been selected for the prestigious United Nations Military Gender Advocate of the year Award, the Army said. Major Gawani received the award from the UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres during an online ceremony at the UN Headquarters, New York, on Friday on the occasion of International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers, the Army said in a statement. Carla Monteiro de Castro Araujo, a Brazilian Naval officer, will also receive the award. As a military observer in UNMISS from November 2018 to December 2019, Major Gawani was the principal focal point of contact for gender issues for military observers in the mission. “The officer encouraged participation in joint military patrols to maintain gender balance, irrespective of the hardships under extreme field conditions,” the Army said, adding she also strived to integrate gender perspective into the planning and military activity in the mission. She was selected to attend a specialised training on Conflict Related Sexual Violence (CRSV) at Nairobi, and participated in various UN forums to demonstrate how a gender perspective can help in protecting civilians, especially from conflict-related sexual violence, the Army stated.
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. hits out at Solicitor General for remarks in SC||The Congress on Friday criticised Solicitor General Tushar Mehta’s arguments in the Supreme Court in the migrant workers case and questioned the court's ‘silence’ over the reconstitution of a Bench of the Gujarat High Court that had come down heavily on the State government’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. “The reported spat yesterday between the Solicitor General and a former minister is a new low in the rapidly declining quality of Court room discourse . The Solicitor general has no purpose or right to interrogate a Senior Counsel wishing to assist the court in a matter of overarching public interest as to his contribution to the cause,” former Law Minister Ashwani Kumar said in a statement. “A law officer, as an officer of the Court cannot seek to diminish another officer of the Court in the exercise of his professional rights nor was the Counsel right in dishing out a monetary sum as his contribution, consistent with the finer traditions of charity,” he stated. Decision questioned Mr. Kumar questioned the top court’s decision not to allow Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala as a petitioner in the case. “Political parties being integral to the processes of democracy, which is a part of the basic structure of the Constitution, cannot be foreclosed from agitating issues of public importance before a Constitutional Court. In this context questioning the locus of Randeep Surjewala to be heard was wrong and the Court's decision in this regard based on the statement of the Solicitor General is clearly questionable,” he said. Mr. Kumar described Mr. Mehta’s remarks about the High Court becoming ‘parallel governments’ as “intemperate, and not expected of a Law officer, even as Govt is entitled to question the judgment of the High Court before the apex Court”. Sibal’s comment Congress leader and senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who was one of the lawyers Mr. Mehta argued with, tweeted: “Sad but true. A law officer in the Supreme Court dealing with the plight of migrants epitomized by the images in the public domain said : Journalists are vultures and High Courts are running parallel governments. This is politics not law!”. Mr. Surjewala also targeted the Solicitor General for the arguments made in the court and questioned the court’s ‘silence’ over the reconstitution of a Bench of the Gujarat High Court.
30 May 2020||PUNE,||Maharashtra reports 2,682 cases and 116 deaths||Maharashtra reported yet another big spike of 2,682 new COVID-19 cases on Friday as its tally breached the 60,000-mark to rise to 62,228. A record-high 116 deaths pushed the State’s fatalities to 2,098. However, the rise in cases and fatalities was offset with the State reporting its highest single-day recoveries, with 8,381 patients being discharged on Friday, taking the total number of discharged till date to 26,997. Doubling time “The patient doubling time figure for the State is now 15.7 days from the 11 days in the previous week, while the recovery rate stands at 43.38%,” said State Surveillance Officer, Dr. Pradeep Awate. He clarified that of the 116 deaths reported, 46 had occurred in the last couple of days while the remaining fatalities are from the period between May 16 and May 26. “About 65% of the deaths reported had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” said Dr. Awate. 1,447 cases in Mumbai Mumbai city alone reported 1,447 of the new cases, as its tally crossed the 36,000 mark to reach 36,932 cases. Of these, 19,745 were active ones. As many as 38 of the deaths reported were from Mumbai, to take the city’s death toll to 1,173. Jalgaon district reported 17 deaths, to take its tally to 69. Dhule district reported seven fatalities as its toll climbed to 16, despite the district having only 49 active cases. Nashik district’s death toll has risen to 60, with five deaths being reported from Malegaon, a virus hotspot in the region. However, there is heartening news from the district as it currently has only 192 active cases of 1,070 reported cases, with 818 patients said to have been recovered. Thirteen deaths were reported from Pune district. While Pune’s death toll, as per State Health Department figures, stood at 314, Pune authorities said the figure had risen to 315.
30 May 2020||Mumbai,||Poet Varavara Rao admitted to hospital||Well-known poet Varavara Rao, 81, lodged at the Taloja Jail for being accused in the Elghar Parishad case, was admitted to J.J. Hospital on Thursday. Dean Dr. Ranjit Mankeshwar said Mr. Rao was admitted on May 28 as he was complaining of giddiness and fainted once. A chest X-ray was taken, which was normal and he is stable. Mr. Rao has been suffering from piles, cardiac issues and is on medication for ulcer and blood pressure. His three daughters wrote a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court, appealing them to release him on bail as he falls under the high risk category for COVID-19. Bail plea On Friday, his wife received a call from the Chikkadpally police station, Hyderabad, who said the Visrambagh Police Station, Pune, had informed them that Mr. Rao was admitted to the hospital. His interim medical bail plea is expected to be heard by a special court on June 2.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Locust surge may turn into global plague: expert||The current upsurge in desert locust attacks could turn into a full-fledged global plague by the end of the year if it spreads to West Africa and the insects begin breeding there, says the Food and Agriculture Organisation’s senior locust forecasting officer Keith Cressman. However, despite the dramatic images of locusts in Jaipur and at the Panna tiger reserve, and the fears of attacks as far as Delhi, Mr. Cressman says the swarms are unlikely to linger in the central Indian States or over large urban centres, and will return to the deserts of Rajasthan with the arrival of monsoon. A changing climate and the recent cyclonic activity have brought the swarms into India earlier than expected and driven them further east than usual, he added. “Locusts don’t like urban areas, they will simply overfly the urban areas. They will make enough of a bother to scare people, [but] they don’t attack humans, of course. There’s not much to eat in urban areas. They’re not good at eating cement and concrete, they really like to eat the natural vegetation,” he said on Friday, speaking at a webinar organised by the Centre for Science and Environment.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown 5.0 to be strictly implemented in 13 cities||Markets were allowed to open in the fourth phase. Schools, colleges and other educational institutions will continue to remain shut. “The lockdown has been relaxed considerably in the fourth phase. People will have to internalise that social distancing and personal hygiene are a way of life now. Lockdown will not be imposed ruthlessly like before, but people will be told that is for their safety,” said a senior government official. Domestic flights at 33% capacity were started on May 25. “Now several domestic flights are being cancelled due to want of passengers. Most migrants have reached home and those stuck in other parts have taken flights and special trains to get back. We understand that relaxation in lockdown guidelines will not have any adverse impact,” the official said.
30 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Mizos give food to Assam flood victims from train||A group of Mizos has won hearts after a video showed them distributing food packets to flood victims in Assam on their way to Mizoram by a special train from Bengaluru. The video went viral after one Emanuel Ralte had posted it on Facebook on Thursday. The people they lobbed food packets to are believed to be from western Assam’s Goalpara district. Displaced by floods, they have been taking shelter on higher ground along the railway track.The video also drew the attention of Mizoram CM Zoramthanga, who praised them.
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||SCR moves about 10k tonnes of agri products to Bangladesh||The South Central Railway (SCR) has been not only operating freight and parcel trains of essential commodities across the country but has also moved goods to Bangladesh during these pandemic times. Four rakes of agricultural products were loaded and operated from different stations this month. One rake consisting of 42 wagons with 2,477 tonnes of dry chillies was loaded and despatched from Tadepalligudem to Darshan in Bangladesh on May 12, another rake of 42 wagons with 2,472 tonnes of onions was operated from Nagarsol station to Darshan on May 26; two rakes of 42 wagons, each with total of 4,928 tonnes of dry chillies, turmeric and ginger were sent from Reddipalem to Benapole on May 26/ 27, said GM Gajanan Mallya on Thursday. Farmers and merchants were transporting red chillies by road to Bangladesh and it was costing around Rs. 7,000 per tonne but rail transport was coming to to just Rs. 2,600 per tonne, he said. Usually, this transport is done by road, however, closure or restrictions of state and international borders made farmers and merchants approach the railway authorities. Staff of Guntur, Vijayawada and Nanded divisions got pat from the GM.
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Homeless’ man seeks TSHRC’s help||Acting on a petition from a homeless man who said that he was hungry due to the lockdown and sought its intervention, the Telangana State Human Rights Commission directed the office of the Hyderabad District Collector to inquire into the matter and provide him benefits according to eligibility. The petitioner identified as Vanam Rajesh sent an email, through a social worker. Taking congnizance of the issue, TSHRC’s Member (Judicial) Ananda Rao Nadipally directed all copies of documents sent by petitioner to the Hyderabad District Collector.
30 May 2020||Srinagar,||‘Car used in foiled Pulwama attack was owned by Hizb militant’||Police suspect that Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) militant Muhammad Ismail, who had a role in the 2019 Pulwama attack that killed 40 CRPF jawans, played a role in thefoiled car attack plan in Pulwama on Thursday. The car owner is a local militant from south Kashmir. A senior police officer told The Hindu that Ismail, also known as Fauji Baba, Lambu and Adnan, “may have provided the expertise to formulate the improvised explosive devices”. “Ismail is an IED expert and his role is under scanner. There are very few hands in the militant ranks to handle such huge quantity of explosives,” the officer said. Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said 40 to 45 kg of explosives, hidden in a blue drum and fitted to the hatch of the Santro, “may have been hidden given the impact on the car when the explosives were defused by a special team”. Police sources said the nature of the explosives and where they were ferried from was not known yet. The explosives-laden vehicle, which the security forces were able to spot in advance, belonged to Hidayatullah Malik, an active Hizb-ul-Mujahideen militant, from Shopian’s Sharatpora. Police sources said Malik joined the militant ranks in July last year.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Not our job to make unnecessary political statements: Nepal Army||The Nepal Army on Friday said it was not its job to make “unnecessary political statements”. It was responding to reports that its chief, Gen. P.C. Thapa, had declined to follow the orders of Prime Minister K.P.S Oli to respond to Indian Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane’s recent comments on the border issue. Gen. Naravane had said Nepal may have raised the issue “at the behest of someone else”.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Law Minister rakes up SC’s NJAC verdict||Expressing ‘serious reservation’ on the 2015 Supreme Court ruling that had quashed the National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC) in favour of the present Collegium system, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Friday wondered why the government and the PM cannot be trusted “to appoint [a] fair and objective judge if he can be trusted with the country’s nuclear button”.  “The SC has held that in the judicial commission, the Law Minister is also a member, and therefore, the appointees from that office may not be fair and objective when litigation comes against them... If this is the reason, which it is, then I have serious reservation as a student of law,” he said. “Now, if the mere association of the Law Minister leads to doubts of the objectivity of appointment, then it is a very loaded question...All of us report to the PM as he is the head of the government,” he said.
30 May 2020||Palghar,||Temple looted in Palghar, priests attacked||Three unidentified persons allegedly attacked two priests and looted a temple at Balivali in Maharashtra’s Palghar district. The incident occurred over a month after the lynching of two sadhus in a village near here, police said on Friday. The incident took place at around 12.30 a.m. on Thursday when three armed men barged into Jagrut Mahadev Mandir and Ashram at Balivali under Vasai taluka, an official said. The trio attacked the temple’s head priest, Sankaranand Saraswati, and his assistant and decamped with valuables worth Rs. 6,800, he said. The two priests received minor injuries and managed to escape, he said.  An case has been registered under Section 394 (causing hurt while committing robbery) and other relevant provisions of the IPC, said the police.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||DGCA warns pilots of risks to flights||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Friday issued a circular cautioning all pilots, operators, ground handling agencies and air traffic controllers against the risks posed by locust swarms. Stating that the country was witnessing an unusually high locust activity this year, the DGCA said there was a need to avoid flying through a swarm. “As locust swarms fly along the current wind, their path of travel changes with the change in wind direction. Pre-determination of their travel path is difficult to forecast as weather satellites and other satellites used to monitor the environment cannot detect locust swarms,” said the circular. Generally locusts are found at lower levels and therefore, pose a threat to aircraft in the critical landing and take off phase of the flight. Almost all air intake ports of the aircraft will be prone to ingestion if the aircraft flies through a swarm.   “All pilots are also required to share information of locust swarm location if they have sighted any during the flight. As far as possible, it is strongly advised that flights should be avoided through any known locust swarm,” the circular said. Post a flight through a locust swarm, appropriate entry in the pilots defect log should be made giving details of any malfunction experienced, it said.
30 May 2020||Mumbai,||Sudha Bharadwaj’s plea rejected||An interim medical bail plea filed by Elghar Parishad accused, advocate and trade unionist Sudha Bharadwaj, was on Friday rejected by a special court. Ms. Bharadwaj is lodged in the Byculla jail, where an inmate has tested positive for COVID-19.   Special Public Prosecutor Prakash Shetty, appearing for the NIA, opposed the bail saying Ms.Bharadwaj had been charged with the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. This had not been included by the High Powered Committee for granting bail or parole.
30 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam rights body issues notice on assault on doctor||The Assam Human Rights Commission on Friday issued a notice to the Deputy Commissioner of western Assam’s Chirang seeking an inquiry into the alleged assault on a doctor. Amguri police station officer-in-charge had on Sunday allegedly assaulted Madhurjya Kakati for not wearing mask.
30 May 2020||Mumbai/Bhubaneswar,||Sonu Sood arranges chartered flight to ferry Odisha migrants from Kerala||Actor Sonu Sood on Friday came to the rescue of 167 migrants stuck in Kerala by arranging a chartered flight. The group, comprising on 147 women and 20 men, were airlifted by an Air Asia flight from Kochi to the Biju Patnaik International Airport in Bhubaneswar.PTI
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19: RTI plea seeks to know amount spent on equipment purchase; Health Ministry refuses info||The Union Health Ministry has refused to share the amount of money spent on equipment purchase to handle the COVID-19 pandemic in the country, stating that such data does not come under the definition of “information” to be provided under the Right to Information Act.PTI
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||Two floors of Parliament Annexe building sealed after official tests positive for COVID-19||A Rajya Sabha Secretariat official tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, the fourth such case reported in the Parliament complex so far, sources said here. Out of the four, three were found to have contracted the infection after Parliament resumed on May 3. Two floors of the Parliament Annexe building have been sealed.PTI
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Labour Ministry launches online skills training course||The Union Ministry of Labour and Employment said on Friday that it had started free online career skills training through its National Career Service project for job-seekers registered with it. The course on soft skills is launched in partnership with TCS iON. The training modules are available on the NCS portal in Hindi and English, the Ministry said. About 1 crore job-seekers and 54,000 employers are registered on the portal.
30 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Migrant worker’s body found in train toilet in Jhansi||The body of a migrant worker was found in the toilet of a coach of a Shramik Special train that had returned from Gorakhpur at Jhansi on May 27. The passenger had boarded the train from Jhansi to Gorakhpur on May 23, meaning the train was making the round trip before the body was recovered.
30 May 2020||Bhopal,||Man booked for morphing Godse’s picture on currency||The Sidhi police have registered a case against a person, said to be a member of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), for replacing Mahatma Gandhi’s image with that of his assassin Nathuram Godse on a currency note in a social media post. The action comes after the police earlier said a case could not be made out in the incident. “The accused is still absconding, and we are yet to trace him,” police said. The police registered the case on May 26, a week after the post was shared on Facebook.
30 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||T.N. cadre IAS officer appointed as Additional Secretary in PMO||S. Gopalakrishnan, a 1991 batch IAS officer of the Tamil Nadu cadre, has been appointed as Additional Secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). Mr. Gopalakrishnan has been moved from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. C. Sridhar, a 2001 batch IAS officer of the Bihar cadre has been appointed as Joint Secretary in the PMO. He is now on deputation to the Central government, serving as Deputy Director in the IAS training academy in Mussoorie.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation begins work on largest COVID-19 care centre||The Chennai Corporation started work on setting up the city’s largest COVID-19 care centre (CCC) in Kesava Pillai Park, Pulianthope, invoking the provisions of the Disaster Management Act. This move is expected to improve disaster preparedness during the pandemic. The city has reported 12,762 novel coronavirus patients, with 6,229 active cases that require CCCs. Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Anna Nagar, Tondiarpet, Teynampet and Kodambakkam zones have hundreds of patients. The CCC in Pulianthope will house 1,728 patients, making it the largest in the city, according to officials. With a rise in the number of positive cases in the city, the civic body is preparing to set up over 10,000 beds in various CCCs. An official said the number of patients currently admitted to CCCs is 1,495. The Chennai Trade Centre was the largest CCC in the city, treating 463 patients who were transferred from Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. The Corporation CCCs in Velammal Engineering College with 289 patients from Government Stanley Medical College Hospital; St. Joseph College of Engineering with 251 patients from Omandurar Government Medical College Hospital; IIT-Madras with 209 patients from KMC, Omandurar Government Medical College Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital; D.G. Vaishnav College with 183 patients and Loyola College with 113 patients were inadequate for the rising number of cases in the city. “The COVID-19 care centre in Pulianthope will treat people in the same locality. The congested area has reported many COVID-19 positive cases,” said an official. Additional institutions With a rise in number of COVID-19 positive cases in eight zones, the civic agency has identified 47 colleges for conversion into additional CCCs for 12,657 patients. Currently, the civic body has installed 10,057 beds in the centres. As many as 28 private premises and 19 government buildings were converted into CCCs. At a meeting on Friday, the Corporation decided to develop over 45,000 quarantine spaces for cocooning elders and extended contacts. It has intensified fever surveillance in all the 200 wards to contain the spread of COVID-19. Fever clinics have been set up in all localities.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami hints at extension of lockdown beyond May 31||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday indicated that the COVID-19 lockdown might be extended beyond May 31. Wrapping up a two-hour interaction with District Collectors at the Secretariat through videoconferencing, he called upon them to follow fully the conditions of the lockdown and said that no relaxation could be given to any district. “If you want to have any relaxation, please get in touch with Chief Secretary [K. Shanmugam] and get his consent before making any announcement,” he observed. According to Mr. Palaniswami, the spread of the COVID-19 infection was under control in all districts, except Chennai. If migrant workers or others come from other States, they should be subjected to tests and conditions should be created for treatment of the infected. He cautioned officials about the likelihood of spread of the virus only through those coming from other States. Appeal to officials “Barring Chennai, we have been able to keep the situation under control in other districts. I appeal to you all to follow the guidelines of the government, so that the situation remains under control,” Mr. Palaniswami said. A participant at the interaction said that it could be gauged from the deliberations that the Chennai situation was holding back the government from announcing any major relaxation. The day’s discussion mainly centred on the status of the northern districts and select southern districts, including Madurai and Tirunelveli. Pointing out that several industrial units had resumed functioning, the Chief Minister advised the officials to permit willing inter-State migrant workers to work again even if they had made online registration for return to their home States. Their earlier request could be ignored. In the case of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, 100% of the enrolled beneficiaries could be allowed to work. Earlier, while inaugurating the interaction, Mr. Palaniswami said that about 2.47 lakh inter-State migrant workers had been sent back through 170 train services. As many as 2,218 Tamils, living abroad, returned home by air or sea.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC clears the air on Jaya’s heirs||The Madras High Court on Friday ordered removal of the term ‘Class II’ heirs from orders passed by it on Wednesday declaring former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s nephew J. Deepak and niece J. Deepa as her legal heirs. This is because classification of legal heirs as Class I and Class II under the Hindu Succession Act of 1956 would apply only to heirs of a male Hindu who died intestate. In its clarificatory order, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and Abdul Quddhose pointed out that Mr. Deepak claimed to be the legal heir of the former Chief Minister under Entry IV Class II of the 1956 Act. Therefore, in Wednesday’s court order, it was inadvertently stated that he and his sister had become the legal heirs of their aunt under Entry IV Class II. The Bench held the siblings would actually be entitled to inherit all self-acquired properties of their aunt as per Section 15(1) (d) of the Act. They would also be entitled to other properties, which had been inherited by their aunt from her parents in terms of Section 15(2) (a) of the Act. The Act, basically, classifies inheritors under Class I and Class II in a Schedule appended to the Act only with respect to properties left behind by a male Hindu dying intestate. Section 8 of the Act states that properties of a male Hindu dying intestate shall devolve firstly upon the heirs specified in Class I of the Schedule and secondly upon those specified in Class II if there were no Class I heirs. In so far as self-acquired properties left behind by a female Hindu, who died intestate, was concerned, Section 15(1) of the Act states that they shall devolve firstly upon her sons and daughters (including the children of any predeceased son or daughter) and the husband. Secondly, they would devolve upon heirs of the husband and thirdly upon the mother and father. Only if none of such people were available, the properties would fourthly devolve upon the heirs of the father as per Section 15(1) (d) of the Act. Since Mr. Deepak and his sister were the children of Jayalalithaa’s brother J. Jayakumar (who predeceased her), the siblings would be entitled to inherit her self-acquired properties in terms of Section 15((1)(d), the Bench held.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Is there still a case for testing contacts?||The question of testing has been coming up, repeatedly, at health press conferences in Tamil Nadu. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar has been assuring the audience, via televised speeches, that there has been no fall in the testing rate in the State. Tamil Nadu continues to be at the top of the testing table in the country, he has said, dismissing any contention that there has been a slackening in the number of tests. But look at the numbers shared by the Health Department over a period of time — while testing peaked at over 13,000 samples a day in mid-May, it has subsequently fallen, and is in the realm of just over 11,000 tests now. It is important to do at least 15,000 tests a day in the State, said K. Kolandaswamy, former director of public health. “More is good, but we must at least do that many tests, and they should be distributed geographically,” he said. Testing is a must for front line workers, people who travel into the State, and pregnant women (because they present a true sample of the general population), he recommended. Do close contacts of persons who test positive also have to be offered tests? While Dr. Vijayabaskar has said that contact tracing is vigorous in the State and all contacts are being tested, on the field, only people who have symptoms are encouraged to test. Healthcare workers inform contacts to seek medical help if they develop fever, dry cough, breathing difficulties or loss of smell and/or taste. Senior Vellore-based virologist Jacob John explained that contact testing and clinical diagnosis were two different aspects of testing, and globally, countries had moved from the former to the latter. “In the beginning, contact testing was done to find positive cases, and quarantine them, around the world. But once they realised that they cannot do it well, they quickly moved on to clinical diagnosis for COVID-19, followed by testing. India currently has a hybrid model,” he said. Pointing out that ICMR has changed the testing policy multiple times, Dr. John insisted that it was still up to States/regions to tweak the guidelines as per their needs. Given the numbers in the country, he suggested that the government now forget about flattening the cases curve, and focus instead on flattening the mortality curve. P. Kuganantham, former Corporation health officer, agrees on focusing on limiting the number of deaths and advances the principle of focused testing. “We need focused testing of people who are symptomatic, those who are vulnerable because of age, or because they have non-communicable diseases, or front line workers, and finally, contacts of people testing positive, in that order,” Sanjay Sarin, head, Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics- India, a non-profit organisation that aims to improve the availability of diagnosis for a range of conditions, votes for targeted testing. Limited supply “While the demand for tests is high, supply is an issue and there is limited supply globally. Yes, testing capacity has been ramped up over the months, but more than 80% of the population is asymptomatic. In this context, smart testing of vulnerable populations and high density areas will be the way to go,” he said. He suggested that India doubled its testing, and improved the turn around time for test results too.  Yes, testing capacity has been ramped up over the months, but more than 80% of the population is asymptomatic. In this context, smart testing is the way to go Sanjay Sarin Head, Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics- India
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu cluster happened despite precautions: panel to High Court||The management committee of the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex here has told the Madras High Court that a COVID-19 cluster got created at the market despite several preventive steps taken by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA). The submission was made in a counter affidavit filed before Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and Anita Sumanth in response to a public interest litigation petition filed by Gerugambakkam Sutruvattara Viyabarigal Nala Sangam, a traders association, seeking sufficient safeguards. S. Govindarajan, Chief Administrative Officer of the Market Management Committee, told the court that there were nearly 4,000 shops selling vegetables, flowers and grains at the wholesale market which was managed by a committee functioning under the CMDA. CMDA had taken steps to distribute 3,000 masks free of cost to the traders, labourers and the general public every day. Further, the market complex was disinfected every day using drones as well as by personnel from the Fire and Rescue Services Department. All vehicles were disinfected at entry points, hand sanitisers were given to traders and others and awareness on physical distancing norms was created. Yet, a cluster got created and hence the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister ordered the closure of the market complex. Entry of two-wheelers and autorickshaws had been banned inside the temporary market and small as well as tiny traders were allowed to purchase the perishable goods and transport them only in small four wheel trucks, the CAO told the court. After perusing the counter affidavit, the judges adjourned the case to June 9.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Operating with PPE kits — a challenge for doctors||Inside an operation theatre in Chennai, a surgeon at work gets breathless. The multiple layers of protective clothing cause profuse sweating. Her spectacles and goggles fog up, affecting her vision. She knows the surgery has to go on and she cannot risk patient safety, and in the struggle between getting to see better and being able to breathe, she quickly removes the goggles. “Wearing protective gear during surgery is difficult. I experience a lot of difficulty breathing. Sometimes I feel like lowering the mask to breathe better. But I remove the goggles so that I can see clearly and complete the procedure,” the surgeon said. New normal Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) may have become the new normal for healthcare providers. Wearing the protective kit has become particularly essential for doctors while performing surgeries. Though government hospitals are yet to start performing elective procedures, doctors have been performing emergency surgeries and caesarean sections during the pandemic. “It is very tough,” a surgeon in a government hospital said, summing up his experience of wearing PPEs during surgeries. “There is too much sweating and dehydration. It makes me tired. While my arms and fingers hurt, the sweating that causes dehydration and a loss of electrolytes makes the mind numb. Just one surgery wearing PPE is tough,” he said. Proper donning of PPE takes 10 minutes. Surgeons are used to wearing operation theatre (OT) apron over the OT dress. “One or more layers over and above that actually hinders, albeit in a minor way, movement. Surgeons are birds of practice, and therefore, though it looks like a small hindrance, the routine is affected,” he observed. A number of doctors are facing breathing difficulties during surgeries. “Not all patients are screened for COVID-19 now. So, invariably, we have to wear PPE during surgeries. I become hypoxic half way through the procedure. I sweat profusely and feel my clothes getting soaked quickly. The goggles fog up and my vision is compromised. We need to improvise on safety gear. We are trying out some respirators that will enable us to breathe better,” another surgeon said. ‘PPE manageable’ A senior surgeon in a private hospital said that wearing PPE was manageable up to 45 minutes to one hour of surgery. “It becomes difficult beyond that, and worsens if the surgery prolongs for four to six hours. We will have to adjust and get used to wearing PPE. But this will take months, or even a year, for many of us,” he said.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Scammers fake Facebook account of senior IPS officer||Scammers operating from an undisclosed location created a fake Facebook account using the profile of a senior IPS officer in Tamil Nadu and tried to lure his followers into a trap by offering an “attractive” investment plan, police sources said on Friday. After seeing messages coming from an account displaying the photo and profile of Additional Director-General of Police (Crime against Women and Children) M. Ravi, some of his followers responded to the idea of the investment scheme. Acting on an alert, the official intervened and cautioned his followers from making any payment and lodged a complaint with the Chennai Police. After registering a case under the provisions of the Information Technology Act and Section 420 (Cheating) of IPC, investigators tracked one of the suspects to Rajasthan. The bank details given by the suspects are being verified with the bank authorities. The fake account was blocked, the sources said. Mr. Ravi wrote on his Facebook page appealing to his followers not to pay money or share passwords online with any agency. Cautioning them against clicking on any link claiming to have updated information on COVID-19, he asked them to ignore messages that offer attractive investment plans and thoroughly verify claims that might appear to be from known contacts that they were in distress and urgently need money. “Followers of the senior police officer got messages on Facebook messenger about the finance scheme and some believed that it came from him. The suspects shared the bank details for online transfer and some even initiated the process of transferring about Rs. 42,000. The suspects assured them of a Rs. 4-lakh return on the investment,” a police official said.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 300-cr. rural rejuvenation scheme launched||The State government has launched a Rs. 300-crore special assistance scheme for rejuvenation of rural enterprises. Called the ‘COVID-19 Assistance Package’, the scheme is part of the World Bank-assisted Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project (TNRTP). It will cover around 1.39 lakh beneficiaries. The project is being implemented in 3,994 village panchayats in 120 blocks in 30 districts, with a total fund layout of Rs. 918.2 crore. At an event, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated the scheme and gave away the assistance to five beneficiaries. A host of rural enterprise activities such as production of masks, sanitiser, soap and hand wash, garments, dairy, poultry, fisheries, production of various raw materials and home appliances repairing will be supported under the scheme. Financial assistance will be rendered both to existing rural enterprises and new ones under five categories. Components of the scheme include provision of working capital assistance of Rs. 159.76 crore (as long-term loan) through panchayat-level federations to 31,952 individual enterprises; one-time capital grant of Rs. 43.97 crore to 31,960 members of 1,598 existing producers’ groups; and another one-time capital grant of Rs. 3.6 crore to 1,200 members of 120 existing enterprise groups. Besides, it includes a start up grant support of Rs. 50.19 crore to 5,010 skilled migrant youth returnees for opening enterprises; Rs. 7.5 crore to 75 producer collectives and capital fund Rs. 49.92 crore (as individual assistance soft loan) for identified livelihood/enterprise activities of 31,952 differently-abled and vulnerable persons.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pondy Bazaar opens sans the bustle||The shops along the Pondy Bazaar pedestrian plaza have been open for nearly two weeks now but business is yet to pick up. Pedestrians are few and far between. Most shops display the Chennai Corporation’s health advisory prominently. Many also proclaim that the ACs will not function until further orders from the government. The battery vehicles have begun operations. But Anand Kumar, one of the drivers, said that till Friday afternoon, he had transported only three customers. Shop assistants do not permit customers to enter without masks. At larger textile shops, an assistant is posted to check the temperature of customers and provide them sanitiser to clean their hands. At the entrance to Naidu Hall, customers must dip their feet into a tub of disinfectant before entering the shop. People over 65 must wait in the lobby while youngsters accompanying them can complete their purchase. None of the mini shopping malls has been allowed to open. “These shops are very small and cannot maintain physical distancing,” said a shopowner. The Pondy Bazaar Merchants’ Association has subsidised the infrared thermometers for traders. “Around 75 shops have benefited,” said Bharat Shah, secretary. Traders say they have lost 30% of their revenue during the lockdown. “It started in January and we believed it was a temporary phase as exams were around the corner. But then the lockdown came and it is a total washout,” said D. Hariharan, who runs Ajanta Textiles. According to Mr. Shah, the situation will continue for six more months. “People are afraid to step out,” he said.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anbumani writes to panel on quota||A day after moving the Supreme Court for implementation of the 27% OBC quota in medical college admissions under the all India quota (AIQ), PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Friday wrote to the National Commission for Backward Classes to intervene and ensure social justice. “In 2018-19, only 220 OBC candidates were admitted to postgraduate courses while they had a claim over 2,152 of the 7,982 seats. Similarly, only 66 OBC students were admitted under AIQ to the UG course (MBBS). There are 4,061 AIQ MBBS seats, of which 27% (1,096) should have been filled with OBC candidates. It was the responsibility of the Government of India to ensure that OBCs were allotted the number of seats they were eligible for as per the policy of reservation,” he pointed out. He said that OBCs were denied 3,000 seats each year. In his SC petition, he had submitted, “Arbitrary moving of seats belonging to the OBC to the general category has violated the fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 15 (4) of the Indian Constitution.” Separately, the DMK had moved the SC seeking implementation of reservation in AIQ.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Notice on contempt plea to R.S. Bharathi||Advocate General Vijay Narayan on Friday ordered notice to DMK organising secretary R.S. Bharathi on a plea seeking consent for initiating criminal contempt of court proceedings for his reported remark that some persons from the Scheduled Castes became judges because of alms provided by former Chief Minister Karunanidhi. The notice was ordered after hearing Naveen Kumar Murthi, counsel for the petitioner A. Antony Raj who claimed that Mr. Bharathi had made “very offensive, demeaning and derogatory” remarks.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||40% of air passengers lack Aarogya Setu app||Nearly 40% of passengers flying out of Chennai airport did not have the Aarogya Setu app and instead signed the self-declaration form before entering the departure terminal. Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials said staff were helping people with smartphone install and set up the app outside the terminal. “But over the past few days, some didn’t carry a smartphone and others didn’t have a phone at all. In these cases, we guide them to fill up the form,” an official said. The form asks for the passenger’s health status, recent travel history, destination and residential details. Minister of Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri recently clarified that the app may not be mandatory for those who don’t have smartphones and as an alternative they can give a self-declaration form. AAI officials noted that they have seen several first-time flyers after the Chennai airport resumed domestic flight operations. “We see hundreds of people stranded in the city for the last two months. So, there are many who use their savings or those who borrow a sum to buy a ticket and fly home because there are barely any options left. We have seen a lot of workers who came to the airport with tickets, desperate to return to the families,” another official said.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Krishna water reaches Poondi||Water from the Krishna, released by Andhra Pradesh, reached the Poondi reservoir on Friday morning. This is set to help augment the depleting storage in the city reservoirs this summer. The inter-State border of the Kandaleru-Poondi (KP) canal in Uthukottai, Tiruvallur, received 135 cusecs (cubic feet per second) of water. Officials of the Water Resources Department said the Krishna water, which was discharged from Andhra Pradesh on May 25, began flowing into the KP canal’s on Thursday night after a month’s gap. The water travelled 25 km into the canal to reach Poondi reservoir, where it would be stored and distributed to the city through the Red Hills and Chembarambakkam reservoirs. On Friday, nearly 1,200 cusecs was discharged from Kandaleru reservoir. “We expect the water flow to improve and receive a minimum of 600 cusecs in a few days. If the Poondi reservoir receives an average of about 500 cusecs daily, we will be able to store 0.5 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) in 12 days,” an official said. WRD was now diverting water to Chembarabakkam to augment the storage which was at 1.9 tmcft against 3.6 tmcft.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||30 convicts test positive at Puzhal Central Prison||Thirty convicts lodged in the Puzhal Central Prison-I tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, triggering panic among other prisoners and their family members. With a majority of the patients not showing any symptoms, prison authorities, in consultation with the Health Department and Chennai Corporation officials, decided to quarantine them in a separate block on campus. While the source of the virus is under investigation, Director-General of Police (Prisons) Sunil Kumar Singh said that 34 convicts from different central prisons across the State were brought to the Puzhal prison complex for paramedical training in March. After completion of the course, the prisoners got stuck in Chennai due to the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown. Convicts shifted On May 22, a group of 19 convicts were shifted to central prisons in Cuddalore, Tiruchi, Madurai and Palayamkottai. Prison officials decided to get them tested after some of them showed mild symptoms. Seven convicts from the 19 tested positive for COVID-19 on May 27 and 28. Since the group stayed in the Puzhal Central Prison-I campus, 93 samples of inmates and staff members who came in contact with them was sent for testing on Thursday. “In all, 31 samples — 30 convicts and one sanitary worker — returned positive for COVID-19. We immediately alerted authorities concerned and a team of experts reached the prison premises within a few hours. The infected convicts have been quarantined in a separate block. The total number of inmates is about 850. Doctors will decide whether samples of other prisoners should be sent for testing or not,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu . Though prisoners were advised on following safety protocol, including physical distancing and washing of hands with soap at regular intervals, places like kitchen, the dining area, washrooms and telephone/video-call rooms were often crowded. “We have organised proper medical care for the infected prisoners who belong to different age groups. Vulnerable areas will be disinfected and sanitised. As on date, 37 prisoners, including seven outside Chennai, have tested positive for COVID-19,” he added. Arputhammal’s plea Soon after the news of prisoners testing positive for COVID-19 spread, Arputhammal, mother of A.G. Perarivalan, one of the life convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, put up a tweet. She requested Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to order the release of her son, at least on leave.  We have organised proper medical care for the infected prisoners who belong to different age groups. Vulnerable areas will be disinfected and sanitised Sunil Kumar Singh DGP (Prisons)
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||FDI inflows dip by 8.5%||The foreign direct investment into Tamil Nadu declined by 8.5% to Rs. 16,624.44 crore in the financial year 2019-20 as against Rs. 18,164 crore in 2018-19, official data showed. However, a senior State government official said it was a good year for Tamil Nadu in terms of investments, pointing to the number of “consent to operate” orders issued. The decline is primarily because of the way FDI is measured in India and the cyclical nature of foreign direct investment, the official added. According to provisional data released by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, Tamil Nadu attracted an investment of Rs. 7,230.44 crore for the October 2019 to March 2020 period. For the April-September period in the same year, the figure is Rs. 9,394 crore. At the beginning of the year 2019, the State held the second edition of the Global Investors’ Meet (GIM), during which it signed MoUs with 304 companies, securing investment pledges worth Rs. 3,00,431 crore. In December, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said that 53 projects resulting from deals inked during GIM 2019 had commenced commercial production while another 219 projects were under various stages of implementation. Upward trend He had said that subsequent to GIM 2019, the State attracted 63 projects, with an investment of Rs. 19,000 crore, which would create 83,300 jobs. These included proposals that materialised as a result of his visits to the U.S. and the U.A.E. “For companies based in places like Delhi-NCR and Mumbai region, investing in Tamil Nadu gets recorded in the local regional office of the RBI,” a senior State government official pointed out. For instance, he said that out of Foxconn’s investment of Rs. 228 crore in 2019-20 (excluding Q4), only 8.4% was mapped to Chennai office of the RBI while 77.5% was mapped to Mumbai office and the rest was under the head “region not indicated”. Another instance was KEF Infra located in Tamil Nadu whose FDI of Rs. 521 crore was accounted elsewhere. Large investment projects took time to fructify and typically investments were realised over two to four years. For instance, FDI from the year 2016-17 to 2017-18 went up by over 50% after GIM 2015, the official said. Largest project The official pointed out that the largest FDI project in south India — from Al Qebla Al Watya in a petroleum refinery and petrochemical complex — was expected to fructify soon in Thoothukudi with an investment of Rs. 49,000 crore. This along with the expected realisation of other MoUs signed in the coming years would help in acceleration of the FDI inflows in the State. The official added that since 2015-16, 18,376 “consent to operate” documents had been issued, out of which 5,544 proposals were till February in the year 2019-20, indicating a healthy investment trend.  For companies based in places like Delhi-NCR and Mumbai region, investing in Tamil Nadu gets recorded in the local regional office of the RBI Government official
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traders shift goods out of Koyambedu||Fearing theft of articles, traders have started shifting electronic and electrical goods out of the Koyambedu wholesale market complex, which has remained closed since May 5. There were reports of theft of weighing machines, chairs and other items from the shops particularly in the fruits’ market, alleged traders. Some traders have started clearing items such as television sets and computers from shops to prevent theft. Members of various traders’ associations said this had come to light as some merchants had started visiting closed shops to check on them. They plan to take it up with the Market Management Committee and the police. Security in the market area must be stepped up, particularly at night, they said. Disinfection measures were being carried out in the market now. Traders noted that similar cases were reported at Thirumazhisai temporary market. D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of All Traders Associations of KWMC Periyar Market, said there had been reports of theft of electronic weighing machines and sometimes even sacks of vegetables stocked for next day sale. Meanwhile, a senior police officer said the police had not received any complaints of theft so far from traders at Koyambedu. “Stealing is not possible as there are security guards in Koyambedu market. We have increased patrolling in the locality. Traders are allowed to enter the market to check their shops. There is no restriction on that. But they cannot start sales of vegetables and fruits,” he said.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro to install foot-operated lifts||In an effort to control the spread of COVID-19, Chennai Metro will soon install foot-operated elevators in its stations. A prototype has been installed in the admin building at Koyambedu. The foot-operated lift mechanism would eliminate hand contact with elevator buttons, officials said. “The buttons will instead be placed a few inches above the floor on a raised platform,” an official said.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reopen shops in market, traders urge government||Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu has demanded that the Koyambedu wholesale market complex must be reopened soon to sustain livelihood of farmers and traders. In a press release, its president A.M. Vikramaraja said traders had extended cooperation in operating from alternative sites. However, they faced several issues, including labour shortage, increase in transportation charges and loss of sales. He suggested that the Koyambedu market be reopened after disinfection. Moreover, several other wholesale businesses, including textile, foodgrains and electronic goods, in George Town and Kothwal Chavadi also awaited announcement on reopening of shops. Several shops in Godown Street and Govindappa Naicken Street had been closed for several days now and this had affected traders and labourers. The State government must take measures to reopen the commercial zones in the State, he said.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC extends protection for DMK MPs||The Madras High Court on Friday extended till June 10 an interim order passed by it last week directing the police not to take any coercive action against Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MPs T.R. Baalu and Dayanidhi Maran in a case booked under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act of 1989. Justice M. Nirmal Kumar extended the relief
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 54.46 lakh for crop protection||Mealy bug infestation of tapioca has been reported in 3,112 hectares in Namakkal, Salem, Erode and Kanniyakumari districts. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, in a statement on Friday, said that Rs. 54.46 lakh had been sanctioned for protecting the crop. Officers concerned had been advised to educate farmers on crop protection measures. Used as raw material for sago industrial units, tapioca, also called cassava, is of importance to Tamil Nadu, as the State records the highest productivity and production of the crop in the country. Apart from the four districts, it is also raised in Villupuram, Dharmapuri, Cuddalore and Tiruchi, with a total coverage of about 1 lakh ha, annually. This year, the standing crop for around 71,000 ha has been reported, according to an official in the Horticulture Department. On Thursday, the Chief Minister also declared open sports facilities and stadia, built in three districts — Chengalapttu, Kancheepuram and The Nilgiris — at a cost of Rs. 27.44 crore; 27 school buildings, structures for two panchayat union-level training centres for schoolteachers and one for the district-level centre, all constructed at a cost of about Rs. 57.53 crore, spread over 12 districts. He handed over a cheque for Rs. 2 lakh to Abhinaya, a school student of Namakkal, for her participation in an international science meet in the U.S. Mr. Palaniswami also commissioned an underground sewerage project in Palanichettipatti town panchayat of Theni district. He inaugurated various development works of organisations under the control of the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department, in 13 districts, including Chennai.
30 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Govt. unable to accept legal defeat: Deepa||Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s niece J. Deepa and nephew J. Deepak on Friday accused the AIADMK government of politicising the inheritance case of Jayalalithaa’s properties, including that of her Veda Nilayam bungalow in Poes Garden, as it is unable to “accept defeat”. Addressing journalists jointly in Chennai, Ms. Deepa said: “I appeal to the Governor of Tamil Nadu, Banwarilal Purohit, that I should be protected as I will be persecuted by the State.” She made it clear that she will oppose the ordinance taking over Veda Nilayam for converting it into a memorial. “They (AIADMK) cannot accept this [legal] defeat and are making baseless accusations. This is not surprising – the State Government will try to persecute me,” she added.
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamilians in Bahrain seek govt.’s help to return home||Many Tamilians stranded in Bahrain have requested the Tamil Nadu government to arrange flights for their return to the State. Some want Kollywood actors to sponsor air tickets for labourers. The Bharati Tamil Sangam in Bahrain wrote to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, asking him to organise flights for over 4,000 people stranded there.
30 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Investments sought||The Chief Minister has written to 13 chief executive officers, including Apple’s Tim Cook, Amazon’s Jeff Bezos, Samsung’s Kim Hyun Suk and HP’s Enrique, to consider investment in the State. He outlined the investment attractiveness and inherent advantages of the State.
30 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Handover used masks separately to conservancy workers’||The Coimbatore Corporation has urged the residents of the city to handover used masks separately or along with sanitary waste to conservancy workers and use eco-friendly cloth masks instead of disposable ones. In a release, Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath said that in continuation of the efforts the civic body had been taking to contain the spread of COVID-19, it had initiated the process of collecting used masks along with other sanitary waste and handing it over to an authorised biomedical waste handling company. As an extension of the steps, the Corporation has urged the public to hand over used mask separately to conservancy workers, who would then carry those to Vellalore to be handed over to the company. Sources said the civic body separately collected the mask and personal protection equipment from its medical officers and health wing officials and handed it over to the company for safe disposal. The Corporation also urged the public to prefer reusable cloth mask to disposable mask as that would reduce the quantity of mask in waste and make it easier for the workers to handle it. The Corporation had been following such a safe practise ever since the lockdown was in place. The sources further said that only those in the health care profession needed triple layered or N95 or other such mask and the public can use cloth mask.
30 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Road caves in as sewer line bursts||A portion on the southern stretch of Dr. Krishnasamy Road, near the CS&W Mill, caved in on Friday morning after a main sewer line beneath it burst. According to sources in the Corporation, the concrete sewer line that carried sewage from R.S. Puram and areas around it to the sewage treatment plant in Ukkadam burst, resulting in the loosening of the earth around the area and the asphalt caving in. The Corporation had barricaded the damaged portion of the road to undertake repair work, the sources said, adding that it could take the civic body at least a few days as it had to replace the sewer line. The pipeline that burst was at least 40 years old and was four feet in diameter. The Corporation would dig a stretch of the road to replace the pipeline for 200 feet or so. Until then, the Corporation would have to divert the sewage through an alternative line to the treatment plant and it was that the civic body was working as of Friday, the sources also said. The Corporation had earlier a year ago replaced a portion of the underground sewer line on the road as it saw the pipelines getting damaged frequently. The portion where the damage occurred on Friday was the one that it did not work on that time, the sources added.
30 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Rain inundates underpasses in Coimbatore city||On the last day of ‘Agni Nakshatram’ (the peak summer days) on Thursday, sky opened up in Coimbatore bringing down the mercury. The city as well as rural areas saw good rain, which in some areas lasted till the night. In the city, the rain left low lying areas and underpasses inundated forcing the Coimbatore Corporation to remove the water before traffic resumed on Friday morning. The Corporation sources said that as all the motor pumps were in operational condition, there was no problem in removing the water from the underpasses at Lanka Corner, Uppilipalayam, Kaleeswara Mill, Kikani School and North Coimbatore. The rainfall data collated by the district administration showed that Valparai’s Parambikulam Aliyar Project area received the maximum rainfall - 59 mm followed by Valparai taluk 58 mm, Sulur 50.2 mm, Coimbatore airport 35 mm, Coimbatore South 19 mm and Periyanaickenpalayam 17.6 mm. Sources in the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board said that the Siruvani catchment received 54 mm and the foothills 21 mm. The water level in the reservoir stood at 7.67 feet.  Erode Staff Reporter adds  Rain that lashed many parts of the district on Thursday night brought much relief to people who were experiencing intense heat due to ‘kathiri veyil’. Accompanied by lightning and thunder, many places in rural areas received good rainfall as uprooting of trees were reported across the district. However, no major damage was caused to property. Power supply was disrupted for many hours and normalcy restored later. Stagnation of rainwater on city roads caused inconvenience to motorists who wanted repair works carried out before the onset of monsoon. Rainfall recorded at various places (in mm) were Gobichettipalayam 61, Bhavani 59.4, Kodumudi 59, Kavundapadi 52, Elandakuttai Medu 50, Erode 49, Nambiyur 46, Bhavani Sagar 31, Ammapettai 28.6, Gunderipallam 28, Talavadi 26 and Perundurai 22.
30 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC operates 143 buses across four districts for essential services||Coimbatore Division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) operated 143 buses across four districts for essential services on Friday. The buses were operated for conservancy workers, government employees, migrant workers and teachers involved in evaluation of Class XII answer scripts. The maximum number of buses was operated in the Coimbatore Zone with 113 out of 143 buses, officials said. A total of 78 buses were operated for teachers, 16 buses for conservancy workers of Coimbatore Corporation, 13 buses for government employees at the District Collectorate and six buses for migrant workers. Tiruppur In Tiruppur Zone, nine buses were operated for teachers and three for Collectorate employees. Erode Zone saw the operation of 11 buses - nine buses for teachers and two for Collectorate employees. Udhagamandalam Zone had the least number of buses operated – seven buses comprising four for government employees and three for teachers on evaluation duty, according to the TNSTC officials.
30 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two Shramik special trains leave for Bihar, West Bengal||The Salem Division of the Southern Railway operated two Shramik special trains from Coimbatore Junction for migrant workers on Friday. The first train was operated for Darbhanga in Bihar at 1 p.m and the second train was bound for Malda Town in West Bengal that left around 7 p.m. The two special trains ferried 1,600 passengers each, railway officials said. Since May 8, Salem Division has operated 32 Shramik special trains from Coimbatore Junction. A Shramik special train bound for Hajipur, Bihar, left Tiruppur Junction with 1,600 passengers at 4 p.m. on Friday.
30 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ensure quality of goods distributed through PDS: DMK||The Coimbatore east district unit of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has urged the district administration to ensure the quality of goods distributed through the public distribution system (PDS). The party passed a resolution at an online meeting of its office-bearers saying that during this COVID-19 season when farmers, autorickshaw drivers, taxi drivers, construction workers and daily wagers had lost their livelihood and were dependent on the goods supplied through the PDS, it had come to light that the quality of goods was not good. It had also come to light that the beneficiaries were not getting their full quota of rice, oil, pulses, wheat or other goods, though the SMS sent to them read so. Therefore, it was important that the district administration looked into the issue to ensure that both the quantity and quality of goods were as per government order and good, the party said.
30 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two held for child marriage||Perur All Women Police on Thursday arrested two persons in connection with the marriage of a 16-year-old girl. Police said that the girl was married to a 23-year-old man with the consent of her mother. During inquiry by V. Backiyalakshmi, a health officer with the Department of Social Welfare, the girl was found to be two months pregnant. Based on Ms. Backiyalakshmi’s complaint, the Perur All Women Police booked the husband and the 32-year-old mother under the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. The accused were remanded in judicial custody.    A woman was killed after a mini truck ran over a family at Udumalpet here on Friday. Police said that P. Prabhavathi (29) was walking with her parents on the Pukkulam-Udumalpet Road on Friday at around 5.50 a.m., when an speeding mini truck ran over the three. While the parents escaped with injuries, the woman died at a private hospital. Udumalpet police have booked the truck driver N. Maniyan (23) under IPC Sections 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (Causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304A (Causing death by negligence) and remanded him in judicial custody.
30 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Street vendors want to resume business||With their livelihood affected in the past two months due to the COVID-19 lockdown, street vendors in the Erode Corporation limits has urged the officials to permit them to resume their businesses. In a petition to Corporation officials here on Friday, the vendors said the businesses they had been doing for 20 years were affected completely, and wanted to resume these at the earliest. If they could not be permitted to operate from their usual location owing to the current situation, they were ready to shift to VOC Park Grounds where Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market is expected to function from June 1.
30 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Warning against selling beverages after expiry date||Erode District Collector C. Kathiravan has warned shops against selling beverages whose expiry date had elapsed. The warning follows the seizure of such beverages from a hotel near the GH Roundabout. On Thursday, two customers bought a 500 ml of a bottled beverage from a hotel. On finding that it was sold well past the expiry date, they questioned the staff on this. Finding the response inadequate, they alerted officials. A team led by Food Safety Officer (Erode City 3) E. Govindaraj seized seven bottles and also two kg of snacks that were sold in packets without details on the labels. A notice seeking explanation was issued and the staff were warned against selling such products. Mr. Kathiravan said complaints of adulteration in food items or compromise on quality could be lodged on the Food Safety Department’s WhatsApp number 94440-42322 or 0424-2223545.
30 May 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Desilting of Pallapalayam Raja Vaical begins||Work on desilting of the Pallapalayam Raja Vaical in Karur district has begun under the kudimarathu scheme. The work would be executed at an estimate of Rs. 43.50 lakh and would include construction of retaining walls for a length of 127 metres to prevent flooding, repairs at the head sluices of the canal and repairs at the vents, besides clearing of silt for a distance of about 700 metres on the left bank canal and strengthening of bunds. Inaugurating the work on Friday, Transport Minister M. R.Vijayabhaskar said the desilting and other repair works would ensure that the water flowed to the tail-end of the canal. The works were being executed through the water users association of the canal. He disclosed that the government has sanctioned six desilting works at an estimate of Rs. 1.97 crore in the Amaravathi basin, two works at a cost of Rs. 16 lakh in the Nanganchiar basin and two works in the Cauvery basin at an estimate of Rs. 30 lakh in the district. Last year, six desilting works were executed in the district under the kudimaramathu scheme in the district at an estimated cost of Rs. 1.74 crore, he added. A proposal has been submitted to the government for desilting, renovation and strengthening of the bunds of the Punjai Pugalar canal at an estimated cost of Rs. 41 crore, he said.
30 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||After much trauma, 21 migrant workers head home||On Friday morning, Pintu shared a selfie of smiling faces from inside a bus that was headed to Chennai from Hosur to catch the train to Uttar Pradesh. The bus was arranged by the district administration, with the security of a police constable, to carry Pintu and his extended kin of 20 members including seven women and seven infants to Chennai Central Railway Station. It was only four days ago, on Monday night, Pintu and his kin from Mirzapur in Uttar Pradesh were spotted with their belongings at Hosur bus stand by a reporter of an English daily. They had spent Rs. 4,000 on a tempo to reach Hosur from Malur, a border taluk of Karnataka. They recounted a tale of abuse pushing them to leave the nursery, where they were employed for flower picking. They left, when a worker was beaten up for raising his voice to the supervisor. “The supervisor told one of us to transfer the rose cuttings to another bucket. When the worker replied loudly, the supervisor got agitated and abusive. He started to hit the worker. His wife intervened to protect her husband from the supervisor and the rest of us tried to stop him,” said Pintu. The men were paid Rs. 240 a day, and the women Rs. 180 a day. They hired a tempo from the nursery in a border hamlet of Shoolagiri to Malur and found another vehicle from there to Hosur. Here, they were helped by DYFI functionaries Sridharan and Vignesh and were taken to a school for shelter with the help of the revenue officials. Till late evening on Thursday, Revenue Inspector of Berigai C. Vasanthi was a witness to their accounts. “They had gone through a lot of suffering. They were evicted without payment from an earlier nursery. They found work here, but the supervisor had been abusing them since the lockdown. Two of the workers are partially blind. When they packed their belongings to leave, the supervisor did not ask, where they would go with the children. They did not have money, even to buy food for the babies.” Moved by their plight, RI Vasanthi handed them Rs. 1,000 from her pocket, said Sridharan, district president, DYFI. The first two days of their rescue was however lost in translation. The workers would only repeat the name of a hamlet in Karnataka that bordered Vasanthi’s jurisdiction. There was the challenge of jurisdiction, and that of finding a train. Only a day before, the administration had sent off over 2,500 U.P. workers in two trains. Pintu and others refused to go back to the nursery. The RI Vasanthi was called in since their village appeared closer to her jurisdiction. But soon, Vasanthi realised they were staying in Sinnachandiram in Berigai that fell under her revenue jurisdiction. “This meant I could act. They just did not know to say the name. They were repeating the name of D.N. Dhotti, a border village in Karnataka, where they went to buy their provisions,” said Vasanthi. Ms.Vasanthi also lodged a complaint with Berigai police stating that the workers were harassed during the lockdown, when the employers were ordered to provide shelter and food.But, the workers did not want to pursue it. Since the lockdown, we have been receiving several distress calls in our control room and in my jurisdiction, wherever we went to hand out rations to migrants, I left my number for them to call. But, we did not know about them or we could have acted earlier,” Vasanthi said. On Thursday night, with the intervention of the DSP of Hosur Murali and Special Sub Inspector Kiruba, the owner of the nursery was made to transfer the pending salary of Rs. 47,500 for the workers. “We never thought we would go back home with our salary,” said Pintu. They were packed off, like all other migrant workers from here, with food, snacks, juice to last them for two days.
30 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Swab test on all inter-State passengers at Madurai airport||After three air passengers tested positive on Thursday, Madurai district administration changed the strategy and started conducting swab test on all inter-State passengers, irrespective of the districts they are headed to. Till Thursday, swab test was conducted only on the inter-State passengers who were bound to Madurai district. They were kept in facility quarantine till the test results were out. The inter-State passengers who were proceeding to other districts were cross-notified to the respective districts and allowed to proceed to their districts. “On Friday, we started testing all inter-State passengers even if they are from other districts,” said Madurai Collector T.G. Vinay. Stating that in a few cases there was a delay in taking swabs when the passengers reached other districts, Dr. Vinay said that the swab test was now done on all passengers in Madurai to avoid delay. “The result of the test would be intimated to the passenger and the respective district administration,” he said. The district administrations and health officials could take further action based on the results, he added.Stating that since the number of inter-State passengers coming to Madurai airport was relatively small, Madurai district administration was able to conduct the swab test on all inter-State passengers. Meanwhile, sources at Madurai airport said that some of the inter-State passengers were not willing to undergo the two-day facility quarantine as mandated by the district administration. “Some of them were complaining that they were unaware of this rule,” an official said. However, the Collector said that the standard operating procedure was followed and every passenger had to follow the rules. “A very few are creating a scene at the airport, while a vast majority are cooperating,” he added. Stating that in one of the cases, a woman passenger who refused to cooperate in this regard at Bengaluru airport was sent back to Delhi, Dr. Vinay said that those passengers who refused to abide by rules would have to go back. No relaxation could be given for passengers for their ignorance of law, he added.
30 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||A college with stories of hope||During times of COVID-19, the doors of Vasantham Community College are closed. “We are waiting for the government to give the go-ahead to start classes again,” says Principal P. Pramil Kumar. Started in 2010, Vasantham Community College run by the Indian Council for Child Welfare began as an escape from early marriage for young women in Usilampatti. Although it is closed for now, hundreds of students have graduated from their two-year diploma programmes and have become nurses. Many have gone on to pursue designing and teaching, the Principal says. Mr. Pramil is familiar with most parents of the students. In the 80s and 90s, the ICCW worked in Usilampatti and its surrounding villages to counsel mothers against killing female infants. This is apart from establishing child care institutions, hosting medical camps and creating awareness of government schemes. “At that point, we were convincing young parents not to kill their children. We also told young girls not to carry forward the stigma. Those young girls are now parents,” he says. Each decade in the last 30 years presented problems of their own. “In the late 80s, we had to convince parents to keep girls alive. In the 90s, we began creches to send young ones to school. In the 2000s, we created awareness of the Tamil Nadu government’s free education system. After that we have been trying to tell parents to send them to college,” he says. K. Sathiya, a 20 year-old alumnus of the institution, says her mother, a daily wage worker, could not afford to send her to college. “My father used to squander all money in drinks. Even though I wanted to study, we had just enough to have our meals. No one would give us loans too,” she says. However, Ms. Sathiya now works as a nurse at a private hospital and is paying back her fees. Her mother K. Muthurakkammal says though she wanted her daughter to study, she had no choice but to say ‘no’ three years ago. “Now she is earning and saving up for my second daughter’s education. My younger one is in Class 10 and wants to become a nurse too. This is a major support for me,” she says. Ms. Muthurakkammal says female infanticide was rampant in her village, Maruthampatti. “No such incident has happened recently though. Everyone has two children and they stop. They accept any gender but hesitate to send the girls to college because it is far away from home,” she says. Mr. Pramil also says colleges and workplaces located far away from villages act as deterrents. ICCW national vice-president Valli Annamalai says the college has come a long way and the students are assured placements every year.
30 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC slaps cost on recreation clubs in Virudhunagar||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has imposed a cost of Rs. 50,000 each on two recreation clubs in Virudhunagar district which sought permission for operation and supply of liquor to members and guests in takeaway or online delivery mode. The State government had on March 16 ordered closure of all sports stadiums, clubs, bars, recreation clubs and other such establishments in view of COVID-19 pandemic. The court was hearing the petitions filed by Star Recreation Club and Harshini Recreation Club. The petitioners said the Supreme Court had allowed the State to sell liquor though Tasmac shops and the same relaxation must be extended to recreation clubs. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan observed that the State, and in fact the entire country, was facing a pandemic and at this stage government policies should be followed by everyone, including every association. So long as the policy of the State government did not permit opening of liquor bars, the High Court could not direct their opening. As a matter of fact, the Supreme Court did not interfere with the policy decision of the State to open Tasmac shops, the court said. The court observed that the petitioners had come up with a very wide-reaching prayer claiming permission must be granted not only to members but also to guests who were brought by them to the clubs for consuming alcohol. This court could not be a tool for opening of any of such recreation clubs, the judge said, and imposed a cost on the petitioners to be paid to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.
30 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rain and wind destroy banana plantations in Madurai district||Heavy rain accompanied by strong wind destroyed hundreds of banana plantations across the district, deepening the crisis of the farmers. Farmers from Sholavandan, Vadipatti, Chellampatti and Melur complained that the banana crop, including those which were ready to harvest, were destroyed, resulting in huge financial loss to them. R. Guhan, a farmer from Keelaiyur village of Melur block, said that due to Thursday's rain he had lost plantains worth Rs. 30,000. “This loss was in addition to crops that were destroyed a week back due to heavy winds,” he said. This situation had compounded the worries of farmers who were already struggling to sell their produce amid the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, said Muneeswaran, another farmer from Melur block. “Due to lower demand for our produce during the lockdown, the market prices have come down drastically. Farmers are forced to sell a bunch of plantains for Rs. 40, which is not at all profitable. Earlier, we used to sell it for Rs. 350. But, still, we are selling our produce at lower costs as we need to pay back our loans. The damage caused by the heavy winds has further worsened the condition of all farmers,” he said. An official from the Horticulture Department said that their staff were assessing the damage caused by the rains across the district. “More damage was reported in Melur, Vadipatti and Alanganallur blocks than other places,” said the official.
30 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Can’t disturb age-old practices: HC||Refusing to interfere into the conduct of religious practices and rituals, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday dismissed a writ petition that sought a direction to the State to prevent the practice of breaking coconut on the head of devotees during Aadi festival in a temple in Karur district. The petitioner-society, Arulmighu Mahalakshmi Mumudiyar Kulanala Sangam, represented by its 26 members filed the writ petition last year against the practice that was being followed in Mahalakshmi Amman Temple in Karur district. The petitioners said the practice of breaking coconut on the head of devotees resulted in serious head injuries and must be stopped. Instead, the coconut could be simply placed on the head of the devotee first and then broken on the ground. Justice R. Suresh Kumar observed that the breaking of the coconut on the head of devotees in common parlance may be considered one of the most weird rituals to be performed in temples. But the devotees were willing to practise it. Under Article 26 of the Constitution, it has been made clear that freedom to manage religious affairs was subject to public order, morality and health. These practices that were performed for several centuries cannot be considered to be against public order, morality and health. Such practices were followed not only in the Karur temple, but also in shrines across the State for ages. The devotees come to temples and volunteer to perform the ritual every year. This was not only the practice where devotees put their body to suffering. Fire walking (thee mithi) and body piercing (alagu kuthuthal) were the other two. Such religious faith and practices have been mentioned in Tamil literature and were part of the Tamil tradition. A classic example can be found in Kalingathu Parani in which Jayamkondar described how valiantly the Chola army men fulfilled their vow after conquering Kalinga, the judge said. “The beliefs of any religion or religious denomination or community cannot be easily disturbed by the diktat of courts of law except in the manner known to law. Therefore, this court is not inclined to issue any direction, as sought, in this writ petition,” the judge said and dismissed the petition.
30 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||E-learning to pose problems for rural students||Students from government-run schools outside Corporation limits will have problems connecting to web-based crash course for National Eligibility cum Entrance (NEET) coaching, say students and teachers. The State government on Thursday announced that the Department of School Education in association with Amphisoft Technologies E - box will offer a free online crash course to government and government-aided school students registered for NEET. However, with little percolation of e-education in schools and homes in rural areas, students may not be able to make the best of this offer, say school heads. A headmaster from a government school in Melur says teachers taking higher secondary classes are sending out potential questions on WhatsApp to those with internet connectivity. Some other students call them and get the sample questions dictated. “There are few or no computer centres. Most parents in poor families only have phones that can be used for talking. Smartphones are a rarity,” says a hheadmaster from Kottampatti block. He adds that teachers send notes to neighbours of their students so that they get access to study material. Another higher secondary school physics teacher from Othakadai says most teachers are evaluating papers and do not have enough time to clear doubts of students. “Without students gathering in a single place to learn, we wonder how we will get good results,” he says. S. Rajalakshmi, a student of Government Higher Secondary School, Kottampatti, says schools are only signing up toppers for NEET online coaching. “What about those who wish to study outside it. Can’t we avail online facilities if we have access to smartphones?” she asks. M. Kannan, a student of Government Higher Secondary School, T. Kallupatti, says his friends have asked whether they could come home and do group studies as he has a smartphone. “We have to share what we have now,” he says.
30 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Liquor bottles stolen from shop||As many as 1,750 liquor bottles have been stolen from a locked Tasmac-run IMFL retail outlet at Kachirayanpatti near Kottampatti recently. The crime came to light in the morning when the staff came for work. The culprits had drilled a hole on the wall to gain entry into the shop. Kottampatti police have registered a case.
30 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Art of Python programme||A five-day online programme organised by the Department of Computer Science and Engineering of Ramco Institute of Technology (RIT) in association with Institution of Engineers concluded on Friday. More than 160 students from 35 schools across Tamil Nadu participated in the Art of Python event. Students were taught Python Programming with modern pedagogical techniques such as quizzes, videos and hand-on-session. The sessions were handled by faculty members V.Anusuya, R.Venkatesh, M.Swarna Sudha and K.Vignesh Saravanan under the guidance of Professor K. Vijayalakshmi.
30 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Liquor bottles stolen||As many as 1,750 liquor bottles have been stolen from a locked TASMAC-run IMFL retail outlet at Kachirayanpatti near Kottampatti recently. The crime came to light in the morning when the staff came for work. The culprits had drilled a hole on the wall to gain entry into the shop. Kottampatti police have registered a case.
30 May 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Man who sold his children held||A 40-year-old man belonging to Vellapallam who had reportedly sold two of his three children – a four-year-old son and a three-year-old daughter – and three accomplices were arrested on Thursday by the Nagore police. Police sources said M. Ashraf Ali, who had the children under his care after he was estranged from his wife, took the help of his friend Hasan Mohammed, an autorickshaw driver, and two women Mehrunnisha and Fathima, to sell his three-year daughter to a couple in Kovilpatti. Police sources said the whereabouts of his four-year-old son was not known yet. Ashraf Ali who had initially deceived the authorities into believing that his daughter, whom he had entrusted with Hasan Mohammed for admission in an institution in Madurai had been sold by the latter without his knowledge to the couple in Kovilpatti, had later admitted his complicity and had also reportedly confessed that he had sold his four-year-old son to a couple in Kancheepuram. The sordid issue would not have come to light had Ashraf Ali not demanded more money from the Kovilpatti couple. Remanded  All the four were arrested under sections of child trafficking and remanded in judicial custody. District Child Protection Unit Officer of Nagapattinam Sivakumar said a one-and-half-year-old son found to be under the care of Ashraf Ali was housed in Annai Sathya Home in Nagapattinam. The three-year-old girl will also be brought to the Home from Tuticorin on Monday. Efforts were on to trace the four-year-old boy, he said.
30 May 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||‘Use CSR initiative to help needy people in Kollidam’||A public welfare organisation has approached the Nagapattinam district administration seeking utilisation of the CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) funds of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation for the uplift of the needy people in the community citing their pitiable condition due to two months of COVID-19 lockdown. In a petition submitted to the District Collector Praveen P. Nair, S. Killai Ravindran, president of Nilam Trust based in Sirkazhi, said the people in Kollidam area where the ONGC is involved in exploratory work in the Cauvery basin expect support from the company in this time of economic distress. The ONGC officials had recently handed financial support under its CSR initiative to the district administration purportedly for utilisation across Nagapattinam district. Appreciating the support rendered by the ONGC at the time of calamities in the past to the immediate community, Mr. Ravindran said the very purpose of the CSR was to see through the progress of the villages in its operational area. The focus area under the CSR scheme of ONGC Cauvery Asset constitute education, infrastructure support, healthcare, arts and crafts promotion, environmental and ecological conservation, and initiatives for physically and mentally challenged, according to its Environmental Impact Assessment report for drilling of 66 wells in the Cauvery basin. The CSR initiatives of companies elsewhere envision a growth narrative for empowerment of immediate communities, Mr. Ravindran said. The ONGC's EIA report also suggests implementation of various positive and enhancement measures as part of project benefit programme to people of the nearby areas. According to official statistics, Nagapattinam district received ONGC’s second highest CSR funding from April to December last year. The highest CSR expenditure was in Tiruvarur district with close to Rs. 4.5 crore, followed by Nagapattinam - Rs. 2.43 crore, Thanjavur - Rs. 2 crore, and Chennai Rs. 1.33 crore. CSR funds were also utilised in Cuddalore, Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Tiruvalur, Tiruchi, Tuticorin, Villupuram, and Virudhunagar districts.
30 May 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Five held for realtor’s murder||The Namakkal district police on Thursday arrested five persons in connection with a murder that took place in 2018. According to police, on December 7, 2018, an unidentified man was found dead near Trichy Road here. The deceased was later identified as Shanmugham, a realtor. Shanmugam’s wife Mythili had lodged a complaint with the Mohanur police stating that her husband was missing from December 5, 2018. Mohanur police were investigating the case. On Thursday, police arrested D. Ganesan, J. Rajamurugan, R. Boobathi, Rubandoss, Ramachandran- all from Tiruchi - during vehicle checks at Mohanur check post. According to police, the accused confessed that they murdered Shanmugham over business rivalry. Police also seized a car that was used for the crime. The accused were remanded in custody.
30 May 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||MP’s charges are baseless: Minister||Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani has accused Namakkal MP A.K.P.Chinraj of making baseless allegations of irregularities against AIADMK MLAs and officials. Talking to presspersons after laying the foundation for various development works in Pallipalayam, Mr. Thangamani said “MP from Namakkal is making baseless charges against AIADMK legislators and government officials here to escape from public wrath since he was not seen in any of the COVID-19 preventive efforts for past 60 days.” Mr. Thangamani said that if Mr. Chinraj felt that an AIADMK legislator had committed irregularities in availing a water connection, he should have complained to the officials. On the appointment to gangmen vacancies, Mr.Thangamani said the appointments would be made based on court orders.
30 May 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||A samathuvapuram that lacks proper toilet facility||At around 4 a.m. every morning, G. Pavithra, a 20-year-old girl from Narthamalai, makes it a point to wake up and then wakes up her sister and mother after which they head to a nearby quarry to urinate, defecate and if they are menstruating, also change a sanitary napkin for the day. The next time they will do this is only after sundown as their houses do not have proper toilets. The 100 houses at the samathuvapuram at Narthamalai in the district, established in July 1999, have turned structurally weak. Behind some houses, are little rooms. They were once meant to be toilets but now they are used to store firewood or rear goats as sewage pits were not dug or connected to any sewer line, a village elder says. Pavithra, is now an MBBS student at a government college in Kerala. She has spent the last three months at home for the first time since going off to college. She says that after using a functional toilet in her hostel, going out in the open is proving to be tough. “Even though I am studying on a scholarship, travelling to and from Kerala costs at least Rs. 2,000. I am unable to ask my parents for a toilet as I know it would be a financial burden,” she says. Her father works at a quarry like most men in the village but has been out of a job for a while. The women in the samathuvapuram have become accustomed to open defecation. A small enclosure made by erecting four tree branches and wrapped by old sarees is a dedicated space where the women change their sanitary napkins. “We ensure nobody is passing by our house every time we need to change,” Ms. Pavithra says. Dehydration and urinary tract infections are common. The village panchayat president M. Velu has just begun construction of a toilet complex behind his home. “The cost is high (Rs. 70,000 for a toilet and a bathroom) but I have two young daughters and want them to be safe and healthy,” he says. The samathuvapuram seem to be in a state of neglect. The villagers claim to have submitted several petitions to the district administration requesting repairs including leech pits for the toilets and at some of the damaged houses. When contacted, a senior officer of the District Rural Development Agency, assured to conduct an inspection. “I will have the colony surveyed and based on their needs, a common toilet block or individual toilets will be constructed,” he said.
30 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||One more accused tests positive in Salem||A man who was arrested by the Salem Town All Women Police in connection with a sexual harassment case tested positive for COVID-19 here on Friday. The police on Thursday night arrested three persons, including the owner of a beauty parlour, based on a sexual harassment complaint lodged by the parlour staff. The swab samples of the three accused were taken for COVID-19 tests. The test results revealed that one of the accused was positive and he was shifted to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital for treatment. About 25 police personnel who arrested the accused and those who were present at the station at the time of arrest have been advised to go under quarantine for 14 days by the senior police officials.  P. Thangadurai, Deputy Police Commissioner (Law and Order), said that the station premises have been disinfected and the police personnel were advised to go under quarantine. He said that a reception tent has been set up outside the station building to receive complaints. This is the second such case of accused turning positive in Salem. An accused who was arrested under the Women Harassment Act by the Salem Steel Plant police had tested positive on Thursday. Woman tests positive in Erode A 35-year-old woman, who had returned from Chennai, tested positive for COVID-19 and was shifted to the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital in Perundurai here on Friday. The woman had reached Salem by flight on Thursday. Her swab sample was taken at the airport and was sent home at Soolai in Erode Corporation limits. On Friday, she tested positive and was immediately shifted to hospital. Her family members were quarantined. With this, the total number of positive case in the district rose to 72 with two active cases undergoing treatment in the hospital as on date. A 40-year-old man who had returned from Maharashtra and tested positive was not added to the district tally as health officials said that the case would be added to the list of returnees from other States.
30 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Supporting govt. to contain the pandemic is patriotic: H. Raja||National secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) H. Raja said that the Congress, Communist parties and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam had failed to realise that supporting the government in COVID-19 prevention efforts was patriotic. Mr. Raja, along with BJP State general secretary Vanathi Srinivasan, visited former BJP State president K.N. Lakshmanan here on Friday. Mr. Raja claimed that urban Naxals and a few others were instigating migrant labourers. The registration numbers of autorickshaws and two-wheelers in the list of 1000 buses offered by the Congress party to transport migrant workers only showed how dishonest the party was, he said. Quoting reports in the foreign media, Mr. Raja said those publications reported that COVID-19 cases in India would increase up to 50 crore by July. “However, due to right leadership and right action at the right time, the cases have been contained at 1.5 lakh,” he said.
30 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Do not shift shops: vegetable traders||Vegetable traders at the VOC market here appealed to the authorities to allow them to operate from the market until the construction of temporary market was over. Over 120 traders operate at the VOC market and the Salem Corporation has proposed renovation of the place under the Smart Cities Mission. According to Corporation officials, it has also started construction of temporary market spaces to shift the shops from here. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Corporation has identified alternative spaces for different trades and proposed operation on rotation basis. The traders at the market appealed to the Corporation to let them operate from the market itself until the construction of temporary market was over. K.R.Balamurali, secretary of VOC Market vegetable traders association, said that they had been informed that the construction of temporary market spaces would be completed soon. The officials should let us operate from the market until then instead of shifting to other areas, he said.
30 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||No water supply||Areas covered by the Attur-Narasingapuram combined water supply scheme will not have water supply on May 30 and 31. Officials from Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board advised the public to use water cautiously for two days.
30 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown violation||Salem City police on Thursday registered 51 cases for violating prohibitory orders and detained eight vehicles. Salem district police registered eight cases for violating prohibitory orders.
30 May 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Woman killed in wall collapse near Srivilliputtur||A 78-year-old woman P. Ellammal was killed when a wall collapsed at Vanniyampatti on Friday. The police said following an overnight rainfall, the wall of an old house collapsed and fell on the elderly woman killing her on the spot. The Vanniyampatti police are investigating.
30 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Grand Anicut gets a fresh lick of paint ahead of water release||The Grand Anicut (Kallanai), the ancient water regulator from where water is distributed for irrigation in the core delta districts, is being spruced up ahead of its opening next month. The Public Works Department has taken up the work to give a facelift to the anicut, built by the Chola King Karikalan. Apart from checking the operational readiness of the shutters, the PWD is also giving the structure a fresh coat of paint. Water is set to be released for irrigation from the Stanley Reservoir at Mettur on June 12. A section of delta farmers have started preparing their fields and others having filter point facilities have started raising nurseries for ‘kuruvai’. Water is likely to be released from Grand Anicut on June 15 or 16 once Mettur water reaches here. The announcement about water release from Mettur dam is likely to influence a large number of farmers to go in for ‘kuruvai’ and ‘thaladi’ crop as the present storage level and meteorological predictions have given them confidence that there may not be any water shortage problem. Reports about sporadic rain in the catchment areas of Cauvery has also boosted their confidence, sources said.
30 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers to hold demonstrations||Members of the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangams, affiliated to the two Left parties, will be holding demonstrations on consecutive days in June demanding proper implementation of `kudimaramathu’ and other desilting works in Thanjavur district. While those affiliated to the Communist Party of India (Marxist) plan to hold the demonstrations in front of the PWD offices in the district on June 1, the Sangam affiliated to the Communist Party of India has scheduled its demonstration on June 2 in front of the PWD offices. Both the Sangams have demand that the desilting works be executed in a proper and fair manner without giving any room for malpractice, display of details of the works at the sites and formation of vigilance groups comprising local farmers as members to ensure proper execution of the works.
30 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||3 held for violating e-pass regulations||Three persons, two from Kumbakonam and one from S. Pudur near Thiruvidaimaruthur, have been arrested for violating the e-pass regulations. According to Collector M.Govinda Rao the accused persons hailing from Kumbakonam – Sankar and Nirmal – obtained e-passes to visit Chennai. While they were heading towards Chennai it was found that the number of persons travelling in the vehicles was more than the number of persons permitted to travel. Thus, both of them were arrested and booked under sections 188, 269 and 270 of IPC for violating the e-pass regulations. Similarly, Jerald of S. Pudur, who had obtained e-pass to travel to Chennai from Nagapattinam, had brought two persons to Kumbakonam on the return journey. He was booked under sections 420 and 511 of IPC.
30 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Protect interest of coastal fishermen’||The Thanjavur District Motorised Fishing Vessels Fishermen Association has alleged that fish exporters were exploiting the loopholes in the provisions relating to the export of marine products. In a resolution passed at an emergency meeting held at Mallipattinam near Peravurani under the chairmanship of general secretary, A.Thajudheen on Friday, the association said that fish exporters prefer to export fish and prawns reared in ponds rather than those captured from the sea. At the same time, they enjoy concessions and other benefits offered for export of marine products. Urging the Union and State government to enact laws to protect the interest of coastal fishermen, the Association called upon the governments to organise a tripartite meeting of coastal fishermen, fish exporters and the officials to convince the fish exporters to give equal importance to the marine catch also. Thanking the governments for cutting short the sea fishing ban period in view of COVID-19 pandemic, the association said that the date of resumption of sea fishing activity would be arrived after taking into consideration the ground situation after the first week of June.
30 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Octogenarian duped||An octogenarian of Kumbakonam was duped by a con man who pretended to help him in withdrawing money from an ATM in the town on Thursday. According to the complainant, V. Krishnamoorthy (84) of Srinagar Colony, Kumbakonam, a man waiting behind him at the ATM on the SBI Main Branch premises at Kumbakonam came forward to help him in withdrawing money. The con man told the octogenarian that there were no funds in his account and clandestinely exchanged the ATM card by handing over a fake card to Krishnamoorthy. Later, the complainant received a message on his mobile phone stating that a sum of Rs. 10,000 had been withdrawn from an ATM belonging to another nationalised bank. A few minutes later he received another message stating that a sum of Rs. 10,000 had been drawn from his account through an ATM of a private bank. The octogenarian approached the SBI Main Branch staff and got his ATM card blocked and later lodged a complaint with the Kumbakonam East Police.
30 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Moving around without masks to be fined in rural areas also||Moving out without face masks in rural areas too will attract a fine of Rs. 100. Disclosing this through a press release here on Friday, Collector M. Govinda Rao said that the Block Development Officers have been instructed to levy a fine of Rs. 100 for not wearing masks while carrying out the works allocated through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme or converging at the public places such as bazaars or moving around in streets based on a resolution passed by the respective village panchayats. The fine amount thus collected should be deposited in the general fund accounts of the respective village panchayats, he added. Hence, he called upon the rural masses to adhere to the social distancing norms and wearing of face masks to check the spread of COVID-19 virus.
30 May 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) stir against Theni district administration||Accusing the district administration of ‘anti-people’ and ‘anti-poor,’ the cadre of Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate here on Friday. The people were not allowed to meet the Collector nor the officers were keen to resolve the problems of the common man during the COVID-19 pandemic emergency, the cadre blamed. Whenever we went to give petitions to the Collector or the DRO, the senior officials were never present. Whenever they were available, the public or political party representatives were not allowed to meet. When we contacted their mobile phones, there was no response, Theni district secretary T. Venkatesan said. He demanded the State government to revamp the administration. The absence of trained medical professionals at the isolation centre was a serious lapse on the district authorities that a person reportedly committed suicide and another inmate died on arrival at the Government Medical College Hospital, the Communist leader said. The representations made to permit cardamom farm labourers to travel to Idukki has not been addressed at all till date. A majority of them relied on private money lenders to run their families and still could not make both ends meet, he said. Considering this, the district administration should have taken their grievance on priority and given e-passes to go there for work. Similarly, the district administration had refused permission to the traders who were unable to partake in the auction centre at Puttady. As a result, farmers were forced to sell cardamom at rock bottom prices in market, the cadre said. They said the State government should order the Theni district administration to immediately give jobs to registered workers under the MGNREGA project as most of them were idling at their dwellings without wages. However, a senior official in the district administration in-charge of the COVID-19 pandemic listed out a series of measures taken by it since March 24, which had kept the district well under control from the virus. Theni district tested more people that it stood number two in the State next to Chennai, he explained. At least 500 officers, including doctors, para-medical teams, police force, fire and rescue, health department and staff at the Collectorate have been working even on Sundays. There has not been a day to be with our family members since the COVID-19 pandemic broke. "Many of us could not go to our homes either due to non-availability of public transport or we wanted to ensure that our families were safe from COVID-19 since we were handling a number of people coming to us seeking help," a staff in-charge of the COVID-19 control room said.
30 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Mechanised boats to go for fishing on turn basis||After losing their livelihood for nearly 90 days – 25% of 2020 – the mechanised boat fishermen are gearing up to venture into the sea for fishing from June 1 onwards, but only on turn basis due to the COVID -19 induced restrictions. Of the 240 boats operating from the Thoothukudi Fishing Harbour, 50% of the boats will go for fishing on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from June 1 onwards and the remaining 120 boats will carry out fishing operations during other weekdays with Sunday being the holiday, as usual. A decision to this effect was taken in the meeting held here on Friday between the officials and the representatives of mechanised boat owners with Sub-Collector Simranjeet Singh in chair. As per the regulations in force now, the mechanised boats operating from Thoothukudi Fishing Harbour should leave the harbour after 5 a.m. and return to the base before 9 p..m. after completing the fishing operations for the day. This regulation is in force to avoid collision of mechanised boats with the country boats in the mid-sea as the latter would carryout fishing operations between 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. in the areas closer to the shore. Arguing that this duration - carrying out fishing operation between 5 a.m. and 9 p.m. – is not sufficient for them and demanding permission for multi-day stay fishing, the mechanised boat owners struck work on March 5. Even before they could withdraw their protest, the nation-wide COVID – 19 lockdown came into force and they lost their livelihood for almost 90 days. As the annual fishing ban along the east coast that would be clamped usually between April 15 and June 15 has been curtailed by 45 days by the Union Government, the mechanised boats are now ready to resume fishing operations from June 1 onwards. “The fishermen, after cleaning their hands with sanitizer and wearing masks, should ensure physical distancing during their work and also at the fishing harbour, particularly during auctioning of fishes. Only authorised traders and the fishermen carrying identity cards will be allowed to enter the fishing harbour,” said Mr. Simranjeet Singh. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi, Prakash, Joint Director of Department of Fisheries Chandra and other officials participated in the meeting.
30 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Electric loco to haul freight trains from Karaikal Port||Freight trains transporting coal and fertilizer from Karaikal Port to different destinations would soon be hauled by electric locomotive as the Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE) plans to complete the ongoing overhead electrification works on a small stretch of railway siding leading up to Karaikal Port by next month. Foundation works for laying the electric masts has already been completed along the five-kilometre railway siding connecting from Nagore to Karaikal Port. CORE has been entrusted with the task of electrification of the broad gauge line up to Karaikal Port. CORE has already completed overhead electrification projects on various stretches in Tiruchi Railway Division. A senior CORE official told The Hindu on Thursday that being a small stretch, the entire overhead electrification works up to Karaikal Port was expected to be completed by next month. Once electrified, it would pave the way for operation of electric loco hauled freight trains from and to Karaikal Port thereafter using power from the newly constructed 110 kv sub station at Thanjavur railway junction. Presently, all freight trains being operated from and to Karaikal are being hauled by diesel locomotives. Karaikal Port was an important destination for Tiruchi Railway Division in terms of revenue generation. Freight trains from Karaikal Port were being operated every day despite lockdown to different places such as Puduchathiram in Cuddalore district and Mecheri in Salem district. Coal and fertilizer are being transported from the port to various destinations. Meanwhile, CORE has commenced overhead electrification project in another major broad gauge section from Cuddalore to Salem Junction via Vriddhachalam Junction. Foundation works for laying the overhead electric masts commenced a few days ago at Cuddalore which falls under the vast jurisdiction of Tiruchi Railway Division. Preliminary work has also commenced simultaneously along various stretches on the 160-kilometre section, the CORE official said adding that the plan was to complete the entire electrification project by March 2021. Part of the broad gauge section from Cuddalore to Vriddhachalam falls under the Tiruchi Railway Division. Beyond Vriddhachalam, the stretch falls under the limits of Salem Railway Division.
30 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Stage set for constructing permanent KV building at Ponmalai||Faced with a huge demand for fresh admissions, the Kendriya Vidyalaya GOC (Sr) at Ponmalai is understood to have submitted all the required documents to the Central Public Works Department for construction of permanent building at the land provided free of cost by the Southern Railway. Though the request for construction of permanent building was first made to the Chief Engineer (SZ-1), CPWD, Chennai, during August 2016, the project has been still under planning as some documentation works were not complete. All the necessary documents have been submitted to the CPWD, sources said. In view of the huge demand for seats, the Southern Railway officials have been mooting start of a second section in class I. However, the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan has not approved a second section at the entry level for schools functioning in temporary buildings, sources said. There are now only single sections for classes 1 to VIII. The students of class VIII will be pursuing IX standard in the school from 2020-21. From 2020-21, more number of students have to be accommodated in the existing classroom owing to implementation of Economically Weaker Section (EWS) quota of 25%. The admission process will be as per the RTE Act guidelines with 25% seats reserved for EWS and a neighbourhood policy, sources said. Due to the huge demand for seats in the Kendriya Vidyalaya at Ponmalai, there are already over 55 students per section for which the permitted number is 40. Though the school was started in the civil sector, adherence to the priority categories for the purpose of admission remains the same as in the case of defence sector. The priority categories constitute children of transferable and non-transferable central government employees and children of ex-servicemen; children of transferable and non-transferable employees of Autonomous Bodies / Public Sector Undertaking/Institute of Higher Learning of the Government of India; children of transferable and non-transferable State Government employees; children of transferable and non-transferable employees of Autonomous Bodies/ Public Sector Undertakings/Institute of Higher Learning of the State Governments; and children from any other category.
30 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Implement Centre’s fiscal stimulus in right earnest, MSMEs tell banks||Notwithstanding the fiscal stimulus announced by the Central Government with a specific focus on revival of stressed MSME units during the COVID-19 crisis, industries in the region feel let down pointing out that a sense of seriousness in reviving the economy has not percolated to the banks. Not all officials at the level of branches are conversant with the significance of the Rs. 3 lakh crore collateral free automatic loans for standard micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) under Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTSME), industrialists point out. “It was to safeguard the MSME sector that the Centre had initially announced a 10% term loan with interest rate of 7.4%. Subsequently, the Finance Minister announced 20% automatic collateral free loan for developing the business. Some of the bank officials are not prepared to release credit yet,” president of BHEL Small Industries Association Rajappa Rajkumar said in a letter addressed to the Governor or Reserve Bank of India Shaktikanta Das. “We request you to kindly give necessary communication to all bankers for ensuring release of funds through the above scheme without any pre-conditions for the survival and growth of the MSME Sector,” Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said in the letter. There has been a demand for direct cash support from the government. The already struggling MSME sector in the region that has now been hit hard by the COVID-19 crisis is peeved by the pre-conditions put forth by banks for availing the benefits of the stimulus package of the Central government for revival of operations. The ancillary units of BHEL Tiruchi that had expanded their capacities in anticipation of large quantum of conversion orders are the ones that have been worst hit over the last four to five years, and several industries have already closed. If not for the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions that permit deployment of only 50% of work force, several MSME units in the region would have been forced into a situation of laying off workers. At present, all employees get the opportunity to work on a rotation basis, though the salaries are paid only for the work days in most of the industries.
30 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||As nadaswaram, thavil fall silent, artistes in dire straits||M. Neelakantan remembers a time not too long ago, when there weren’t enough nadaswaram and thavil musicians available to render the ‘mangala isai’ at weddings and temple festivals. “With just around 500 of us, and nearly a thousand marriages being conducted in the city during the peak season, there was actually a shortage of artistes,” Mr. Neelakantan, a third-generation nadaswaram artiste with 25 years of experience, told The Hindu . That situation has changed drastically after the lockdown, as the ban on public gatherings and temple services has left these trained Carnatic instrumentalists out of work. With the ‘kutcheri’ or public concert circuit falling silent, survival has become a question mark for many nadaswaram and thavil players, especially those who were relying on contractual work at temples and social occasions. “Our ‘set’ (ensemble) of five musicians could earn up to Rs. 5000 per person from weddings. Now, people are avoiding us completely; and those who booked us before the lockdown want their advance payments back,” said Mr. Neelakantan. Many musicians have been badly hit in the lockdown because of a lack of savings, said Subhan Kasim, a Srirangam-based nadaswaram exponent. “Those who have got teaching positions in government music colleges or permanent arrangements with temples, have been able to survive, but nadaswaram players who rely on daily bookings are facing setbacks,” said Mr. Kasim. Currently spending his lockdown in indexing over 200 hours of audio recordings of his guru and grandfather Sangeetha Kalanidhi Sheik Chinna Moulana, Mr. Kasim is considering compiling a database of needy nadaswaram artistes, because they don’t have any representative body. “Out of the nearly 1000 nadaswaram artistes in Tiruchi district, around 300 people are very poor,” he said. He is also an executive member of Global Carnatic Musicians Association (GCMA), which has been helping out artistes in distress during the lockdown. Carnatic vocalist R. Kashyap Mahesh felt that the lockdown may have actually helped artistes to step outside their closed circle and become more socially responsible. “Most of our life is spent in pursuing our own career growth, but this pandemic alert has made us aware of the many inequalities in our musical community,” he said. Mr. Mahesh has been conducting phone interviews with veteran Carnatic musicians in Tiruchi and uploading them online in an audio series called ‘Sangeetha Santhippu’. “Makers and repairers of instruments like veena, mridangam, nadaswaram and ghatam fully depend on musicians for their their livelihood, which has almost gone because of the lockdown. Steps should be taken to help these people,” said Mr. Mahesh.
30 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Four more test positive, five discharged in central region||Four patients hailing from the central region tested positive for COVID-19 here on Friday. Of the four, three hailed from Ariyalur district, while one belonged to Tiruchi district, according to the State Health Department’s bulletin. Meanwhile, five patients, including a six-year-old, recovered from the infection. In Ariyalur, three patients who had been working in Mumbai tested positive for the infection on return to the district. All three are men aged 38, 24 and 31 and they had returned to the district aboard a Shramik special train on May 25. The patients were kept in institutional quarantine and have now been shifted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital for treatment, official sources here said. With this, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases reported in Ariyalur district has gone up to 365. However, there are only 10 active cases currently. On Friday, 52 new samples have been lifted from individuals showing cold and fever symptoms at the Ariylaur GH and at the various Primary Health Centres in the district. In Tiruchi, a 54-year-old woman who travelled from Chennai tested positive for the infection. The patient was admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) immediately and is undergoing treatment. One patient hailing from Tiruchi recovered from the infection and was discharged from the Tiruchi GH on Friday. The patient was sent home on a ‘108’ ambulance after a test sample lifted from the patient returned negative. As on Friday, 11 patients, including 10 hailing from Tiruchi district and one from Theni, are undergoing treatment at the MGMGH. The patients are all stable and responding very well, doctors here said. All 10 patients hailing from Tiruchi had come from Chennai. No resident living in the district have contracted the infection of late, a release from the district administration said. Meanwhile, four patients, including a six-year-old boy, recovered from the viral infection and were discharged from the Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial Government Headquarters Hospital (MRMGH) in Pudukottai town. The four patients had returned to their hometown in Pudukottai from Maharashtra where they had been working. The patients were admitted to the MRMGH where they were given regular treatment. The District Mental Health Officer also provided counselling and music therapy. M. Chandrasekaran, Joint Health Director, Pudukottai, said that the patients were given nutritious food and essentials. During the course of their treatment, the patients were also provided special services to alleviate loneliness, including magazines and Internet access.
30 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Man suffocates to death||A 45-year-old labourer died after being trapped under a mound of soil that suddenly caved while he was digging a well at Pudhukurichi village in Padalur police station limits in Perambalur district on Thursday. Police identified the victim as S. Murugesan of Therani village. Police said a group of labourers were engaged in digging the well. Barring Murugesan, the remaining men had climbed up. Murugesan was ready to climb up when a mound of soil suddenly fell over him.
30 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Action against nine shops||A joint team comprising of a police officer and officials of Food Safety Department conducted checks on Friday in shops in Tiruverumbur area to find out if they had rat poison paste in their outlets without permission and meant for sale. During the checks, the team found the paste in nine shops and initiated action as per law against them, a police press release said. Earlier, surprise checks were conducted by the police in grocery shops, petty shops and medical shops and the paste was seized from 129 shops. The seized items were handed over to the Food Safety Department and recommended for initiating action as per law against the shop owners, the release added.
30 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Constable dies in accident||A police constable died after the car he was driving collided against an excavator on the Tiruchi - Pudukottai national highway in Keeranur police station limits in neighbouring Pudukottai district on Friday. Besides, the constable, R. Mano (30), a woman by name Sameeba and a child were also travelling in the vehicle. The woman died in the accident and the child was injured. Constable Mano was attached to the Tamil Nadu Special Police - I Battalion at Tiruchi.
30 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||State allocates Rs. 160 crore for river linking project||The Tamil Nadu Government has allotted Rs. 160 crore for the fourth and final phase of the much-delayed Tamirabharani – Karumaeniyar – Nambiyar linking project, which is likely to be completed by December-end, as promised by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami during the Nanguneri by-poll campaign. The project was designed in 2009 on an outlay of Rs. 369 crore to use every year 2.765 tmcft - 20 % of 13.76 thousand million cubic feet - water available in the perennial Tamirabharani. As per the plan, the surplus water of Tamirabharani would be diverted through the Kannadian Channel and then a 73 km-long flood carrier channel that would be formed to take this water to dry regions of Nanguneri, Radhapuram and Sattankulam areas. As the 6.5-km long Kannadian Channel’s carrying capacity was increased from 450 cubic feet per second (cusecs) to 3,680 cusecs, formation of a new channel to be dug up to M.L. Theri, a sand dune, near Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district, from Kannadian Channel at Vellankuzhi was started. The proposed canal can carry 3,200 cusecs of water. There are many canals that would connect the 73-km-long canal with a host of tanks in the basins of Karumeniyar and Nambiyar and the Manimuthar’s tributaries such as Pachchaiyaar, Koraiyaar and Yelumichchaiyaar. The main canal would link with the river Pachayar. With this surplus water, irrigation facilities can be provided to about 23,040 hectares in these districts. Of about 1,076 hectares of land required for digging the 73 Km-long channel, 994 hectares fell under the category of dry land and 14.5 hectares under wet land. About 68 hectares were poromboke lands. The project was launched 11 years ago - during the DMK regime in 2009 -without getting any assurance from the Centre though it was then announced that funds would be made available from the Union Government’s Accelerated Irrigation Benefits Programme. As the flow of funds stopped, the project had to be stalled for want of funds after the completion of the first two phases of the project. When the AIADMK government came to power in 2011, the project was shelved as no fund was allotted by the Centre. Irked by the delay, then MLA of Radhapuram M. Appavu approached the High Court and got a few directions to the State government in support of the revival of the project. The undue delay had meanwhile increased the project cost from Rs. 369 crore to Rs. 872 crore. After the AIADMK government got an assurance and Rs. 217 crore from the Centre for executing third phase of the work, the third phase was started. “So far, the State Government has released Rs. 595 crore for this project – for completion of more than 30% of the work in the second phase and third and fourth phases - and hence it will be completed by December-end,” said I.S. Inbadurai, Radhapuram MLA.
30 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||15 fresh cases in Tirunelveli||Tirunelveli district added 15 more COVID–19 positive cases, including 11 returnees from Maharashtra, to take its tally to 345 on Friday. The district has 177 active cases under treatment at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital now. Thoothukudi district reported one fresh case – a returnee from Maharashtra – and the district’s toll rose to 199. The district has 93 active cases under treatment. Similarly, Kanniyakumari district recorded one case, and the district’s tally went up to 60, with 32 active cases undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam. There were no fresh cases reported in Tenkasi district, which has so far reported 85 cases, 24 of which are active. In Virudhunagar district, one positive case was reported. The patient had come from Telangana. With this, the total number of positive cases rose to 120. The number of active cases is 70.  Madurai After a gap of four days, no one tested positive in Madurai district on Friday. The total number of cases in the district remained at 249. There were no discharges from Government Rajaji Hospital and the number of active cases in the district is 94.
30 May 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvarur to get 405 solar-powered farm pumpsets||The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy has allocated 405 solar-powered farm pumpset connections to Tiruvarur district under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha evem Utthan Mahabhiyan (PMKUSUM) Scheme. Disclosing this in a press release, Collector T. Anand has said that the State government extends a subsidy of 40% of the project cost while the Union government would be providing 30% of the cost as subsidy. Thus the beneficiary has to contribute the remaining 30% of the project cost. Under this scheme, an applicant could tap the groundwater source in his field by installing standalone Solar Powered Agriculture Pumps having a capacity of up to 10 HP. Interested farmers could contact the Assistant Executive Engineers, Agricultural Engineering Department of their respective Revenue Division for further details, the release added.
30 May 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||‘Desilting will be completed on time’||Food Minister R. Kamaraj on Friday assured that desilting works would be completed soon to ensure water for irrigation reaches the tail-end areas for cultivation. Disclosing this after inspecting the desilting of Kattaru at Pulivalam village panchayat in Tiruvarur taluk, the Food Minister expressed confidence that all the works taken up this year would be completed on time like in the last year. Monitoring officials Special monitoring officers have been deputed to the delta districts to supervise and expedite the works so as to ensure completion desilting works before water for irrigation was released into the rivers and from them into irrigation channels. The special monitoring officials have also been instructed to make sure that drain channels were also desilted on time to avoid stagnation of water on the agriculture fields due to inundation caused in view of heavy precipitations, if any. Later, the Minister had also inspected the desilting works taken up in Bamani river at Thuraikadu village panchayat in Thiruthuraipoondi taluk.
30 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Environment clearance for diversion of forest land for govt. medical college||One major hurdle for the construction of a government medical college and hospital in Udhagamandalam has been cleared, with the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change clearing the diversion of 25 acre of reserve forest around Udhagamandalam town for the setting up of the facility. The Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya confirmed the latest development to The Hindu , with the clearance now paving the way for the construction of the facility which has been a popular demand among the residents for the last few years. “To compensate for the diversion, 50 acre or double the amount of land being taken over in the Nilgiris will be handed over to the Forest Department in Salem for compensatory afforestation works,” the Collector added. The government had been pushing for the medical college to be set up at the site, located near Fingerpost in Udhagamandalam. An alternative was the existing building infrastructure at the now defunct Hindustan Photo Films Manufacturing Company Limited. However, the plan was deemed not feasible due to the factory being under litigation, with a court ruling dictating that the assets be sold to pay compensation to the workers who were employed at the factory. Forest Department officials said that there were 2,000 exotic trees, primarily eucalyptus and wattle on the 25 acre. Local residents said that apart from Indian gaur and barking deer, three leopards and a family of sloth bear used the reserve forest. Local activists voiced their displeasure at the developments, stating that if the hospital was to be constructed near Fingerpost, one of the last remaining green spaces within Udhagamandalam town would be completely destroyed. “It’s not just the hospital itself, but the accompanying infrastructure and activities, businesses that will invariably follow when such a huge project finally comes to fruition,” said an activist in the Nilgiris.
30 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Grasshoppers mistaken for locusts across T.N.||With locusts decimating crops in many parts of India, the common grasshopper is being mistaken to be part of the swarm across Tamil Nadu. In fact, in Khandal near Udhagamandalam, a resident panicked on seeing a species of locust, captured it and brought it to the notice of the district administration on Thursday. Over the last few days, the spotted coffee grasshopper (Aularches miliaris), the Bombay locust (Patanga succincta) and the Cyrtacanthacris tartarica, a type of grasshopper widespread throughout Africa and Indo-China, have been mistaken to be part of the dreaded swarm of desert locusts (Schistocerca gregaria), that are ravaging crops in north-west India. The panic has become so widespread that the Nilgiris Collector Innocent Divya had to address concerns of the swarm reaching Tamil Nadu. She said, after verifying with experts, it was learned that the species captured and placed inside a glass jar was not a desert locust. But she added that officials from the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University would inspect the district soon to take stock of the situation just in case. Such unreasonable panic about an insect with which we usually share our backyards with are unwarranted, say entomologists. Explaining the beneficial role grasshoppers play in local ecology, Dhaneesh Bhaskar, a member of the Grasshopper Specialist Group of the Species Survival Commission of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), said that the grasshoppers can induce nutrient cycling in ecosystems. They help in the management of an ecosystem as they are an indicator of the health of biodiversity in any given area. Mr. Bhaskar said that none of the three species noticed in the Nilgiris and surrounding regions are an immediate threat, but added that species like the Bombay locust and the Cyrtacanthacris tartarica are capable of undergoing a “phase transformation.”
30 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 32.86 crore allocated for works in horticulture farms||Virudhunagar district administration has allocated Rs. 32.86 crore for providing drip irrigation, sprinkler irrigation and sub-surface water management scheme for 2020-21. In a statement, Collector R. Kannan said that horticulture crops had been cultivated on 10,642 h.a. and coconut palms on 10,005 h.a. In order to make judicious usage of water against the backdrop of decrease in the water resources and rainy days and to increase the area of cultivation of horticulture crops, the district has been implementing Prime Minister’s Precision Irrigation scheme through Department of Horticulture. Drip irrigation and sprinkler irrigation facility would be provide for 4,070 hectare at a cost of Rs. 27.49 crore. Besides, under sub-surface water management, new deep borewell would be sunk and motorpump with pipelines and water storage tanks would be provided at a cost of Rs. 5.37 crore. The statement said 100 % subsidy would be given to marginal farmers for land up to 2.5 acres and for small farmers 100 % subsidy would be given for land up 5 acres. For other farmers, a subsidy of 75% would be given for 12.5 acres. Under the sub-surface water management scheme 500 borewells would be sunk for moderate depth in firkas identified as safe zone for groundwater availability with a subsidy of Rs. 25,000 each. Besides, a subsidy of Rs. 15,000 each for 1,077 diesel/electric motorpumps would be given. The statement added that Rs. 10,000 per ha of subsidy would be given for laying pipelines on 1,425 ha. At total of 270 ground-level water storage sumps would be constructed at a cost of Rs. 40,000 each. Interested farmers can submit their applications with the respective office of Block Assistant Director (Horticulture) with all relevant documents like adangal, computer chital, land map, soil and water quality test reports, the statement added.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Grasshoppers being mistaken to be part of locust swarm||On Thursday, a resident of Khandal near Udhagamandalam spotted a species of locust near his home. Afraid that the locust swarms he had seen on television had reached the Nilgiris, he captured the insect and informed local mediapersons and even the district administration. On closer inspection, it turned out that the locust the man found was a completely different species than the one decimating crops in North India. But, the incident has served to highlight the inherent fear which is driving people towards panic when they spot harmless grasshoppers in their own backyard. Over the last few days, three kinds of locusts and grasshoppers – the spotted coffee grasshopper (Aularches miliaris), the Bombay locust (Patanga succincta) and the Cyrtacanthacris tartarica, a type of grasshopper widespread throughout Afria and Indo-China, have been mistaken to be part of the dreaded swarm of desert locusts (Schistocerca gregaria), that are ravaging crops in North-West India. The panic has become so widespread that the Nilgiris Collector had to address concerns of the swarm reaching Tamil Nadu. The Collector said that after verifying with experts, it was learnt that the species captured and placed inside a glass jar in Udhagamandalam was not a desert locust. She said that officials from the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University would inspect the district soon to take stock of the situation. Such unreasonable panic about an insect with which we usually share our backyard are unwarranted, say entomologists. Explaining the beneficial role grasshoppers play in local ecology, Dhaneesh Bhaskar, a member of the Grasshopper Specialist Group of the Species Survival Commission of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), said that grasshoppers are herbivorous animals that can induce nutrient cycling in ecosystems. He added that they help in the management of an ecosystem as they are an indicator of the health of biodiversity in any given area. He said that while several grasshopper species meet certain criteria for them to be termed as locusts, only a few migratory locust species, such as the Locusta migratoria and Schistocerca gregaria (the desert locust) form hopper bands that coalesce together under certain conditions after undergoing a “phase transformation” where they change from being solitary individuals, to becoming a part of a swarm, capable of covering vast distances and becoming voracious feeders. Mr. Bhaskar said that none of the three species noticed in the Nilgiris and surrounding regions are an immediate threat, but added that species like the Bombay locust and the Cyrtacanthacris tartarica are capable of undergoing a “phase transformation.” “However, though members of the Cyrtacanthacris tartarica can come together and form large groups of individuals, it has never been documented as turning into a swarm like the desert locust, while the last swarm of Bombay locusts was recorded in 1927,” added another local entomologist from the Nilgiris.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Heat-induced temper made elephant trample mahout’||In the wake of the recent incident in which a mahout was trampled by an elephant of Subramaniya Swamy Temple in Tirupparankundram, an expert has called for measures to keep the elephants cool during the scorching summer, a time when their tempers run high. According to a temple official, Deivanai, the 13-year-old elephant, trampled the mahout when he tried to tether it after an evening walk inside the temple. He later succumbed to the injuries. The elephant was going through her estrous cycle when she turned violent. Now three persons, including one from Aruppukottai, are looking after the elephant. A forest official said it was the third violent incident with the elephant. Apart from the Tirupparankundram temple, two other shrines in Madurai district - Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple and Sundararaja Perumal Temple in Alagarkoil - had elephants. Besides, four elephants were owned by individuals - three in Tallakulam and one in Melur. Regional Joint Director of Animal Husbandry D. Suresh Christopher said the body temperature of elephants tend to rise during summer. Due to the dark complexion, elephants absorbed more heat. First, the animals must be fed green and succulent vegetables and fruits, including watermelons and banana stems. Regular walks in the mornings and evenings would keep them in good cheer. They must be bathed often during summer to bring down the body temperature. While all the three temples had bathing pools, Meenakshi temple and Subramaniya Swamy temple also had shower facilities. “We’ve asked for installation of water-misting fans to bring down the room temperature,” he said. Mr. Christopher said they were also exploring the possibility of arranging mud baths for the elephants, because they tend to throw mud upon themselves to lower their body temperature in the natural habitat.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fresh spike of 874 cases takes T.N. past 20,000-mark||Experts said that restrictions should continue on places of worship, educational institutions, cinemas, malls and public transport, while calling for routine testing of healthcare workers, strict implementation of masks in workplaces and other public places. Nine deaths Of the nine deaths, five persons died at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) and four in private hospitals. Four of the deceased were women. The 32-year-old man, who tested positive for COVID-19, was admitted to RGGGH at 12.35 a.m. May 28. He died at 9.20 p.m. the same day due to cardiopulmonary arrest, COVID-19 pneumonia, type I respiratory failure, hypoxic encephalopathy and acute respiratory distress syndrome. The number of COVID-19 cases has been steadily rising in Chengalpattu. With 61 new cases, the district’s total of positive cases reached 1,000 on Friday. There were 14 cases in Tiruvannamalai, 12 in Kancheepuram, nine in Tiruvallur, five each in Cuddalore and Kallakurichi, four in Tirunelveli, one each in Ariyalur, Dindigul, Kanniyakumari, Tiruchi and Villupuram. The fresh cases included a total of 141 persons who had returned from other States and tested positive for COVID-19. Out of this, 129 persons had returned from Maharashtra. A total of 72 of them, who were under railway quarantine, tested positive, while the remaining tested positive in districts including Tiruvannamalai, Tirunelveli and Kallakurichi. Three persons from Kerala, and one person each from West Bengal, Telangana and Karnataka have also tested positive. Six persons, who had returned to the State from Maharashtra in a flight, also tested positive for COVID-19. Samples tested A total of 4,66,550 samples have been tested so far, including the day’s samples of 11,334. One more testing facility has been approved in the government sector — the Communicable Diseases Hospital, Chennai. As of now, there are 43 testing facilities in the government sector and 28 in the private sector.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)   One more testing facility has been approved in the government sector — the Communicable Diseases Hospital, Chennai
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man held for placing meat outside two temples||The City Police arrested a man on charges of placing pork pieces in front of two temples on Sullivan Street here on Friday. The accused was identified as Hari Ram Prakash, 48, from Kavundampalayam, police said. He placed the pork pieces concealed in carry bags in front of the closed doors of both the temples at around 10.30 a.m. and left on his two-wheeler. The temples, which are about 50 m apart on Sullivan Street, remain closed as part of the COVID-19 lockdown. Big Bazaar Street police traced him using the CCTV camera footages in which his vehicle registration number was visible and arrested him in the evening. Based on complaints from the temple officials, Big Bazaar Street Police registered two separate cases under sections 295A (Deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups) and 298 (Uttering words, etc., with deliberate intent to wound religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code. A senior officer said that the accused did not belong to any organisation and the motive behind the act was unclear. He appeared to be mentally disturbed, although no medical records pertaining to any mental illness were available, he said. No other persons were involved in the case, he added. The incident initially led to resurfacing of communal tensions in the city. At around 11.30 a.m., members of Hindu Munnani gathered in front of the two temples and staged a demonstration demanding the arrest of the accused. “At a moment when the State government is considering reopening the temples from June 1, this act will disrupt the public peace of Coimbatore,” a Hindu Munnani spokesperson alleged. A team of police officers led by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) L. Balaji Saravanan visited the temples. The pork pieces were later disposed of and the entrances of both the temples were cleaned, police said. Around 10 police personnel were deployed for each temple and security was tightened across Coimbatore.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Visual treat||
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman decapitated in freak accident near Sulur||In a freak accident, a pregnant woman was decapitated in a wood cutting workshop near Sulur on Friday. According to the police, Kalpana (23) was working in the workshop run by her husband Dharmaraj in Kalangal Road. On Friday at around 11.30 a.m., she was working with a polishing machine alone when her shawl got caught in the machine. Due to the sudden pull, she tripped and her head got stuck inside the machine, leading to the decapitation. The deceased was said to be five months pregnant, police said. Sulur police booked the husband under section 304A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code and further investigations are on.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A hungry bird!||
30 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Officials close minor roads connecting Maharashtra||Following the State government’s decision to stop the entry of persons from Maharashtra into Karnataka, the district administration officials closed all minor roads connecting Belagavi and Maharashtra on Friday. Roads that are not national highways, such as the Sadalaga-Dhanwad Road, the Examba-Takali Road, the Borgaon-Ichalkaranji Road, the Examba-Dattawad Road and the Sadalaga-Ghosarwad Road were closed. The police and the Revenue Department personnel put up barricades and piled up mounds of mud on the roads to stop people from entering the State. Check-posts have also been set up on the National Highways as per the standard operating protocol at three places. A multi-phase check-post has been put up in Kuganoli. “Owing to the rising number of cases, we have clear instructions to stop the entry of persons from five high-risk States. We are following the instructions strictly,” Inspector-General of Police (Northern Range) Raghavendra Suhas told The Hindu . Roads from three high-risk States [Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan] pass through Belagavi, Vijayapura and Bagalkot. “The first entry points on the National Highway and other highways are along the Belagavi district border. We are taking all steps to stop entry of people along the main roads, minor roads and other possible routes,” he said. According to him, special focus is on Nippani and Chikkodi taluks as they have porous borders. “We have posted constables and officers in various villages, and have also campaigned among the villagers to alert officials if they see anyone crossing the border,” he said.
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Huge influx of travellers increases backlog of samples awaiting tests||Although Karnataka has ramped up its testing facilities with 60 labs, the huge influx of people from other States has resulted in a massive backlog of samples awaiting tests in various laboratories across the State. According to official estimates, over 30,000 samples of the one lakh collected in the last one week have piled up in various labs and more are getting accumulated. Even if the labs test to their average full capacity of 200 samples a day, it will take at least eight days for the backlog to be cleared. At premier institutes Also with most labs in the districts not taking up testing to their optimum capacity, the three premier labs in Bengaluru at NIMHANS, BMCRI, and NIV State Unit are compensating by testing 500 to 1,000 samples a day. Samples from other districts, especially in north Karnataka, are being reallocated to these three labs and are under process. Attributing the backlog to the “generous sample collection and testing” policy being undertaken in the State, C.N. Manjunath, who is the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said there is a gap of two to three days in getting the results after the samples are collected as they are reallocated and transported to other primary labs. In districts such as Kalaburagi and Yadgir, wherenearly 37,000 and 10,000 samples have been collected, respectively, in the last one week, the backlog is huge, he said. According to data from districts, as on May 28, the highest number of samples whose results are awaited are in Vijayapura at 11,108. However, Vijayapura Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil said all these were of travellers who fall in the non-emergency category. In Kalaburagi, as many as 5,374 samples are pending at the VRDL lab in the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences. Kalaburgi Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat said this includes 3,452 samples of Maharashtra returnees and 1,900 samples from different places in the district. This is apart from the 5,161 samples sent to NIMHANS in Bengaluru. In Yadgir, the test reports of 7,288 samples are awaited. “Kalaburagi district has received the largest number of migrants from Maharashtra — around 32,000 — in the entire State and thus the sample collection is also relatively high. It naturally overburdened the Kalaburgi lab,” he said. However, Hassan, which is one of the 10 districts that saw a sudden spurt in the number of positive cases after the curbs were eased, the pendency is minimal, with results of only 139 samples awaited. B.C. Ravi Kumar, director of the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS), said 487 samples were sent to Bengaluru as the HIMS lab could handle only up to 300 samples a day. Belagavi has a pendency of 1,313 samples, which is 10 times the number of pending tests prevailing in the first week of April. V. Ravi, senior professor and head of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, who is also part of the COVID-19 expert committee, said 3,500 samples were pending in the NIMHANS lab. This includes nearly 2,000 samples sent from Kalaburagi, he said. Similarly, at the VRDL lab in BMCRI, over 2,300 samples are under process. Shantala G.B., assistant professor of microbiology at BMCRI, said the lab was overburdened with an average of 1,000 samples being sent from north Karnataka districts daily. Reason for restriction Sources said it was because of this huge backlog that the government had now decided to restrict movement of travellers from the high prevalence States. “We cannot achieve anything by testing indiscriminately as community transmission cannot be stopped now,” said a senior official.  (With inputs from Afshan Yasmeen, Kumar Buradikatti, Rishikesh Bahadur Desai, Sathish G.T., Ravikumar Naraboli, and Firoz Rozindar)
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Efforts to change bylaws of labour institute draw criticism||In the midst of its fight against COVID-19, the changes made by the State government to the bylaws of the Karnataka State Labour Institute (KSLI) allowing retired IAS officers to head it has come under cloud. The Vice-Chancellor of the National Law School of India University (NLSIU), which is a founding partner of the institute, has shot off a letter to the Labour Secretary, opposing changes being planned without discussion. Instead of calling for the institutes’s general body meeting to discuss the amendment seeking to change the qualification criteria for director’s post, the Labour Department resorted to “circular resolution”. This meant the agenda was circulated and consent taken without discussion. The department justified this citing lockdown and urgency of the matter. With this amendment, the qualification for the post of the institute’s director, which would otherwise go to a senior academic with Ph.D and research experience, will go to a retired IAS officer who has served as secretary or commissioner in the Labour Department. The justification for the change, according to the agenda, was that “it was becoming difficult to appoint a suitable candidate because most of the retired professors from universities were unavailable.” It further said, “Since most of the director’s work pertained to administration, it would be better to appoint those with experience as secretary or commissioner of Labour Department, who have not attained 67 years of age, instead of an academician.” Interestingly, while changing the appointment criteria for the post of Registrar, the department had said that since the institute conducts research on labour, the Registrar should be a person with knowledge on labour issues. However, a Registrar’s role is largely administrative, sources pointed out. The institute’s bylaws were modified in 2018 after a series of discussions with labour experts. It was then felt that an academician with a wealth of knowledge and experience would head the institute. In fact, sources aware of the developments pointed out that an effort to have retired IAS officers head the institute while bylaws were being redrafted was made then too but without avail. It has now made a comeback, amidst the pandemic. Meanwhile, NLSIU Vice-Chancellor Sudhir Krishnaswamy, said in his letter dated May 12 to the Labour Secretary, “In the light of the objectives (of the institute), we are particularly concerned by the proposed amendments to bylaw no. 14(1)(a), which deals with the qualifications of the director. To achieve KLRI’s objective, the leadership of this institute must have adequate academic qualification to lead research and promote creative ideas.”  Eligibility criteria Further, he said: “The eligibility criteria for selecting a permanent director should, above all, include academic qualifications like a Ph.D from a reputed institution and the ability to lead a group of researchers with multi-disciplinary PG qualifications.” Experience in the field of labour administration through various functions within the Labour Department will be an additional qualification but not substitute capability of leading research work, which is a core objective of KLRI, Prof. Krishnaswamy argued. Warning of legal challenges that this amendment could face, he said: “I am not in favour of the proposed amendment. Ideally, these matters must be discussed in a general body meeting with members present through video conferencing.”   Labour commissioner K.G. Shantharam, who currently holds additional charge as director of the institute, was not available for comment.
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Travellers coming to State have to pay for their own tests||International air passengers and inter-State air and train passengers arriving in State will have to now get their COVID-19 “pooled sample test” done in a private lab that would cost them Rs. 650. The government, however, will pay for those who cannot afford it. An order issued on Friday states that each traveller will have to pay a private lab which will conduct the test by the pooling method. According to the Indian Council for Medical Research, this method involves five samples being taken and tested together. The order comes a day after the Department of Health and Family Welfare said it was not necessary for passengers coming from high-risk States, who finished their seven-day quarantine period, to undergo a COVID-19 test. According to sources, Friday’s decision was because it would be difficult for all passengers coming from high-risk States to be quarantined for seven days in hotels and lodges. On those who cannot afford to pay, Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare, said, “This is only an order to facilitate private labs to conduct tests. Once the swab collection centres come up, we will plan how it will be done in the next two or three days.” He said the State government would pay for those who cannot afford to pay. An official who monitors testing of people in Bengaluru, however, said the order lacked clarity. The department issued a clarification and said this order was issued to “improve the participation of private labs that have been approved by the ICMR in testing and were currently running at sub-optimal level”. It is also to help the special category passengers and their attendants to leave early after giving the sample once the swab collection centres are established at airport/ railway stations etc. The department also clarified that there is no change in the institutional quarantine period for those coming from high-risk States and they would have to complete their seven-day quarantine.
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Film industry keen to restart, but not everyone is on board||The Kannada film industry, which has been in limbo since the lockdown began, is keen to restart —both shooting and screenings — from June 1 and has sought the government’s nod. This, comes shortly after shooting of television serials began in the State and the Producers’ Guild of India issued detailed guidelines for film shooting across the country. “It is high time we returned to normalcy. The Chief Minister has already indicated that places of worship, hotels, and even malls may be opened from June 1. We want the film industry to chug back to life and are prepared to take all precautionary measures,” said D.R. Jairaj, chairman, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce. He, however, rejected the guidelines issued by the Producers’ Guild of India terming them as more suited to Bollywood offerings with “mega budget” and not for the Kannada film industry. “We need to evolve our own safety protocols more suited to our industry and budget,” he said. The guidelines suggest thermal screening, presence of two doctors on the set in shifts, an ambulance on standby, fumigation and sanitation of all locations before the shooting, health and life insurance for every member on the set, among a host of other measures.  Many raise concerns Several veteran film-makers and workers’ unions have raised concerns over the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce’s push to restart as their opinions have not been sought on the matter. Ashok, chairperson of the Kannada Film Workers’, Artists’ and Technicians’ Federation, said despite the fact that they play an important role in film shoots, the federation has not been consulted to date. “There are nearly 5,000 workers who earn their daily living from the industry, who are suffering the most owing to the lockdown. We have an interest in restarting work, but our lives are more important. We will resume work only if our safety is assured. Health and death insurance for everyone is a must,” he said. Film-maker and producer B. Suresha cautioned the industry not to take advantage and misuse people’s desperation for work. Even those batting for filming to resume say only smaller productions that can be executed with a handful of people on the set can resume shooting. Senior producer Rockline Venkatesh, whose Darshan-starrer Raja Veera Madakari Nayaka is on the floors, said, his production — a period film — could not be shot with less than 400 to 600 people on the set. “Even if the government allows shooting, we cannot resume with the restrictions on the number of people on a set. I am planning for a tentative shooting schedule in August,” he said. He, however, pointed out that smaller productions that were under severe financial stress should be allowed to resume shooting. “Producers need to bear additional costs of safety measures such as sanitisation of the location, provision of masks, gloves, transport, and insurance. It is possible to accommodate these costs in a viable manner,” he said. Cap on theatres An exhibitor as well, Mr. Venkatesh said theatres must also be opened, but with a cap on the occupancy rate to maintain social distancing. “We need to live with this virus. Though it cannot be back to normal pre-COVID-19 days, we need to adapt to the new situation, but resume economic activities,” he said. Kannada television serials restarted shooting on May 25 and channels have announced new episodes of serials will be telecast from June 1. “All artistes are doing their own make-up. Sets have thermal screening and we have insured all those working. We are slowly adapting to the new normal, working with fewer people and avoiding physical proximity,” he said.
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Highest single-day spike; one more death in State||About 91% of the 248 cases reported on Friday in Karnataka are passengers who had come from other States. With 248 new cases — the highest so far for a single day in State — the total number of positive cases in Karnataka stands at 2,781. As many as 227 of the new cases were people who had domestic travel history and a majority of them had returned from Maharashtra. One patient had an international travel history. A 50-year-old female patient, a resident of Chickballapur, passed away on Friday. She was admitted to a hospital in Bengaluru Urban on Thursday, tested positive for COVID-19 and died on Friday. With this, the total number of deaths related to COVID-19 in the State stands at 48. Councillor tests positive A BBMP councillor of an affected ward in Bengaluru has tested positive for COVID-19. “The councillor had been overseeing relief measures and distribution of essentials in a containment zone and may have contracted the virus while overseeing relief measures,” sources said.
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Can govt. grant exemption to all factories from law extending working hours?’||The Karnataka High Court has directed the State government to explain if it can grant to all factories exemptions from the provisions of the Factories Act allowing the factories to extend working hours for employees. Also, the court directed the State government to produce the official file related to decision taken for granting exemptions to the factories. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued directions on a PIL petition filed by Maruthi S. The petitioner challenged the May 22, 2020, notification issued by the government granting exemption to factories. Section 5 of the Factories Act, 1948, states that government, during “public emergency”, can exempt any factory or class or description of factories, and prima facie Section 5 does not contemplate granting of blanket exemption to all factories, the Bench observed. The Bench also asked the government to justify that there exists public emergency. As per the Act, “public emergency” means a grave emergency whereby the security of India or of any part of the territory thereof is threatened, whether by war or external aggression of internal disturbance. The court also observed that no condition or direction under the Factories Act appears to have imposed on factories to ensure that they follow norms of COVID-19 like wearing masks and gloves, using sanitiser, social distancing, etc. The petitioner pointed out to the court that the Rajasthan government had imposed several conditions on factories and the Gujarat government had ordered that no factories could force workers to work beyond six hours continuously, and if such need arises, a break of minimum 30 minutes will have to be provided. The Bench said that it will consider the plea of the petitioner to stay the notification on June 5 after the State government responds to the court‘s queries and the contentions of the petitioner.
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Delegation meets CM||A delegation led by Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy chairman Sunil Puranik called on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday and submitted a memorandum seeking permission for film shoots to resume. The Chief Minister promised to take a decision after consulting with the Centre after May 31. The former president of Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce Sa.Ra. Govind was part of the delegation.
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC grants bail to 126 accused in Padarayanapura case||The Karnataka High Court on Friday granted bail to 126 accused persons connected to the cases of attack on health workers and the police in Padarayanapura last month. Justice John Michael Cunha passed the order while allowing petitions filed by Vazeer Khan alias Wajid and 125 other accused persons. The court imposed several conditions including directing that they should be subjected to medical examination before release and if found to have symptoms of COVID-19, then authorities can take action as per norms issued by the Central and State governments. If the petitioners violate any of the norms of COVID-19 issued by the State government or condition laid down by the High Court, the police could seek bail cancellation.
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six arrested on murder charge||Sleuths from the Organised Crime Wing of Central Crime Branch received a tip-off from an informant early on Friday of a gang wielding lethal weapons on the prowl. This helped the team stop a car with six men near Talaghattapura. The men were carrying lethal weapons. All the six accused who were arrested are in their late 20s. Under sustained interrogation, they allegedly revealed that they had murdered another history-sheeter Saabu, also from Talaghattapura, a few hours before being picked up by the police.
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Guidelines for prayers in masjids||A group of Islamic organisations in consultation with scholars and the community have issued guidelines on offering prayers in mosques and masjids. It states that it is the responsibility of masjid committees to ensure government regulations are implemented and health precautions are taken. Masjid floors and washrooms should be regularly cleaned with disinfectants. Those going to pray have been asked to perform the cleansing ritual at home and bring their own prayer mats. People have to wear masks and use sanitizers, and spend as little time as possible at prayer halls.
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BWSSB phone-in programme (Ad request)||BWSSB has organised a phone-in programme to address grievances on billing, supply, manhole overflowing and sanitary issues. People can call 080-22945119 between 9 a.m. and 10.30 a.m, on Saturday (May 30).
30 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Dharwad records another COVID-19 positive case||Dharwad district on Friday reported another COVID-19 case with a 65-year-old person who had travelled to Mumbai testing positive for the infection. With Friday’s case, the number of positive cases in the district has gone up to 43. Of these, 11 persons have been discharged from hospital so far and there are 32 active cases. The 65-year-old man (P-2,710) was under institutional quarantine after his return from Mumbai with five of his family members. The test results of samples of five of his family members are awaited.
30 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Inferior seed potatoes procured in Hassan’||Congress leader H.K. Mahesh on Friday alleged that the district administration had procured seed potatoes of inferior quality for cultivation in Hassan district. Mr. Mahesh said the farmers who purchased seed potatoes from the APMC yard in the city were facing hardship as the seed potatoes had started rotting in the ground. Saying that seeds have rotted away in eight acres of land at Bylahalli village in Hassan taluk alone, he called for a government survey of losses and compensation disbursal.
30 May 2020||Hassan/Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||More cases reported in various districts||Four more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan on Friday, increasing the total number of confirmed cases in the district to 144. Among them, three were contacts of a couple the tested positive after returning from Mumbai. After the couple tested positive, their baby tested negative. The baby had been with the grandmother and uncle. Now all three have tested positive. The other person who tested positive had come in contact with the police, being tested after returning from Nippani in Belagavi. In Chikkamagaluru, two more persons tested positive for the infection. Both had just returned from Delhi. One more case Shivamogga Staff Reporter writes:One more positive case of COVID-19 was reported in the district on Friday, taking the tally to 35. According to the afternoon bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the patient, identified as P-2583, is a 35-year-old with travel history to New Delhi. On her return to the district on May 20, she was subjected to medical examination and was lodged at a quarantine facility. The result of the tests conducted on her swab samples on May 22 came back negative. She was diagnosed positive in the second test conducted on her swab samples at the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory on Friday. She was immediately shifted to the designated hospital in Shivamogga city. Doctors said she was stable. Meanwhile, three persons from the district having a travel history to Gujarat and who tested positive on May 9 were discharged from hospital upon recovery on Friday.
30 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Transport corpns. have suffered Rs. 1,800 cr. loss, says Savadi||Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi has said that the four transport corporations of the State had incurred Rs. 1,800 crore loss as they operated with reduced number of passengers. Addressing a press conference on the Deputy Commissioner’s office premises in Haveri on Friday, Mr. Savadi said that this apart, the transport corporations were yet to receive Rs. 2,960 crore grants towards concessional passes given to students. Steps would be taken to get the grants released in a phased manner, he said. The Minister said that despite the loss, buses were run ensuring social distancing for the benefit of the travelling public. “Considering the loss, the officials have been directed to come out with plans to make up for it, including bringing down establishment and maintenance costs and plugging revenue pilferage,” he said. He said that a decision on regularising public transport services as per COVID-19 advisory by the Union government would be taken in consultation with the Chief Minister after the publication of the advisory. Mr. Savadi said that steps would be taken to further strengthen the Haveri division of NWKRTC, including introducing new buses, and take up improvement in depot infrastructure as per the demand of the local elected representatives. He said that shifting of the Ranebennur bus station to the outskirts of the city, and renovation and construction of various bus stations would be considered. The Minister said that officials had been directed to take action against private operators violating permit regulations, including cancellation of permits. Home Minister and district in-charge Basavaraj Bommai, MP Shivakumar Udasi, MLAs Nehru Olekar, Virupakshappa Ballari, Arunkumar Guttur, Chairman of NWKRTC V.S. Patil, Deputy Commissioner of Haveri Krishna Bajpai and others were present.
30 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Five-month-old baby recovers in Karwar||The Uttara Kannada district administration is delighted as a five-month-old baby girl has recovered from COVID-19 despite having other health issues. P-747, the baby girl was suffering from development brain problems since one month at First Neuro Hospital in Mangaluru. As she got infected with SARS-COV-2, she was admitted to Karwar Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) Hospital on May 8. A team of doctors, including paediatricians Vishwanath, Soniya and Praveen, attended on the girl and kept her under constant observation as she suffered from episodes of convulsion (epilepsy). Now, after treatment for 19 days, the baby girl has recovered fully much to the joy of the KIMS staff and the Uttara Kannada district administration. On Thursday, along with the baby girl, two others, a two-year old baby (P-1,206) and a 76-year old woman (P-744) with co-morbidity, were discharged from the hospital. So far, 29 COVID-19 patients have been discharged after complete recovery from the pandemic in the district.
30 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||61 migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra test positive in Kalaburagi||In a big spike of COVID-19 cases in Kalaburagi district, as many 61 people who recently returned to the district from Maharashtra, one of the worst COVID-19-hit States in the country, tested positive for the disease on Friday. With the new cases, the total number of positive cases for the disease jumped to 251 which included seven deaths and 85 people discharged from hospital upon recovery. According to information provided by the office of Deputy Commissioner, all the cases were reported from quarantine centres as the migrant workers were kept under mandatory quarantine at State-run facilities just as they reached the district. The new cases included nine children aged less than 10 and one person aged 60 which categories were vulnerable to the deadly disease. Kalaburagi is one among the few districts that had received relatively more number of migrant workers from Maharashtra. According to Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat, the district had received more than 31500 migrant workers from Maharashtra as of Wednesday. Throat swab samples of over 13,700 of them were collected and sent to laboratories in Kalaburagi and Bengaluru.  Discharged As many as 10 people recovered from COVID-19 infection and were discharged from hospital on Friday, taking the total number of recovered patients to 85. The recovered patients are a 35-year-old man from Afzalpur (P-805); a 30-year-old man from Kamalapur (P-806); a 19-year-old man from Yadrami (P-954); a 42-year-old man (P-952), a 28-year-old woman (P-955), a 15-year-old girl (P-956) and a 35-year-old woman (P-957) from Muddadaga village in Aland taluk; a 14-year-old boy from Mominpur area (P-866), a 28-year-old man from Gajipur (P-984) and a 30-year-old woman from Hale Bhovigalli (P-1,038) in Kalaburagi city. With the new cases and the recoveries, the number of active cases in the district stood at 159.
30 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah demands action against MLA||Taking exception to the alleged threats to District Officer of Backward Classes Welfare Department Ramesh G. Sanga in Kalaburagi by supporters of Kalaburagi MLA Dattatreya Patil Revoor, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah demanded that the government take action against the offenders. In a video message on Friday, Mr. Siddaramaiah expressed displeasure over the police not accepting a complaint and demanded that the police register an FIR and arrest the offenders.
30 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress alleges graft in PPE purchase||Accusing some Ministers of indulging in corrupt practices in the purchase of Personal Protection Equipment and other medical appliances for COVID-19 treatment, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working president Saleem Ahmed said on Friday that Speaker VishweshwarHegde Kageri should have permitted the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of the Legislative Assembly to inquire into the issue. H.K. Patil, who heads the committee, on Thursday had criticised Mr. Kageri’s decision to stop the committee members from probing charges into “gross misuse of public fund during procurement of health equipment to fight COVID-19 in the State”. In a letter to the Speaker, Mr. Patil said Mr. Kageri had issued an order preventing him and the panel members from conducting the probe into alleged misuse of money by government departments in the procurement of health equipment for handling COVID-19. Mr. Kageri had responded to it saying that the restrictions were only on account of the lockdown. Mr. Ahmed told reporters that there were allegations against some Ministers for bagging the contract for the supply of PPEs and other medical equipment for the firms of their close associates. The Speaker should have been fair and granted permission to Mr. Patil to inquire into the issue, Mr. Ahmed said, and added that denial of permission gives rise to suspicion.
30 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Uttara Kannada teachers fail to turn up for II PU evaluation on day one||No teachers from Uttara Kannada turned up, while a few from Udupi district turned up on the first day of the evaluation work for the II Pre University Examination answer sheets that commenced in Mangaluru on Friday. All teachers from Dakshina Kannada are yet to take up evaluation work. Valuation of seven subjects commenced at the five valuation centres in the city. It relates to Business Studies, History, Economics, Accountancy, Political Science, Kannada and Malayalam subjects. The Dakshina Kannada Pre University Principals Association had expressed concern over conducting valuation and had sought public transport and lodging facility. It had also demanded sanitisers and other facilities to prevent likely COVID-19 infection among evaluators. Additional Deputy Commissioner M.J. Roopa said that arrangement has been made from lodging evaluators coming to the city from the neighbouring districts and from far away places within Dakshina Kannada. The evaluators will also be provided food. KSRTC buses have also been provided. Sanitisers, scanners and other needs of the evaluators have been met. “Letters are being written to inform lecturers from Uttara Kannada and Udupi districts about the arrangements made here. We have answered all the concerns. We want more number of lecturers to turn up and carry out their work,” Ms. Roopa told The Hindu . On Friday, some lecturers came to the valuation centres on their own or riding along with fellow valuators, others came on KSRTC buses. “Work is on to streamline the use of public transportation,” said a lecturer involved with the work. To ensure social distancing, 12 evaluators were accommodated in one classroom. “We are expecting an increase in the number of evaluators on Saturday and Monday,” the lecturer added. The State government has given time till Monday for the teachers to report for evaluation of answer scripts.
30 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. firm on flyover name’||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar said on Friday that there was no question of backtracking on the decision to name the flyover at Yelahanka after Vinayak Damodar Savarkar. He told mediapersons that the government will not be cowed down by protests. He said the inauguration of the flyover was postponed owing to the lockdown and the norms of social distancing in place.
30 May 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to ban online classes for LKG, UKG students||The State government will put an end to online classes being conducted for LKG and UKG children by a few educational institutions and will issue a circular directing the institutions to suspend the classes. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar told mediapersons on Friday that the decision was based on the NIMHANS report which stated that children upto 6 years of age should not be subjected to online teaching. The Minister said there were complaints from various quarters including parents of affected children that a few educational institutions had introduced such classes. “Online is the new buzzword in the present times and parents of LKG and UKG children were being harassed for fee. I wrote to NIMHANS seeking a comprehensive report on the pros and cons of online teaching for children,” said Mr. Suresh Kumar. On the commencement of the new academic year, Mr. Suresh Kumar said they were waiting for guidelines from the Centre. He said social distancing norms and safety measures will be in place and nearly 6.5 lakh students across Karnataka appearing for the SSLC examination will be provided masks. The evaluation of the II PU answer scripts (barring English rescheduled for June 18) was underway and the results could be expected in July. Likewise, the results of the SSLC examination – to be held from June 25 to July 4 – may be expected by July end.
30 May 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Raichur registers 61 fresh positive cases||As many as 61 positive cases of COVID-19 were registered in Raichur district on Friday, Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar said addressing a press conference in Raichur. Of the 61 cases, the highest of 56 were from Deodurg taluk, followed by five from Raichur taluk. With this, the total number of positive cases has gone up to 133. He clarified that the case of P-1,959, whose number had already published, was repeated in the State’s morning bulletin taking the total to 62. Therefore, this number, P-1959, was later removed from the district’s list of positive cases, the Deputy Commissioner added.
30 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for attempt to murder escapes||A person arrested in an attempt-to-murder case escaped from the government JC hospital in Tirthahalli town on Thursday. The police had arrested K. Manjunatha Gowda, a resident of Kunaje village, on the charges of attempting to kill Ramachandra, an agricultural labourer, by firing at him with a country-made revolver. According to the police, when the victim was returning home on his bike after finishing work at a nearby arecanut plantation, the accused intercepted him and said the sound from his bike was annoying him and his family members. This resulted in a heated argument between them. In a fit of anger, the accused allegedly fired at the victim, causing serious injury to his thigh and legs. Based on the victim’s complaint, the police arrested Gowda. He also lodged a complaint alleging that Ramachandra had assaulted him.He was admitted to the hospital for treatment. On Thursday, he hoodwinked the police and escaped. A manhunt has been launched. Gowda had contested in the 2013 Assembly elections from Tirthahalli segment as a candidate of Bahujan Samaj Party, and in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Shivamogga.
30 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||KDP meeting||The tri-monthly progress review meeting of Karnataka Development Programme will be held at the zilla panchayat hall here on Saturday. The meeting will commence at 10 a.m.
30 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Extended fishing period fails to cheer fishermen in Malpe||Though the State government has extended the fishing season till June 14, the Malpe Fishermen Association has decided to end all fishing in the sea by the end of this month. The annual ban on fishing by mechanised boats, which usually used to begin on June 1, has been changed this year, and it will be from June 15 to July 31. Association president Krishna J. Suvarna said here on Friday that while the association welcomed the decision to extend the fishing period till June 15, it was not possible to carry out fishing as the insurance coverage of boats was up to May 31. The association had directed mechanised boat fishermen to unload all fish in their boats by June 6. The sea was normally rough during this period and protection of boats was also important. With cases of COVID-19 increasing by the day in the district, the association also wanted to protect the health and lives of fishermen. Besides, the authorities had already directed fishermen not to venture into the sea till June 4 due to inclement weather, he said.
30 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Free private bus service evokes good response from Udupi commuters||The six-day free city bus service being provided by the private bus operators since May 25 has evoked a good response here. The private bus operators had stopped their service after the lockdown was announced in March and re-started it only on May 25. They offered free service to instil confidence among people so that they travelled on their buses. This was because there was poor response to the government city bus service here. As many as 10 private buses have been operating on seven routes in the city. Udupi City Private Bus Operators Association president Kuilady Suresh Nayak told The Hindu that nearly 4,800 passengers had availed of the free service on Friday. “The response is good so far. We have decided to run 23 buses on 20 routes from June 1. We will come to know the actual situation on Monday,” he said. The private buses have decided to provide “Chalo Card” to promote digital payment for city bus service. These cards will be made available in Udupi, Manipal, Malpe and Santhekatte, Mr. Nayak said.
30 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||15 test positive||As many as 15 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Friday. Of these, nine were men, four women and two boys aged six and seven.
30 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Yellow alert sounded||The district administration has urged people to take precaution and stay in safe places as the Meteorological Department had predicted rain ranging from 6.5 mm to 11.5 mm in Udupi district for three days till May 31. An Yellow Alert had been sounded. Hence, people should not get into rivers or sea. For emergencies, people ca call Ph: 1077 or 08202574802.
30 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||I got a call but I did not go, says Mudnal||“I was invited for dinner by some legislators. But, I did not go to Bengaluru in view of the emergency work in the constituency,” Venkatareddy Mudnal, BJP MLA from Yadgir, has said. Talking to The Hindu over phone from his native Mudnal village, Mr. Mudnal said, “I got a call from MLA Basavanagowda Patil Yatnal and MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur asking me to come to Bengaluru for dinner. But, due to emergency work related to COVID-19, I did not go,” he added. He said: “I plan to meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa about release of more grants for constituency.”
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Migrants taking shelter at Palace Grounds relocated||The roof of Tennis Pavilion, Palace Grounds, where nearly 200 migrant workers, including women and young children, were taking shelter was blown away on Friday evening as heavy rains accompanied by strong winds lashed the city. A lone police constable on duty, along with some workers, ensured that everyone was evacuated safely from the pavilion. According to volunteers, most of the migrants have been left with just the clothes on their back. Several volunteers are trying to organise dry clothes and blankets for them. They were later shifted to another site in Palace Grounds in buses. However, when they reached Tripura Vasini, they found the venue locked. According to the Meteorological Department, the city received 21.8 mm of rain until 8.30 p.m. The downpour also brought down trees near the Chief Minister’s residence, behind Vidhana Soudha, in front of the General Post Office, Veerannanapalya, Lumbini Gardens, near Cauvery theatre, 6th Block, Rajajinagar. Water logging was reported at K.R. Circle underpass, pipeline near Vijayanagara, Mayo Hall, and Radhakrishna temple. The city will receive rains, accompanied by winds, thunder and lightning, for another four to five days.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Fish kill in Kommaghatta lake again||Hundreds of dead fish were found floating in Kommaghatta lake, near Kengeri, much to the dismay of residents and environmental activists who expressed worry about the health of the lake and its ecology. Residents around the 37-acre lake claim that fish kill in the water body had occurred many times in the past. They alleged that despite repeated requests to agencies to clean or rejuvenate the lake, no improvement has been made. D.S. Gowda., president of Visvesvaraya Layout Welfare Association, located near the lake, recalled a time when people would swim in the lake. “That was 15 years ago. Regular dumping of waste, and inflow of sewage and industrial effluents in the past decade had almost killed the lake. We took the matter to the State Level Committee of the National Green Tribunal where the BDA had requested the BWSSB to build an STP near the lake. The BWSSB had prepared a DPR but there has been no action since then,” he alleged. Panchakshari K.S., member of the Sukikere Gram Panchayat, said that to control pollution in the lake, they had used aluminium sulfate (alum) quite a few times as a temporary measure. “We have repeatedly approached the departments concerned to stop sewage inflow. It is beyond our capacity to rejuvenate it,” he said. A BDA engineer said they had prepared an action plan to divert sewage.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||House collapse shows failure to remove slums||Following heavy rains on Thursday, a house in a slum near Puttenahalli lake collapsed, once again bringing to the fore the failure of the authorities in clearing slums from the lake area and relocating residents. Usha Rajagopalan, Puttenahalli Neighbourhood Lake Improvement Trust chairperson, told The Hindu that in 2010, there were around 40 houses. Over the years, the number had increased to 115. “The Slum Board had constructed temporary sheds for the slum dwellers at Bettadasanapura. However, the slum dwellers filed a writ petition demanding individual plots. While disposing the writ petition, the court had directed the Principal Secretary, Revenue Department, Deputy Commissioner (Urban), and Slum Board to take a decision to relocate the slum dwellers within 12 weeks. Yet, no action has been taken so far,” she said. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials told The Hindu that the civic body had transferred Rs. 70.75 lakh to relocate the slum dwellers. A senior official said that the civic body will not be able to take up lake development unless the slum dwellers are relocated. “However, the slum board is now claiming that the BBMP should relocate them,” the official said.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘KSLI can play key role’||The Karnataka State Labour Institute (KSLI) can play a pivotal role using research-based work for two reasons — migrant labour distress in the short term, and work on the Labour Codes coming up in future, say experts. “India is currently in the process of examining and converting -4 pieces of labour legislations into 4 Labour Codes. With labour in concurrent list, States will have herculean responsibility to draw rules and regulations to implement the code,” a labour expert said. “One must have a vast knowledge to understand the codes and their implications before making rules. There are very few experts in the field in India, and the institute under a research personality can take up the task,” he added. National Law School of India University Vice-Chancellor Sudhir Krishnaswamy also pointed out the issue. He said that KLRI “must be a leader in participating and contributing to this phase of labour reforms.”
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Correction||The headline of a report appearing in these columns on May 29, 2020 should read “Academics commended”, and not as published. The error is regretted.
30 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||One death in Alappuzha||A 36-year-old man who was in institutional quarantine at a COVID-19 care centre in the district after returning from the UAE earlier this week died of SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. He was a native of Pandanad. Officials said the person had been suffering from a liver ailment. After showing symptoms of liver disease, he was taken to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, in the morning. He died in the afternoon. Although the deceased had not shown symptoms of COVID-19, his body fluid samples tested positive. The number of cases continued to climb in the district with three more persons testing positive on Friday. Officials said all three had come from Gulf countries. One of the patients, hailing from Ambalappuzha taluk, reached the Cochin international airport from Kuwait on May 27. As he was showing symptoms, the person was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Ernakulam. The second person, a youth from Chengannur, had come from Dammam on May 19. The third one, a native of Kuttanad, came from Abu Dhabi on May 17. Both had been in quarantine. One person was hospitalised with symptoms on Friday, taking the total number of people in observation to 38.
30 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Railways give nod to place girders||In a significant step towards the completion of the Alappuzha bypass project, the Railways have given the nod for installing girders as part of the construction of a rail overbridge (ROB) at Kuthirapanthy. The Alappuzha bypass project consists of two ROBs at Malikamukku and Kuthirapanthy. The placing of the girders at Malikamukku was completed in January after getting the nod from the Railways. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran said the construction of the ROB at Malikamukku was nearing completion. “The work to install girders at Kuthirapanthy will commence soon. The construction of the second ROB will be completed in two months. After completing the rest of the works, including the development of the Kalarcode and Kommady junctions, the bypass will be opened to traffic in August,” the Minister said. The project is being implemented at Rs. 348.43 crore.
30 May 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Power generation raised at Moolamattom||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has raised power generation at the Moolamattom power house to reduce the water level in the Idukki reservoir ahead of the southwest monsoon. However, only three of the six generators are functional now, with the rest caught in technical snags. The KSEB is planning to reduce the water level before the onset of the southwest monsoon. The water level in the Idukki reservoir was 2,339.7 ft on Thursday and the power house generated 7.6 million units (mu). With the water level rising fast ahead of the monsoon, the KSEB decided to reduce it by working the three generations to full capacity. Fall in water level There was a fall of 1% in the water level on Friday from the previous day. Normally, there is around 20% water in the reservoir ahead of the monsoon. On Thursday, there was 37% water. If the water level prior to the monsoon remains high, it may reach the maximum level in a short period in the event of heavy rain. Flood possibility If the dam shutters are opened, it could lead to flood downstream up to Kochi. KSEB sources said that by engaging only three generators, there was a limit to bringing down the water level. The KSEB said the trial run of the sirens at the Cheruthoni dam of the Idukki reservoir would be held on June 2 and June 3. People should not panic, a press release added. The district administration has taken precautionary measures in the wake of the heavy rainfall predicted on Friday. There is restriction on travelling to the high ranges from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. on Saturday. The District Collector said those living in areas prone to landslips or floods should be prepared to move to relief camps. Dams to be opened The Kallarkutty and Pambla (Lower Periyar) dams will be opened on Saturday and those living close to the banks downstream should take precautionary measures. The water level in the Kallarkutty dam was 452.10 metres on Thursday against the maximum water level of 456.69 metres. At Pampla, the current water level is 248.4 metres to the maximum level of 253 metre. By 10 a.m., the shutter of the Kallarkutty dam would be opened by 10 cm to release 10 cumecs of water, while the one of the shutters of the Pambla dam would be opened 10 cm to release 15 cumecs of water.
30 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Veerendra Kumar cremated||The mortal remains of Rajya Sabha MP and former Union Minister M.P. Veerendra Kumar were consigned to flames with full State honours on the premises of his house at Puliyarmala, near Maniyamgode, here on Friday. Veerendra Kumar died at a private hospital in Kozhikode following cardiac arrest on Thursday at the age of 83. His son M.V. Shreyamskumar lit the funeral pyre at 5.05 p.m. The ceremony was held as per the Jain funeral rites. The district administration had made arrangements to check the rush of people as per the COVID-19 protocol. Minister for Water Resources K. Krishnankutty, Minister for Transport A.K. Saseendran and C.K. Saseendran, MLA, were among those present to offer their last respects to the departed leader at his residence. PM, CM condole “I’m anguished by the passing away of Veerendra Kumar. He distinguished himself as an effective legislator and Parliamentarian. He believed in giving voice to the poor and the underprivileged. Condolences to his family and well wishers,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan described Veerendra Kumar as a true friend, able Parliamentarian, orator and writer whom he knew for over 35 years. This is a personal loss, he said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan paid rich tributes to the deceased socialist leader. At his daily news briefing, Mr. Vijayan reminisced about their time together in the Kannur Central Prison during the Emergency.
30 May 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Conditional nod for Kottiyoor temple fest||The district administration has given permission to conduct the Vaisakha Mahotsavam and related rituals at the famous Kottiyoor temple. No devotees or the public would be allowed to attend the rituals as per the order issued by District Collector T.V. Subhash. The rituals would be held under the guidelines laid down by the State and Central governments to prevent the spread of COVID-19. As per the order, the main function would be restricted to a few traditional groups who would perform the rituals, including the offering of ghee and tender coconut water on various days. No one except the members of this group should come to the temple for the rituals.
30 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CMRS sanction for Kochi metro’s Pettah extension||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has received authorisation from the Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety (CMRS) to operate services on the recently completed Thykoodam-Pettah stretch. A five-member team led by K. Manoharan, CMRS, inspected the 1.33-km corridor and the Pettah station on Tuesday, following which the authorisation certificate was issued. KMRL has been operating services up to Thykoodam since September 2019. The extension of operation to Pettah signals the completion of the Kochi metro’s first phase, a distance of 25 km from Aluva. Trains cover the distance in 45 minutes, while the fare ranges from Rs. 10 to Rs. 60. Govt. nod awaited “The viaduct and the station had been completed in March. The inspection was delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We will resume operations on the entire route as soon as we get the government’s nod,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, managing director, KMRL. DMRC’s role Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which readied the detailed project report (DPR) and was the project consultant, began work on the Rs. 5,181-crore mass rapid transport system in September 2012 after then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh laid its foundation stone. A foot-by-foot survey was conducted, encroachments cleared, foopaths widened, trees felled, and a few buildings fully or partially pulled down for erecting metro pillars with a width of up to 2 metres. The 12-km Aluva-Palarivattom stretch was commissioned in June 2017, while the stretch up to the Maharaja’s College Ground was commissioned in October that year. Inspection On Wednesday, the team led by the CMRS inspected civil structures like pile foundation, piers, girders, special bridges, and steel bridges, apart from various design aspects and tracks in either direction. They also inspected lifts and escalators at the Pettah station, fire hydrants and a fire fighting system, third rail from which trains source power, auxiliary and traction sub stations, emergency tripping switch, and emergency telephones.
30 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Actor helps migrant workers return home||Over 160 migrant workers from Odisha have returned to their home towns by a special flight, thanks to actor Sonu Sood. An Air Asia flight to Bhubaneswar with 167 passengers took off from the Cochin International Airport at 8 a.m. on Friday. Liza Mohanty, from Kendrapara, said she along with 147 other women who used to work at a textile factory at Kizhakkambalam, were desperate to return home after the lockdown was imposed. She said the women had resigned around 20 days ago after they had not received salaries for April. But the wait for trains had only worsened their ordeal, she said, adding that she was glad to be back home with her father and brother. The women were from Sonepur, Jajpur, Balasore, and Kendrapara in Odisha, said Ms. Mohanty who arrived to work in Ernakulam seven months ago. The others on the flight were workers in other parts of the district, she added. Mr. Sood, who has been helping migrant workers get back home, said he had been alerted on social media about the situation of the women at the factory. “We coordinated with government officials and police in both States, and permission was obtained from Odisha for their return,” he said. The workers were transported in buses from Kizhakkambalam to the airport, and buses were arranged from the airport at Bhubaneswar as well to take them to their homes.  We coordinated with officials in both States and obtained permission from Odisha for the migrants’ return Sonu Sood Actor
30 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||80-year-old tests positive in Kochi||An 80-year-old woman who reached Kochi from Mumbai by train on Thursday morning was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The Thrissur native was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kalamassery, on her arrival with severe respiratory distress. On examination, she was found to have diabetic ketoacidosis along with pneumonia. She had developed kidney and heart problems too. The woman is undergoing treatment in the medical ICU with artificial respiratory support, according to Dr. A. Fathahudeen, COVID-19 nodal officer. The medical board reviewed her condition on Friday morning and decided to administer tocilizumab, a humanised monoclonal antibody. Meanwhile, Ernakulam registered three more COVID-19 cases on Friday. The 47-year-old woman from Kunnathunad who was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 is a primary contact of a case which was confirmed on Wednesday. Another case was a 48-year-old woman from Kakkanad who had arrived by the Kuwait-Kochi flight on May 27. A 63-year-old Vadavukode resident, who reached here from Abu Dhabi on May 17, was moved to the MCH after testing positive for the virus. One case each from Alappuzha and Kollam were also admitted to the MCH.
30 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Two test positive in Kollam||Two more persons from the district, who travelled to Kerala from Maharashtra and Kuwait, tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. The 22-year-old Punalur resident had reached Ernakulam from Thane on May 27. The youngster fainted on arrival and his sample was collected before placing him in quarantine in Kollam. He was shifted to Government Medical College, Parippally, on Friday. Kollam has 25 active cases now. The second patient, a 48-year-old Anchal resident, is under treatment at Government Medical College, Kalamassery.
30 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam reports its first COVID-19 death||The State on Friday recorded its eighth COVID-19 death when a 65-year-old man, who had been in a critical condition at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kottayam, died around 2 a.m. The deceased was identified as a native of Perumthuruthy in Thiruvalla. The person, who had been working in Sharjah, was flown in from Dubai on May 11. He had been admitted to an institutional quarantine centre in Pathanamthitta since his return and did not exhibit any symptoms of the disease. His serum samples were collected on May 16. After being tested positive for the virus infection, he was shifted to the Pathanamthitta District Hospital on May 18. He was shifted to the Kottayam MCH on May 25 after his condition worsened. The person had co-morbidities, including acute diabetes. “The patient had been in a critical condition for the past couple of days after his kidneys and heart failed, requiring him to be on the ventilator. He was being taken care of by a seven-member medical board, which functioned on the basis of directions from State-level experts,” officials said. The body was taken to Pathanamthitta later in accordance with the World Health Organization protocol, under the directions of trained personnel of the Health Department. One more case Meanwhile, a 14-year-old girl, who returned from Mumbai on May 24, was tested positive for COVID-19 here on Friday. The girl, a native of Ayarkkunnam, had returned to Kottayam by road along with her parents and brother.
30 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two held for sexual abuse of minors||Two youths who were suspected of sexually abusing minor girls were arrested from Mukkom on Friday. The police said the two, C.P. Ashad, 21, and P. Ajmal, 18, were also suspected of creating a scare in the village by disguising as blackmen. The suspects allegedly visited the girls at night after creating the blackman threat. They were traced using the registration details of the motorbikes which were spotted in a suspicious circumstance from different locations, the police said. Both of them have been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. The special court for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences considered the case through video-conferencing.
30 May 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Two killed as well caves in||Two labourers were killed when a well under construction caved in at Moolakkal near Tanur on Friday. The victims were identified as Velayudhan and Achuthan. They were from Mukkola, Tanur. Velayudhan and Achuthan were in the well when the tragedy took place. The well caved in and large chunk of soil fell on them and buried them alive. The police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel joined hands with the local people to remove the soil with an earth mover. The bodies could be retrieved after a few hours.
30 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Forest dept. told to permit sand removal from Pampa||Chief Secretary Tom Jose and Additional Chief Secretary Biswas Mehta inspected Pampa and Nilackal on Friday to review the progress of sand removal work in the Pampa river in the foothills of Sabarimala. The decision to remove the huge deposits of sand accumulated in the Pampa river was taken by the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) chaired by District Collector recently to avert chances of more devastating floods in the downstream of Sabarimala.  The Kerala Clays and Ceramic Products Ltd. (KCCPL) in Kannur was roped in to remove the sand and the work began on May 20. The work was disrupted following certain apprehensions raised by the Forest Department and the high-level team’s visit to Pampa on Friday was to clear the hurdles on the path of sand removal. The Chief Secretary has directed the Forest Department to give necessary clearance for sand removal and the KCCPL to resume the work from Saturday itself. State Police Chief Loknath Behera also joined Mr. Jose and Mr. Mehta in the official talks held at the Devaswom Guest House at Nilackal on Friday. P.B. Noohu, District Collector; Vinay Goyal, Thiruvalla Subcollector; Unnikrishnan, Divisional Forest Officer; and K.G.Simon, District Police Chief; were present.
30 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||5 cases in Pathanamthitta||Five more Non-Resident Keralites quarantined in Pathanamthitta were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday, taking the number of COVID-19 patients in the district to 42, including 17 persons cured of the disease. The the number of COVID-19 patients in the district has gone up to 25, according to an official bulletin here on Friday evening. A 28-year-old pregnant nurse, who came to her home at Malayalappuzha from Saudi Arabia on May 8; a 21-year-old woman medical scribe who reached her home in Rani from Chennai on May 16; a 30-year-old man of Pramadom who came from Punjab on May 21; a 39-year-old man who came to his home village of Thannithode from Thane in Mumbai on May 27; and a 39-year- old man hailing from Vazhamuttom who came to the Thiruvananthapuram international airport from Kuwait on May 29 were the five persons tested positive on Friday. The man who came from Kuwait was tested positive on his arrival in Thiruvananthapuram and was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital there. Clinical examination results of all 236 throat swab samples received from the virology laboratory in Alappuzha on Friday were negative.
30 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital’s tally up as 5 more test positive||Five more persons, including two remand prisoners, tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Friday. Two of those who tested positive came from abroad, while one from another State. As many as 647 were newly put under observation in the district on Friday, while 277 completed their quarantine period. As many as 8,734 are under observation now. The two remand prisoners were nabbed over different cases on May 25 in the Venjaramoodu police station limits, where a person arrested in an illicit liquor case had tested positive earlier this week. Among the two, a 50-year-old accused from Kalamachal, was arrested over a scuffle. The second person, aged 30 from Mukkudil, was arrested on charges of physically assaulting his wife and setting fire to their house. 30 officers in quarantine “Following the previous COVID-19 case involving a remand prisoner, 30 officers from the Venjaramoodu station had gone into quarantine. Now, 13 more officers who were on the alternate duty, have also gone into quarantine, leaving only 3 police personnel there. Personnel from other subdivisions will be deployed for the station. The contacts of the two in places including Manikkal, Vamanapuram and other areas are being tracked. Some of these will turn into containment zones,” said a police officer. The two of them who were lodged in the Neyyattinkara and Thiruvananthapuram subjails were shifted to the Medical College Hospital. Jail officials who were on duty have also gone into quarantine. Among the other three who tested positive, the 40-year-old from Kadinamkulam arrived from Kuwait on May 26 at the Karipur International Airport. The person is now under treatment at the Mancheri Medical College Hospital. The 35-year old from Chempazhanthy arrived from Muscat on May 23 and was at an institutional quarantine centre. The 20-year-old Pulluvila native arrived in a train from Delhi on May 22 and was under observation. A total of 244 samples were sent for tests on Friday. The results of all the 285 samples received on Friday were negative. Screening tests were conducted on 4,738 people in 2,319 vehicles at various check-posts. At the collectorate control room, 211 calls were received. Special drive The city police launched a special drive on Friday to check vehicles violating the lockdown restrictions in different areas, and action was taken against the owners of 658 vehicles. Cases were charged under the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance 2020 against 17. Petty cases were also charged against 271 who were found to be not wearing masks in public.
30 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. throws its weight behind BevQ||The State government has ruled out allowing the direct sale of alcohol as demanded by bar hotel owners. A meeting chaired by Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan on Friday decided to push ahead with the sale of liquor via the app, BevQ, despite the teething troubles of the new system. The developers of the app have been given time till June 2 to make the system glitch-free. However, the public could continue to book time slots for purchasing liquor. The developers reportedly told the meeting that the app could not process more than 4.5 lakh bookings. Large booking volumes, phishing and hacker attacks and poor connectivity had reportedly affected the efficiency of the application at the user’s end. Liquor sale across the State was disrupted after BevQ went kaput denying access to many users trying to book time slots. “Initially, a message of ‘connection error’ was flashed and later when I eventually managed to get through there was this other message that slots can only be booked from 3.45 a.m. to 9 a.m,” said Arjun B., a private company executive. Lower turnout Jose Pradeep, treasurer, Association of Approved and Classified Hotels of Kerala, said the customer turnout was less than half of what it was on Thursday since only a few who booked the slots early in the morning seemed to have been issued tokens. The Minister asked the firm to ensure that the application assigned buyers a bar or liquor store within 5 km of their PIN code. “The app should have allowed users to choose their outlets based on availability of slots. There were many instances in which tokens were unused after the users were allotted slots in far away outlets,” said Davis Pathadan, working president, Federation of Kerala Hotels Association. The random allocation of slots had the inherent flaw where customers looking for reasonably priced liquor brands ended up in premium hotels dealing only in high-end brands. The absence of QR Code scanners continued to plague the service at liquor outlets and bars for the second day running forcing staff to note down the code and token number manually. The government slapped cases on bars that sold liquor to buyers who had not booked their time slot for purchase in advance via the app. Law enforcers have invoked the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020 against the errant licensees. The State allowed defence canteens to resume the sale of liquor to serving and retired military personnel and their dependants. It would soon issue an order allowing private clubs to sell alcohol as takeaways to members. Excise officials would inspect the daily sales register at bars and clubs. Rs. 50-crore sale The government sold liquor worth Rs. 50 crore on Thursday. The Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) has processed nearly 2.25 lakh reservations. As of 6 p.m. on Friday, Bevco has received 1.5 lakh demands for time slots. ( With inputs from Kochi Bureau )
30 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||First Bell for online classes in State schools from June 1||Classes for State school students, under the name First Bell, will get under way on June 1 through the KITE Victers channel and other online mechanisms. The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) on Friday brought out the timetable for conducting the classes. Sessions The sessions will be held from 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. from Monday to Friday for all classes from 1 to 12, except class 11, on the channel. The time slots for different classes vary from half-an-hour to two hours. The programmes will be telecast against. While lessons for class 10 will be conducted at 5.30 p.m. the same day, those for class 12 will be repeated at 7 p.m. For classes 1 to 9, the repeats will on Saturday and Sunday. The timetable will be available on the KITE Victers website, KITE Victers channel, and social media. The sessions on Victers channel will be available simultaneously on the KITE Victers website, mobile app, and social media pages. Trial basis In the first week, the classes will be telecast on a trial basis. These will be repeated in the second week. The modules for different classes will be prepared by agencies under the General Education Department such as the State Council of Educational Research and Training, KITE, Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK), and the State Institute of Educational Technology. The SCERT will monitor the academic process and KITE will take up the technical coordination. Class teachers and school headteachers have been given the task of ensuring that students have access to television, smart phone or computer, and Internet for the classes. If not, they should decide on alternatives to view the classes either in real time or later. The alternatives can include television or Internet facilities of neighbours, friends living nearby, libraries or Akshaya centres. In distant areas, the help of SSK coordinators, Student Police Cadets, National Service Scheme volunteers, or laptops and projectors available with Little KITEs members too can be used. If students experience any difficulties, the headteachers can turn to parent-teacher associations, local bodies, or Kudumbashree units for a solution. Teachers should get in touch with the students through phone, social media, directly, or other means for clearing doubts. Samagra Shiksha Kerala has been tasked with preparing worksheets for students of classes 1 to 7 and monitoring these.
30 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Valuation to resume on June 1||Valuation of answer scripts of the SSLC, higher secondary education (HSE) and vocational higher secondary education (VHSE) examinations will resume on June 1. The decision was made at a Quality Improvement Programme (QIP) monitoring committee meeting held through audio conference here on Friday. Director of General Education (DGE) Jeevan Babu K. presided over the meeting, attended by teachers’ union representatives. First phase The first phase of valuation camps for the SSLC and the HSE examinations was held this month. However, valuation of papers for all subjects has not been completed. The remaining valuation as well as that for the examinations under way now will begin on June 1. Instead of zonal-level camps, the camps for the second phase SSLC papers of Mathematics, Physics, and Chemistry will be held at the district level so that teachers do not face difficulties involved in inter-district travel. To continue The valuation centres for the first phase exam papers will continue as before. Besides Ernakulam, valuation centres will be started in Thrissur and Palakkad for Urdu answer script valuation, while for Arabic, Thiruvananthapuram will be the third centre after Kozhikode and Ernakulam. The meeting decided that teachers entrusted by the District Collectors with COVID-19-prevention activities need not attend the valuation camps. Reopening of schools will be subject to the decisions of the Union and the State governments on the lockdown. Teachers need come to school only when they reopen. Review Representatives of teachers’ organisations attending the meeting suggested that a week after the start of online classes, an analysis on students’ access to these could be held by teachers. Fitness of all school buildings should be ensured before schools reopen, the meeting decided. In the current situation, directions related to the headcount of students on the sixth working day of the academic year and staff fixation would be issued by the DGE.  Camps for SSLC Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry to be held at district level Additional camps for certain papers
30 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||College teachers unhappy over rejig of class hours||The teaching community, including those affiliated to pro-Left service organisations, are up in arms against the government’s move to rejig class hours in colleges. The proposed schedule is from 8.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. Various sections have threatened to launch an agitation if the government persisted with the decision without addressing certain fundamental issues that are crucial to the plan of modifying work hours. While the Higher Education Department has maintained that the change in class hours will apply only for the online classes that will commence on June 1, many suspect that the decision would be continued when colleges reopen. Stung by the opposition, the government has commenced efforts to placate the teaching community. The CPI(M), which spearheads the LDF, is believed to have intervened in the vexed issue. Hurdles The critics of the proposal point out that the State has a long way before it could adjust class hours in colleges. Implementing the move in haste could trigger massive confusion, they say. Among the hurdles, they cite the difficulty for students who travel long distances from the high ranges and remote areas to reach their colleges. Aligning the timings of bus services would be crucial for ensuring that the move does not backfire. “Several students who study in colleges in Thiruvananthapuram city normally arrive late by at least half an hour from places such as Vithura and Poovar. The situation is worse in remote areas such as Attappady, Kalpetta, Rajakumari, and Seethathode,” a teacher says. Besides, a section of the teaching community has cried foul over the department’s order to conduct massive open online courses (MOOC) in colleges after normal classes conclude at 1.30 p.m. They allege that lack of stipulations would lead to institutions charging additional fee from students.
30 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chief Minister says no community spread||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday reiterated that community transmission had not occurred in Kerala and sought to establish it with an array of figures. He said local disease transmission or the number of cases in the State due to contact was low. Of the 644 cases reported in the State since May 10, the number of cases due to contact was just 65 or 10.09%. Of the 576 active cases in the State now, the number of cases due to contact was 45. Random sampling In the augmented sample testing done by the State, when 3,128 samples were randomly collected from selected “high risk” groups on a single day, the number of COVID-19 cases found was just four. The sentinel surveillance survey, also conducted to determine the extent of community transmission, had only thrown up four positive cases. The pooled sample testing done amongst those who had returned from abroad showed 29 new positive cases. “These figures are proof that there is no community transmission in Kerala. All 28 health-care workers in the State who tested positive for COVID-19 had direct contact with positive cases,” Mr. Vijayan said. He said the State had a clear testing strategy and plan and the focus now would be on limiting disease transmission from the detected positive COVID-19 cases and in picking up more cases through increased testing. Kerala has done 80,091 COVID-19 diagnostic tests. 2,335 tests per million The State was doing 2,335 tests per million. The test positivity rate (positive cases per 100 tests) was 1.7%, lower than the national average of 5%. The case fatality rate of Kerala was just 0.5%. Only when the TPR and CFR were high should it be considered that adequate testing was not being done, he said.
30 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Quarantine costs a concern for Corporation||The increasing number of people in institutional quarantine is slowly becoming a burden on the cash-strapped local bodies. The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation is in the process of identifying more possible quarantine centres to accommodate the people coming from abroad and other States. As on Friday, the civic body has 716 people in 33 institutional quarantine centres. Seven more such centres have been identified now. The Corporation provides food three times a day as well as a long list of 22 materials from bedsheets and buckets to plates and clothes. Influx of NoRKS Although initially the number of people choosing institutional quarantine was at manageable levels, the influx of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) now has led to concern among authorities as to how long they would be able to sustain the same level of services with their depleting resources. Among the many facilities that the Corporation has arranged for institutional quarantine are hostels or buildings of private colleges as well. Though they have not demanded rent as of now, there is a concern that they could in the future demand payment for electricity and water bills. “To provide food and all the facilities for several days for each of those in quarantine might become a challenge in the long run. Some of the sanitation workers also have expressed their fears at cleaning in these centres, as the number of positive cases has increased in recent days,” said an official. Handling of materials Another issue has been the handling of the materials used by those in quarantine. Though the city Corporation had requested the district administration to provide a laundry facility to wash bedsheets, nothing has happened on that front. Now, the used bedsheets are being burned in most of the quarantine centres as the health wing officials have found that washing and using it can be impractical.  To provide food and all the facilities for several days for each of those in quarantine might become a challenge in the long run
30 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rain forecast for district||Heavy rainfall is likely to continue in parts of Thiruvananthapuram district on Saturday, prompting the India Meteorological Department (IMD) to issue a yellow alert. The district is likely to receive isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall (up to 20.4 cm), the IMD said in a Friday evening weather update. Most parts of the district, particularly the eastern regions, have been receiving stiff spells, forcing the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) to raise four shutters of the Aruvikkara dam by Friday evening. Three of the shutters were opened by one metre each, and the fourth one, by 50 cm. Heavy rain in Peppara In the early hours of Friday, the KWA opened two shutters by 30 cm each. With the Peppara region recording heavy rainfall in the morning, there was increase in inflow into the Aruvikkara dam. The district administration and the KWA have warned people residing on the banks of the Karamana river to exercise caution. The administration has also banned people from entering the river as the water level has risen. The Aruvikkara dam is one of the six small dams in the State where water can be released at night by issuing the necessary alerts.
30 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||College builds two houses for couples||Keys for two houses built by Christ Nagar College, Maranalloor, were handed over to two couples in Maranalloor grama panchayat in Thiruvananthapuram district on Wednesday. College Principal Jolly Jacob handed over the keys of a house built at Niramankuzhi to Girijakumari and Manoharan, while manager Fr. Tito Varghese handed over the keys of another house to Antony and Rejeena at Cheenivila.
30 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Project to step up fruit production on the cards||In a major initiative aimed at stepping up fruit production in Kerala, the State government is planning to supply one crore saplings to farmers from June. The Agriculture Department has prepared a list of 21 types of fruits including the traditionally popular mango and banana varieties and also fruits such as orange and avocado. First phase The first-phase distribution of saplings will coincide with the Environment Day celebrations on June 5, the Agriculture Department said in a May 22 order. The second phase of the distribution will begin in the first week of July and get completed by September this year. The saplings will be distributed to farmers and also planted in public spaces. The list also includes jackfruit, mango, guava, pomegranate, passion fruit, chikoo, rambutan, mangosteen, rose apple, drumstick, curry leaves, different types of tamarind, papaya and nendran and rasakadali banana. The project will be implemented jointly by the Departments of Agriculture, Local Self-Government, Forests and Education. 23 zones The planting locations will be identified on the basis of suitable agro-ecological zones, the Agriculture Department said. The State has identified 23 agro-ecological zones.
30 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Travancore Titanium to make Li-ion batteries||Travancore Titanium Products Ltd. (TTP), a public-sector undertaking under the State government and pioneer manufacturer and distributor of Titanium dioxide Anatase grade pigment, is foraying into the manufacture of lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles (EV).The TTP has developed lithium trinitrate, the main raw material for Li-ion batteries. Talks were on with the Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council (KDISC) for proceeding with the manufacture of lithium-ion batteries at the TTP, Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan said.  It is for the first time that a public-sector unit in the country is manufacturing lithium-ion batteries. The TTP’s research wing developed the main raw material using indigenous technology. The tests held at the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, and the Central Electro Chemical Research Institute, Chennai, have confirmed the quality of the developed material. In Li-ion battery, lithium trinitrate can be used in place of carbon in positive electrodes. This will help avoid fire and explosion in electric vehicles. Moreover, such batteries will have 10 to 20 times more life than those using carbon. Besides, they will not get heated up during charging and the requirement for creating a cool environment while these batteries are working can be avoided. The lithium ion batteries developed by the TTP took lesser time for charging, the Minister said . The State targets a million electric vehicles by 2022 and a pilot fleet of 2,00,000 two-wheelers, 50,000 three wheelers, 1,000 goods carriers, 3,000 buses and 100 ferry boats by 2020 to be part of the EV bandwagon.
30 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Reshuffle in Police dept.||The State government has effected a reshuffle in the upper echelons of the police department. B. Sandhya, Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) & Director, Kerala Police Academy, is transferred and posted as ADGP (Training). K. Padmakumar, ADGP (Coastal Security), is transferred and posted as ADGP (Armed Police Battalions). Vijay S. Sakhare, Inspector General (IG) & Commissioner of Police, Kochi City, has been given additional charge of IG (Coastal Police). Thummala Vikram is posted as IG (Training). He will also hold the additional charge of Director, Kerala Police Academy. Chaitra Teresa John is posted as Superintendent of Police, Anti Terrorist Force. Sujith Das S., Additional Assistant Inspector General, is the new Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kozhikode City.
30 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Power bill: concession to commercial sector||The government has decided to grant 25% concession in the fixed charge of power bills of commercial and industrial units and private hospitals for March, April and May and granted time till December for remitting the remaining component. The decision has been made in the wake of the discussions Power Minister M.M. Mani had with Kerala State Electricity Board authorities. A decision has been made against levying interest during the period when such institutions are remaining closed on account of lockdown. The Minister directed the board to examine the complaints of domestic consumers about the huge bills slapped on them during the lockdown period. If consumers are having any difficulty in paying the bill, they could pay 50% and remit the balance in two instalments.
30 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Orange alert in Idukki, yellow in 9 districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert for Idukki given the likelihood of the heavy rainfall continuing in the district on Saturday also. The orange colour code, in IMD parlance, requires the public to shift to ‘Alert (Be Prepared)’ mode. The district is very likely to receive heavy-to-very-heavy rainfall (up to 20.4 cm in a 24-hour period), according to the weather agency. An yellow alert indicating heavy-to-very-heavy rainfall has been issued for nine districts for Saturday: Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kannur. The IMD warned that a low-pressure area is likely to form over southeast and adjoining eastcentral parts of the Arabian Sea by Sunday. It is likely to concentrate into a depression in the subsequent 72 hours.
30 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Clean-up drive||The Suchitwa Mission has directed local bodies to use all its resources to take up pre-monsoon cleaning activities on Saturday and Sunday. Cleaning of stormwater drains and areas around water sources should be taken up on priority, a release said.
30 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||New system for COVID-19 testing||A nucleic acid extraction system that will enable rapid COVID-19 tests will be launched at Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, on Saturday. The new system, which will be installed at the virology lab of the hospital, will ensure test results in three hours. T.N. Prathapan and Ramya Haridas, MPs, will inaugurate the system. A sum of Rs. 40 lakh from Ms. Haridas’ local area development fund was used for the installation of the system, procured from Germany.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||14 more COVID-19 cases in Palakkad||As many as 14 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Palakkad district on Friday. All but one of them were returnees from other States and abroad. The new cases included a four-year-old girl and a health worker. When eight of the newly confirmed cases had returned from Tamil Nadu, two had come back from Abu Dhabi, and one each from Pune, Kuwait, and Qatar. The health worker who was tested positive was from Sreekrishnapuram. In Malappuram In Malappuram, five new cases were reported on Friday. All of them were returnees. One came back from Dubai, two from Riyadh in Saudi Arabia, and one each from Abu Dhabi and Bengaluru. All of them were shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. In Kannur The arrival of expatriates from other States has led to the spiralling of COVID-19 cases in Kannur. On Friday, seven more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. According to District Collector T.V. Subhash, six of the affected persons included those who returned from abroad and one from Maharashtra. Those who came from abroad included a 32-year-old woman, a resident of Morazha who returned from Kuwait and arrived at the Kannur airport on May 19, a 55-year-old man from Kathirur who returned from Riyadh, a 30-year-old man from Karivellur who arrived from Dubai, a 27-year-old woman from Panniyannur, a 29-year-old woman from Sreekandapuram who arrived at the Kochi airport on May 15, and a 44-year-old man from Chittariparamba who came from Dubai. A 35-year-old man from Mattannur who arrived from Maharashtra on May 16 is the other who tested positive for the disease. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, four more were confirmed positive for the virus on Friday. While three of them had returned from Maharashtra, one had come from the Gulf. They include a 31-year-old man, a native of Mangalpady, who arrived in a car from Pune on May 14, a 42-year-old man, a resident of Paivalike, who arrived in a bus from Maharashtra on May 17, a 63-year-old man, a native of Badiaddu, and a 58-year-old Uduma resident who arrived from Dubai on May 17, said District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas. In Thrissur A 61-year-old man from Mathilakam who returned from Doha on May 9, a 42-year-old woman from Mathilakam who returned from Abu Dhabi on May 7, and four members of a family who came from Chennai were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur district on Friday. In Wayanad With two Gulf returnees testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, the total number of persons who contracted COVID-19 in Wayanad district rose to 29 on Friday. A 28-year-old man at Poothadi who returned from Doha on May 18, and a 62-year-old man at Meppadi who returned from Abu Dhabi on May 17 tested positive for the virus. In Kozhikode Two persons from Kozhikode district, who had been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government General Hospital, Kannur, were cured of the infection on Friday, while one more was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, the infected patient is a 69-year-old from Chorod who returned from Bahrain on May 27. He was shifted to the Medical College Hospital after symptoms were noticed during screening at the Calicut Airport.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Need for Affordable Urban Housing in India||In India, rapid urbanisation has given rise to development challenges in the form of urban congestion, pressure on basic amenities like water and sanitation and most importantly, severe housing shortages in cities, especially, in the low cost segment. Real estate developers and private players tend to focus on middle income and high income segments due to higher returns. In addition, issues relating to high land costs, delay in project approvals, increasing raw material costs and low profit margins have made low cost housing projects less attractive for private realty investors and developers. In order to bridge this demand – supply gap, the Government of India has recently taken major initiatives to provide a boost to affordable housing in India, complemented by a number of measures by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). As per the Report of the Technical Group (TG-12) on Estimation of Urban Housing Shortage (2012), there has been a huge gap in demand and supply of urban housing in India. The economically weaker sections (EWS) and low income group (LIG) accounted for 96 per cent of the total housing shortage in India. According to the McKinsey Report (2010), India will have 40 per cent of its population living in urban areas with 68 cities with one million plus population (from 42 currently) by 2030. It estimates that the demand for affordable housing will increase to 38 million housing units in 2030 from 19 million in 2012. Initiatives to Promote Affordable Housing While efforts to provide low cost housing have been made for many years.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||IndusGratia Skycity Villas||IndusGratia is a name to brand with Trust & Quality. We have successfully delivered 4 Luxurious Villa Projects & an Ongoing Premium Apartment in the past 6 years. Our Delight is always with the proud & satisfied Customers we cherish as our family. Sky City Villas- Live Life Unlimited… “The Sky isn’t the limit for those who thrive for the universe.” And at IndusGratia we believe in creating this universe of limitless happiness for you. The Novel Nature Embedded Designs itself speaks on our detailing of Architecture to suit very minute comfortize a habitant want to relish. Its Location and surroundings makes it the right prospects, with the most latent potential for futuristic appreciation of your property. Infopark PhaseII extension is the future of Kakkanad / Ernakulam. Access Proximity IndusGratia’s Sky City Villas is just 1.2km from Infopark Phase II gate and just 3km from Smart City- the new hub of developments like, the Semi-High Speed Rail Corridor interfaced with Kochi Metro, proposed Metro’s Miniature City with Kerala’s 1 st IMAX theatre. Being one of the fastest growing residential heavens of Ernakulam the value of the location is steadily on the ascent, there is also more to enjoy like good air,water and healthy green environment, that envelopes your life here.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Green Earth Realtors||Green Earth Realtors, established in 2005, is One among the leading organization providing complete real estate solutions in Kerala. In the last 15 years of its existence, it has carved out a distinct identity for itself with its professional background and quality approach. It was set up with the sole intention of providing professional and honest services to its valued customers. It has got more than 500 satisfied customers across Kerala. With great attention to detail in design , quality and amenities we hae been exceeding the expectations of our buyers all the time. Green Earth Realtors aims to bring the home of your dreams into reality and upholding ethical practices and transparency. Green Earth Realtors has many options for their customers in different ranges of real estate products in different locations. What sets us apart from the rest is that we stand by the promise we give o our customers without compromising the quality. Buying or selling a Property in Kerala is not at all easy. In today’s hectic schedule, people do not have time to research the market, look for options, compare them and finally choose the one that fits their needs. This is why they often involve a real estate company like Green Earth Realtors in the buying/selling process, who helps them get the job done. "
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Start Metro Life in the Heart of the City||The house of Paul Alukkas Jewelers, known for its integrity and trustworthiness in the business of gold, diamonds and precious metals, has entered into the arena of realty division almost6 years ago. Its much valued yellow metal business; its customers’ incessant support over decades, lead to an auspicious beginning of the new age lifestyle homes of Paul Alukkas Jewelers. Paul Alukkas Developers, the offspring of Paul Alukkas Jewelers has 3 projects in its foray namely, Evalia; a premium luxuriant apartment project stands for its uniqueness and charming lifestyle features unlike others. The project Evalia, is very well connected to some of the most popular places in Kochi and is also very close to major schools, colleges, super markets, hospitals, metro station, railway station and major banks etc. Evalia offers you featuredapartments and flatscomprising of 50 cents of land near the Eco Zone of Kochi, the Managalavanam Bird Sanctuary. With 55 flats onboard in 11 floors located precisely at Ayyappankavu. Evalia is a promise for those who love the chaos of city and serenity and grandeur of nature.Ayyappankavu whose name can be literally translated as ‘The Temple of God Ayyappa’ is a serene location in the heart of the city of Kochi. Evalia , the life style apartment project has 2 BHK and 3 BHK variants with optimum space utilization is one of the unique feature to show off. Evalia, facing the Chittoor road stretch offers great proximity and easy connectivity to all locations in Cochin city premises. The apartment is semi furnished also. Its area starting from 1175 sq/ft to 1753sq/ft and its price is 83 lakhs to 1.2cr only. Now you can own your dream home in a single call.: 97458 06600
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||SFS HOMES-Where innovation is a way of life||At SFS, we take immense pride in our ability to fashion new trends in real estate landscape. SFS is a ‘thinking builder’ with an inexhaustible array of ground-breaking concepts and ideas. Apart from next-gen homes, the design & innovations that is incorporated in each of our residential projects have endeared to scores of customers. Be it in design or amenities, SFS Homes have always taken care to incorporate the latest International trends into our projects. SFS Homes has a legacy of 35 years and has an unparalleled track record in housing industry in Kerala and is known for their world-class villas and apartments. Boasting super-spacious apartments and large terrace garden, SFS Grandville offers the perfect blend of luxury and elegance. With premium projects like SFS Casaflora and SFS Sunnyvale ,that are located close to the upcoming Metro Rail, they are redefining benchmarks of excellence in every new launch. Sunnyvale - Kochi’s is the first among the sports-themed project in Kerala. Sunnyvale brings to Kochi a stunning fusion of function and flamboyance. Located in a high growth area bang on the four-track Express Highway at Kakkanad, with easy access to InfoPark, closeness to leading school and educational institutions, SFS Sunnyvale is the perfect ‘next-gen home’ where it is walk to work & to school. Location is the key At SFS Homes, we have always believed in a simple principle: good life begins with a good location. We have cracked the formula to pick the ideal location with the 3 ‘A’s – Accessibility, Affordability and Appreciation. Staying close to all the buzz points of a city is absolutely important if one wants to live life to the fullest. To identify eligible tenants, SFS Homes has a dedicated homecare division. The fact that they have more than 80 % occupancy in all their projects at all times is a clear testament to the company's proficiency. Contact Mr Govind- 99619 66667 or visit website www.sfshomes.com to know more.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Yasoram - Quality that has stood the test of time||Home is indeed where the heart is and when we build homes, we intend them to last forever. As our goodwill ambassadors, those living in Yasoram homes have certainly blessed us to be one of South India’s leading builders. Pioneering journey of Late A.R. Sreedhara Vadhyar, who quit his job at Kerala Public Health and Engineering Department and established Yasoram way back in the year 1977. Of the many apartments, shopping complexes, hospitals, educational institutions and places of worship to its credit, the ‘Kuladevatha Mandir Complex’ at Ambalamedu, Kochi is a gem in Yasoram’s crown. Along with the steadfast assurance of quality, Yasoram through its Charitable Trust remains committed to society, having built a colony of 46 houses in 1.79 acres in Thrippunithura for the downtrodden and implemented ‘Harita Gramam’, a project to help 30 poor farmers of Cheppanam Village with irrigation. The trust also imparts free training in construction and allied activities to the youth. The Excellence ’94 Award by International Integrity, Peace and Foundation Society, Bangalore; Rashtriya Gaurav Award 1994 by All India Achievers Conference, New Delhi; Priyadarshini Indira Gandhi Award 1995; Gandhi Peace Foundation Award 2003; Times of India Property Icon Award 2018 and many accolades have come Yasoram’s way thanks to the attention to detail and quality. Yasoram has crossed many milestones in the last 43 years, with over 2000 projects to its credit, and is about to grow even bigger. At the heart of this reputed brand will always be the resolute focus on quality and a single-minded dedication to the welfare of people.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In troubled waters||
30 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Action plan on the anvil to prevent industrial accidents||Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar has said that a foolproof action plan will be chalked out involving the departments of factories, police, fire and disaster management to effectively prevent human and property loss in industrial accidents. In the backdrop of the LG Polymers tragedy in Visakhapatnam recently, the SP held a review meeting with the heads of the line departments here on Friday. Deputy Chief inspector of factories (Rayalaseema) M.V. Sivakumar Reddy and Special Enforcement Bureau Additional SP Y. Rishant Reddy were present. "Going by the principal that prevention is better than cure, the managements of the hazardous factories should be vigilant in the maintenance activities of the plants, giving no scope for any negligence. The action plan should include involvement of the personnel of all the crucial line departments," the SP said. Instead of getting alert after the mishaps, it would be better to prevent them in the first place by regular coordination meetings of the line departments, followed by periodical inspection of the hazardous plants, he said. Training teams Deputy Chief inspector of factories M.V. Sivakumar Reddy said that special training teams would be formed to give orientation to all the personnel involved in the action plan in a phased manner. “Unlike the tragedy in Visakhapatnam, the Chittoor district has industries which are more prone to fire accidents. At present, we have five hazardous industries located at Kuppam, Srikalahasti, and Sri City. Coming to other industrial plants, we will exercise the same caution in spite of the lesser intensity in case of accidents," he said.
30 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stone laid for court complex in Chittoor||Supreme Court judges Justices N.V. Ramana and L. Nageswara Rao on Friday through digital presence laid the foundation stone for the new court complex at High Road in Chittoor. The Rs. 40.30 crore project is coming up on the premises of the old complex. Delivering his speech, Justice Ramana said renovation was the need of the hour as most of the buildings were in a dilapidated condition.
30 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar focusses on post-COVID scenario||Senior scientist and Bharat Ratna recipient C.N.R. Rao has said that human intelligence and determination can defeat COVID-19. Addressing a webinar hosted by SRM University-AP in association with The Hindu on Friday to rethink the strategies for nurturing a scientific landscape in the post-COVID situation, Professor Rao said that though the pandemic caused a temporary slowdown, it cannot diminish the intelligence and determination of the scientific community. The webinar witnessed several insights and key points relating to research and technology in a post-COVID world and all the speakers said that humankind was resilient enough to fight this pandemic while urging people to be cautious and careful for the next few months. "Science is the urge of people to create and innovate which would keep shimmering even after lockdown,” said Professor Rao. Stating that the contribution of India to Science and Technology was marginal, Professor Rao said that the scientists of the country should engage in three types of research -- frontiers of science to combat COVID directly, research that helps in improving the important sectors of India, and domains where India has the potential to beat the rest of the world to be on top. He also urged the government to spend at least 2% of its GDP to promote scientific and technological research. Pro Vice-Chancellor of the university D. Narayana Rao said that post-COVID, there would be a dire need for international collaborations and said that India could definitely consider this as a potential opportunity and the scientists, technologists, engineers, bureaucrats and policy makers can reinvent the ways of doing research on Science & Technology. Professor Narayana Rao also said that CSIR Laboratories and outfits like BIRAC built a strong bio-science foundation with a robust and start-up corporate base. He ardently believes that in a way COVID-19 pandemic crises have catalysed India and its scientific community. Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, DST, said that COVID-19 taught mankind to adopt a problem-centric approach rather than a tool-centric one. “The future is about the convergence of science and technology. We should understand the fundamental challenges and use the opportunity,” said Professor Sharma. S. Chandra Sekhar, Director, CSIR, IICT, Hyderabad, said that in the Co-COVID era, the pursuit of science should be making the people future-ready. "Cutting edge research is to be used to combat pandemics in the future." “Pandemics are going to happen. AI model, computational tools should be used to predict virus mutations and alerts should be given to researchers to prepare a vaccine beforehand, “ he said.  ‘Self-reliant’ Shashi Bala Singh, Director, NIPER, Hyderabad, said that Indian R&D sector was very vibrant and has the capabilities to be self-reliant in the sectors of food and agriculture, biomedical equipment, and pharmaceuticals.
30 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Screening of passengers at railway stations made compulsory||The railways has made screening of all passengers compulsory and said that only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board trains. The railways have issued guidelines which make it mandatory for all passengers to reach railway stations at least 90 minutes in advance, and said that only passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter railway station. All passengers must wear masks at the entry and during the travel and passengers have to observe social distancing both at the station and on trains. On arrival at their destination, passengers should adhere to health protocols as prescribed by destination State/UTs. The railways would refund the fare in case passengers not found fit for travelling due to symptoms of corona and passengers with very high temperature/Symptoms of COVID-19 etc. would not be allowed to travel despite having confirmed tickets. Full refund would be paid to them. For refunds, online TDR should be filed within 10 days from date of journey and original TC certificates to be sent by the passenger to IRCTC and full fare to be refunded in customer’s account. The railways have also banned catering charges to be included in the fare, and encourage passengers to carry their own food and drinking water. All static catering and vending units at railway stations remain open and no no linen blankets and curtains to be provided inside the train.
30 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||We have taken healthcare to people’s doorstep: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said his government has brought in several revolutionary changes in the medical and health sector aimed at bringing quality healthcare to the doorstep of people. In his address on Day 5 of the ‘Mana Palana-Mee Suchana’ interactive programme capping one-year rule on Friday, Mr. Jagan said his government had raised the annual income limit of beneficiaries of Aarogyasri to Rs. 5 lakh, increasing the coverage to 1.42 crore people . “Our government has extended Aarogyasri coverage to all medical bills above Rs. 1,000. We have begun a pilot project extending the scheme to 2,000 diseases in West Godavari district and on July 8, it will be extended it to six more districts and the rest in November. As of now, the scheme covers 1,200 diseases, including cancer,’’ the Chief Minister said. At present, 132 super speciality hospitals, including those in Hyderabad, Chennai and Bengaluru are covered by Aarogyasri, he said, adding the government has cleared arrears amounting to Rs. 682 crore to the network hospitals. The hospitals would be graded and all B grade hospitals should make an endeavour to reach grade A. Under the Arogya Asara scheme, patients would be paid Rs. 225 per day or Rs. 5,000 per month till they recover. Pension was being paid to people suffering from long-term ailments such as stage 3 kidney disease and haemophilia.
30 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recruitment of medical personnel soon: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has announced that 9,712 posts of doctors, nurses and other personnel would be filled soon and the notification would be issued in the first week of June. Addressing an interactive session on ‘Nadu-Nedu,’ Mr. Jagan said in addition to 11 teaching hospitals, 16 more hospitals would be set up and seven super speciality hospitals would be set up in tribal areas. Tenders in August Tenders for these works costing Rs. 12,270 crore would be called in August and works would be completed in three years. A nursing college would be set up affiliated to every teaching college. On July 1, 1,060 new vehicles of 108 and 104 services would be launched and every primary health centre would have a bike and a thermo kit which would have essential equipment. Door delivery Door delivery of medicines would be improved through telemedicine. Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas alias Nani and Advisor (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy were among those present.
30 May 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No dog goes hungry, thanks to youth||The lockdown has led to a new resolve among a group of youth in Madanapalle to protect stray dogs and also make the town free of unhealthy and rabid canines. The group now feeds about 200 dogs, mostly dependent on bus stand areas, hotels and function halls. Pranay Kumar (25), an entrepreneur, has been running the All People Students’ Unity Force since 2017, which has now close to 1,200 members in Madanapalle, Tirupati, Punganur and Mulakala Cheruvu mandals of the district. Objective Though the prime objective of the organisation is to focus on the educational needs of the poor and downtrodden students, the services soon expanded into voluntary activities during natural calamities. The COVID-19 pandemic once again made the group active, providing food to stranded people and destitutes, apart from spreading awareness on the COVID guidelines. A week after the Lockdown 1.0 came into effect, Pranay and his friends were busy distributing food packets to a group of migrant workers at Bengaluru bus-stand in Madanapalle.  ‘Street dogs worst hit’ While returning home, the youth saw a lactating dog and its five puppies circling an empty dustbin and moaning in hunger. “We noticed that the street dogs depending on public places, hotels and function halls were the worst hit. When they try to enter residential areas, the local dogs chase them away. They face starvation. We purchased some bread packets from a medical shop and fed the dog and its puppies. It was a great moment,” Mr. Pranay said. A 40-member group sat together and chalked out an action plan. Since April 1, not a single dog in Madanapalle town has gone hungry. “We are providing rice cooked with milk to all of them. Four teams are formed to cover all dogs in entire town between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. When a stray dog gets our affection, it would no longer be a stray one. It is part of our lifestyle,” he said. Nature lovers lend support In coordination with the municipal authorities and nature lovers, the group now wants to raise the health standards of canines, which include rabies vaccination and birth control measures. “We plan to have a proper distribution of food in healthy environs to all the canines with surplus food from hotels once they start functioning. Stray dogs are more prone to contract rabies under unclean conditions in our region and the number of dog-bites too is high every year,” he said.
30 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||GMR Energy asked to stop dredging in Kakinada mudflat||The Forest Department has directed GMR Energy Limited to stop dredging activity in the Kumbabhishekham mudflat with immediate effect. It has also ordered the removal of the bund around the mangrove cover adjacent to the company’s 220 MW barge-mounted power plant on the Kakinada coast. The action comes in response to a report published in these columns on May 22 detailing the threat to the mudflat and the mangrove cover and destruction of the prime habitat of birds — endangered Great knots ( Calidris tenuirostris ), and Indian skimmers ( Rynchops albiocollis ), which are listed as a vulnerable species. The dredging was being carried out by GMR Energy Limited to shift existing installations. On May 27, District Forest Officer (East Godavari-Territorial) Nandani Salaria and Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB)-Kakinada Executive Engineer A. Rama Rao Naidu conducted a site inspection on the directions of East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy. “On the site, a bund has been erected on the mudflat front. The inflow of water and sand being dredged from the mudflat into the mangrove cover has been recorded. The GMR authorities have been directed to stop the dredging activity and remove the bund by June 1,” Ms. Salaria said. Campaign by activists “The bund is an immediate threat, impacting the soil topography and salinity on the site being levelled with the dredged material,” Ms. Salaria added. Mr. Rama Rao Naidu said the APPCB is investigating the issue. Former Union Power Secretary E.A.S. Sarma, wetland expert K. Mruthynjaya Rao, and conservation biologist J. Eswar Narayana have documented the destruction of the Kumbabhisekham mudflat due to the dredging, and sought the intervention of the State and the Ministry of Environment and Forests and Climate Change in the matter.
30 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID count crosses 200 in East Godavari||The total number of COVID-19 cases rose to 201 in East Godavari district, with 39 persons testing positive on Friday. “A total of 201 cases have been registered in the district as of Friday. Of these, 83 cases are either primary or secondary contacts of a 53-year-old man from Gollala Mamidada village. The 53-year-old died on May 20,” Collector D. Muralidhar said at a press conference. “The district has only reported one COVID-19 death. Though the total number of cases has crossed the 200-mark, a majority of them have been reported from Gollala Mamidada village in Pedapudi mandal only,” Mr. Muralidhar said. Regarding containment measures, the Collector said that a special cell has been set up at Gollala Mamidada to monitor the spread of the virus round-the-clock. The result of the 4,658 samples is yet to come out in the district. The Collector said that 4,241 beds are available in the district. Joint Collector (Village Secretariat and Development) Kirthi Chekuri said that 39 persons tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. “Of these, 30 persons belong to Gollala Mamidada village while three are from Rajamahendravaram and six from Amalapuram. Only one of them had returned from Mumbai,” Ms. Chekuri said. District authorities said that there are only 13 active containment clusters in the district.
30 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus spreads to interior villages in Prakasam||Six more patients, including three women from interior villages, tested positive for coronavirus in Prakasam district in the last 24 hours. Alarmed over the spread of the disease to remote places in the district, health officials unveiled the cluster containment strategy in H.M.Padu and Cumbum mandals. As many as 346 primary contacts of the infected persons and 1,013 secondary contacts were subjected to testing and isolated. Over 20,000 persons with symptoms have been tested so far in the district. Five of the new patients from Nallagantla village, near Hanumanthanipadu(H.M.Padu) in Prakasam district, have been infected after visiting Chennai, while the sixth person hailing from Cumbum had contracted the disease during his visit to Guntur, COVID-19 nodal officer John Richardson said. Chennai link According to a health bulletin released by the district administration, the number of active cases went up to 13 in the district, where 65 patients have been discharged on recovery. Twelve persons in the district had contracted the disease after visiting the Tamil Nadu capital. The number of containment zones were reduced from 21 to 8 after the first set of patients who had contracted the disease after visiting New Delhi were cured of the disease. Two of the infected persons had returned from Maharashtra. The containment action plan was implemented with full vigour in Santhamagaluru, Maddipadu, N.G.Padu, Chimakurthy and Kothapatnam and Korisapadu. 25 recovered in Nellore In neighbouring SPSR Nellore district, 25 patients were discharged on recovery and one person from Sullurpeta tested positive on Friday. The number of active cases came down to 55.
30 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||DLSA ensures water supply to villages||Over 4,000 people of Mallavaram, Vellapalli, and Kolachanakota live very close to the Gundalakamma reservoir. Yet, they did not have access to drinking water for themselves and their cattle. The drinking water shortage got accentuated during lockdown which coincided with peak summer as they could not even move out to fetch safe drinking water. They petitioned Prakasam District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) through an email. Moved by the plight of the people of the villages, DLSA Chairperson and Principal District Judge Venkata Jyotirmayi intervened and ensured release of water by Rural Drinking Water Supply Department officials, DLSA secretary S. Jayalakshmi said.
30 May 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to release white paper on all its immovable properties||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams will soon release a white paper containing details of all the immovable properties that it has received so far in the form of donations. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy is learnt to have instructed the management to prepare a database containing details of the nature of property (agricultural land/house site/flat), survey number, name of the donor and date of donation, location and address of the property, and whether it is registered or received in the form of a will deed, and make the information available on the TTD’s website.  While 129 properties were put up for open auction since 1974, the sub-committee formed by then chairman and former TDP MLA Chadalawada Krishna Murthy had also recommended the sale of over 50 non-remunerative assets in Tamil Nadu in 2016 by way of public auction. The present board under Mr. Subba Reddy, which found the recommendations of the sub-committee genuine, decided to proceed with the auctioning of properties but was forced to beat a retreat with political parties raising a hue and cry over the issue. The TTD board, which has already imposed a ban on the sale of gifted properties, now wants the details of all the TTD assets auctioned so far to be put on the website along with the details of proceeds received against each property. The details of utilisation of proceeds so received shall also be furnished on the website.
30 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD’s decision an outcome of our concerted efforts: BJP||Hailing the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanms(TTD) Trust Board’s nod to roll back its decision to sell away unviable land, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader O.V. Ramana said the decision was taken following the concerted efforts of the party.  “Though the ruling party went ahead with the move based on a Government Order issued and a board resolution made during the TDP regime in the year 2016, it made a hasty retreat, owing to pressure from the BJP as well as other sections of the society,” observed Mr. Ramana, who also served on the board earlier. The trust board or ‘Dharmakarthala Mandali’ is meant only to protect every small and big donations made to the Lord and not put them under the hammer for public auction, said Mr. Ramana, who had alerted the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on the raging issue. On Member of Parliament Subramanian Swamy’s comments on the issue, Mr. Ramana wondered as to why he had not questioned the then TDP government on its wrongdoings, including the pulling down of the famed heritage structure ‘Veyyikalla Mandapam’ in front of the temple. In the same vein, he appreciated TTD Chairman Mr. Y.V. Subba Reddy for promising to ban sale of TTD lands.
30 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||At BIIRD, robots to turn physiotherapists||Ailments requiring physiotherapy will henceforth be attended to by robots at TTD’s Balaji Institute of Surgery Research and Rehabilitation for the Disabled (BIRRD). The therapy at South Asia’s largest orthopaedic hospital is aimed at providing sophisticated treatment to patients. After BIRRD, robots will be introduced in other TTD-run hospitals. The BIRRD Trust committee met TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, who approved the proposal to call for tenders and purchase a robot-assisted Gait Training Therapy Equipment costing Rs. 5.5 crore, apart from approving the purchase of a 2D Colour Doppler equipment to test blood circulation. It was also resolved at the meeting to utilise the free services of specialist doctors Vidyasagar (Tirupati), Krishna Reddy (Nellore) and Guruva Reddy (Hyderabad) on a voluntary basis.
30 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. notifies fee structure for PG medical and dental courses||Taking into consideration the recommendations of the Andhra Pradesh Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (APHER&MC), the government on Friday notified the fee structure for the PG medical courses for all specialities in private unaided minority and non-minority colleges and PG dental courses in private unaided non-minority colleges for the block period of 2020-21 to 2022-23. The fee structure for PG medical courses of all specialities in private unaided non-minority colleges is as follows: For a clinical degree in Category A (convener quota), a student will have to pay a fee of Rs. 4.32 lakh, in Category B (management quota) Rs. 8.64 lakh and in Category C (NRI/institutional quota) Rs. 50 lakh. For para-clinical degree and diploma, the fee is Rs. 1.35 lakh in Category A, Rs. 2.7 lakh in Category B and Rs. 15 lakh in Category C. For pre-clinical degree, the fee is Rs. 61,200 in Category A, Rs. 1,22,400 in Category B and Rs. 8 lakh in Category C. For PG dental courses, the following is the fee structure: For clinical degree, the fee in Category A is Rs. 2.97 lakh, in Category B it is Rs. 5.94 lakh and in Category C, it is Rs. 12 lakh. For para-clinical degree, it is Rs. 2.67,300 in Category A, Rs. 4,34,600 in Category B and Rs. 7 lakh in Category C.  ‘All-inclusive fee’ At a press conference, Chairman of the Commission V. Eeswaraiah said the government had notified the fee structure through GO No 56 and to ensure that reservations were implemented as per the rule book, GO 57 was issued. “If a seat occupied by a Meritorious Reserved Candidate (MRC) falls vacant, it should be filled with a candidate of the same category,” he said. He said the fee was an all-inclusive annual one, but it did not include hostel, transport and mess charges. The institutions should collect the annual fee in two half-yearly instalments in advance and stipend would be paid to the PG students on a par with the students in the government PG medical and dental colleges. Mr. Eeswaraiah said any deviation from the stipulated fee structure would attract stringent penal action.
30 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition parties hail HC verdict in SEC case||All opposition parties – the TDP, the BJP, the CPI(M), the CPI and the JSP – have welcomed the High Court verdict reinstating N. Ramesh Kumar as the State Election Commissioner (SEC). TDP Polit Bureau member and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, in a statement on Friday, said the government should honour the verdict and initiate steps to continue Mr. Ramesh Kumar as the SEC. “The High Court has safeguarded the constitutional provisions and values. The verdict is a befitting lesson to the anti-people policies of the YSRCP. The TDP hopes the State government will honour the judgment and continue Mr. Ramesh Kumar as the SEC,” he said. BJP Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao and State vice-president S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy, in separate statements, hailed the verdict. Mr. Rao said the government should realise that hasty decisions will result in humiliation and bring disgrace. The government should understand that it had limited powers, he added. “The SEC is expected to function impartially. It gave an impression that Mr. Ramesh Kumar was pro-government until postponement of elections and pro-TDP thereafter,” he felt. Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said the judgment was a slap in the face of the government. CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu, while welcoming the verdict, said his party held the view that the government’s comments against the SEC were not appropriate. The government’s stand seemed to question the autonomy of the institution. “The government has to take steps to rectify the mistake,” he said. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said the verdict was laudable. The government should start the process of conducting elections to the local bodies afresh, he added. The verdict should serve as eye-opener to the government, which seemed to be under the impression that it could do anything as it had 151 seats in the Assembly, Mr. Ramakrishna told the media in Visakhapatnam. He also asked the government to desist from resorting to vengeful practices. The JSP said the court verdict instilled confidence among people in democracy. “It has once again been proved that the judicial wings will safeguard the system when the governments try to act as per their whims and fancies. The government should immediately reinstate Mr. Ramesh Kumar,” the party said.
30 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Fee stipulated by govt. unviable’||Stating that the fee structure approved by the government was not viable, members of the Andhra Pradesh Private Medical and Dental Colleges Managements’ Association (APPMDCMA) on Friday announced their decision to withdraw from Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences counselling process for admission to PG Medical/Dental courses. In a letter addressed to the Special Chief Secretary, Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department, association secretary G. Kasimbi said they would not admit students to PG courses for the academic year 2020-21. Uniform structure Drawing the official’s attention to the fact that the association in the past had approached him with a plea to implement uniform fee structure for all categories of students admitted to a programme as enunciated in the apex court judgment in the TMA Pai Vs State of Karnataka (2002), Mr. Kasimbi said the association had urged the authorities to ensure that 85% of all eligible PG seats should have the same fee structure, and a higher fee might be fixed for 15 NRI quota seats. The association had also made an appeal that fixation of the fee should be based on the books of expenditure as audited, taking into account inflation, furtherance of education and accounts submitted to the Income Tax Department without profiteering. Mr. Kasimbi said, as per GO No. 56 released on Friday (May 29), the fee structure for PG students of Medical and Dental courses was almost 40% to 60 % below the fee in vogue for the past four years. “It appears that you have also not taken into account the expenditure incurred on various services provided to the students, depreciation values on equipment, infrastructure, horticulture and other maintenance cost of the institution. From the figures quoted in the fee structure, it is seen that the total annual fee per student does not amount to even 20 % of the stipend paid to the student in pre-clinical subjects and 40 % in para clinical subjects,” the letter said. Difficult times Through the letter, the members sought to draw the government’s attention to the difficult period faced by the private unaided non-minority medical and dental colleges in the State due to COVID-19 pandemic. “The hospitals of the private institutions are taken over by the government for providing services to the COVID patients and non-COVID patients are not admitted, and so no revenue is generated from these hospitals,” they said. Despite acute financial crisis, the managements had been paying full salaries to the faculty, both teaching and non-teaching and health workers as directed by the government. Stating that the institutions had been finding it difficult to meet both ends meet, they said the GO 56 was not viable and, therefore, they would withdraw from the counselling process. The letter was signed by managements of 12 private medical colleges and 13 private dental colleges.
30 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retired engineers urge Centre to stop Telangana projects||The Retired Engineers’ Association of Navyandhra Pradesh has urged the Union government to stop Telangana from proceeding with any activity at the sites of several new projects it was taking up on Krishna river. In a detailed letter that ran into several pages to Union Minister for Jal Sakthi (Water Resources) Gajendra Singh Skekhawat, signed by association president M. Visweswara Rao, the retired engineers urged the Centre to instruct the Central Water Commission (CWC) and the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to critically examine the hot issue of new irrigation projects of Telangana and to ensure that it strictly complied with the provisions of the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014. KRMB jurisdiction The association also urged the Centre to notify the jurisdiction of the KRMB in terms of the A.P. Reorganisation Act and thereby protect the interests of the farmers of both the residuary States. The letter said that even after a prolonged correspondence, the KRMB failed or was unable to conduct a study on the impact of the new projects proposed by Telangana on the Krishna, and also on the existing projects that depended on assured and flood waters. The letter explained in detail the working arrangements of the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-I (KWDT-I) which awarded 811 tmcft to the integrated Andhra Pradesh. Several joint KRMB meetings were held and an implementation mechanism was worked out and the same was being implemented by the States concerned. This arrangement was being continued pending project-wise allocation of Krishna water. Andhra Pradesh was allocated 512 tmcft assured water and 150 tmcft flood water and Telangana was allocated 299 tmcft of assured water and 77 tmcft of flood water. However, Telangana was building new projects to use about 179 tmcft of flood water, the letter alleged. The main difficulty Andhra Pradesh was facing was that the KRMB lacked jurisdiction to control Telangana from drawing only the water allocated to it, the retired engineers explained. While the planned utilisation of Telangana area before bifurcation was 77 tmcft, the utilisation after the appointed day was 105.4 tmcft and after the completion of five new projects — Palamuru-Ranga Reddy Lift, Dindi Lift, Bhakta Ramdas Lift and Thummilla Lift irrigation schemes and Mission Bhagiratha — Telangana would using up a total of 255 tmcft. The Union Water Resource Secretary at a meeting held on February 21 said that the projects taken up by Telangana were new.
30 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Steps being taken to make study a pleasant experience’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy exuded confidence that the Amma Vodi scheme would go a long way in educating poor students right from school to the Intermediate level. He also asserted that ‘Mana Badi-Nadu Nedu’ would provide a conducive atmosphere in schools for children to study. Addressing a review meeting on the education, agriculture and other sectors on the occasion of his government’s completion of one year on Friday, Mr. Jagan said the ‘Gorumudda’ scheme would provide nutritious diet to the school-going children and English medium education would give the children the much-needed competitive edge over those studying in Telugu medium. Another scheme that would fulfil the needs of students was ‘Jagananna Vidya Kanuka’ under which a pair of shoes, two pairs of socks, textbooks and other items, including three pairs of uniforms and a bag, were planned to be distributed to each one of the students in government schools from the next academic year. The Chief Minister went on to narrate other programmes aimed at making education a pleasant and fruitful exercise for students languishing in poverty that had been robbing them of their fair share of opportunities.  Thrust areas Mr. Jagan said the Rythu Bharosa scheme was poised to change the fate of farmers and YSR Aarogyasri was making quality healthcare at affordable cost to the masses. The establishment of ward and village secretariats was a revolutionary step towards transparent and accountable governance. Liquor prohibition was among the government’s top priorities, so was the hand-holding being given to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) for which the lockdown came as a bane, he said.
30 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM inaugurates 15 de-addiction centres||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday inaugurated Alcohol/ Drug De-addiction centres established in 15 government hospitals in the State with an estimated annual expenditure of Rs. 4.98 crore. The centres will function daily from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. where alcohol and drug addicts can get treatment free of charge. The 15-bedded centres will have 11 staff members, including a psychiatrist, doctors and three counsellors and a doctor’s room, counselling room, a 15-bedded in-patient ward, an out-patient ward and a waiting room. The staff have been trained by the National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre (NDDTC) of AIIMS. Location The centres have been started at the Government General Hospitals/ District Hospitals at Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, Paderu, Kakinada, Rajamahendravaram, Eluru, Vijayawada, Guntur, Ongole, Nellore, Kadapa, Kurnool, Tirupathi and Anantapur. The number of centres will be increased to 25 by the end of the year covering every parliamentary constituency. Action plan The Department for Welfare of Differently-Abled, Transgender and Senior Citizens prepared a State action plan for drug demand reduction with the help of the Department of Medical, Health and Family Welfare. As per NDDTC data, 13.7% of the population of Andhra Pradesh in the age group of 10-75 are using alcohol. About 47 lakh people are using alcohol, 3.6 lakh opioid, 1.08 lakh Ganja and 1.4 lakh are using drugs and need assistance. The establishment of the centres gained prominence in the context of the Chief Minister’s decision to implement prohibition in a phased manner. The Chief Minister reviewed the activities of the Medical and Health Department under Mana Palana – Mee Suchana programme. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Principal Secretary (Women, Children, Differently-Abled and Senior Citizens) Damayanthi, Special Chief Secretary (Medical & Health) Jawahar Reddy, Commissioner (Health & Family Welfare) K. Bhaskar, Director (Women Development & Child Welfare) and Dr. Kritika Shukla, Director (Welfare of Differently-Abled, Transgender and Senior Citizens) were among those present.
30 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||When haircut burns a hole in your pocket||After the government gave permission to hair cutting salons, barbers are charging exorbitantly for their services. Some salons are reportedly collecting Rs. 400 for a hair cut and Rs. 150 and above for shaving. However, salons owners said that price hike had become inevitable as they had to follow COVID-19 guidelines. “Normally, I used to pay Rs. 200 for a hair cut and Rs. 75 to Rs. 100 for shaving before lockdown. Now, some AC salons are collecting double the charges. They are not honouring membership cards during the lockdown,” said a youth. Barbers said that they were taking full safety measures by wearing Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs), supplying masks, gloves and sanitizers to all the customers in wake of coronavirus. “We are following COVID-19 protocol strictly. The napkins, towels and other material are being used only once and we are giving them for wash in antiseptic lotion and hot water. Though we are collecting excess charges, salons are giving foolproof protection to customers,” said a salon owner. Some people said that charges in some salons were not affordable for the poor and middle class people. “Even for children, they are collecting Rs. 300 and above for a hair cut,” they said. Home service In some areas and colonies, barbers are offering services at home, at were collecting extra charge for te home visit. But, customers should arrange soaps, blades, towels, napkins and lotions at their own cost. “We are supplying PPEs to each worker, use and throw gloves, masks, napkins, sample soaps and towels for all the customers. Special care is being taken to sanitise the shops to prevent the virus,” a salon owner said. “As some salons are not taking proper precautionary measures to prevent the spread of the disease, we are forced to go to high-end ones. But, barbers are collecting huge charges on the pretext of COVID protocol,” says a kirana shop owner Parasa Ramulu. “There are instances of virus spreading through hair cutting salons in a few cases. So we asked the barbers to come to our home for a hair cut to our children and provided the necessary material. We have spent Rs. 250 for each hair cut,” says Shyamala, a homemaker.
30 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constitute SHRC immediately: advocates||Advocates staged protests across the State on Friday demanding constitution of the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC), under the aegis of All India Lawyers' Union, Indian Association of Lawyers, A.P. Civil Liberties Committee, A.P. Civil Liberties Association and other unions. The advocates mainly demanded that the SHRC should be formed and the office of Lokayukta shifted from Hyderabad immediately. The protesting advocates said the High Court ordered on October 30, 2019, that the SHRC should be constituted in four months from that date. However, the government did not fulfill its commitment so far. As a result, common people were finding it difficult to get justice. It had been four years since the SHRC continued to be in limbo and if the government kept on dragging its feet, people facing human rights violations would have no other cost-effective means of getting justice done, the lawyers' unions stated.
30 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mangoes exported to London through sea route||For the first time, mangoes are being exported through sea route to foreign countries. SadaSiva AgriTech, in association with the Department of Horticulture, exported 12 tons of Banganapalli variety of mango to London through the Vishakapatnam Port from VHT unit, Nuzvid, on Friday. Horticulture Commissioner Chiranjiv Choudhary said that sea transport was highly challenging as mangoes have to be harvested at the right stage, and maintain cold chain to ensure freshness of fruits for about 35-40 days in transit and for marketing.
30 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||85 new COVID cases in State||The number of positive COVID cases in the State increased to 3330, including 85 (33 local and 52 migrant) new cases registered in the last 24 hours. The total number of persons discharged stands at 2,226 and active cases at 1,044. The death toll has risen to 60 after one person died since 9 a.m. on Thursday. A total of 11,638 samples were tested during the period, according to a bulletin issued by the Medical, Health and Family Welfare Department.
30 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Attendance exemption fee for Inter students||The Board of Intermediate Education will consider grant of exemption from attendance to private candidates (without college study) to appear for Intermediate Public Advanced Supplementary Examinations tobe held in July with Arts combination, on payment of an attendance exemption fee of Rs. 1,300. The last date for payment of fee and submission of exemption application is June 10. In a statement, the Board Secretary V. Ramakrishna said incomplete applications would be rejected without further correspondence.
30 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ice cream parlours raided||Officials of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) conducted raids on ice cream parlours in the city on Friday and destroyed frozen desserts, ice creams and raw material, stored after the expiry date. Following the directions of Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha, the team, led by Assistant Food Controller N. Purnachandra Rao, conducted raids on an ice cream parlour located near police parade grounds and destroyed chocolate pastry, brownie, choco lava, waffles, black grape gallon, kala jamoon and other varieties, which were stored after the expiry date. In another ice cream parlour, located at Tikkle Road, the FSSAI officials found that Amul pastured butter, green lime fruit syrup, fresh cream, fruit scoops ice cream, choco fudge scoops ice cream opened bulk pack, honey almonds scoops ice cream bulk pack.
30 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Locust threat: Lokesh faults State’s ‘inaction’||TDP national general secretary and MLC N. Lokesh, in a letter on Friday, urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to appoint a task force to suggest and handle the danger posed by vast swarms of locusts. Mr. Lokesh said swarms of locusts attacked parts of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, and Uttar Pradesh till date. Delhi also issued alerts after suggestions that the locusts could reach the national capital. ‘Worst infestation’ As per the country’s Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), it was the worst infestation India had seen since 1993. If reports were to be believed, they were moving towards the Telugu States from Maharashtra, and there was also a media report that they were already spotted at Rayadurgam in Anantapur, Mr. Lokesh said. “When other States and the Central government are gearing themselves up to handle the threat, the State government is busy celebrating its one year in office. No precautionary measure has been taken, ,” he said. “In this grave scenario, what worries me is your government’s laid-back attitude, which is visible in handling the COVID-19 crisis. Your ‘paracetamol and bleaching powder technique’ has tarnished the image of the State,” Mr. Lokesh said.
30 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC summer vacation||The Andhra Pradesh High Court will be closed for summer vacation from June 1 to 12, according to an official release. However, the vacation courts will function from June 1 to 6 and June 7 to 12. The judges in these vacation courts will hear habeas corpus and anticipatory bail petitions, bail applications if refused by magistrates and sessions/additional sessions judges and other matters that cannot wait till the end of vacation. Filing of cases should be through e-filing mode.
30 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police on their toes over reports of Maoist activity||Reports of Maoist action teams led by senior cadres camping in interior areas of LWE-affected mandals in Visakha Agency such as GK Veedhi and G. Madugula have put the district police in a state of high alert. Senior police officers from sensitive police stations such as GK Veedhi, G. Madugula and Koyyuru have asked villagers living in these areas to be extra cautious and have advised them to come down to the plains if possible. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior police officer engaged in anti-Maoist operations said that combing operations in the sensitive and hyper-sensitive pockets in the Agency areas have been scaled up. “We are taking all precautions to avoid any untoward incidents, in spite of the fact that the Maoists have been pushed back to a small area in the the cut-off region in the Andhra-Odisha Border area,” he said. However, sources in the LWE-affected areas say that the Maoists are trying to recruit young villagers, by leveraging the recent Supreme Court order removing 100% reservation for tribal people in Schedule V areas and the fresh inflow of migrant labourers post the relaxation of the lockdown. The SC verdict quashing the 100% reservation for tribal people in teacher posts in Schedule V areas had not gone down well with the tribals, and the Maoists are learnt to be raking up the issue to drum up support. The outlaws are also reportedly trying to cash in on the large influx of migrant labourers, and are scouting for those interested in joining their fold. Over 1,.500 migrant labourers have now returned home from other States and are currently unemployed and penniless. The outlaws are trying to recruit them into their fold, it is learnt. Action teams of the Maoists comprise three to five cadres and are normally used to carry out a quick action, such as the killing of a prominent individual. Since it is now not possible to move freely due to heavy combing, as well as due to villagers not allowing entry to outsiders in the wake of COVID-19, there is a possibility of the outlaws moving in small groups, it is learnt.
30 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to lay foundation stone for medical college at Paderu soon||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will lay the foundation stone for the medical college which is proposed to come up at Paderu in Visakhapatnam Agency soon. He said that the medical college will be set up in about 35 acres and orders have been issued for the construction. He was speaking to the media about the government initiatives in Medical & Health and the Tourism Departments, at the VMRDA arena here on Friday. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the State government will set up medical colleges in all parliamentary constituencies in the State, including one at Anakapalle. The college at Paderu will boost medical facilities for the people living in tribal areas, he said. “Nearly Rs. 2,280 crore will be spent for construction of medical colleges at Anakapalle and Paderu, Community Health Centres (CHCs) and Primary Health Centres (PHCs),” he said. He also said that after Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy took over as the Chief Minister, about 40,000 people have been benefited by the Arogya Sri. For cancer patients, nearly Rs. 86.67 lakh was spent, he said. The government is setting up drug de-addiction centres in all the districts, including Visakhapatnam, he said.
30 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||De-addiction centre inaugurated at KGH||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy inaugurated Alcohol and Drug De-addiction Centres established at 15 places all over the State, including one at the King George Hospital (KGH), through videoconference from Amaravati on Friday. Minister for Tourism and Culture Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao s participated in the programme at KGH along with VMRDA Chairman Dronamraju Srinivas, District Collector V. Vinay Chand, Joint Collector Arun Babu, KGH Superintendent G. Arjuna and Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar. The de-addiction centre at KGH is a 15-bed facility with well-trained staff, including a psychiatrist, two counsellors and two nurses trained exclusively in management of those who are addicted to alcohol, ganja and other habit-forming drugs, under the supervision of N.N. Raju, Professor of Psychiatry. Regular outpatient services and community clinics will be organised by the centre. It is equipped to undertake training classes in de-addiction to both medical and non-medical personnel. Dr. Arjuna said that the de-addiction centre will coordinate with various NGOs and other departments like police, excise and social welfare and women and child welfare in curbing the consumption of alcohol and other illicit drugs to achieve total prohibition as envisaged by the State government. He said that KGH with its multi-specialty departments is well equipped to deal with drug and other substance-abuse disorders. Deputy Superintendent K. Indira Devi, DCSRMO Anjibabu and ARMOs M. Vijay Sankar, Ch. Sadhana, H.R.K. Dora and G. Suresh Kumar were among those who participated.
30 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak-affected people stage protest||The victims of the LG Polymers styrene monomer vapour leak staged a protest at Venkatapuram on Friday demanding immediate shifting of the plant. The affected victims, under the aegis of the CPI(M), held banners in support of their demands. The other demands. include arrest of the company management, issue of lifetime health cards, construction of a super-specialty hospital, payment of compensation to all those living in 3-km radius of the plant, acquisition of the plant land by the government, provision of employment to local people and withdrawal of cases booked against CPI(M) leaders, who were waging struggles on behalf of the victims. They also condemned the arrest of party leader P. Venkata Reddy. CPI(M) city secretary B. Ganga Rao decried the failure of the State government to arrest the company management even though three weeks had passed since the tragedy had occurred at the plant. The government had failed to make a definite statement on shifting of the plant so far. It was dodging the issue in the name of committee reports. He alleged that the company management was indulging in false propaganda in South Korea that the people of Venkatapuram were demanding continuation of the LG plant at the same place.
30 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT panel points to several lacunae in functioning of LG Polymers||The Joint Monitoring Committee (JMC) constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to inquire into the leakage of styrene monomer vapour from a storage tank in LG Polymers, a chemical plant owned by South Korea-based LG Chem, located at R.R. Venkatapuram village here has noticed many lacunae in the functioning of the plant. Styrene vapour leaked in the early hours of May 7. Twelve persons had died and 580 were hospitalised in the incident. The JMC, led by former High Court judge B. Seshasayana Reddy and comprising Ch.V. Rama Chandra Murthy, former Principal of Andhra Medical College, P. Jagannadha Rao, professor of chemical engineering in Andhra University, K.V. George, Scientist at NEERI-Nagpur, and Shaik Basha, Scientist and Head of CSIR-NEERI, Hyderabad, has found at least five glaring lapses in the plant. ‘TBC stock insufficient’ The committee has reported that tertiary butyl catechol (TBC), which is used as polymerisation inhibitor and to lower the temperature in tank, was in insufficient quantity at the time of the accident. “Styrene monomer is a Class B petroleum product and it needs to be stored at a temperature ranging between 15° and 18° Celsius. At no point should the temperature exceed 25° degree Celsius,” said Prof. Jagannadha Rao. The JMC also pointed out that there was no system to monitor the dissolved oxygen in the vapour space, which might have fallen down to below 6%. “Oxygen falling below 6% is a clear indication of self-polymerisation, and there is no mechanism to notice it. The plant was under lockdown for over 45 days, and the reaction could have started at least one week or 10 days ahead of the incident,” he observed. The tank was an old one and did not have temperature monitoring apparatus in the middle and top levels. It had a monitoring system in the lower level. But the second tank, which was said to be a new one, had the apparatus at all the levels. The reading at the bottom level showed 17° Celsius at the time of the incident, but the temperature might have soared in the upper part, the report said. “To keep the temperature of styrene under control, it needs to be in circulation. But due to the lockdown, it was stagnant, which probably led to the Deils-Alder type reaction, resulting in self- polymerisation. Since there was no apparatus to record the change in temperature in the upper part of the tank, styrene reached its onset temperature, which is 66° C over a period of time. And once it touches the onset temperature, it takes 15 to 20 minutes to reach its boiling temperature, which is 145° C. As per our findings, this probably was how the vapour formed and leaked,” Prof. Jagannadha Rao said. As per the experts, the refrigeration for styrene storage should run 24/7. But, as per the NGT report, the system was not operated for 24 hours prior to the incident. The report also attributed the incident to gross human failure and negligence of the person in-charge of the plant and maintenance personnel of the storage tank.
30 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA defends govt. decision to move SC over HC verdict on SEC||Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath said that the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) respects the verdicts given by the courts, but at the same time it does not mean that they need to be accepted and believe that they were right. He was addressing a press conference here on Friday and was defending the State government’s decision to move the Supreme Court, following the High Court’s verdict to reinstate Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar as the State Election Commissioner (SEC). Mr. Amarnath said that the State government had decided to remove Mr. Ramesh Kumar as SEC since he was favouring some political parties in the State. He also came down heavily on Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and its chief N. Chandrababu Naidu alleging that the Opposition party was obstructing the development in the State. Answering a query, the MLA said that he did not receive any notice for his alleged remarks on the judiciary. “If I receive any such notice, I will definitely respond to it,” he added.
30 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 MW solar plant commissioned at INS Kalinga||In tune with the initiative of the Union government to promote solar power and objective to achieve 100 GW of solar power by 2022 as part of the National Solar Mission, a 2 MW solar photovoltaic plant was commissioned at INS Kalinga here by Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command, on Friday. The plant, which is the largest in the ENC and has an estimated life of 25 years. Despite the lockdown, all agencies concerned, including the APEPDCL, worked out a contingency plan adhering to all guidelines promulgated for coronavirus pandemic and executed the work. Speaking on the occasion, Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain stated that the commissioning of this plant demonstrates the commitment of the ENC towards conservation of the environment and eco-friendly measures.
30 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI seeks arrest of top brass of LG Polymers||CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna on Friday demanded immediate closure of the LG Polymers plant. Talking to the media after interacting with the victims, he said the plant should be closed down as gas leak from it had led to the death of 13 persons. Party leader J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy was among those present. Later, addressing the delegates at a roundtable, Mr. Ramakrishna demanded the immediate arrest of the top brass of LG Polymers plant. Mr. Ramakrishna said the company should also be shifted on a war-footing, apart from initiating steps to prevent health issues from cropping up later. The density of population around the plant increased, and there was no option but to shift the plant. He said Mr. Satyanarayana Murthy had filed a PIL in the High Court and hoped that justice would be done. Cases were booked against 43 persons who were staging struggles on behalf of the victims, he said and demanded that the cases be withdrawn. He said that all parties would be united till justice was done. TDP leader Palla Srinivasa Rao demanded that a comprehensive study be made on the impact of styrene gas on the victims.
30 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assistance given to priests||The State government has provided Rs. 5,000 to each of the 1,427 temple priests in the district as immediate assistance as their livelihood was affected due to the closure of temples due to the lockdown. Those who failed to get the amount, should contact the Assistant Commissioner, Endowments, at Turner’s Choultry.
30 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weekend classes cancelled||Director, School of Distance Education, Andhra University, P Hari Prakash, said that B.A. / B.Com. weekend classes for the calendar year 2019, which were scheduled from June 7 at the respective venues have been cancelled due to COVID-19 situation. He said that the new schedule of the programme will be intimated later. Mr Prakash said that for further details, students may contact 77022-57811 / 0891-2844162 or visit www.andhrauniversity.edu.in.
30 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trains to run from June 1||AP Express Special between Visakhapatnam and New Delhi and Godavari Express Special between Secunderabad and Visakhapatnam are the originating trains, which will start in Visakhapatnam railway station with effect from June 1 and June 2 respectively. Konark Special Express between Bhubaneswar and Mumbai and Falaknuma Special from Howrah to Secunderabad will pass through Visakhapatnam Junction, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager G. Sunil Kumar. The entry to Visakhapatnam Railway Station for boarding any trains will be from Platform no. 8 (Gnanapuram entry) and for exit to go out of the railway station will be from PF no. 1. Health protocol will be strictly observed as per the Ministry of Health of the respective States. The entry and exit at railway stations over the division will be restricted and only bonafide passengers will be allowed.
30 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man arrested for ‘illegal liquor sale’||Officials from the City Task Force (CTF) arrested a person, who was found allegedly selling liquor without having licence, near PM Palem area in Visakhapatnam on Friday. Based on credible information, team from CTF under supervision of ACP(CTF) A. Trinad Rao conducted the raid and arrested Ch Ramesh. The police seized about 16 liquor bottles from him. The case has been handed over to the PM Palem police station for further action.
30 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Missile park soon at INS Kalinga||The foundation stone for a Missile Park named ‘Agneeprastha’ was laid at INS Kalinga by Cmde Rajesh Debnath, Commanding Officer, in the presence of Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command, on Friday. The Missile Park, once completed, will be dedicated to all the officers, sailors and support staff of INS Kalinga, who have served in this premier operation-support Base of the ENC since its establishment in 1981. The park also commemorates the award of the prestigious Unit Citation to INS Kalinga for the year 2018-19. The park aims to capture glimpses of missile history of INS Kalinga since 1981 till date. The missile park will be set up with a replica of missiles and Ground Support Equipment (GSE) that showcase the evolution of missiles handled by the unit. The main attraction is the P-70 Ametist, an underwater-launched anti-ship missile from the arsenal of the old ‘Chakra’ (Charlie-1 submarine) which was in service with the Indian Navy during 1988-91. The park will also provide a one-stop arena for motivation and stimulation of inquisitive minds regarding the missiles and related technologies, from schoolchildren to naval personnel and their families.
30 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourism hotels launch home delivery service||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao released a poster on the ‘Take Away’ and home delivery by AP Tourism hotels, at a programme here on Friday. Orders can be made from Haritha Beach Resort at Rushikonda on the mobile no. 97051 73600 or from the Haritha Hotel, Opp. Appu Ghar, MVP Colony, on 97051 73100 for breakfast, lunch and dinner.
30 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sugar unit agrees to clear ryots’ dues within 2 months||After prolonged discussions with Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Friday, NCS Sugars Private Limited agreed to clear dues amounting to Rs. 9.62 crore to sugarcane farmers within two months. Due to reported losses, the company could not make payments to nearly 10,000 farmers who have been agitating for their due. In this background, Parvathipuram MLA A. Joga Rao, Dr. Jawaharlal and Joint Collector G.C. Kishore Kumar held a high-level meeting here. Mr. Joga Rao said the farmers were in financial distress due to the lockdown. NCS Sugars Managing Director Narayanam Srinivas told them that the company had promptly responded to the suggestions made earlier and auctioned 62.47 acres of vacant land to generate funds. He said that Rs. 5.07 crore was readily available for the disbursement which would be completed very soon. Mr. Srinivas said that the company had to clear dues to the tune of Rs. 2.58 crore to the GST and Excise departments also and it would be ready to divert the funds for the benefit of farmers if the government gave the go-ahead. Dr. Jawaharlal said payment of dues to farmers should be the top priority and the dues to the government could be adjusted later. Mr. Srinivas said there was no assured sugarcane for the factory as farmers were allowed to sell the produce to factories located in Srikakulm district. Around 2.79 lakh tonnes of sugarcane was crushed in 2018-19 but it had come down to 1.28 lakh tonnes in 2019-20 with the diversion of sugarcane to the neighbouring district. The Collector promised to look into the issue and ensure financial viability for the company from the next crushing season onwards.
30 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rythu Bharosa centres to function from today||Vizianagaram and Srikakulam district administrations are geared up for the opening of Rythu Bharosa centres in selected villages from Saturday. As many 624 centres have been decorated in Vizianagaram district as Deputy Chief Minister Pamula Pushpa Srivani will formally inaugurate the centre in Mentada mandal. Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal said that these would also serve as procurement centres. Meanwhile, Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas said that around 800 centres were ready in the district.
30 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Judiciary helping save democracy in State’||Leaders from both the Telugu Desam Party and the Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday said that democracy in Andhra Pradesh was being protected by the judiciary, citing Friday’s High Court verdict reinstating Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar as the State Election Commissioner (SEC). “The verdict will pave the way for free and fair elections in Andhra Pradesh,” said BJP leader P. Sanyasi Raju. TDP Srikakulam district president G. Sirisha and BJP leader N. Eswara Rao said that no government would dare to dilute the power of constitutional bodies for its political gains henceforth. “Only the High Court is protecting law and order and the Constitution in the State. Its constant check on misrule is a blessing in disguise for people who are fed up with Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s administration,” said Mr. Eswara Rao. Ms. Sirisha said that people in the State will teach a lesson to the YSRCP when elections are held for local bodies.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC reinstates Ramesh Kumar as State Election Commissioner||It may be recalled that the government claimed to have promulgated the ordinance as part of local body election reforms and it was not targeted at Mr. Ramesh Kumar. State to move SC? The crux of the matter was Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s decision to postpone elections to urban and rural local bodies just a few days before polling on the ground that the coronavirus pandemic would flare up if the elections were held as per schedule. This prompted YSR Congress Party leaders and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy himself to attribute motives to the step taken by Mr. Ramesh Kumar. Mr. Ramesh Kumar then approached the High Court. Meanwhile, the State government is learnt to have decided to challenge the High Court judgment in the Supreme Court. A senior advocate representing the government confirmed it, suggesting that the grounds on which the ordinance was promulgated, were justified.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Changing gear||
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Enchanting sight||
30 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Pipparwada toll plaza a mute witness to migrant exodus||Like any other toll plaza, the one at Pipparwada on NH-44, falling in Jainad mandal here, about 4 km inside the inter-State border with Maharashtra, wore a deserted look once tolling operations were suspended on March 26 owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. However, unlike other toll plazas, this facility began reporting human activity just after four days and became a mute witness to momentous exodus for the next 45 days. The first of the migrant workers who had set off on foot from Hyderabad for their home in central and northern States began crossing this landmark while moving towards the Penganga river bridge at Dollara before crossing into Maharashtra. These workers walked close to 315 km to cross this post, strangely escaping observation. By the end of April first week, the toll plaza became deserted again as the workers hoped to go home, believing that public transport will resume at the end of the second edition of lockdown on April 15. This was not to be as the lockdown was extended and what began was an exodus of workers in the true sense.  Hitching rides This phase had the migrants covering part of the distance by hitching rides on lorries. Thousands of workers got dropped off on Adilabad bypass road or the stretch of NH-44 between Chanda (T) junction and Pipparwada toll plaza. “As more workers began converging at the toll plaza, it became somewhat easy for us to organise transport for them. As every lorry needed to make a stop for payment of toll, we got enough time to impress upon the drivers to take at least some passengers on board,” recalled T. Suresh Babu, a senior engineer of Soma Enterprises Limited, who is among those who excelled in organising transport for the hapless migrants. In the third phase of exodus, the activity intensified and thousands of migrant workers were being sent in lorries from Hyderabad itself. But the journey of most got terminated at Pipparwada toll plaza and it was from here that they got a lift for their onward journey. The activities of the civil society, too, got concentrated at the toll plaza once it gained in prominence as a milling point for the workers. All groups serving food and water converged at Pipparwada to cater to more migrants.
30 May 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Delay in distribution of 55,000 mosquito nets in 440 villages||The malaria control wing has an uphill task at hand to distribute the newly allotted little over 55,000 mosquito nets to people living in about 440 villages at risk for malaria and other vector borne diseases mostly spanning the Agency areas of the district before the onset of monsoon. A consignment of 55,800 indigenously-made Long Lasting Insecticidal Nets (LLINs) had reached Bhadrachalam from Tamil Nadu in mid-March. However, the sudden imposition of lockdown to stem the spread of coronavirus has led to considerable delay in the process of distribution of the LLINs among the population at higher risk of malaria under the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP). The new LLINs have been sanctioned to the district after a gap of more than four years. About 1.50 lakh Vietnamese-made mosquito nets were distributed among the population living in malaria endemic areas mainly located in the far flung tribal pockets of Bhadrachalam Agency and elsewhere in the district a couple of years ago, sources added. An action plan has been devised by the medical and health authorities to implement the indoor residual spraying in about 440 villages identified as high risk areas in the district from mid-June till the end of rainy season, said Krishnaiah, Health Education Officer, NVBDCP, Bhadrachalam. Anti-larval operations will be carried out in all the villages from first week of June by involving the field level health functionaries to eliminate mosquito breeding sites as part of the action plan to prevent malaria and other vector borne diseases. The newly sanctioned LLINs had been dispatched to the Primary Health Centres concerned and plans are afoot to distribute the mosquito nets among the population living in the high risk areas soon, he added.
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ICMR-NIN to study community transmission tendencies in city||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) in association with the Telangana government will take up a rapid survey in five randomly selected containment areas in Hyderabad to monitor the trends of community transmission of SARS-CoV-2 infection or COVID-19, if any, among the general population, on May 30 and 31, said Director R. Hemalatha on Friday. In an official communique, the NIN director said that this programme was being taken up in five containment zones or hotspot clusters selected randomly and about 500 adults — 100 from each cluster, would be covered in the study. Hyderabad is among the 13 hotspot cities in 21 states across the country. The ICMR had already completed a survey in 69 districts from these hotspots and three within Telangana — Jangoan, Kamareddy and Nalgonda, from where it had collected 1,200 samples a few days ago, the results of which are awaited. Telangana health authorities, district administration of Hyderabad and Rangareddy, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), district medical personnel and grass-root level functionaries will be supporting the 10 teams and five coordinators from the ICMR-NIN, she explained. She said earlier that SARS-CoV-2 causes asymptomatic infection for which sero-surveillance is strongly recommended for active case finding, testing, and contact tracing. Surveillance of antibody based sero-positivity indicates the extent of spread of infection in the given population. Household based studies can generate evidence on role of asymptomatic and mild infections in transmission. “This is the first phase of the study. ICMR proposes to carry out four more rounds of surveys in the coming months at different time points in the same rural and urban clusters. This initial phase will serve as a baseline to determine the sero-prevalance of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the community. Subsequent rounds will help us monitor the trends of infection among the population of selected zones. Study findings will be useful to guide in designing and implementing appropriate public health preventive measures,” added Dr. Hemalatha.
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC council, general body meetings overdue||The scare of coronavirus across the world has kept several meetings and gatherings at bay, while several more have gone online. The GHMC is, however, yet to decide on its standing committee and council meetings, which are already due by several weeks. While all other regions in the State are declared COVID-19-free, GHMC continues to be in the red zone, indicating rampant spread of the virus. The number of cases show no sign of let-up, even as the lockdown days are numbered. With the standing committee and general body meetings on the hold for over two months, several key proposals pertaining to various developmental works in city are kept on hold, say officials. They also include land acquisition proposals for recently approved link roads and slip roads, apart from the SRDP components. As per the custom, GHMC council meets once three months, and the standing committee once a week, though the custom is practised more in breach. The last standing committee meeting before COVID-19 lockdown was held on March 12, and the council meeting on February 8. The norm of physical distancing has delayed both meetings by several weeks, as there is apparently no provision for enough spacing in GHMC headquarters. “Standing committee meeting is attended by 15 members and 40 to 50 officials at the minimum. Council meetings see at least 200 persons gathering in closed chambers. Both pose risk of infection, hence no meetings are being conducted during lockdown period,” an official said. Though there is tele/video-conferencing facility, the official says, there is no provision in the GHMC Act for the same. This is standing in the way of approval for crucial works. As per the rule book, proposals up to Rs. 2 crore may be sanctioned by the Commissioner himself, while above this limit, all proposals will have to be sent for approval of the standing committee. An official, on condition of anonymity, said that even proposals above this limit were being sanctioned by the Commissioner on emergency basis, pending approval by the standing committee. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan admits that several developmental works have hit the roadblock ahead of GHMC elections, due to COVID-19 lockdown. The present standing committee’s tenure is about to end in the first week of June, before which efforts are on to convene a meeting, he said. Proposal to hold the meeting online too is under consideration.
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Godavari water pumped to 621 m above MSL||As its pump-house near Markook village in Siddipet district became operational on Friday, the Kaleshwaram Life Irrigation Project (KLIP) has reached yet another unique milestone in the annals of lift irrigation projects as the pumping facility delivers water at a height of 621 meters above the mean sea level (MSL). Although the full reservoir level (FRL) of Kondapochammasagar near Pamulaparthy village is 618 metres above MSL, the Markook pump house with 6×34 MW capacity motors is designed to deliver water to a higher level that is to ensure gravity flow of the river Godavari water into the balancing reservoir. The 15 tmc ft storage capacity reservoir serves over 2.85 lakh acres ayacut in nine constituencies besides meeting the drinking water needs in the command area as also in Hyderabad. According to both the Irrigation Department officials as also of the pump-house executing agency, MEIL, the pumping facility takes water to the highest extent above MSL. Citing the examples of major water lifting systems across the globe, the agency officials said lifting of water to 621 meters is not done even in the Colorado lift irrigation project in the USA and the Great Man-made River in Libya. Closer home, water is lifted to a maximum of about 370 meters above MSL in Handri-Neeva project in Andhra Pradesh. Out of a total of 22 pump-houses designed in Kaleshwaram project, the infrastructure major MEIL has bagged works pertaining to 15 pump-houses and completed nine of them in less than four years. “Nine pump-houses with a total capacity of 3,767 MW getting operational in such a short span in the execution of irrigation projects is a record in itself,” director of MEIL B. Srinivas Reddy said on the occasion. Kaleshwaram project would altogether have105 motors in its 22 pump-houses with a capacity of 4,680 MW for lifting and conveying 2 tmc ft of Godavari water a day from Medigadda and the 17 pump-houses being executed by the agency would have 90 motors. “Of them, the nine completed pump-houses have 63 motors of different capacities ranging from 27 MW to 139 MW each,” the agency executives explained. “Intense monitoring by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and supervision of the Irrigation Department officials with the critical support of electro-mechanical engineering giants such as BHEL, Andritz, ABB, Xylem, Crompton Greaves and others have helped us execute the pump-houses, including the one known as underground wonder and engineering marvel at Laxmipur constructed 470 feet below ground-level (the starting point), in the record time,” Mr. Srinivas Reddy said.  Reaching record heights Motors of Markook pump-house lifts water to a height of 71 metres from 550 metre above MSL, where it gets water from Akkaram pump-house The underground surge-pool constructed in Package-8 pump-house at Laxmipur is stated to be taller than Eiffel Tower  The government decision to enhance the capacity of Kaleshwaram project head works — from 2 tmc ft water a day to 3 tmc ft a day – adds another 15 motors in Link-I  Link-I has three pump-houses at Medigadda, Annaram, Sundilla and their capacity would be increased to lifting 3 tmc ft water a day  Enhancement of lifting capacity involves installation 15 additional motors of 40 MW capacity each by adding 6, 4 and 5 motors at the three pump-houses, respectively  Enhancement of water conveyor capacity from Yellampally to Mid Manair and Mid Manair to Mallannasagar by one more tmc ft each are also in pipeline
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court appoints advocate commissioner||With a petitioner claiming that several migrant workers got stranded at Medchal on Hyderabad-Nizamabad highway and the government refuting it, Telangana High Court on Thursday appointed lawyer K. Pawan Kumar as commissioner advocate to ascertain facts. The advocate commissioner, accompanied Rangareddy District Legal Services Authority secretary, will visit Medchal and present a report on the matter to the HC by Monday. Issuing the direction, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy asked the advocate commissioner to interact with the migrant workers, assess their condition and understand what facilities the government is extending to them. The bench wanted Mr. Pawan Kumar to find out if the authorities are making any transportation arrangements like buses or trains for the workers heading to their respective States on foot. Professor Rama Shankarnarayan Melkote filed the PIL petition stating that several migrant workers are seen undertaking long journeys of hundreds of kilometres on foot to reach their respective States. Her lawyer Vasudha Nagaraj contended that these migrant labourers are being dumped on Telangana border in Adilabad by the authorities. Nearly 500 to 600 of them are still stranded in Medchal on city outskirts, the lawyer argued. However, the government counsel refuted the allegation and told the bench that as on date of hearing, no migrant workers got stranded in Medchal. In the backdrop of conflicting contentions, the HC appointed the advocate commissioner to secure a ground report on the issue. The petition would be heard again on Tuesday.
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Distancing’ at SSC exam venues||Social Welfare Minister Koppula Eshwar has directed officials to take all precautions during SSC exams that starts from June 8. In the backdrop of the spread of coronavirus, he asked principals, teachers and other staffers, to create awareness among students on protocols like physical distancing and other precautionary measures that should be adopted at examination centres. The Social Welfare Minister reviewed the arrangements for SSC exams at residential schools. Students are expected to return to social welfare hostels from June 1. “Steps should be taken to put in place thermal scanners in all schools and sanitisers and masks should be kept ready for students. Physical distancing norms should be followed at hostels especially at dining halls. Also, steps should be taken to sanitise classrooms and provide nutritious food to boarders,” he said. Stressing the need to ensure that students did not undergo any mental stress, the Minister wanted the officials concerned to instil confidence among them before examinations. He appreciated the initiatives of the departments concerned to hold online classes to students during the lockdown period. Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society secretary R.S. Praveen Kumar informed Mr. Koppula Eshwar that 12,163 students of the 173 residential schools, including 4,155 boys and 7,988 girls, and 4,800 students from the 83 minorities’ residential schools will sit for the examinations.
30 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State varsities will be emboldened, says Governor||Universities are likely to adopt a blended approach of face-to-face as well as online classes ensuring students are divided accordingly once varsities and colleges start operating post lockdown, Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said. In a video conference with reporters here on Friday, she maintained that hostels may also see lesser number of students in view of the pandemic with new buildings put to use to reduce numbers in each room. “Universities will explore several other options for ensuring social distance once the academic activity starts,” she said. She added that students need not worry over private universities as the State varsities would be strengthened to ensure quality education that will be accessible to students irrespective of socio-economic backgrounds. As part of the exercise of improving the standards in varsities, the Governor is collecting data on facilities and needs of varsities through a questionnaire. The document with 40 questions seeks information on budget needed for institutions, research and academic activities, courses and syllabus, online classes, hostel information, training and placements facilities, teaching modules, land details that include disputes and court cases, industry tie-ups and social responsibility activities of the varsities. The information sought would be analysed followed by discussions with departmental heads leading to preparation of a detailed plan. She said the varsities have been asked to focus on three aspects – Enjoy, Educate and Employment – to ensure students enjoy their learning process. Stating that Raj Bhavan premises would be made greener by planting fruit bearing saplings, she said a ‘gaushala’ will also be set up on June 2 (Telangana Formation Day). This is to highlight village economy, she said.
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CMO to ‘chase’ single window clearances for building permissions||Top officials of the Department of Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA & UD) informed the real estate developers and architects that a ‘chasing cell’ will be formed in the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) to resolve any issues concerning the proposed TS-bPass — the single window clearance and self-certification for building permissions scheduled to become operational from June 2. This cell will be akin to the TS-iPASS cell formed in the CMO when the quick process of industrial licensing regime was introduced, they were told at the second TS-bPASS webinar conducted by Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India-Telangana (CREDAI-TS) on Thursday. Some 342 developers, architects and consultants participated. Director of MAUD S. Balakrishna, Chief City Planner Devender Reddy, Director of Town & Country Planning (DTCP), Officer on Special Duty for Buddha Purnima Project (BPP) and nodal officer for e-services of MA&UD Harinath Reddy took part in the online show where they answered close to 200 questions for three hours. Welcoming the initiative, CREDAI-TS president Ch. Ramachandra Reddy said that under TS-bPass there won’t be any need to apply for individual permissions from fire services, Airports Authority, Water Board and others. MA&UD officials clarified their respective dedicated teams in various wings will be trained to handle the online work so as not to repeat the teething issues faced with the DPMS — Development Permission Management System (DPMS). For plots up to 58.55 sq.mts a self-declaration for Rs. 1, and from 58.55 to 500 sq.mts is pre-approved for G+2 residential (not apartments) where a citizen can apply to the TS-bPass and start work without waiting for 21 days. After 21 days, a technical person will visit the site for inspection and if everything is clear, a signed copy of the permission can be downloaded by the applicant after 42 working days of the application date. For plots above 500 sq.mts or for plots below 500 sq.mts but for permission to construct above G+2, TS-bPass should be applied through Auto-DCR. Then, various departments will respond if there are any shortfalls within 15 days.
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hot days and warm nights to continue||Hyderabad sizzled with heat at 43 degree Celsius even as the fond hope of having a shower or thundershower to cool the day did not materialise on Thursday. Night temperature too was quite high with 30.7 degree Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) Hyderabad Centre here. There is a chance of rain or thundershower on Saturday also but day temperatures are likely to be high at 43 degree Celsius and night temperature too will show no respite and expected to be at 31 degree Celsius. Important urban area across Telangana too continued to show high maximum temperatures with Adilabad recording a high of 44.8 degree Celsius followed by Ramagundam and Medak at 44.4 degree Celsius. Nizamabad recorded 44 degree Celsius and Mahabubnagar 42.4 degree Celsius.
30 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Degree exams likely to start from June 20||Degree final year examinations may start from June 20, with the exam time reduced to two hours if suggestions made by the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) to varsities are followed. TSCHE suggested reduction of examination time from three hours to two hours and set the paper accordingly. It means varsities can give more choice in questions to lessen the burden on students. However, covering the entire syllabus is mandatory. TSCHE chairman T. Papi Reddy said that based on UGC guidelines issued earlier, the council held a meeting with registrars and controller of examinations of various universities. Based on the discussions, TSCHE has issued certain guidelines on the conduct of examinations. Prof. Reddy said that the degree examinations may be held from June 20 onwards but the universities can have their system according to their convenience. The PG exams can be held later as priority was for the degree exams with students prepared for admissions in PG courses across the country. Universities were also advised to finish the exams within a span of 10 to 15 days covering two papers of different streams per day. It also suggested that examinations for students of Intermediate semesters may be conducted after reopening of colleges or in November and December along with odd semesters’ main examinations. TSCHE said that students of Intermediate semesters may be promoted to next higher semester irrespective of the number of backlogs, and most universities seem to be already in the mood for that. With regard to project viva voce and seminars and Ph.D seminars, it said they can be conducted online as per UGC guidelines. However, a web link has to be shared with the DRC members if the Ph.D seminars are conducted online.
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Uber lays off more city employees||Several employees at Uber’s Hyderabad offices have been laid off, as part of the company’s global job cuts. Employees from the Kondapur office said that the lay-offs started on Tuesday. An exact figure was unavailable as many have been working from home on account of the lockdown. Speaking to The Hindu , an employee, who did not wish to be identified, said, “It was very unfortunate that people from my team were told to leave. It was a difficult moment when I came to know. Since we have not been going to office, it is difficult to say the exact number of those who have been laid off. I was told they received emails and did had calls with senior management. This was a part of the lay-off across the country.” The source added that those affected include entry level employees such as operations specialists and managers. This is the second time this year that lay-offs have been done at Uber’s Hyderabad offices. As was reported in these columns in February, at least 220 employees were laid off at Uber Eats. Some of the laid-off employees were asked to leave on their second working day. “The impact of COVID-19 has left Uber India and South Asia with no choice but to reduce the size of its workforce. Around 600 full-time positions are being impacted,” a statement quoted Pradeep Parameswaran, president of Uber India and South Asia.
30 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lecturers condemn dismissal||The Telangana Lectures Joint Action Committee , representing teaching and non-teaching employees of Narayana, Sri Chaitanya and Sri Gayatri colleges, staged dharna at Indira Park on Thursday against the “illegal removal” of all teaching and non-teaching staff.
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC-SCR meeting to resolve issues||A meeting convened by Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan with officials from the South Central Railway on Friday focussed on amicable resolution of property acquisition issues between the GHMC and SCR. GHMC Commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar and SCR chief engineer Achyuta Rao attended the meeting which discussed the issues encountered in road widening at Sangeet Junction and Mettuguda Junction in Secunderabad. After the notification was passed in 2008 for land acquisition, and payments were made for structures on the land, the SCR approached High Court demanding better price for the land. Though a three-member committee was constituted for resolution of the issue, no result came through. Hence, as per instructions of Minister K. T. Rama Rao, the meeting had been called, Mr. Ram Mohan said.
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Activists stage protests at home||Eight activists of Human Rights Forum on Friday staged black badge protests in their respective houses on a call given by convenor of Telangana unit of Forum Against Repression G. Haragopal, to expose the repression against rights activists in the State and elsewhere in the country. The forum has demanded the immediate release of G.N. Saibaba and Varavara Rao who are lodged in Nagpur and Mumbai jails respectively and bail to accused in Bheema Koregaon case related to alleged assassination attempt on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. All cases foisted by Telangana government against democrats should be withdrawn, they demanded. The forum highlighted that Mr. Saibaba was totally incapacitated and languishing in jail without an aid for past three years. His health had deteriorated badly but there was no way anyone could meet him to enquire about it. He was not even granted parole to visit his mother who suffered from cancer. Eighty-year-old revolutionary writer Varavara Rao was confined to a cell in Taloja jail in Mumbai which lacked basic facilities. He also suffered from health problems but his family members did not have access to him.
30 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MANUU applications open till June 10||Applications for entrance-based regular courses of Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU) are open till June 10. The e-prospectus and online application forms will be available on the university website manuu.edu.in for courses in MBA, M.Tech (CS), MCA, B.Tech, M.Ed, B.Ed and D.El.Ed apart from Ph.D. Admissions in regular courses are available at Hyderabad headquarters, Lucknow and Srinagar (J&K) campuses and eight colleges of Teacher Education and five Polytechnics in different parts of the country.
30 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Elderly woman ostracised by sons fearing COVID-19||An 80-year-old woman, who is not having any COVID-19 symptoms, is being ostracised by her sons and family members as she returned from Sholapur, in Maharashtra, where there is high incidence of positive cases. Katta Shyamala went to Sholapur before lockdown to attend a function at her relative’s house. She was stuck in Sholapur following the lockdown and returned to Kisannagar in Karimnagar town only on Friday. As soon as her son Narasimha Chary heard the sound of the gate, he along with his wife rushed outside and closed the gate, forcing the woman stand outside in the scorching sun. Besides alleging that she has COVID-19 symptoms, they wanted her to go to the government hospital and stay in quarantine for 14 days. When the woman was standing outside, local municipal corporator Saritha’s husband, Edla Ashok, rushed to her rescue. Mr. Ashok, also a local TRS leader, called her sons Narsimha Chary and Eshwara Chary and instructed them to take their mother inside the house. But, they refused saying that all of them would get infected. When informed that she is not having virus symptoms, Narasimha Chary said that his pregnant daughter is with them and that she may get inflicted. Meanwhile, Eshwara Chary said that his house owners would not allow her. At one stage, Narasimha Chary even threatened to commit suicide if anyone forces his mother into the house. Later, the TRS leader informed the police, who rushed to the spot and counselled both the sons. Though the elderly woman could go inside the house, she was forced to cook her own food in her own room by living as home quarantined.
30 May 2020||Marriguda (NALGONDA),TELANGANA||Messed-up rescue killed the leopard, say villagers||Unlike the successful rescue of a leopard at Ajilapuram village in the same Marriguda mandal in Nalgonda on January 14, the multi-team operation, to save a seven-year-old male leopard at Rajapet Thanda on Thursday, was a messed up affair that eventually resulted in the death of the wild animal. The officials declared that the big cat breathed his last while being taken to Nehru Zoological Park (NZP), Hyderabad, and the cause of death was “internal haemorrhages, shock and asphyxia”. However, residents of Rajapet Thanda refuse to believe the wild cat died because of internal injuries and suffocation. “It was so active, running, pouncing and it even tried to climb the vehicle of the Forest Department. Officials may be covering up the failed rescue,” they say. Slow response According to Sadan Lal, owner of the 10-acre farm where the animal was tranquilised and who alerted the authorities, the response of the Forest officials was lukewarm. “I called the police at 6.10 a.m., they were here in 20 minutes. Forest beat officers reached in another 30 minutes, but the senior officers kept seeking clarifications till 8 a.m. The rescue team from Hyderabad reached here only at 11 a.m., and they managed to capture the wild cat by 1 p.m.,” the farmer explained the timeline of the events of the day. Eyewitnesses, like toddy tapper Madhagoni Abbaiah and cattle herders Sunitha and Ramesh Naik, wondered why officials had to shoot the tranquiliser gun several times, and why they did not use a net to capture the animal while it was still trapped in the fencing mesh. “Ajilapuram is two kilometres from here. That leopard, reported to be five-year-old, was in a boar trap and was shot only twice. The additional tranquiliser shots have killed this leopard,” they opined.  Missed shots A Forest official who was part of the Thursday rescue, told The Hindu : “There were at least five shots. Two hit the animal while it was under the fence and the third one flew over. Two or more were shot at the leopard when it went under the vehicle.” Field observations also confirmed that there was no wire trap on the site as declared by the Curator of the Nehru Zoological Park. However, it appears that the leopard got trapped in the chain link fence as the fence post got uprooted when the 70-kg wild animal tried to leap over it. The chain link fence got twisted trapping the animal further. Tyre marks, numerous footwear impressions, long sticks, disposable syringe packs, a dry gunny bag, pink stripe towel and a camouflage cap, still strewn across the field, where the foresters tried to capture the wild animal, are evidence to the hectic efforts made by the rescue team. The leopard’s last meal appears to be blood sucked from the neck of a sheep found dead on the same farm. It might have been thirsty and not hungry that is why the sheep was not torn apart, explained a villager.
30 May 2020||Medak,TELANGANA||Couple commits suicide||A couple ended their life by consuming pesticide at D. Dharmara village in Ramayampet mandal on late Thursday night. According to Sub- Inspector B Mahender, one M. Vijaya Kumar Reddy and Ruchita loved each other and got married, they had two children. However, Mr. Reddy’s parents did not like it and constantly heckled them. Unable to cope with it the couple decided to end their life. Police registered a case and are investigating. Roshni — suicide prevention helpline +914066202000.
30 May 2020||Mumbai,TELANGANA||Varavara Rao in hospital||Well-known poet Varavara Rao, 81, lodged in Taloja jail as an accused in the Elghar Parishad case was admitted to JJ Hospital on Thursday. Hospital Dean Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar told The Hindu that Mr Rao was admitted on May 28 as he complained of giddiness and fainted once. “A chest X-ray was taken and he is stable.” Mr Rao has been suffering from piles, cardiac issues and is on medication for ulcer and blood pressure. His three daughters wrote a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and the Chief Justice of Bombay High Court, appealing them to release him on bail as he falls under the high risk category for COVID-19. On Friday evening, Chikkadpally police conveyed to Mr Rao’s wife the message from Visrambagh police station, Pune, informing that he was admitted to the JJ Hospital. When asked if the family can go visit him at the hospital, Sunil Ramanand, Additional Director General (Prisons) told The Hindu , "We can try and make an arrangement for video conferencing in the jail. In the hospital, we will have to see what can be done within the four corners of the law." His interim bail application is expected to come up for hearing at special court on June 2.
30 May 2020||MURKOOK (SIDDIPET DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Yagams performed||Unveiling the final phase of the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project taking Godavari water to the highest point in Telangana at 618 metres, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao along with his wife Shobha switched on the motors at Murkook pump house and released water to Kondapochammasagar here on Friday. After releasing the water, traditional offering of new clothes, flowers, garlands along with turmeric and vermillion were offered to river Godavari by Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao, his wife, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao, Endowments Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy and others. Earlier in the day, Chandi Yagam was performed at Kondapochamma temple and Sudarshana Yagam at Murkook pump house. The CM and others participated in both these programmes.
30 May 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||IITH to host online conference for HR professionals||The Department of Liberal Arts of the Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad (IITH) will host an online conference for employees and human resource professionals on May 30 on the topic ‘Employee engagement and welfare in the new normal of work-from-home, post-COVID-19.’ The event is open to people from 10.30 a.m. to 12 noon. They can participate using the link - https://meet.google.com/ khg-mint-eur Speaking about the event, associate professor M.P. Ganesh said: Working from home is going to be prevalent and unavoidable phenomenon in the coming days, even after the COVID-19 situation is stabilised. So, it becomes very important to understand it from different stakeholders’ point of view. This online conference is an initiative in this line, where the objective is to bring in specialists and practitioners from different spheres to discuss the challenges and way forward in this area.” The online conference will feature leaders from the industry, including Bindu Venkatesh, Rajiv Noronha, Ravi Modali, and Dr. Jeyavelu.
30 May 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Corona robs the sheen off a milestone event||On Friday the grand event of pumping Godavari water from Markook pump-house to Kondapochammasagar in Mulugu mandal was the realisation of a long-cherished dream of seeing Godavari waters in the parched lands of erstwhile Medak district. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao along with Chinna Jeeyar Swamy switched on the motors to lift water to Kondapochammasagar. The event was participated by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao, Agriculture Minister Niranjan Reddy, Lok Sabha Member K. Prabhakar Reddy and others. According to the original plan, at the time of proposed pumping of water to Ranganaik Sagar, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) planned to have lakhs of farmers participating in the event to mark the pumping of water. Even Mr. Chandasekhar Rao himself explained that they were unable to hold the programme in grand manner due to the coronavirus pandemic and they have to follow the protocols to arrest the spread of virus. On Thursday, Mr. Harish Rao held a press conference at Gajwel and urged the public not to attend the inauguration programme and made it clear that it would be conducted with limited participation. Even after Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao left Murkook only few persons were there on the bund of Kondapochammasagar to see the reservoir.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Lacklustre psychological thriller||Director Lakshmikanth Chenna’s Run is the first OTT original Telugu film, made specifically for a streaming platform. Now streaming on ‘Aha’, Run has a crisp duration of 87 minutes and that’s one of its high points. However, not everything that happens within those 87 minutes makes for a nail-biting watch. The psychological thriller opens like a whodunnit and gradually presents a bunch of odd characters involved in a curious turn of events where mostly, it’s tough to predict what happens next. When the big reveal happens in the later portions, these oddball characters make sense. But, while watching the drama unfold, it doesn’t evoke a sense of empathy for the plight of the central characters, which is so crucial in a murder mystery involving a doting couple. In the opening portions, Shruti (Pujita Ponnada) and Sandeep Reddy (Navdeep) come across as the much-in-love couple. When Sandeep abruptly hands over his work presentation to a colleague to take time off for a lunch date with Shruti, to celebrate their wedding anniversary, the friend knows how much this means to Sandeep. At the café, the manager and the staff member know the couple’s favourite table and dishes. The couple’s world is perfect. So perfect that, hypothetically speaking, they could be the sort of people who would post loving messages on Facebook. You get drift… there’s trouble in paradise. The lunch date never happens because Shruti is dead and Sandeep is a suspect. He tries in vain to prove his innocence. Some of the film’s oddball characters show up in a few minutes — friend Khaleel (Amit Tiwari) who seems dubious but helps Sandeep and a lady who always wears red and drives a red car (Bhanu Sri). Most of the characters are fashioned in a unidimensional manner. A friend who looks and behaves like a typical commercial film antagonist keeps saying that he hates women, an elderly man is so protective of Sandeep that his actions seem unreal.  (Longer version of the review on www.thehindu.com)   Run   Cast: Navdeep, Pujita Ponnada and Venkat Direction: Lakshmikanth Chenna Streaming on: Aha
30 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab govt. increases fines for norms violation||The Punjab government on Friday increased the penalties in case of violation of instructions and guidelines issued to contain the spread of COVID-19. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, taking cognisance of violation reports about the instructions and guidelines concerning the COVID-19, the penalties need to be enhanced and made more stringent to keep Punjab safe from the claws of the pandemic. Mr. Sidhu said now a Rs. 500 penalty will be imposed for not wearing a mask in public places, which was earlier Rs. 200, while a Rs. 2,000 penalty will be imposed for violating the home quarantine instructions which was previously Rs. 500. For spitting in public places, the fine will be Rs. 500, which was Rs. 100 earlier, he said. He said non-payment of fine by the violator will attract legal action under Section 188 of the IPC as per regulations framed under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897. Mr. Sidhu said the Amarinder Singh government was working round-the-clock to prevent the spread of the disease. He said Punjab became the leading State in the country in recovery of COVID-19 patients, which is around 91%. The Minister clarified that officials not below the post of block development and panchayat officer, naib tehsildar and any official authorised by Deputy Commissioners can impose the penalties under the provisions of Epidemic Disease Act.  39 fresh cases Punjab recorded 39 fresh COVID-19 cases on May 29 and reported two more death taking the tally to 42. , The number of positive cases has reached 2,197. The patients who died were from Ludhiana and Amritsar districts.  (With PTI inputs)
30 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Chaos along border as Haryana enforces curbs on movement||Commuters headed towards Gurugram on National Highway-48 had a harrowing time on Friday morning with Gurugram Police ensuring strict implementation of restrictions on cross-border movement, allowing only those with valid passes. Chaos and confusion prevailed on the border near Ambience Mall for hours. The Delhi Police also put up barricades on the Gurugram-Delhi carriageway of the national highway in the morning choking the traffic. However, the barricades put up by the Delhi Police were unmanned and no checking was being carried out. Gurugram Police, however, scaled up checking of vehicles at the Delhi-Gurugram border after Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij issued fresh orders on Thursday to seal the State’s border with Delhi. The Minister issued the order in the wake of the sudden spike in COVID-19 cases in the bordering districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar — which reported 11,19,827 and six COVID-19 cases respectively in the past week. Sub-Inspector Vijay Singh, deployed at the Delhi-Gurugram border near Ambience Mall, said a large number of workers employed in garments units in Udyog Vihar and those working with different private companies in Gurugram were not allowed to cross the border as they did not have valid passes. The checking of the vehicles led to one-km-long congestion on the national highway. “Traffic restrictions have been strictly imposed on Gurugram-Delhi borders in view of COVID-19. Only essential services and movement pass holders will be allowed as per MHA guidelines and Delhi High Court orders,” said a tweet from the official handle of the Gurugram Police. Yugal Karkhur, a consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon at Vivekanand Arogaya Kendra in Sector 12, said it took him around one-and-a-half-hour to cross the border in the morning. He said the restrictions were eased over the past one week and traffic flow was smooth, but the police put up barricades on Friday allowing only one vehicle at a time. “Those not allowed to cross the border were forced to return causing complete chaos,” said Mr. Karkhur. However, the traffic restrictions went for a toss in the afternoon and the vehicles were being allowed entry to Gurugram without any checking. Highest jump in cases Millennium City reported 115 new cases on Friday, taking the total to 520. This is the highest single-day jump in cases in the city so far.
30 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal to recruit retired doctors||Arunachal Pradesh has decided to recruit retired health professionals, especially doctors, on a contractual basis to improve the State’s health sector and be ready for challenges such as COVID-19. The State has also approved the upgrading of 18 district hospitals with an execution deadline of 24 months. The decision was taken in a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pema Khandu. The State has been suffering from poor health infrastructure despite the Tomo Riba Institute of Health and Medical Sciences at Naharlagun near Itanagar. “We are low on health professionals and need all the hands available,” a senior Health Department official said, declining to be quoted.
30 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Two more drown in Assam floods||Two more persons drowned on Friday in Assam, taking the flood-related death toll to five. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said the floodwaters maintained the receding trend since May 28 but the number of affected people increased from 2.94 lakh to 3.81 lakh within a span of 24 hours. “The number of affected districts has come down from 11 on May 27 to seven today (Friday). However, floodwaters entered more villages in the affected districts to displace more people and force 21,807 people into 101 relief camps,” an ASDMA spokesperson said. She added that the officials in the affected districts have, unlike in the past, distributed the affected people across more relief centres to maintain social distancing according to COVID-19 protocols. One of the two persons who drowned on Friday was from the Doboka area of Hojai district. The other one was from Lakhipur area in Goalpara district.
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Over 80% cases show mild to no symptoms’||With the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the city, the Delhi government stressed on Friday that over 80% of the patients were asymptomatic or showed mild symptoms. Home isolation has been advised for such patients and the government on Friday released a 15-minute video about the protocol. “More than 80% of patients are either asymptomatic or show mild symptoms such as fever or cough. Such patients do not need to get admitted into the hospital. They can stay home and look after themselves,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “We have made these guidelines to explain to patients what to do during home isolation and what precautions to take. One thing to keep in mind is — do not panic. Most people recover from the infection easily,” he said. Tweeting the guidelines for home isolation, Mr. Kejriwal said: “Please do not panic if you have Corona. Most of you can be treated under #HomeIsolation. But if you need to be hospitalized, we are also fully prepared for that. I pray to God for your good health and happiness. [sic]” Home Isolation, includes advising the patients to remain isolated at their homes in case of no or mild symptoms. Their treatment is then monitored by a team of health workers and doctors appointed by Mr. Kejriwal, who stay in constant contact with the patient.
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘JNU student and activist Natasha Narwal charged under UAPA’||Natasha Narwal, a JNU student and activist associated with women’s student collective Pinjra Tod, was arrested on Friday under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for her alleged role in the communal riots in northeast Delhi in February, a senior police official claimed on Friday. Ms Narwal was arrested by the special cell of the Delhi police, which has been tasked with probing the “conspiracy” behind the Delhi riots. On Thursday, Ms Narwal and another Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita were sent to judicial custody for 14 days in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi. Also, on Thursday, a Delhi court said that the investigation into a case related to the communal violence in north-east Delhi seemed to be “targeted only towards one end”, while asking the Delhi police to ensure fair investigation. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana, who was hearing an application for judicial remand of Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, said perusal of the case diary revealed a “disturbing fact”. “The investigation seems to be targeted only towards one end. Upon enquiry from Inspector... they have failed to point out what investigation has been carried out so far regarding the involvement of the rival faction,” the Judge remarked. Ms Narwal is reported to be the seventh person to have been booked under the UAPA in the case. Ms Kalita has reportedly been arrested by Crime Branch for her alleged role in violence happened during anti-CAA protest in Daryaganj. They were arrested on May 23 in connection with a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act in Jaffrabad area in February. After their police custody ended on Thursday, they were sent to14 days of judicial custody. Pinjra Tod is best known for leading the struggle of women students in Delhi and other parts of India for better hostel conditions. On May 27, the group said in a tweet, “At a time when Supreme Court has ordered to decongest jails, arrests of students and activists are on a rise! Stop criminalising protestors! Release all political prisoners!”
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||BJP to protest rise in COVID-19 cases||The BJP Opposition on Friday said they would hold protests across the 70 Assembly segments to “awaken” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal while ensuring social distancing norms. “The speed at which COVID-19 cases are increasing in Delhi every day has now brought the reality of the Kejriwal government's imaginary health system before the people of Delhi,” said Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari. He also alleged: “It is clear that apart from spending crores on advertisements, the Kejriwal government has no further strategy to deal with the virus? Did Kejriwal visit any hospital during lock down period?” Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and seven other BJP MLAs criticised the government over the “ever-increasing” number of COVID-19 patients.
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Ensure maintenance of night shelters’||The High Court has asked the Delhi government and Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) to put in place a system wherein sufficient checks and vigilance is maintained with regard to maintenance of facilities at the night shelters around AIIMS and those managed by DUSIB. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar took note of a video recording submitted by social worker, Rachna Malik, of the shortcomings at the night shelters including lack of water and visitors log book. Ms. Malik also informed the court that consequent to the passing of the previous order, the authorities had swung into action and they have cleaned the toilets and made available all the toilets for the occupants, which was not the case earlier. She also stated that water dispensers have been installed so that the occupants do not have to fend for themselves to get drinking water. The court was hearing a PIL regarding the condition of outstation patients, who are staying at the night shelter near AIIMS. It directed DUSIB to accredit NGOs and individual social workers, who are associated with the night shelters to supervise them.
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||Man shot dead in Jafrabad; one arrested||A 17-year-old youth was shot dead while another was injured allegedly by two people in north-east Delhi’s Jafrabad, the police said on Friday. A senior officer said the deceased has been identified as Rashid Mirza from Brahampuri, and accused have been identified as Bharat and Saif. The police said the incident was a result of personal enmity. The incident took place on Thursday at 7 p.m. when the accused fired at Rashid and fled the spot. They then targeted another person in a nearby area, who suffered bullet injuries on his shoulder. After hearing the gunshots, the beat officer rushed to the spot and nabbed Bharat, the officer said. Saif is on the run. The victims were rushed to a nearby hospital where Rashid was declared brought dead while the other is stable. A murder case has been lodged. A pistol and two live cartridges were recovered.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. has no strategy to contain virus’||The Delhi Congress on Friday alleged that the Delhi government did not have a clear strategy to contain the pandemic as the number of cases crossed the 1000 mark for two consecutive days. “Mr. Kejriwal is hiding the actual death figures and advising people not to panic and is recommending home isolation for positive patients. How can people in a populated city like Delhi remain in home isolation,” said Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar. The Delhi Congress also visited J Clusters at Tughlaqabad, where a major fire gutted a large number of juggis recently and distributed essential items.
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||Vehicle of BJP MP’s father stolen||East Delhi BJP MP Gautam Gambhir’s father’s car was allegedly stolen from outside his house in central Delhi’s Rajinder Nagar, the police said on Friday. The victim, Deepak Gambhir, told the police that he owned an SUV. On Thursday at 3.30 p.m., the car was parked in front of the house but was not there the next day, an officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said a case has been registered and investigation is under way. The police claim to have CCTV footage of the theft. “We are analysing the CCTV footage of the area to identify the culprits and trace the route taken by them,” the police said.
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘De-seal Jahangirpuri B, C blocks’||Complaining of inadequate availability of ration and difficulties being faced by residents of Jahangirpuri blocks B and C, which have been sealed for nearly two months due to COVID-19, area councillor Poonam Baghadi on Friday appealed to Chief Minister Kejriwal to de-seal the blocks. In a letter to the CM, Ms. Baghadi said that in other areas where there were a larger number of cases, only single streets were being blocked and not entire blocks. She added that residents have not been helped with ration or medicines by the government. Appealing for the areas to be de-sealed, Ms. Baghadi said that the number of cases in the blocks had drastically come down and that it was “unjust” to treat them differently.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Earthquake tremors felt in the Capital||Tremors were fell across Delhi-NCR on Friday after a 4.5 magnitude earthquake hit Rohtak in Haryana at 9.08 p.m. No report of any damage or injury was reported. A series of mild tremors have been felt in the Capital over the past few weeks.
30 May 2020||Noida,||Nine new cases in G.B. Nagar||A 90-year-old man who had tested positive for COVID-19 died in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar, becoming the sixth COVID-19 linked fatality, officials said on Friday. “He died of acute respiratory infection with severe sepsis on May 27. He was a known patient of diabetes, hypertension and coronary artery disease,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. Meanwhile, nine more cases were recorded in the district, taking the total to 387. Three U.P. Police constables are among those that tested positive for the virus. Around 30 people who came in contact with the officers have been quarantined. Also, 28 patients were discharged on Friday after recovery.
30 May 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Scale down flights from Mumbai, Ahmedabad’||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday said there was a need to reduce domestic flights, especially from Mumbai and Ahmedabad where higher numbers of COVID-19 cases have been reported, to contain the spread of the virus in the State. “In order to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the State, as Punjab has registered only 2.8% positive cases among 72,468 samples, there is a need to reduce domestic flights, especially from Mumbai and Ahmedabad where higher numbers of COVID-19 cases have been reported,” said Mr. Sidhu while presiding over a meeting of the health department. “Most of the cases reported in Punjab have a travel history from other States and countries. So to prevent community spread, there is a need to put focus on passengers, especially coming from the high-risk States and countries,” said Mr. Sidhu in a statement. The Minister also issued instructions at the meeting to ensure maximum sampling of passengers.
30 May 2020||Mumbai,||FIR registered against Abu Azmi for misbehaving with police personnel||The Nagpada police on Friday registered an FIR against Samajwadi Party leader Abu Asim Azmi and around 35 of his followers for allegedly misbehaving with on-duty police personnel, including senior police inspector Shalini Sharma, earlier this week. The FIR comes just a day after Ms. Sharma was transferred from Nagpada police station to Chembur police station. According to police officials, an argument broke out on May 26 when a group of migrants were left stranded after a Shramik Special train was cancelled. “The train was cancelled by the Railways, but the Nagpada police ended up bearing the brunt as the migrants were staying in their jurisdiction and the process was being overseen by them. Mr. Azmi reached the spot and started a protest on the road outside the police station, causing severe disturbance in the area and violating lockdown rules,” a police officer said. ‘Extremely rude’ The protest continued till the early hours of May 27 and Mr. Azmi got into a tiff with Ms. Sharma. Several videos of Mr. Azmi speaking in strong words went viral on social media platforms. While the authenticity of the videos is being verified, several police officers confirmed that Mr. Azmi was extremely rude. On Friday, the Nagpada police booked Mr. Azmi and around 35 of his followers for disobeying an order promulgated by a public servant, negligent act with relation to an infectious disease, unlawful assembly, obstructing public servants in their discharge of duties, intentional insult to provoke breach of peace and criminal intimidation under the Indian Penal Code, along with relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act. Mumbai Police spokesperson DCP Pranaya Ashok confirmed that the FIR had been registered.
30 May 2020||Mumbai,||BEST not to charge migrant workers for ride to railway station||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking on Friday said it will no longer charge fares from migrant workers being ferried to railway stations to catch Shramik Special trains. The decision comes after the Supreme Court on Thursday ordered the Railways and State governments to not collect train or bus fares from stranded migrants. The BEST administration has been criticised by activists and unions for not allowing this provision. “It took an SC order for them to stop charging for tickets. In some cases, we have received reports of overcharging as well,” said Jagnarayan Kahar of BEST Kamgaar Sanghatna. Hussain Indorewala ofAamchi Mumbai Aamchi BEST slammed the administration, saying that this had been their demand since the lockdown was imposed. “It took 60 days and an SC order for the BEST administration to wake up to the migrants’ crisis to decide not to levy any fare. They knew the conditions that these workers were in all this while.” Mr. Indorewala also criticised the administration for not following physical distancing on board the buses being used to ferry workers, saying 250 workers have tested positive for COVID-19. Meanwhile, the Navi Mumbai police closed applications for Shramik Special trains on Friday night, saying arrangements for migrant workers still keen to go home would be made by clubbing them with people from other areas.
30 May 2020||Mumbai,||‘Didn’t cap N95 prices to prevent mass buying’||The Centre on Friday informed the Bombay High Court in an affidavit that it decided not to regulate the price of N95 masks to prevent mass buying of the protective gear used by healthcare workers. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice K.K. Tated was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by activist Anjali Damania and journalist Sucheta Dalal through senior advocate Mihir Desai. The petitioner will file a rejoinder on June 1. The matter has been posted for hearing on June 2. Mr. Desai had told the court there was a shortage of masks owing to the lockdown and rise in cases. He said the price of the masks has to be capped to make sure they are not hoarded by black marketeers.
30 May 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Two booked for posting memes on Fadnavis||The Kamothe police have booked a doctor and a food delivery man, both residents of Kamothe, for allegedly posting memes on social media ridiculing former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. The complaint was filed by Ravindra Joshi (54), a civil contractor and president of BJP’s Kamothe Taluka Mandal. Mr. Joshi said on May 10 the duo shared the memes in reply to a post put up on a Facebook page dedicated to the former chief minister. Dr. Dhananjay Kshirsagar and Tushar Deshmane have been booked under Sections 505(2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes), 500 (defamation) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. “No arrests have been made. The accused have been issued a notice,” said an officer.
30 May 2020||Pune,||‘No palkhi procession, but wari tradition will be maintained’||With COVID-19 cases rising in Pune, Satara and Solapur districts, authorities on Friday decided to cancel the annual pilgrimage made on foot by lakhs of warkaris (devotees) to the temple town of Pandharpur carrying palkhis (palanquins) bearing the padukas (footprints) of saints Dnyaneshwar and Tukaram. In a bid to uphold the 800-year-old tradition of Ashadhi  Wari, the State government, represented by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, said the padukas would be carried by road or air to Pandharpur in Solapur district on June 30. Meeting with authorities Mr. Pawar made the announcement after a meeting with district authorities of Pune, Satara and Solapur and members of the Vitthal-Rukmini Temple trust committee in Pandharpur, and trustees in Alandi and Dehu. Mr. Pawar said, “The State government is eager that this time-honoured tradition not be discontinued owing to the present crisis. Members of other communities, too, have restricted religious activities to indoors. Keeping this ideal in times of the present medical emergency, we have taken this decision in a bid to preserve the tradition of Ashadhi Wari and avoid crowding to keep the contagion in check.” He said as the monsoon will be in full swing by the end of June, district authorities and the trustees will decide on the mode of transport to take the padukas to Pandharpur. Each year, lakhs of warkaris, from Maharashtra and neighbouring States, traverse 230-odd km from Alandi and Dehu in Pune carrying the palanquins bearing the padukas of the saints to the shrine of Lord Vithoba in Pandharpur. Abhay Tilak of Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Sansthan committee in Alandi said, “We had submitted three proposals to the authorities and the State government to conduct all ceremonies with minimal people. However, COVID-19 cases are rising daily in Pune, Satara and Solapur — the districts through which the palkhi processions will have to pass. We have resorted to the option of taking the padukas by road or air depending upon the weather conditions.” The w ari was scheduled to start from Alandi and Dehu on June 13, but with the palkhi processions cancelled, Mr. Tilak said the padukas would remain in Alandi till June 30. Ceremony on June 13 Mr. Tilak said, “We will be strictly adhering to the guidelines given by authorities. On June 13, with minimal people, we would be performing the necessary ceremony for the prasthana or the ‘taking off’ of the padukas. The footprints of the saints will remain in Alandi and Dehu for the remainder of the month. We will then proceed by road or air to Pandharpur on June 30.”
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump order targets social networks||A day after U.S. President Donald Trump lashed out at Twitter for fact-checking two of his tweets on mail-in ballots, he signed an executive order (EO) asking his administration to look into ways of holding platforms liable for more of the content they carry. Specifically, the EO asks the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to re-examine how protections granted under a particular statute — Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act (1996) — ought to apply. Section 230, on the back of which several American tech companies like Facebook and Twitter have grown, allows social media sites to carry third party content without being liable for all of it. There are some exceptions around federal criminal law, sex trafficking and intellectual property. It, therefore, draws a distinction between platforms on the one hand and publishers or speakers on the other. Significantly, the statute says a platform shall not be liable for actions taken in “good faith” to restrict material that is, “obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, excessively violent, harassing, or otherwise objectionable, whether or not such material is constitutionally protected”. Thursday’s order also directs federal government agencies to review the amount of advertising dollars spent on online platforms. It asks the FCC to lake action on “deceptive acts” affecting commerce, such as when sites “restrict speech in ways that do not align with those entities' public representations about those practices”. Twitter called Mr. Trump’s approach “politicised”. ‘Reactionary order’ “This EO is a reactionary and politicised approach to a landmark law. #Section230 protects American innovation and freedom of expression, and it’s underpinned by democratic values. Attempts to unilaterally erode it threaten the future of online speech and Internet freedoms,” a statement from Twitter said. Mr. Trump and other Republicans have said U.S. tech companies have a liberal bias and social media sites tend to censor conservative views. There is support on the other side of the aisle for scaling back or revoking current protections, but for different reasons — such as unmoderated content encouraging misinformation and promoting violence. Presumptive Democratic presidential nominee told the New York Times earlier this year Section 230 should be revoked because internet companies, such as Facebook, were not merely tech companies, but propagating falsehoods. Asked by a reporter if he would consider deleting his Twitter account, Mr. Trump said on Thursday that he used social media to refute fake news”. “ I would do that [ delete his Twitter account] in a heartbeat if I had fair — if we had a fair press in this country, I would do that in a heartbeat.”
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Chinese media slam U.S. President over border comments||China’s State media on Friday said U.S. President Donald Trump was trying to “drive a wedge between China and India” over his offer to mediate amid the ongoing border tensions. On Friday, Mr. Trump reiterated the offer, first made on Twitter, telling reporters he had spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “They have a big conflict India and China... India is not happy and probably China is not happy,” he said. “I can tell you; I did speak to Prime Minister Modi. He is not in a good mood about what is going on with China.” India denied there had been a conversation, saying the two leaders last spoke on April 4.  The Global Times , a Communist Party-run newspaper, said in a commentary that “a conflicting China-India relationship serves [U.S.] interests”. “Washington believes the combined strength of Beijing and New Delhi could impair its interests in Asia and beyond. An opportunist U.S. has never given up its attempt to drive a wedge between China and India... the Trump administration emphasises India as a major pillar in its much-touted Indo-Pacific concept.” The newspaper mocked Mr. Trump for his knowledge about India and China. “It seems Trump finally knows that China and India, the two largest Asian powers, share borders. Early this year, A Very Stable Genius , a book written by two Washington Post journalists, revealed that Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi was shocked and concerned when Mr. Trump told him India and China did not share a border,” it said. The commentary described the current stand-offs as “reminiscent of the 2017 Doklam stalemate”, which it blamed on India for “illegally construct[ing] defence facilities across the border into Chinese territory in the Galwan Valley region”. Noting that Doklam was “successfully solved with concerted efforts and wisdom,” it said, “the latest dispute can be solved bilaterally by China and India”. “The two countries should keep alert on the U.S., which exploits every chance to create waves that jeopardise regional peace and order.” Bilateral discussions On Thursday, Indian officials said both sides remained “engaged” through diplomatic and military channels in New Delhi and Beijing and at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in order to resolve the situation along the boundaries in Ladakh and Sikkim. Indicating that India would not accept Mr. Trump’s offer to mediate, officials said the matter was being discussed bilaterally.  The Global Times noted that last year “India turned down Trump’s offer to ‘help’ and ‘mediate’ between India and Pakistan over Kashmir, an issue India stressed can only be discussed bilaterally”. “India probably has found that the U.S. is not a reliable partner,” it said. “The self-centered ‘America First’ policy endorsed by Trump can hardly reconcile with Modi’s ambitious ‘Make in India’ campaign, and a trade deal was elusive even during Trump’s high-profile visit to India in February 2020 when the two were locked in trade frictions. India perhaps has been aware of the U.S.’s bad history of mediation in which the U.S. made troubles rather than solved problems, and which turned bilateral disputes into multilateral ones.” Rising tensions China-U.S. ties have plunged to a nadir amid rising tensions over a growing number of issues, from China’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic and trade ties to Hong Kong and Taiwan. On Thursday, speaking at the conclusion of the annual National People’s Congress (NPC) in Beijing, China’s Premier Li Keqiang called on China and the U.S. to manage their differences and “discard a ‘Cold War’ mentality”. The tensions with the U.S. were the focus during the NPC in Beijing, with Mr. Li and Foreign Minister Wang Yi both not mentioning India in their annual press conferences. Defence Minister and People’s Liberation Army General Wei Fenghe warned during the NPC that relations with the U.S. were entering “a high-risk period”. “The U.S. has intensified suppression and containment of our side since the outbreak, and China-U.S. strategic confrontation has entered a high-risk period,” said General Wei. “We must strengthen our fighting spirit, be daring to fight and be good at fighting, and use fighting to promote stability.”
30 May 2020||Minneapolis,||Troops deployed after protests over black man’s death||Hundreds of troops deployed to the streets of Minneapolis and St. Paul early Friday after a third night of rioting over police brutality against African Americans left hundreds of shops damaged and a police station on fire. Black leaders continued to express outrage over the videotaped death of George Floyd, 46, while handcuffed on the ground and in custody of Minneapolis police on Monday. He died after one officer kneeled on his neck for more than five minutes. “People are angry, they are frustrated because this is not the first police killing they have seen around the country,” Al Sharpton, a prominent black rights activist, told MSNBC. Damage to property Overnight demonstrators broke through law enforcement barriers to overtake the Minneapolis police station where the four officers blamed for Floyd’s death were based. A fire broke out and soon became an inferno that engulfed the structure. The State’s National Guard announced the 500 troops were being deployed on Friday morning for peacekeeping amid signs that the anger was nowhere near dissipating. “Our troops are trained to protect life, preserve property and ensure people’s right to peacefully demonstrate,” said Major General Jon Jensen of the Minnesota National Guard. Protests broke out in several cities across the country, including New York, where dozens of protesters were arrested; Phoenix, Memphis, and Denver. In Louisville, Kentucky, seven people were hit by gunfire at a protest on Thursday over the death of Breonna Taylor — a black woman who was shot after police entered her home in March. One of those wounded was in critical condition, according to the Louisville Metro Police Department. It is not yet clear who fired the shots. Police urged protesters to “please choose peace,” posting a video message from a member of Taylor’s family asking those in the streets to “go home and be safe and be ready to keep fighting.” But more protests were expected on Friday, including in Washington and Houston, where Floyd’s family is. Pressure mounted on Minnesota officials to arrest the four officers blamed for Floyd’s death. A video shows that after being detained on a minor, non-violent charge of using a counterfeit banknote, he was handcuffed, pinned to the ground and one officer held his knee tightly to Floyd’s neck for more than five minutes until he went limp. Floyd’s family demanded the officer be arrested for murder, but local and federal law enforcement officials said on Thursday they still needed to investigate the case thoroughly. Reporter held, released Also, police in Minneapolis released a CNN reporter who was led off in handcuffs while reporting live on television early on Friday following a third night of violent protests in the city over the death of an unarmed black man in police custody. Officers gave no explanation as they escorted CNN reporter Omar Jimenez and his camera crew away. His crew had just shown a protester being taken into custody when about half a dozen police officers in gas masks surrounded Mr. Jimenez. The journalists were released about an hour after being arrested. “What gave me one bit of comfort was that it happened on live TV,” Mr. Jimenez told viewers after he was released. “You don’t have to doubt my story. It’s not filtered in any way; you saw it with your own eyes.” The striking footage of the arrest could add to racial tensions in the city and across the country over the death on Monday of George Floyd. Jimenez is black, while most of the police officers appeared to be white.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Twitter conceals President’s tweet for ‘glorifying violence’||Hours after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order seeking to bring greater regulation to social media companies, Twitter continued its moderation of Mr. Trump’s tweets. The social media platform, on Friday, covered one of the President’s tweets with a notice for violating its rules about “glorifying violence.” The tweet could, however, be viewed on clicking the notice; Twitter felt it was in the public’s interest that the tweet be accessible, as per the notice. “These THUGS are dishonoring the memory of George Floyd, and I won’t let that happen. Just spoke to Governor Tim Walz and told him that the Military is with him all the way. Any difficulty and we will assume control but, when the looting starts, the shooting starts. Thank you!” Mr. Trump’s tweet said about riots that had broken out in Minneapolis over the killing of George Floyd, an unarmed African American, by a white police officer. Twitter separately tweeted a link to its policy on glorification of violence. “This Tweet violates our policies regarding the glorification of violence based on the historical context of the last line, its connection to violence, and the risk it could inspire similar actions today,” the company said. The White House defended Mr. Trump, saying he did not glorify violence and it retweeted the President’s tweet, which Twitter covered with the same notice.
30 May 2020||Taipei,||Taiwan President visits dissident publisher||Taiwan president Tsai Ing-wen visited a bookstore run by a prominent Hong Kong dissident on Friday, repeating promises of humanitarian support and sanctuary for those fighting for democracy in the finance hub. “We thank Lam Wing-kee for your insistence on Hong Kong’s human rights, freedom and democracy. I welcome you on behalf of the Taiwanese people,” Ms. Tsai told the publisher. Mr. Lam and four other Hong Kong booksellers who published salacious titles about China’s leadership vanished at the end of 2015, reappearing months later in police custody in mainland China. He fled to self-ruled, democratic Taiwan last year. Repeating a pledge that has angered Beijing, Ms. Tsai said her government was working on a “humanitarian assistance action plan” that will provide support for other Hong Kongers who flee to the island.
30 May 2020||London,||U.K. moots ‘5G club’ to keep out Huawei||Britain said on Friday that it was pushing the U.S. to form a club of 10 nations that could develop its own 5G technology and reduce dependence on Huawei. Britain has allowed the Chinese global leader in 5G technology to build up to 35% of the infrastructure necessary to roll out its new speedy data network. But Prime Minister Boris Johnson was reported by The Telegraph newspaper last week to have instructed officials to draw up plans to cut Huawei out of the network by 2023 as relations with China sour.  The Times newspaper said Britain is proposing a “D10” club of democratic partners that groups the G7 nations with Australia and the Asian technology leaders South Korea and India. It said one of the options involves channelling investments into existing telecommunication companies within the 10 member states. A Downing Street spokesman confirmed that Britain is reaching out to partners in search for an alternative to Huawei.
30 May 2020||Baghdad,||Iraq PM is an American agent, says IS||The Islamic State (IS) group in an audio message blasted Iraq’s new Prime Minister, calling him an “American agent,” and criticised the closure of Islam’s holiest shrine in the Saudi holy city of Mecca to limit the spread of COVID-19. In the message allegedly read by the group’s chief spokesman Abu Hamza al-Qurayshi, released late Thursday, al-Qurayshi asked why mosques are being closed and people being prevented from praying at the Grand Mosque in Mecca. Iraq’s new Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi, a former intelligence chief backed by Washington, took office earlier this month after he played a part for years in the war against IS. The group was declared defeated in Iraq in 2017.
30 May 2020||Moscow,||Activists held in Russia for protesting journalist's arrest||Police in Moscow and St. Petersburg detained 25 people who came out to protest on Friday, in violation of city coronavirus restrictions, against the arrest of a prominent Russian journalist, a rights group said. An Opposition Moscow city council member was among those detained.AP
30 May 2020||Washington,||Washington, May 29, 2020 (AFP) -||The United States will take action to prevent alleged espionage by Chinese students, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said. Asked about a report in The New York Times that Mr. Trump was considering throwing out thousands of graduate students, Pompeo said Thursday that Chinese students “shouldn't be here in our schools spying.”AFP
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Knocked down by the virus, flattened by the winds||The doors of the robust sedan started rattling. The windows of the car began rattling too, tugging at the frames that held them. The wind speed was 110 km/hour. All around us, mighty trees swayed violently and some already lay fallen like toothpicks. Branches flew like dangerous missiles in the leafiest neighbourhood in south Kolkata, Southern Avenue. It was 6.20 p.m. on May 20. The storm was brewing. After we clicked a couple of photographs, the driver sounded a word of caution: “The back wheel is mildly floating in the air.” We clambered out and fled the scene. Outside, the sky had changed dramatically. Darkness had descended and the wind howled. Over the next several hours, super cyclone Amphan went on a rampage. It surged through the city, carelessly sweeping aside trees, lamp posts, vehicles, and even robust brick-and-mortar structures. “It took away my house. But my brother’s house across the road was still standing,” said Moktar Ali, a fish vendor at Minakhan market in South 24 Parganas. One of the earliest emergency calls to the Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, a group that works mainly with migrant workers,  came from Selima Khatun of Hasnabad village in North 24 Parganas. The phone rang at around 7 p.m. on May 21, a full day after the storm had unleashed its anger. “Save us,” she pleaded. “We are about 100 people  on the roof of the mosque. As far as I can see, everything is under water. All our houses are inundated. Our pets have been swept away to the sea.” The Mancha received hundreds of such calls after the cyclone. The president of the group, Samirul Islam, said it is impossible to guess the extent of the damage as neither the government nor the media could reach the epicentre of the cyclone, Sagar Island, about 100 km south of Kolkata. He said a man named Vineet called him to say that the islands in Patharpratima in South 24 Parganas had “disappeared”. “No news channel could reach there, so no news is coming from there,” Vineet told Islam over the phone. “We don’t know if Sagar Island exists any more. The jetty at Kachuberia in Sagar has been pulled into the sea. It’s been two days, but no outside support has come yet.” Subhas Bhandari from Mousuni Island said fog had surrounded the entire island and caused panic among the people. “We could taste salt on our skin,” he said. ‘We need to rebuild from scratch’ People from all walks of life — a lone man sitting on a sinking island in the Bay of Bengal, a weatherman monitoring the situation from the Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Kolkata, and even Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee — described Cyclone Amphan with the same words: “I have never seen such a cyclone in my life”. There is no historical record of a cyclone with a wind speed as high as 185 km/hour making landfall on the coast of Bengal in recent times. It was not only the intensity of the storm that made the event significant but also its duration. The wall cloud stayed for almost five to six hours. The only comparison that the people of coastal Bengal and the authorities could make was with Cyclone Aila which struck in 2009, but with a speed of 120 km/hour. In anticipation of Amphan, 5 lakh people were evacuated to cyclone shelters. Of them, 3 lakh alone were from South 24 Parganas district. But while destruction caused by the storm has been vast, the number of deaths in West Bengal has been relatively low. Banerjee said 98 people died in the cyclone, of which 19 lost their lives in Kolkata. And in some ecologically fragile places, casualties have been very low. Amphan ripped through Ghoramara, the smallest and most vulnerable island in the Sundarbans, with a population of 5,000 inhabitants, only claiming two goats. They died when a wall collapsed on them. A few hours after the cyclone, Banerjee sat at the State Secretariat and summed up the scale and nature of the tempest via video conference. South and North 24 Parganas are “finished” and “99% of south Bengal are destroyed,” she said, looking at updates on her mobile phone. “We need to rebuild Bengal from scratch.” Acres and acres of agricultural land in the State were flooded. Tarak Ghosh, a small farmer, pulled out wet paddy from a field which, until a week ago, was glowing under the sun. It was just the beginning of the harvest of the Rabi crop. “It is all gone now,” he said. West Bengal, the leading State in paddy production, had suffered a great blow. By one estimate, about 1.5 million sharecroppers of south Bengal had lost their produce. Vegetables and cash crops like sesame, jute and fruits had simply disappeared. “Farmers are coming to withdraw deposits, not to buy pesticides and fertilizers. This is a bad sign at the peak of the harvesting season,” said Liaqat Ali Jangi, a middle-level farmer and manager of a farmers’ cooperative, Dhubulia Krishi Unnayan Samiti, which has about 1,000 members, in Nadia district. “We voted for Mohua Moitra of the Trinamool Congress. Yet, when we lost our jobs and then after COVID-19 struck, she never visited the area. She is on television talking about big issues but we are dying due to issues like joblessness and crop failure,” said Rahim Baksh Mollah of Charmahatpur. The district leaders of Trinamool did not deny that their MLAs and MPs were busy on social media during the lockdown. “They have left the politics to Didi,” said a Nadia district leader of the Trinamool, on condition of anonymity. Battered capital People in Kolkata also had a harrowing time during the storm as the wind speed peaked between 112 km/hour at 6 p.m. and 133 km/ hour at 7.33 p.m. on May 20. Most people remained indoors and held on to the doors and windows of their homes to prevent water from entering inside. All they could hear was the wind and the torrential rain. There was little or no visibility. By evening, as the cyclone became more and more fierce, large parts of the city plunged into darkness. Two iconic structures in the city, Howrah Bridge and Victoria Memorial, were invisible. After a long night of battling with the cyclone, millions in south Bengal, including Kolkata, woke up to destruction that was of a scale they had never imagined. The city was completely battered. Trees and poles lay uprooted in every lane in every neighbourhood. Over the next few days, Kolkata had not only the monumental task of restoring essential infrastructure services, but also power and electric supply, disrupted by the storm and the fallen trees. There was an outpouring of anger on the streets. Protests broke out in several neighbourhoods, and the Army was called in. Six days after Amphan, at the Regional Meteorological Centre in Kolkata, Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, the Deputy Director General of Meteorology, was still trying to pull all stops to get the Internet at his office fixed. “We should be your top priority,” he told the staff member at the Internet service provider over phone. “The Chief Minister is visiting districts and we cannot provide updates.” The staff member retorted, “Like you there are several top priorities for us. In fact, you are priority number 132.” Bandyopadhyay was the man of the hour. He had been issuing all the necessary alerts about the cyclone for several days before it made landfall. On May 20, at about 4 p.m., he told the press that the landfall process of the cyclone had commenced near Sagar Island at 2.30 p.m. and that the cyclone was moving towards the north and north-east. Bandyopadhyay explained that it was the first time that the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued an advisory for people to stay inside their homes. “This was not the COVID-19 advisory,” he clarified. “The administration also ensured that the people remained indoors.” Weather officials said they gave regular advisories in their bulletin that the damage will be caused by three factors: gale winds, rainfall, and storm surge. The IMD’s focus, they said, was on getting the prediction of intensity and track of the cyclone right. The officials said they got it right, just like they did with earlier cyclones such as Bulbul, Fani and Hudhud. Close to Kolkata, destruction was visible in Howrah district. The 230-year-old Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden, set up by the British to pioneer botanical research in India, had turned into a graveyard of trees. At least a thousand trees, including some notable and rare species, were destroyed, said Kanad Das, scientist, Botanical Survey of India, and in-charge of the Botanic Garden. A Dutch cemetery, around the same age as the garden, was destroyed in Hooghly-Chinsurah. The impact of the storm was felt as far as in the Bardhaman and Birbhum districts of south Bengal. Broken embankments Seven days after the cyclone, drinking water pouches reached Deulbari Debipur village in Kultali block of South 24 Parganas district. About 3 km of the embankment of the village on the Matla River had been washed away. Thousands of acres of agricultural land stood ravaged by the saline waters. Hundreds of fish had died and innumerable houses had turned into heaps of rubble. “I have nothing left except the gamcha I am wearing,” said Jiarul Laskar, whose house had turned into dust. In the afternoon, just after the high tide, Basanti Naskar risked the waters of the Matla. She swam for several hours in the deep waters surrounding the broken embankments with a fishing net, trying to catch fish spawns. Basanti and her husband Basudev used to have a pond with fish, and grew rice and vegetables. The sale of fish, rice and vegetables was enough to support them. But after the cyclone, the only way to survive was to catch prawn seeds in the water. “For a thousand seeds, we get Rs. 200,” Basanti said. While gale winds ravaged Deulbari, there was more suffering to follow when the embankments broke and seawater flowed into the villages. The embankments of several villages in Hasnabad, Hingalganj and Minakhan in North 24 Parganas, and Patharpratima, Namkhana, Bansanti, and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas suffered extensive damage. These villages are now getting flooded everyday in the high tide. The many woes of the migrants The cyclone could not have come at a worse time for rural Bengal, which is not only grappling with the spread of COVID-19 but also trying to quarantine thousands of migrant workers who have returned home. On the road to the Achintyapur gram panchayat in Patharpratima block of South 24 Parganas, amidst broken houses and trees lie a pile of boxes and hundreds of bicycles and motorcycles. The boxes, some of them made of aluminium, contain television sets and refrigerators. This luggage belongs to the migrant workers, mostly from Haryana and Delhi, who have returned home for good. The migrants said it was becoming impossible for them to stay in Haryana and Delhi, so they packed their bags and came home — only to face the storm. Dulal Sith, the panchayat pradhan, said about 3,000 migrants, or about 10% of the gram panchayat, have returned to the village. Along with other officials, he admitted that the cyclone evacuees and those who had been in quarantine had to be kept under one roof as there was no other option on May 20. In many coastal areas and remote islands, cyclone shelters were being used as quarantine shelters. When people had to be evacuated before the cyclone, the authorities brought both categories of people under one roof. In the adjoining gram panchayat of Lakhijanardanpur, the fate of the farmers has swung between two cyclones, Amphan and Bulbul. This area of the Sundarbans yields a good crop of yellow lentils (moong dal). Sowing was delayed when Cyclone Bulbul struck West Bengal on November 9, 2019. Before the harvest could be reaped, Amphan landed washing away thousands of acres of plantation. Roopkumar Sardar, a migrant labourer, had taken about two bighas of land on lease paying Rs. 45,000 for two seasons. A few days after the cyclone, he and his wife Sutapa and mother Phoolmani worked in the fields of Purbadarogapur village. “The lentil pods I have been collecting from the submerged fields can only be fed to the cattle. I will have to go out of the village to work, maybe to Kolkata, maybe somewhere else outside, to repay the Rs. 45,000,” Sardar said. In several parts of south Bengal, migrant workers who returned before the lockdown took land on lease, hoping to cultivate crops for a couple of seasons before the situation improved. Their hopes have been destroyed by the cyclone. If yellow lentils have been destroyed at Lakhijanaradanpur gram panchayat, at Mousuni Island, Amphan has destroyed the alternative livelihood of tourism. Over the past few years, locals on the island have been investing in seaside homes which they called “resorts”. Of the 42 homes that came up, not even one stands now. Rebuilding them is going to take a long time. Keshav Maity, a villager of G Plot, said the roofs of houses, made of asbestos and tiles, flew like cardboard pieces when Amphan struck. Mousuni and G Plot, the areas closer to the sea, also witnessed a unique phenomenon. Trees that did not get uprooted have dried. The leaves have turned yellow. The villagers said this could be because of the saline fog that formed when the cyclone made landfall. A comprehensive mitigation plan In almost every village of coastal Bengal, particularly in the Sundarbans, villagers kept making references to Cyclone Aila. “The wind speed was stronger this time but during Aila, there were more embankment breaches,” they said. “Amphan will not be the last cyclone for the Sundarbans,” said Tuhin Ghosh, Professor and Director of the School of Oceanographic Studies, Jadavpur University. Data from the IMD show that between 1901 and 2012, the Sundarbans saw 367 depressions, 68 storms and 77 cyclones. Between 1999 and 2019, the number of prominent cyclones in Bay of Bengal was 32. “The need of the hour should be to formulate a comprehensive policy for mitigation through risk minimisation, resilience-building and preparedness to respond to such events,” Professor Ghosh said. West Bengal should follow the example of Odisha, he said, where, after the super cyclone of 1999, the State has been on a learning curve. Experts believe that historical weather events like Cyclones Aila and Amphan give us an opportunity to evaluate the State’s preparedness as well as the fragility of our urban infrastructure. “The suffering of today should bring in some wisdom if not gain for the future,” Professor Ghosh said.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A moment for civilisational introspection||The traumatic months of the national lockdown lay bare many troubling truths about the profound estrangement of people of privilege from the working poor. They reveal a society in which the privileged are extraordinarily comfortable with inequality, and wanting in elementary empathy and solidarity. They confirm that the veneer of modernity and the progressive, egalitarian values of the Constitution remain — in the prophetic words of Babasaheb Ambedkar — no deeper than a coat of paint. An exile of the poor In this writer’s book, Looking Away: Inequality, Prejudice and Indifference in New India , I described the Indian rich and middle-class to be among the most uncaring in the world, mired still in the cruelties of caste and class, with a singular capacity to look at injustice and suffering and just turn their faces away. I wrote of the exile of the poor from our conscience and our consciousness. The lockdown disclosed precisely how absolute and unforgiving is this exile. For any young person growing up in middle-class homes, the poor are visible at every turn, but only in their instrumentality as people who exist to service our every need. They never know them as classmates, as colleagues or competitors at work, or as friends in a playground or cinema theatre. When the COVID-19 infection hit us, we saw the working poor suddenly as dangerous potential spreaders. We wanted them suddenly at bay. We ignored that it was not the poor who endangered us, but we who endangered the poor when they came into contact with us. After all, it was people who could afford flight tickets who brought the novel coronavirus into India. We welcomed the strategy of a lockdown — possibly, the harshest and largest in the world, with the smallest relief package. We felt safe, locked in our homes. Deprived of domestic help, we were inconvenienced, but adjusted willingly for our own safety. We adjusted also to working from home, secure that our salaries and savings would tide us through. With running water on tap, we washed our hands regularly. We were untroubled because our health insurance would pay for treatment in expensive private hospitals. We grappled with boredom and occasional depression, but it was a time also to rebuild our bonds with our families. We were indifferent that the lockdown fell like a meteor on the lives of millions of the working poor. They had fully functional lives before, mostly without state support. After possibly some years in poorly resourced schools, they travelled far to escape the dead end poverty and caste oppression of the countryside. The cities were uniformly unwelcoming to them. The state made no arrangements for affordable decent housing or to protect their rights as workers. Instead it was consistently hostile to them, rendering illegal and demolishing their slum shanties or roadside vending. Still, millions of them survived and overcame, working hard to build, clean, maintain and sustain the cities, and raise the lives of their families despite an unjust, uncaring state. The lockdown by design had nothing to offer them except to destroy overnight the lives they had resiliently built for themselves. After all, the safety of physical distancing and handwashing were impossible for them in their grimy, crowded shanties or rough streets. With their livelihoods bombed out by state policy, in their ruins they were suddenly forced to endure the very hunger they escaped when they had moved to the city. Despite this, we in the middle-classes readily demonstrated our support for the lockdown, cheerily banging utensils or lighting lamps and candles as instructed. It is sobering to be mindful that most men and women trudging or cycling home in dangerous journeys, dying on railway tracks or of hunger and exhaustion on trains without food and water, are between 15 and 30 years old. But for the accident of their birth, they could instead have been in high school or university, studying online, or working from the safety of their homes, fighting boredom with an overdose of Netflix. A bias The brazen class bias of state policies did not trouble us at all. All government servants and most employees in the formal private sector were secure that they would be paid full salaries under the lockdown. The poor had to make do with slim financial handouts not more than two days’ wages, an appeal from the Prime Minister to employers to pay wages, and lining up for hours for cooked meals each day. Being thrust into massive deprivation and forced to survive the indignity of occasional charity seemed in the fitness of things for the poor. It seemed also in the fitness of things that while we could quarantine in the comfort of our homes or in hired hotel rooms, the poor were forced into crowded dormitories with clogged bathrooms and inedible food, which they regarded as jails. But nowhere was the cruelty of the ruling classes on display more than in the treatment of migrant workers who wished to return home. For people stranded overseas, students in hostels, and pilgrims, the state organised special flights and buses. For migrants, there was first a complete sealing of borders and cancellation of trains and buses. As millions began to trudge or cycle hundreds of kilometres with small children in tow, many dying in accidents or of exhaustion on the way, the government finally announced a small number of trains. Migrants had to pay, until massive outrage forced a reluctant backtrack. But a complicated maze of bureaucratic requirements were thrust in place. One had to apply online, and also get official clearances. Getting a seat was like a lottery and information came online. Workers without smartphones fell back on the very contractors who had let them down to negotiate them through this tangle. Trains were often cancelled, or rerouted, and there was no food and water along the way. People died of dehydration and hunger while travelling. Buses were little better. Private enterprise and corruption thrived and migrants were charged thousands even to travel on bus rooftops. After perilous journeys on crowded buses or trucks, packed in ways which could only spread the contagion exponentially, there were instances where several were drenched in unsafe disinfectants. Officials at many checkpoints demanded bribes, and workers sometimes paid more for travel than air tickets. Migrants, until recently providers for family in the village, had to ask them for money to be able to come home, and they mounted vast new debts. Governments and business did not help them because they did not care, and because they did not want them to move. They did not see them as human beings in their fullness of the agency and humanity, but only as a factor of production, labour which should be obediently available on call whenever they were able to restart their enterprises. When the Union government finally decided to restore flights, the Minister said that health certificates before travel and quarantine after were not ‘practical’ (although some State governments insisted on quarantine). But what was deemed not practical for resourced and networked air travellers was made mandatory for pauperised workers without social capital. This should be a moment for civilisational introspection. In coming months, as hunger spreads, jobs crumble, children are pulled out of school into labour, and poor people die without hospital beds and ventilators, will we acknowledge our collective culpability in the social crime of the radical dispossession of our people, in an ultimately vain bid to keep just ourselves safe? Will we recognize the abject collapse of our moral centre? Will we at last learn lessons of solidarity, equality and justice? Harsh Mander is a human rights worker, writer and teacher
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Anchoring ties with Canberra the virtual way||In August 1950, one of Australia’s most celebrated jurists, Sir Owen Dixon (who sought to mediate a settlement on Kashmir) wrote to his daughter, Anne, in Melbourne that Delhi was “a place I hope and trust that I shall never again see.” Nearly 70 years later, as the Prime Ministers of India and Australia, Narendra Modi and Scott Morrison, prepare for next week’s virtual summit (June 4), it is not because of any such reservation about India’s capital. Today, New Delhi ranks extremely high on Australia’s diplomatic radar; the new High Commissioner Barry O’Farrell’s appointment is reflective of how far we have moved from Sir Owen’s time. A former Premier of New South Wales and a celebrated public figure, Mr. O’Farrell has already made his presence felt in India through the increasingly ubiquitous world of webinars in his colourful Indian waistcoats. Almost all of Australia’s recent Prime Ministers, including Julia Gillard, Tony Abbott and Malcolm Turnbull have visited India. Mr. Morrison’s visit to India, in January, was postponed because of the devastating bushfires in Australia, and now because of the COVID-19 pandemic. When Mr. Modi travelled to Australia in 2014, 28 years after Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s visit, in 1986, he electrified the country with his presence, including business leaders from the country in a panel discussion. It is tempting to view the virtual summit only in the context of the turbulent geopolitics of the region. In reality, New Delhi’s relations with Canberra have acquired such spread and depth today that even without the undeniable belligerence of an increasingly inscrutable China, the summit would still have had salience and similar gravitas. Relations with much potential The idea of the Australia-India relationship has well and truly arrived; and while Australia’s population is roughly the same as the National Capital Region, the potential for a shared partnership extends well beyond Mr. Modi and Mr. Morrison trying to deconstruct the inscrutable mind of China’s supreme leader, Xi Jinping, or the manner in which the World Health Organization has acted amid the spread of the pandemic. Virtual summits are no longer a novelty. Mr. Modi convened a multilateral summit to bring South Asia together to face the pandemic, and he spoke online with G-20 leaders on similar issues. But India’s first bilateral summit is with Australia; and it is no longer surprising. The convergence of interests and values has been patently obvious; but the time has also come to translate that potential into reality. The two countries have sought to reconstruct their increasingly turbulent regional geography into the Indo-Pacific and while grudgingly in the past, and often in fits and starts, seen the Quad (with Japan and the United States) as the most potent instrument to promote cooperation; not surprisingly, causing apprehensions in Beijing. It is expected that the ‘Mutual Logistics Support Agreement’ will be signed during the summit that should enhance defence cooperation and ease the conduct of large-scale joint military exercises. Last April, Australia and India conducted AUSINDEX, their largest bilateral naval exercise, and there are further developments on the anvil, including Australia’s permanent inclusion in the Malabar exercise with Japan. In addition, it may be prudent too for New Delhi and Canberra to elevate the ‘two plus two’ format for talks from the Secretary level to the level of Foreign and Defence Ministers. But beyond the realpolitik of strategy, is the managing of cooperation in areas that matter to the lives of the people of the two nations: health, food and education. Mr. Morrison has emerged as a statesman (during the COVID-19 pandemic) by bringing in the national opposition and reaching out to state leaders in the most effective and efficient display of cooperative federalism. So much so that the Australian writer Richard Flanagan suggested, in The New York Times (May 18,2020), that polarising ideologies in Australia were killed by the coronavirus given the united national response. Pandemic control lessons Australia is one of the few countries that has managed to combat COVID-19 so far through “controlled adaptation” by which the coronavirus has been suppressed to very low levels. Two of the leaders of this great Australia-wide effort are Indian-born scientists. Shitij Kapur, of the University of Melbourne, led a community of academics to produce a pathbreaking report, “Roadmap to recovery”, while S.S. Vasan is leading efforts to develop a vaccine in a Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) facility in a dangerous pathogens facility in Geelong, near Melbourne. There is much that the two Prime Ministers can share on this front. In terms of health and safe food as well the supply chains that facilitate their delivery, there are important lessons to be learnt. One of Australia’s richest businessman, Anthony Pratt of Pratt Industries, and first patron of the Australia-India Leadership Dialogue, recently described the promise of DTC-CPG (direct to consumer; consumer packaged goods) which could transform global supply chains. Here too there is much room for collaboration and new thinking. Higher education The recovery of Australia’s universities, most of which are publicly funded and many rank among the top in the world, is still in question, but they are proving to be resilient and pioneers in distance and online learning. Australian universities could well open earlier than most and emerge as a safer destination for quality education than their European or Ivy league counterparts. Till a few weeks ago, the prospect of teaching online a course on Contemporary India to Australian Students from the University of Melbourne seemed daunting to this writer. But with slides of Ambedkar, Gandhi and even snippets from the movies of Satyajit Ray, the enormous potential of online learning became obvious; the students were excited intellectually by both the robustness of Indian democracy, and the diversity of its experience as a federation. Although the course was on India, the enormous potential of young Australians and Indians working and building fresh order in a turbulent world became starkly obvious. The virtual summit, in this sense, could not have been better timed. Amitabh Mattoo is Chair of the Australia-India Leadership Dialogue and was the founding Director of The Australia India Institute
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Awful silence||Nearly a month after the first skirmishes on the LAC between Indian and Chinese soldiers were reported, the situation on the ground still appears to be tense. While there has been no official explanation of what has happened there since May 5, the day the first clash at Pangong Tso (lake) was reported, there is enough information to conclude that this is the most serious such stand-off India and China have seen in years. As reported by The Hindu , sources say that the number of Chinese soldiers, the aggression with which they have dealt with Indian soldiers, as well as the number of points of conflict, indicate strategised action by Chinese commanders. While both governments have been careful to keep the tone of their comments sober, the fact that both sides have repeatedly mentioned that talks are on is also proof of an ongoing situation. A full de-escalation will entail soldiers being able to return to their normal LAC patrols, something military officers say will probably need a high-level political intervention and for the Indian side, an insistence that Chinese soldiers, who appear to have been the aggressors, returning to positions they previously held. In the midst of these sensitive negotiations, the interventions by the U.S. come as inopportune distractions. The first comment, last week, by a then senior State Department official, accusing China of being an aggressor on several fronts and posing a “threat” to its neighbours, was followed by President Donald Trump’s offer, this week, to mediate between Delhi and Beijing. Neither comment appears to have been made in consultation with India. India has made it clear that it will not accept Mr. Trump’s offer and has denied his claim that he spoke to Prime Minister Modi on the issue. The government’s first priority now must be to end the current stand-off, and then for its senior officials to enter serious talks on LAC demarcation. Given all the new infrastructure being built by India, it may also be necessary to negotiate new border management protocols that were last updated in 2013. The government must also investigate how a big build-up of Chinese soldiers was not acted upon earlier. Beyond this, it must make a full assessment of just what China’s final aims are: is the summer conflagration meant to deflect attention from Beijing’s current problems over the coronavirus pandemic, to deter India from its infrastructural push for roads and bridges to connect its northern frontiers all the way to the Karakoram pass, or to “remind” New Delhi of its geographical vulnerabilities as it contemplates a closer maritime relationship in the Indo-Pacific with the U.S.? In all three scenarios, the first steps for the government would be to publicly clarify the seriousness of the situation at the LAC, and to build consensus around its plans for a firm pushback and an assertion of its position along the disputed line.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Belated, but welcome||It is a matter of relief that the Supreme Court has at last taken cognisance of the plight of millions of inter-State workers looking for transport home and relief from the unrelenting misery unleashed on them by the lockdown. A three-judge Bench has initiated suo motu proceedings based on media reports and representations from senior advocates, observing that there have been inadequacies and lapses on the part of the Centre and States in dealing with the crisis faced by workers. It need not have come to this. This could have taken place seven or eight weeks earlier, when petitions were filed before the top court on behalf of those left in the lurch across India after the Centre announced a lockdown, with just four hours’ notice. With a kind of self-effacement and self-abnegation not in keeping with its institutional history, the Court had then accepted the government’s sweeping claim that there were no migrants on the roads any more, and that the initial exodus of workers from cities to their home States had been set off by “fake news” to the effect that the lockdown would last for months. In an unfortunately limited intervention, the Court merely advised the police to treat the workers on the roads with kindness and directed the media to highlight the Centre’s version of the developments. The Court’s reluctance to intervene may have stemmed from a belief in letting the executive handle the fallout of an unprecedented global crisis, but, in the process, it abandoned its primary responsibility of protecting fundamental rights, especially of those most vulnerable. Such was the resultant dismay that retired judges called it out for apparent abdication of its duty. A former High Court judge even said the ghost of ADM Jabalpur was lingering, in an unflattering reference to an Emergency-era judgment, now mercifully overruled, that held that personal liberty was not absolute during a state of emergency. Whether it was shamed into taking cognisance of the issue or it felt that the situation is ripe for intervention, one should now expect the Court to take a more critical look at the government’s lapses, and emulate the stellar role that High Courts are playing in holding administrations accountable. The top court must now find out if the Centre, which imposed a stringent lockdown to buy time for preparing the health infrastructure, had discharged its responsibilities. It may even lay down guidelines for planning, coordination and establishment of a mechanism to address the economic and humanitarian consequences of such actions in future. The government should also do more than asking its law officers to fulminate against activists, denounce the media and question the patriotism of those critical of its actions. A national tragedy requires a more statesmanlike response.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||GST Council likely to meet in mid-June||The Goods and Services Tax Council is likely to meet in mid-June after repeated demands from States anxious for their GST compensation dues which have been pending since December. However, information on GST revenue since March — which is likely to see a sharp fall due to the lockdown — is being withheld at least until July, according to senior officials at the Finance Ministry. GST revenue data is usually released monthly. However, the last release was for March collections, based on February transactions, which fell 8% from the previous year. “The deadline to file GST returns has been extended to June 30 because of the lockdown, so what is the point of sharing data before that?” said a senior official. Discussing the GST Council meet, another top source at the Ministry indicated that the Centre may not be in favour of hiking GST rates on non-essential items despite the falling revenues. “After the lockdown is lifted, consumption has to be increased on all fronts, not just on essential items. The whole economy has to kickstart. Demand from all sides for [all] goods has to be induced,” said the source. “Besides, who are we to decide what is non-essential? However, it is up to the Council to take a final decision.”  The same Ministry official added that as the Centre needed to bring down its borrowing costs in these difficult times, savings scheme interest rates may have to be rationalised. Drawing a comparison to onion prices, which need to benefit both farmers and consumers, the source said rates on savings schemes had to be balanced with the cost of borrowing. With banks having parked Rs. 7.5-8 lakh crore with the Reserve Bank of India, concerns have been raised about banks’ appetite to lend at a time when the Centre has been trying to increase credit access and liquidity in the economy. However, the source said approximately Rs. 4 lakh crore of this amount was for loans that had already been sanctioned, but not yet disbursed. Timing of disbursements There is a disbursal-sanction mismatch, because some borrowers only want to take the money when the lockdown is lifted, the official said, explaining why the money had been parked with the RBI for the duration. The Finance Ministry is also attempting a balancing act between the needs of businesses and their employees, and is engaging with the Labour Ministry regarding pay cuts and job losses during the lockdown. With regard to the economic stimulus package, the senior official said it was not possible to discuss the ‘quantifiable objectives’ of the package until the lockdown is lifted. The possibility of further cash transfers has not been closed, and all options are still open. However, there is no move to go down the deficit monetisation route at this stage, said the official.
30 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Franklin Templeton investors can e-vote to monetise assets||Investors of Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund, whose money is stuck in the six schemes that were wound up last month, can cast their votes between June 9 and June 11 to initiate the process of monetisation of the assets of the schemes. Through the electronic voting process, investors can either choose the trustees of the fund house or Deloitte as the entity to be entrusted with the work of monetisation of the schemes’ assets. “The e-voting portal will remain open for voting from Tuesday, June 9, 2020 at 09:00 a.m. (IST) and will end on Thursday, June 11, 2020 at 06:00 p.m. (IST),” stated a note from the fund house. The e-vote will be followed by a virtual meet of the unit holders on June 12. In the e-vote process, unit holders can choose option one if they want to authorise the trustees to monetise the assets with the assistance of the fund house and Kotak Mahindra Bank as an independent adviser. If option two is chosen, it will authorise Deloitte to monetise the assets with the assistance of the fund house and Kotak Mahindra Bank will act as an independent advisor to the asset management company (AMC). Role of trustees Further, the trustee’s role will be restricted to distribution of proceeds to unit holders after payment of liabilities and expenses. “The trustee believes that both Deloitte and Kotak have strong capabilities to discharge their respective roles. Unit holders will have the advantage of professional services from Deloitte and Kotak [as an agent and advisor to the AMC and providing independent advice, wherever required] in option 2. The trustee is equally supportive of both options,” stated the note. The trustees have appointed a scrutiniser who will submit a report to the trustees within three days from the conclusion of the virtual meet and thereafter, the results would be declared. The results would then be communicated to the unit holders.
30 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Sun Pharma gets nod for drug trial in COVID-19 patients||Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. has announced that it has received the approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to initiate a clinical trial with Nafamostat Mesilate in COVID-19 patients. Nafamostat is approved in Japan for improvement of acute symptoms of pancreatitis and treatment of Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC). “A group of scientists from the University of Tokyo, Japan and Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Germany, have recently demonstrated that Nafamostat, at very low concentrations, suppresses a protein (TMPRSS2) that the COVID-19 virus uses to enter human lung cells,” the company said in statement. “Another group from Institut Pasteur, South Korea, also published data comparing the anti-viral efficacy of 24 drugs and Nafamostat, against SARS-CoV-2 in in-vitro studies in human lung epithelial derived cells,” the statement added. In this research, Nafamostat was found to be the most potent drug and was able to inhibit virus entry at very low concentrations, consistent with findings from Japan and German labs, it said.  According to Sun Pharma these trials are being led by the University of Tokyo Hospital, Japan; Gyeongsang National University Hospital (South Korea); and a collaborative trial by University Hospital, Padova, Italy, University of Zurich, Switzerland and Yokohoma City University, Japan (RACONA study).
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Telecom regulator moots national numbering plan||The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India on Friday recommended that a new National Numbering Plan be issued at the earliest so that a uniquely identifiable number can be provided to every subscriber in India. Some of the options that TRAI has recommended include switching to a 11-digit mobile number, reallocation of mobile numbering resources surrendered by operators who have shut shop and prefixing zero for all mobile calls made from fixed line. The regulator said adequate availability of numbering resources is threatened because of an increase in the range of services and massive growth in the number of connections, especially in the mobile segment. The ongoing plan implemented in 2003, was developed keeping in mind the projections till the year 2033. The total number of telephone subscribers in India stands at 1,177.02 million with a tele-density of 87.45% at the end of January 2020. “As a result, we find ourselves in a situation where we need to review the utilisation of the numbering resources and make some policy decisions to ensure that adequate resources are available for sustainable growth of the telecommunication services,” it said. TRAI said that some serious problems are anticipated with a change in the mobile number from 10 to 11 digits, and the move should be resorted to only if all the efforts to continue with the 10-digit numbering are exhausted.
30 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Capgemini’s Delaporte to take over as Wipro CEO and MD||Wipro Limited on Friday appointed Thierry Delaporte as its new CEO and MD. The appointment is effective from July 6. In a regulatory filing, Wipro said: “Until recently, Thierry Delaporte was the chief operating officer of Capgemini Group and a member of its group executive board. During his 25-year career with Capgemini, he held several leadership roles including that of the CEO of the global financial services strategic business unit, and head of all global service lines. He also oversaw Capgemini’s India.” Mr. Delaporte will be based in Paris and report to chairman Rishad Premji. The company’s current CEO and MD Abidali Neemuchwala will relinquish his position on June 1. Commenting on the appointment, Peter Bendor-Samuel, CEO, Everest Group, said, “[Mr.] Thierry is an interesting choice for Wipro, signalling its move to be a true multinational and global player. [Mr.] Thierry faces many challenges as he assumes Wipro leadership; the biggest amongst them is to get Wipro back to industry-leading growth. To achieve this, he must increase accountability, and streamline decision making.” Phil Fersht, CEO and chief analyst at London-based HFS Research, said, “He is an ambitious business leader with a strong finance background. He will bring strong operational and fiscal discipline to Wipro and has a lot of energy and leadership capabilities.”
30 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Madras HC notice to Franklin Templeton, SEBI||The Madras High Court has issued notices to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) along with Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund and its top officials after a public interest litigation (PIL) was filed by a Chennai-based group against the abrupt winding up of six debt schemes by the fund house last month. The court, on May 26, passed an interim order while directing SEBI to file a status report. The PIL has been filed by the Chennai Financial Markets Accountability (CFMA). CFMA also plans to get more unit holders of the affected schemes through an online petition, which it then plans to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as the parent entity Franklin Templeton Investments is based in the U.S. The PIL alleged that while the fund house had said that recovery of the money could take around five years, the approximate quantum of loss to the investors would be Rs. 22,400 crore. Responding to an email query by The Hindu, a spokesperson for Franklin Templeton MF said the fund house is examining the matter and will take appropriate steps as may be required. An email query sent to SEBI remained unanswered till the time of going to press.
30 May 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Air passenger demand to plummet 47% in 2020’||Air passenger demand is expected to fall 47% in 2020, with revenue reducing by $11 billion compared to last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, said Alexandre de Juniac, Director General and CEO, IATA at a webinar held by CAPA India on Friday. He said about 3 million jobs, including those that depend on aviation, such as travel and tourism, are also at risk. “Indian carriers, like many airlines around the world, are in survival mode,” he added. Stating that there should be viable airlines around after this crisis, he said,” It is particularly disappointing that the package of economic relief unveiled earlier this month contained nothing for airlines in the form of direct financial relief. Compare that to the $123 billion in government financial aid that has been announced around the world, including $26 billion in the Asia Pacific region.” “The Indian government [must] help airlines with measures that [help] raise equity financing rather than increasing debt. This needs to be done urgently before it is too late,” he added.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Core sector output contracts 38% in April||The lockdown imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in core sector output contracting 38% in April 2020, compared with the same month in the previous year, according to Commerce Ministry data released on Friday. This is the second straight month in negative territory for the index of eight core sector industries, after a 9% fall in March 2020. Last month, the Ministry had estimated a 6.5% contraction in the core sector in March, a figure that has now been revised downward to 9%. The April collapse comes on the back of an 86% crash in cement production and an 84% contraction in steel sector output. All eight sectors saw shrinkage, although the least affected were fertilisers and crude oil, which showed a decline in production of 4.5% and 6.4% respectively. Petroleum refinery production, the largest component of the index, shrank 24%, while electricity generation dropped almost 23%. Natural gas production fell almost 20%, while coal production declined 15.5%, from a year earlier. These eight crucial sectors form 40% of the weight of sectors included in the Index of Industrial Production and may signal a crash in that wider index.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fiscal deficit at 4.6% for FY20 as revenue sags||The country’s fiscal deficit widened to 4.6% of the gross domestic product (GDP) in 2019-20 mainly on account of poor revenue realisation, according to official data. The deficit, which signifies the gap between government revenue and expenditure, is higher than the revised estimate of 3.8% for the fiscal. According to the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) data, the fiscal deficit for 2019-20 worked out to be 4.59% of the GDP, while the revenue deficit was 3.27%. The effective revenue deficit was 2.36%, the data showed. The increase in the fiscal deficit has been mainly on account of shortfall in revenue collection during 2019-20. Revenue receipts during the year worked out to be only 90% of the revised estimate. In absolute terms, total receipts of the government were Rs. 17.5 lakh crore against the estimate of Rs. 19.31 lakh crore. The data showed the government’s total expenditure was Rs. 26.86 lakh crore, lower than the Rs. 26.98 lakh crore projected earlier.
30 May 2020||Mumbai,||Bank of India cuts MCLR by 25 bps||State-run lender Bank of India has decided to reduce marginal cost of funds based lending rate (MCLR) by 25 bps across all tenors. The one-year MCLR of the bank will be now at 7.7% with effect from June 1. The reduction in the lending rate comes after Reserve Bank of India cut the repo rate by 40 bps to 4% earlier this week. The external benchmark lending rate which is linked to repo rate has also been reduced by 40 bps to 6.85%. “With this, the bank has passed on the benefit of rate cut announced by RBI on May 22, 2020 to its home, vehicle and MSME customers,” the lender said.
30 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Sumantran joins IndiGo board||The board of directors of InterGlobe Aviation Ltd. (IndiGo) has appointed Venkataramani Sumantran as an independent director for a period of five years. Dr. Sumantran, with experience of over 35 years, having worked in the U.S., Europe and Asia, has been an industry leader, technocrat, academic and an author. He is currently CMD of Celeris Technologies. He has expertise in multiple domains, including automotive, mobility, digital transformation, aerospace and technology. He is also an adjunct professor at MIT-MISI. Until 2014, he served as the executive vice-chairman of Hinduja Automotive, U.K. and vice-chairman of Ashok Leyland Ltd. Between 2001 and 2005, he was executive director of Tata Motors Ltd. and CEO of the car business where he worked closely with Ratan Tata. He had also worked with the General Motors for 16 years starting at the R&D Centre in Detroit and subsequently as director, advanced engineering at GM-Europe. M. Damodaran, chairman, IndiGo, said, “his intellectual prowess, analytical bent of mind, objectivity, wide-ranging experience and deep understanding of the aviation sector, will considerably strengthen the board.”
30 May 2020||Chennai,||Sundaram Finance net at Rs. 131 crore||Sundaram Finance Ltd. (SFL) has registered a net profit of Rs. 130.89 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2020. The firm had recorded a net profit of Rs. 675 crore a year earlier. The net profit of the previous year included a one-time income of Rs. 522 crore on account of sale of shares in Royal Sundaram. Hence, the profit numbers are not comparable on a like-to-like basis, the company said in a statement. For the period under review, revenue from operations rose 7% to Rs. 942 crore. The board recommended a final dividend of Rs. 3 a share. “We live in a time of great uncertainty and the overall outlook for the economy is not promising. The first half of the year is likely to be muted, but a major thrust on infrastructure spending and a favourable monsoon could revive sentiment in the later part of the year,” said T.T. Srinivasaraghavan, MD, Sundaram Finance. For the full year, gross receivables stood at Rs. 35,088 crore against Rs. 33,447 crore.
30 May 2020||Chennai,||Sundaram Clayton profit surges 23.4%||Sundaram Clayton Ltd. (SCL) has reported a 23.43% increase in its standalone net profit for the fourth quarter ended March 2020 to Rs. 62.05 crore. During the year under review, the total income contracted to Rs. 395 crore from Rs. 456 crore, while total expenditure stood at Rs. 324 crore (Rs. 410 crore). Mentioning that all plants and offices had to be shut down due to COVID-19, SCL said that it resumed operations at its manufacturing units and all offices partially after obtaining the necessary approvals. The company had paid an interim dividend of Rs. 31 per share during March 2020.
30 May 2020||Melbourne,||‘High risk’ of T20 WC being put off, says CA||Cricket Australia on Friday conceded that there is “very high risk” of this year’s T20 World Cup being postponed and it is bracing up for huge revenue loss because of that. Speaking to reporters, CA chief executive Kevin Roberts admitted that the fate of T20 World Cup, to be hosted by Australia in October-November this year, is uncertain because of the global travel restrictions in place due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “We have been hopeful all along that it could be staged in October-November but you would have to say there’s a very high risk about the prospect of that happening,” Roberts said. ICC has deferred a decision on the event till June 10, saying it wants to continue exploring contingency plans for some more time. Roberts said CA is staring at a revenue loss of around AUD 80 million. Behind closed doors Even if the tournament goes ahead as per plan, it is likely to be held in empty stadiums because of the social distancing norms and CA is well aware of it. Roberts, however, is more confident of hosting the four-Test series against India starting at Brisbane on December 3. CA has not ruled out the possibility of a change in the schedule for India’s tour of the country with the Board still keeping the door open for hosting four Tests at “one venue”. CA had on Thursday announced that India would play the Tests at Brisbane (December 3-7), Adelaide (December 11-15), Melbourne (December 26-30) and Sydney (January 3-7). Travel restrictions However, Roberts said the schedule could change depending on travel restrictions. “There are a lot of variables based on whether we have four venues in four States or as little as one venue in one State,” he said.
30 May 2020||Paris,||Pro boxer’s memorable repayment to hospital||Hassan N’Dam, a former middleweight world boxing champion, wanted to repay the French hospital that cared for his father-in-law through his bout with COVID-19. Perhaps with Champagne? Or chocolate? No, N’Dam thought: “These are things that won’t last. I wanted to leave something quite memorable.” It occurred to him that he held the answer in his own hands — or rather, in his fists. He would give the staff at Villeneuve-Saint-Georges hospital boxing lessons, to help them relieve the tension of long shift work during the pandemic — “letting off steam, getting rid of all one’s emotions.” “They have seen so many (difficult) things that they came here looking for something,” said N’Dam. “Sometimes they came to laugh, to let off steam. Others came to discover something, others to learn, improve.” Immensely popular The 36-year-old N’Dam, who represented Cameroon at the 2016 Rio Olympics, has won 37 of 41 pro fights — 21 by knockout. His training sessions have been immensely popular with the staff.
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Meghana resumes training after a lull||For 21-year-old gymnast G. Meghana Reddy, it is back to business after a long lull in training. Even if it is in a makeshift facility in a basketball hall at Gaudium Sportopia Centre of Excellence. The former National Games gold medallist, who is also the only Indian to qualify for the 2018 Commonwealth Games in rhythmic gymnastics, has returned to serious training, thanks to the gesture of Kirthi Reddy, director and founder of Gaudium. “It is a great feeling to be back on the mat and start the routine exercises,” said Meghana, who is aiming to peak for the Commonwealth and Asian Games scheduled in 2022. World-class complex “The school is coming up with a world-class gymnastics complex and the latest equipment. Once completed, we can always come to Gaudium and train when we are in the city,” she said.  “It is never going to be easy, especially for a gymnast, after such a long break to regain the levels expected to be good enough to compete, The focus will be on getting back to the kind of form I was in before the lockdown,” Meghana told The Hindu on Friday. During the lockdown, the B.Com student of Khalsa College in Amritsar has been training and attending online courses conducted by SAI coach Manoj Rana, who also trains World Cup bronze medallist Aruna Reddy. “I have also been able to organise personal online training courses with some reputed coaches from Russia and UK,” she said. With mother Praveena guiding her, Meghana is gearing up for bigger challenges ahead. “It will not be the same when it comes to training abroad, especially in Europe where she worked under Olympian Varvara Filiou, as it will be more expensive now and as we are self-funded it will be all the more difficult,” her mother said. She is hopeful things would be back to normal by the year-end.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajmond Debevec all praise for Indian shooters||Rajmond Debevec has won almost everything the world of shooting has to offer. He has a gold and two bronze medals in rifle from eight Olympics, World championship medals and 67 medals in World Cups, including 27 gold. The 57-year-old Slovenian, who had an Instagram conversation with World and Olympic medallist Gagan Narang, was wholesome in his praise for the young Indian shooters who topped the medals table in four World Cups and the World Cup Finals last year. “I think it is harder to make the Indian team than to win an Olympic gold,” said Debevec, as he praised Gagan for his Gun for Glory Academy. “You have a huge number of talented shooters. It is hard to follow them. Am not surprised,” said Debevec. When Gagan asked him about sustaining the motivation for winning his first Olympic medal in his fifth Olympics and being ready to compete in his ninth, Debevec said that initially the goal was only to compete as he was fascinated reading about the stars “when there was no internet and no smartphones”. “I have always been very ambitious. It was my personal character. I had a goal and had to fulfil it. When you climb a mountain, there is no retreat before you reach the top,” he said, drawing a parallel between his favourite pastime of climbing mountains and his shooting career. Debevec also recalled his fascinating journey in each Olympics, the wins and the thrilling losses, and side stories of amazing characters such as Matthew Emmons, who missed two successive Olympic medals, with misfired last shots in the finals, after being in the lead. Shooting gold! Debevec won his Olympic gold in the rifle 3-position event at Sydney in 2000, with a 4.6-point margin, after having taken a two-point lead in qualification with a score of 1177.  Debevec said that initially the goal was only to compete as he was fascinated reading about the stars
30 May 2020||BENGALURU,||Khaleel is men’s selection committee chairman||Fazal Khaleel has been appointed as the senior men’s selection committee chairman, the Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) announced here on Friday. Khaleel, who has featured in 22 First Class matches, replaces Raghuram Bhat. To continue Yere Goud and S. Aravind have been retained as the head coach and bowling coach respectively for the Karnataka men’s team. The KSCA made these appointments in its first managing committee meeting since the lockdown came into effect. The KSCA is yet to announce the details of resumption of cricket in the State. Tough task The Herculean task of rescheduling tournaments for the year, and formulating a Standard Operating Procedure for cricket activities remains a work in progress.  The selection committees:   Men: Senior: Fazal Khaleel (chairman), B. Siddaramu, Anand Katti, Ramesh Hejmadi. Head coach: Yere Goud; Bowling and assistant coach: S. Aravind.   Under-23: Fazal Khaleel (chairman), K.L. Aswath, Tejpal Kothari, Raghuttam Navali. M.S. Ravindra (Invitee from Mysore Zone).   Batting coach: Deepak Chowgule; Bowling coach: G. Chaitra.   Under-19: Anand Katti (chairman), A.R. Mahesh, C. Raghavendra, Santosh Kumar. Batting coach: Nikhil Haldipur; Bowling coach: N.C. Aiyappa.   Under-16 and Under-14: H. Surendra (chairman), M.V. Prashanth, H. Chandrashekar, S. Prakash, K. Shashidhar (Invitee from Tumkur Zone). Coaches: C. Raghu, Rajashekar Shanbal.   Women: Senior: D. Jayashree (chairperson), Pushpa Kumar, Leena Prasad, P.J. Hemalatha. Coach: Mamatha Maben.   Junior: Chandrika Sridhar (chairperson), Ashrayi Ram, Anuradha Prasad, Nivedita Reshme.   Coach: Lakshmi Hariharan .
30 May 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Missed Mathews in 2011 WC final’||Former Sri Lanka captain Kumar Sangakkara says an injury to Angelo Mathews ahead of the 2011 World Cup final against India made a crucial difference to the outcome of the match that India won in Mumbai. Speaking to India off-spinner R. Ashwin on his Instagram show ‘Reminisce with Ash’, Sangakarra said, “That’s the biggest thing I look back [on] and think. You can talk about dropped catches and all that, but the composition of the side and the fact that we were forced to make the change was, to me, the turning point. “He (Mathews) was the guy who allowed us the fifth full bowler and perfect all-rounder, batting at seven.” The wicketkeeper-batsman said Mathews’ absence also had a bearing on his decision to bat first instead of chasing. “We had to change the balance of the side and once that happens in a final, you are always averse to taking a gamble with the chase,” he said. Asked about the confusion at the toss, which had to be taken a second time, Sangakkara clarified that the crowd noise meant M.S. Dhoni wasn’t sure what had been called. “I remember calling on the toss and then Mahi wasn’t sure and said ‘Did you call tails?’ and I said ‘No, I called heads’. Heads again! The match referee said I had won the toss. There was a little bit of confusion there and Mahi said ‘Let’s have another toss' and it came down heads again,” he said.
30 May 2020||KOLKATA,||CAB finalises guidelines prior to re-opening||A meeting of the Medical Committee of the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB), held via video conference on Friday, discussed the impact of COVID-19 and finalised protocols and guidelines prior to the re-opening of the association office and resumption of training. “We would soon follow up with the decisions taken. The reopening of office or other activities would be in compliance with guidelines on health, social distancing and hygiene to ensure safety of all stakeholders. Efforts will be made to ensure they are conducted safely so that it does not risk increase of transmission of the virus,” said CAB president Avishek Dalmiya. As per the decisions taken, Eden Gardens and the CAB premises will be disinfected, an isolation room will be set up for emergency situations and protocol and precautions for training will be followed as per ICC guidelines. Some of the training protocols are restriction on use of saliva and sweat on ball during practice and sanitisation of equipment upon entering the facility.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||HI to introduce grading system for match officials||To improve umpiring standards and bring more structure to officiating, Hockey India has decided to introduce grading system for all officials, including umpires and technical officials. Tournament officials — technical delegates, umpire managers, technical officials, judges and umpires — will be divided into three grades. While for Umpires the final score will be based on performance reports from all domestic tournaments, fitness tests and online tests, for technical officials the parameters will be the same without fitness tests. The minimum (on a scale of 100 percentage points) for umpires has been set at 60 while it is 50 for technical officials. Umpires scoring above 80 will be included in Grade 1, 71-79 in Grade 2 and 60-70 in Grade 3. For technical officials, grading will be on similar lines except Grade 3 (50-70). Eligibility criteria include u-25 for umpires (u-35 for rest), minimum two years experience in State and district championships. State units may send in nominations from July 1.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Olympics: India could add to shooting quota||The International Olympic Committee has approved the world shooting governing body’s updated qualification system for the Tokyo Olympics, which could see India add at least one more to the 15 secured so far. The qualification cycle started with the 2018 World Championship in Korea. “The allocation of the 12 quota places (one in each individual event) will be done based on the ranking list of March 31, 2020, and points earned at one ISSF World Cup in rifle/pistol and one ISSF World Cup in shotgun to be held in March-April of 2021,” the International Shooting Sport Federation (ISSF) said in a statement. According to a National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) insider, this could help a shooter like Anish Bhanwala secure a quota in the 25m rapid fire pistol, a category in which India won a silver through Vijay Kumar at the 2012 London Games. “Anish was in the top 10 in the March 31 ranking and all the other shooters above him had already secured their quotas. So, he definitely has a chance. His chances will increase if he shoots a good score in the World Cup in March-April 2021,” said the NRAI insider. Though India has not won a quota in trap, Kynan Chenai will have a shot at earning one when the qualification process begins. The new deadline for Tokyo 2020 qualification in shooting is June 6, 2021, according to the ISSF.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital Cup on the anvil||Football Delhi has decided to launch the Capital Cup, an eight-team league-cum-knockout tournament. The AIFF will be approached to allot a window for the tournament that will feature four city teams and four I-League/ISL teams. “Through the Capital Cup we would like to energise local football and connect fans with a tournament where the best clubs and players would be seen in action,” Football Delhi president Shaji Prabhakaran said. The tournament is likely to be held at the Dr. Ambedkar Stadium.
30 May 2020||Bengaluru:,||KIOC camp from June 1||With the lockdown restrictions likely to be relaxed in a few days, the Karnataka Institute of Cricket (KIOC) will commence its annual summer camp for boys and girls on June 1. The academy, which counts the likes of Manish Pandey, K. Gowtham and Shreyas Gopal as wards, will resume activities with several precautionary measures in place. KIOC Director Irfan Sait said temperature checks and sanitisers will be used, and that the campus will be fumigated frequently. Social distancing will be followed, Sait said. Call 9008675618/08025562558.
30 May 2020||Coimbatore,||Badminton junior Worlds postponed||The World junior badminton championships, scheduled to be held in Auckland in September, has been postponed to January next year. The rescheduled dates for the world junior mixed team championship are January 11 to 16 followed by the World junior championships (Jan. 18 to 24). “All things considered, we believe the move is the best option,” said Thomas Lund, the BWF general-secretary.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen and Dubov draw first blood||Contrary to expectations of a close match, Magnus Carlsen delivered a crushing 3-0 blow to Hikaru Nakamura in their first mini-match of the best-of-three semifinals in the $150,000 Lindores Abbey Rapid Challenge on Thursday. In the other semifinal, Daniil Dubov posted a 2.5-1.5 win over Ding Liren.  The results (semifinals, first mini-match): Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Hikaru Nakamura (USA) 3-0; Daniil Dubov (Rus) bt Ding Liren (Chn) 2.5-1.5.
30 May 2020||LONDON,||Williams may sell F1 team||Williams said on Friday it was considering selling its once-dominant but now struggling Formula One team as part of a strategic review after the Williams Grand Prix Holdings (WGPH) group reported a loss of £13 million for the year ending 2019. Williams also announced on Friday that it had served notice to terminate its relationship with title partner ROKiT and major sponsor ROK Drinks. The former champion, who last won a championship in 1997 with Jacques Villeneuve, has not won a race since 2012. It finished last in 2019 with just one point scored by now-departed Polish driver Robert Kubica.
30 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Sensharma tests COVID positive, admitted to hospital||Former Bengal Ranji Trophy player and current selector Sagarmoy Sensharma has tested positive for COVID-19, a Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) source on Friday. The 54-year-old Sensharma, a medium-pacer who played from 1987-88 to the 1996-97 season, was admitted to a city hospital on Friday. It is learnt that the CAB has cleared Sensharma’s dues as a selector to help him in his treatment. He is the first sportsperson from Bengal to return a positive test for coronavirus.
30 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Tennis camp||Academia Sports Village will organise a tennis coaching camp at Hyderabad Polo and Recreation Centre in Aziz Nagar, near here, from June 2. Trainees will be split into three groups of four each to maintain social distancing, Mohammed Shamsuddin, CEO of Academia Village, said. He added they would aim to prepare the players for the upcoming tournaments and interested can call head coach Sandeep Paul on 918019 611345. “This camp is being planned to pick the best trainees for the high performance camp scheduled in September/ October at the same venue under supervision of Croatian Duje Tomasovic.”
30 May 2020||Mumbai,||Veteran lyricist Yogesh Gaur dies||Yogesh Gaur, who penned the famous Kahin Door Jab Din Dhal Jaaye and Zindagi Kaisi Hai Paheli songs in the Rajesh Khanna-Amitabh Bachchan starrer Anand , passed away on Friday. He was 77. Yogesh was a prominent lyricist in 1970s Hindi cinema and gave some of his best songs for the films of Hrishikesh Mukherjee and Basu Chatterjee like Mili , Rajinigandha and Chhoti Si Baat .PTI
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Jnana and karma||Realised souls are illumined seers who have practised the way of discrimination, viveka, and have overcome ignorance, avidya. So, though in embodied state, they are firm in their knowledge of the true swaroopa of Brahman and realise the same Brahman in their atma. Their experience of Brahman as the only eternal Truth gives them clarity of vision regarding the objective world which to them is constituted of Maya. This Advaita doctrine taught by Adi Sankara is explained in great detail by his direct disciple Sureshvara, in the text Naishkarmya Siddhi. In a discourse, Sri Mani Dravid Sastrigal drew attention to the convincing arguments put forth in the text to show how jnana and karma cannot coexist. The two can run on parallel lines only since Tatva jnana automatically dispels karma. This is owing to the fact that karma thrives on the avidya of jivatmas. Avidya has the power to hide the truth and make people believe as true what is not true. So karma and jnana can never be in the same footing even as lion and a goat cannot be together. In reality, there is no direct opposition between karma and jnana and the Gita expounds the paths of karma, jnana and bhakti as being inter-related in leading the jivatma towards release from samsara. But the opposition is between Tatva jnana and Avidya. Avidya makes one conscious of his body mind complex and prompts him to do the ordained karmas in the sastras according to one’s age, birth, etc. But the Absolute Truth shining in the inner self of realised souls leaves no foothold for Avidya which gets chased away even as darkness has no existence in the presence of light. With Avidya gone, all karma gets dissociated as a matter of routine and has no relevance in the life of realised souls.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 08:12 IST,||Sudoku - May 30, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||How the east was won||Surfing for food delivery outlets one day, I chanced upon a place called the Wild Wild West. Having grown up on a healthy diet of Westerns, the name appealed to me, instantly conjuring up an image of a swinging door and the sound of distant neighing. I looked at the menu, and it sounded good too. So I put on my Stetson, and placed an order. Wild Wild West, I learnt, has three branches in Delhi. Now, of course, the restaurants are shut, but its food is being delivered through Swiggy and Zomato. The delivery menu includes pizzas, pastas, calzones, salads, and sandwiches. The main courses have dishes such as grilled vegetables with basil pesto sauce and smoked chicken fillets. We asked for a Meaty Submarine (Rs. 350), with iceberg, onions, black olives and sundried tomatoes, chicken sausages, pork pepperoni and bacon bits, served with chipotle and mustard sauce; Grilled Chicken Breast in Cosmic Mushroom Sauce, with Grilled Vegetables (Rs. 440), chicken peri peri with sautéed mushroom and herbed rice (Rs. 400) and Spinach and Sundried Tomato Pasta (Rs. 390). My order was the submarine, for I have a long and happy relationship with this dish. I remember the juicy submarines I had at Cellars (which later turned into a place called The Parlour) in CP. This is essentially a bigger and thicker hotdog, with various kinds of fillings. The chilli-lover at home enjoyed the peri peri chicken, which came submerged in a red sauce. I had a spoonful of the sauce, and found that while it was spicy, it was still not as hot as I would have liked it to be. We had imagined something else when we ordered the grilled chicken, too. I’d thought the sauce would be on the side, but it came dunked in the mushroom gravy, which was just a bit too rich and creamy. My submarine was excellent, though. It was well packed, and stuffed with enough meat to be called a meaty submarine. I enjoyed the crunchy iceberg and the tart sundried tomatoes, flavours and textures that went well with the meats. I liked the pasta, too (even though it was a bit too cheesy) and savoured the pine nuts that it had been garnished with. Wild Wild West doffs its hat to the Indian palate. So in the pizza segment, while it has something called an Expatriate Pizza (with marinara sauce, mozzarella, baby corn, black olives, sundried tomatoes and jalapenos) and Sausage Fest Pizza, it also has Paneer Makhni Pizza and Butter Chicken Pizza. The menu includes a Butter Chicken Calzone and a Paneer Tikkalicious Salad. I didn’t venture anywhere there, of course. We were in search of what is known (in some circles) as “Conti” food. Overall, I think we had quite a nice meal, which we ended with some desi home-made suji halwa (cooked in just a wee bit of oil and stevia). And then, after my dinner, I pulled out an old, dog-eared Louise L'Amour. I fell asleep to the sound of distant gunshots and racing hooves. The writer is a seasoned food critic
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||When every order is a seed||Tons Trails, a sustainable travel company in Uttarakhand, has never sold anything except experiences. This time around, founder Anand Sankar decided to do some marketing to ensure people got to taste apples (Red Royal and the Golden varieties) from Tons Valley. This was to ensure assured orders for farmers to protect them from low prices. Those opting for the scheme (tons.travel/apples) pay approximately half the cost now, which goes into the farmers’ account, and the rest later, depending on prevailing rates and shipping cost. The drying up of cash flow is a reality for vulnerable communities, especially post the Covid-19 lockdown in the country. They include those in the hills and by the backwaters who depend on summer tourists, communities that source and sell agro-produce, weaving clusters, and artisan groups. Over the last couple of months, attempts have been made to mitigate their difficulties. Weaver cooperatives and handicraft clusters put out requests asking people to pay upfront for future purchases or pay a slight premium. Agri-produce took its time to adopt this model, but it has worked well. Pay first, collect later As for Tons Trails’ Sankar, he began with a modest target of 100 boxes of apples, but managed to get orders for 234 (a mix of quantities), deliverable in July. “Tourism opportunities look bleak now, and as a social enterprise it is our responsibility to take care of our local community by tapping into existing resources. We decided on apples,” he says, adding that they found the smallest farmers, who were doing less than 100 boxes a year, and decided to buy about 20-30 boxes from them to ensure ready money. Sankar is also working to reduce shipping charges (about 1.5 times the cost of apples now) and hopes to reach a revised target of 1,000 boxes. Honey trail Down South, in the forests of the Nilgiris, members of the Kattunayakan tribe collect honey from June, using traditional methods. Keeping this in mind, Puducherry-based organic marketplace, Leap Club, got into action to sell last year’s leftover stock with its associate, the Nilgiris-based Just Change India (JCI). On April 24, a month after the lockdown, the Leap Club and JCI teams requested regular clients to pre-book honey. Co-founder of the start-up, Divish Gupta, 28, says they hoped to sell honey worth a lakh of rupees but got orders worth Rs. 14 lakh in a fortnight. “This money was needed to avert a cash crunch, and to ensure the honey gatherers are paid at the time of harvesting,” he says. Without this, they would have had to sell it to middlemen at lower prices, or take loans. Why did these initiatives succeed? Transparency, for one. Good intent could be the other. Tons Trails had a daily update on orders received, and was upfront about the shipping charges and the beneficiaries. That’s something Gupta says too. “I think this is the way forward, where you establish a meaningful relationship between agro-producers and consumers.” Think like a community Another way in which the farming community is being helped is with seed packs. Sankar, who also runs the Kalap Trust and its community health centre in the Tons Valley, recently raised money for 1,000 seed kits. Each kit (Rs. 150 each) contained seeds of pumpkin, spinach, cabbage, brinjal, okra, chillies and coriander, and would go on to sustain families with a steady stream of vegetables, some of which could be stored for winter and also leave them with extra for sale. The Trust has also put together a veterinary kit (Rs. 1,472) to help shepherds in the Valley grow their flock. Each kit can treat at least 100 sheep, and those interested could pay as less as Rs. 368 to part-pay for one. In Noida, Aparna Rajagopal, of sustainable farm Beejom, feels giving farmers seed packs is a great way to get them on the path of sustainable farming. “Good open pollinated seeds are hard to come by, and only they can be saved to ensure seed security,” says Rajagopal who recently publicised Thodi (Malayalam for backyard) Tales, a community-supported agriculture initiative for those in Noida. People can subscribe and pay in advance for a basket of locally grown food, and products such as bio-enzymes and dhoop (Rs. 800, including shipping). Proceeds go towards supporting Beejom’s animal sanctuary. “This model is perfect for farms like us who grow a lot of seasonal food, but not on demand. We don’t need customers, but a community of people who understand and believe in our journey,” says Rajagopal. The advantages are many for both farmer and consumer. With direct selling, farmers get more profit, can market produce before harvest, and this model reduces food waste. Covid-19 has seen a significant rise in social entrepreneurs. Like Sankar, whose favourite quote is from Yoda, the Jedi master from the Star Wars films: Do. Or do not. There is no try.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Homebound, but in high spirits||If life gives you lemons, make limoncello. If you are handed tomatoes, sip on a Bloody Mary. Mumbai-based Mallika Sarkar may have taken this to heart while celebrating her lockdown birthday recently. Physically distanced from friends but not socially isolated, she organised the party over Zoom — and ordered a batch of premixed cocktails (sans alcohol) from the bar Social, popular with her set in pre-Covid times. The mixes were delivered to her and each of her friends individually, and the fiery Bloody Marys (with alcohol added from home bars) got the party going. The way young, metropolitan India was used to socialising has been turned upside down in the last few months. Yet despite the closure of restaurants and bars, alcohol still remains a big part of our lives: whether it is to deal with the stress in Covid-19 times, to wind down for the day, or meet friends, albeit virtually.    Living room mixologists   In India, liquor sales may have been hit during lockdown, but now all eyes are on home bars to rev up spirits. Literally. Brands,retailers, professional bartenders and influencers are focussing on ways to engage with consumers at home. Consumers, for their part, are moving on from plain vanilla drinks, to paying more attention to what is in their glass — not just the quality of spirits (which is invariably better at home when people are likely to drink in a more discerning way than while bar-hopping on a budget) but also the mixers, garnishes and the ice that go into their drinks. Globally, in pandemic-hit capitals such as New York, one category that has been cheering up otherwise beleaguered restaurants is high quality to-go cocktails. Authorities in the Big Apple allowed restaurants serving food to also home deliver cocktails, wine and spirits in March, and since then, homebound customers seem to be going all out for well-balanced Negronis, Martinis and Manhattans. Research firm, Nielsen, reported that the category of home-delivered premixed cocktails had shot up by over 75% by the end of March. In fact, chef Sujan Sarkar, whose restaurant, Rooh, in Chicago has been delivering three-course menus successfully (commanding a higher $45 per meal price than many takeaways), says that customers are even demanding things like square ice cubes to enhance their drinking experience.   Local flavours  In India, the cocktail culture had been growing steadily in the last few years, but was still nowhere close to what you’d find in other global cities like London or Singapore. Despite the emerging cult of the Negroni, sales were led by weekend binge-drinking, claustrophobic events, or over-priced shots. The culture of small cocktail bars where people could converse and savour well-made drinks was hardly pervasive even in more alcohol-friendly markets such as Delhi-NCR, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. Home-delivered cocktails may change that. Some of our best establishments are luring millennial customers with artisanal premixes sans spirits (because delivery of alcohol-laced cocktails is not permitted in India). Social recently launched SocialMixers in Mumbai, Bengaluru and Chandigarh, with mixes made using seasonal ingredients and prepared in individual outlet kitchens. Then there is Masque, the luxury restaurant in Mumbai, which is delivering two delicious mixes made by chef Prateek Sadhu, to be ordered alongside food. These include Limetter, a cordial made with smoked sweet lime (add gin or vodka at home), and The Terra, made from turmeric, ginger and honey. Both have been doing very well. In Delhi, bars like Sidecar are offering bael (wood apple) and elderflower-basil spritzers delivered in serves of four to six people, with instructions on how to blend these with alcohol at home. As celebrity mixologist Nitin Tiwari, of Together At 12th in Gurugram, points out, “Bottled premixers and pre-batched drinks are becoming popular because when people are drinking at home, they are more conscious about quality. Local bars are using seasonal ingredients such as wood apples, turmeric, mangoes and tamarind, which can be made into cordials.”  Big brands, big winners?  Meanwhile, liquor brands are hoping to up the game on their luxury portfolios; the rationale being that people at home invariably consume higher quality of alcohol (albeit in more limited quantities). In pre-Covid days, the majority of marketing spends for big brands were directed at eyeball-grabbing, high-energy events such as music or fashion festivals — enabling consumption within bars — but now the accent has shifted to online engagements that educate the customer as to the legacy, taste profile and other attributes of the spirit and brand. While earlier, the average budget for a three-day music festival, attracting 2,000 to 3,000 people per day, could be as much as Rs. 50 lakh by a liquor brand, now these kinds of approaches have been recalibrated to focus on in-home consumption. “The biggest shift is to move our resources to engage with consumers on digital and at retail stores,” says Siddharth Wadia, of Brown-Forman Worldwide LLC. Social media sessions where consumers can interact with global brand ambassadors, learn to make cocktails using kitchen ingredients, and participate in online quizzes are some ways in which campaigns are happening. “We are seeing consumers more inclined to experiment and go deeper into knowing what they are drinking. Our initiatives such as Grant’s Triple Wood Trivia Nights online and Monkey Kitchen Cocktails [with Monkey Shoulder] have been very successful,” says Payal Nijhawan, Head of Marketing, William Grant & Sons India, with brands such as Glenfiddich and Grant’s. Most luxury brands say they get around 250-300 people viewing each online session. It is a far more sedate engagement, where the assumption is that the Indian customer at home is actually as thirsty for knowledge as for the beverage. This means that, eventually, premium brands may be the biggest gainers. While lockdown and high taxation in states such as Delhi have seen business suffer, Sanjeev Banga, president, International Business, Radico Khaitan (with brands such as Jaisalmer gin and Rampur whisky) says luxury brands will see an increase in sales. “When you drink less, you always drink premium,” he quips. He is right. The days of endless Long Island Iced Teas in bars may be over for a while, but we can sip (attentively) on a perfect Martini — balanced between the juniper of the gin and the herbal of the dry vermouth, stirred not shaken — while comparing it with the smooth Belvedere Vodkatini we may contemplate next.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Seven bestsellers coming up||Many of my fellow author friends have been writing up a storm during the lockdown. A sneak peek into their upcoming books — and remember, you saw it here first.   The Great War  : One moonless night, he was sent on a mission. After no word from him, she followed stealthily, pushing the door open a crack, holding her breath. The child was glassy-eyed, unresponsive, drooling over his device. The man had fallen asleep. When he was supposed to be teaching him Maths?! The exchange of fire was heard three blocks away.   Exam Questions Made Easy:  Sample question… The rate of infection doubles every 11 days. In 21 days, it will double every eight days. In a population with 23.8% aged over 50 years old with three out of 10 of those aged under 75 having co-morbidities, and with 78% of commercial establishments opening for 66% of their workforce — How long will it take you to realise you’ll never pass this exam?   The Seduction of Sarla:  An excerpt: ‘Please Sarla, just come home. I can’t live without you. I lie in bed after each exhausted day, dreaming of you. Ask me for anything. I will give you anything your heart desires — masks? What does that Madam from 33C give you that I haven’t? I know you’ve been sneaking to her house and doing her jhadoo-pocha . Please Sarla…’   Badtime Stories:  The princess, who had long since exchanged her crown for an apron, exhausted, sweaty, gazed at her Prince Charming who sat with a beer in front of the news, burping. She leaned in to kiss him. And turned him back into a frog. Then she called The Pesticide Guys in.   The Greatest Myths of All:  A mask will save you. A mask will kill you. A man in a mask will save you. Or a woman. Go out in the sun to kill the virus. Stay indoors. Get the virus and develop antibodies. Get the virus and die. Deep breathe. Don’t breathe.   The Chamber of Horrors:  On one side was water, on the other was fire. The chamber was only 10x6 feet. The window was grilled. There was no escape. Instruments of torture lined up against one wall, heaps of metal stacked up on the other. If I survive, she swore, I will never again enter this kitchen.   Whodunnit:  The greatest mystery of all. The bat dunnit? The man dunnit? Batman dunnit? The lab-man dunnit? The vaccine makers dunnit? Whodunnit? WHO dunnit. Ah. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Why shouldn’t designers sell masks?||The advent of ‘designer’ face masks has led to a fair bit of pearl clutching in the past few weeks. Fashion designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee has vowed never to make them, calling them obnoxious and offensive. “We are talking about a health crisis and I hope we don’t put privilege on things that are essential for health,” he told Harper’s Bazaar India editor Nonita Kalra over a video conference last month. But before we take Mukherjee’s personal views as gospel, it is perhaps worthwhile to explore the idea of this new fashion category — and make no mistake, it will be a new category in fashion retail — a little more. The reality is that the coronavirus is here to stay, at least till we have a vaccine. Meanwhile, the face mask has transcended its utilitarian image and become emblematic of the world’s many problems in 2020. We have laughed at the irony of France making masks compulsory but still denying Muslim women their right to cover their faces in accordance with their faith. And we have shaken our heads at how US president Trump refuses to wear one even against his own administration’s strictest advisories. At home, PM Modi is known to begin his televised broadcasts to the nation wearing a ‘ gamcha ’ to cover his nose and mouth that he takes off when he begins speaking. These and many other occurrences have made masks one of the biggest talking points of the year. By that logic alone, the fashion industry would be remiss in its duty if they didn’t ‘design’ face masks at this time. After all, fashion represents the zeitgeist and responds to what is happening in the world at large. Sartorial emergency Besides, the Kolkata-based couturier’s comment is telling. He looks at masks as essential to health, even though they classify as protective equipment. The masks being made by Namrata Joshipura, for instance, will have a filter for safety, yet will also be ‘designed’ as per her aesthetics. “I’m not competing with anyone making medical-grade masks, neither am I marketing them as anything else than what they are,” says the designer, who is also an avid runner and has often been seen wearing face masks for the past two years or so on her social media. “I’m not trying to monetise a global pandemic; I’m responding to a demand that will arise in the times to come, when people may not want to wear medical-grade masks in social situations.” Soon to be launched on her website, her masks will be priced between Rs. 2,500 and Rs. 3,500. By contrast, designer Krsnaa Mehta’s label, India Circus, is offering printed face masks at Rs. 199, available to be shipped across the country. His website mentions that these are reusable, as are Joshipura’s. And even with their cost difference, both are priced well above the usual medical-grade masks available at chemist shops that retail for Rs. 20. As time passes, we will see many more designers come up with their versions—many of them have already produced masks for charity, or even for their workers and factory teams. It’s only natural that they make the same for retail. The sustainability argument Lest we forget, medical-grade masks are usually of the use-and-throw variety, whereas designer masks are designed to be reusable, reducing waste. Designers can also reclaim their fabric waste to make them. The level of skill required to stitch masks is also considerably lower than that required to stitch, for example, a lehenga. Could this new fashion category not be seen as an opportunity to generate employment? Even if only for a short while? Ultimately, we need to examine why the idea of ‘designer masks’ upsets us. Are we against them simply because they are ‘designed’ by a fashion designer, or because we resent what they stand for? If our fashion designers — that most sensitive and responsive group whose collections often tell the stories of entire cultures — think making masks is required, then is it not possible that we are resistant, simply not ready to accept the emergence of a ‘new normal’? Are we scared of the constant state of being cautious that they represent and require? In this case, wouldn’t we actually want face masks with a bit of pizzazz and levity to, literally, brighten the scenery around us? Or do we simply not like it that some designers have had the foresight to ‘design’ them before we actually start wanting them?  The author is a fashion commentator and Communications Director at The House of Angadi.   “I’m not trying to monetise a global pandemic; I’m responding to a demand that will arise in the times to come, when people may not want to wear medical-grade masks in social situations.” Namrata Joshipura, designer
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A series of unlikely events||The coronavirus forced practically every single business in the country to rethink their plans, but it’s fair to say that event organisers faced a singular challenge. Whether it is ticketing platforms or on-ground event planners, everybody was forced to adapt to the new normal and reinvent their businesses accordingly. If you open any online ticketing platform right now, you’ll see a variety of things you wouldn’t necessarily associate with these brands — dozens of classes (for music, dance, theatre, hip-hop), kids’ activities (including ‘virtual summer camps’), not to mention paid online versions of their regular programming: stand-up comedy acts, musical concerts... BookMyShow and Paytm Insider are two of the most popular platforms for these shows. Online stand-up comedy events can be priced anywhere in the Rs. 199 to 499 range (tickets for the Roast of Danish Sait on Insider are priced at Rs. 299). Zoom classes are pricier, generally Rs. 500 and above per session (BookMyShow offers a four-hour masterclass by acting teacher Atul Satya Koushik for Rs. 499). The better-known the artiste, the higher the price to access the event — an all-new Vir Das comedy show, shot during lockdown, costs Rs. 499 on BookMyShow. Adapting to the times According to Shreyas Srinivasan, founder-CEO of Paytm Insider, “Apart from the hour-long video format, which includes music, comedy and so on, there’s also content that involves recurring engagements. This content works like your standard gym-class package, where the number of sessions is pre-decided.” He also says that the interaction between fans online and the artiste represents a clean break from the experience that a Netflix would provide. “This is more of a community experience, and we need more of that during this time,” he explains. Others, like BookMyShow, are adjusting to the fact that their consumers have never spent more time online. Albert Almeida, COO, BookMyShow, says, “We recently launched our content discovery platform, Watch Guide, which helps users look at all forms of content available online across streaming platforms. It customises content selection and views based on your past transactions and search behaviour.” The B2B counterparts of these companies have also readjusted their products subtly. Jai Mundra, founder and managing director of experiential marketing agency Beep Experience, says, “Although we continue to create employee engagement for a number of corporate companies, there’s obviously an additional focus on areas like health and awareness, webinars with motivational speakers and so on. For example, Wipro has partnered with us for a digital calendar for their employees. These engagements could be a digital treasure hunt, an online antakshari or a motivational session with a famous author.” He acknowledged that there’s no returning to the way things were “for six months minimum” because even live events are unlikely to be resumed until then. Creating engagement The way one builds online engagement is completely different from the dynamics of planning, marketing and managing an on-ground show. In some cases, the online medium offers some much-needed breathing space — without sacrificing accessibility or potential for growth. The Jaipur Literature Festival, for instance, has been doing live conversations with authors like Margaret Atwood, Orhan Pamuk, Gloria Steinem and so on, as part of its ‘Brave New World’ series of online events. According to Sanjoy Roy, managing director of Teamwork Arts, the series was planned pre-Covid, but the plans were accelerated once the lockdown started. And one of the things that he was clear on was that the digital format needed a new approach, different from the regular panel discussion format with four to six authors at a time. “For this [Brave New World] we thought, ‘Let’s do a deep dive’. It should be one-on-one, mostly, like Esther Duflo and Abhijit Banerjee talking to each other. If you look at the Atwood or the Elif Shafak videos or any of the other outliers with a huge number of views — these might be the same people who’ve spoken at Jaipur, but this content is very different. It is far more intimate, far more reflective.” The change in approach Roy speaks of is also reflected in the many ways artists are going about their business. According to comedian Kautuk Srivastava (a featured artist on Paytm Insider), stand-up comedy has been uniquely affected by the ongoing hiatus on live events. “Stand-up is the only art form that requires an audience to practise,” says the comic, who has also written a young adult novel titled Red Card . “Writers and painters can practice their art during lockdown. But in order to create a joke, a finished product that you might see in a YouTube clip, you have to test it with audiences several times, changing it if necessary.” Stand-up has a lot to do with the atmosphere of the space you’re in. With made-for-online comedic content, however, Srivastava says, “your lines have to be cleaner; you can’t have a banter-like rhythm to it”. As online events grow in scale and engagements, it is clear that this period may well end up making structural changes to the way we create and consume things.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A brave new ‘jobless’ world||The world is such an insecure little piece of dirt right now, and I don’t mean “Who’s he texting at midnight” insecure but more like “Where are we all headed and will there still be pizza” insecure. What makes it worse is that GenZ-ers will grow up to be those grandparents who tell their grandkids about the tough times they lived through — staying in, cooking exotic recipes, making crap coffee, singing, dancing, ‘challenging’, and basically romping their creativity on the ‘gram for the ‘upkeep of general morale’. Just that thought is enough to help one confront death easier, maybe even wish it sooner. More immediately, however, once this lockdown lifts, some people will lose jobs. Others will doff their sexy uniforms and don PPE costumes, face-shields and masks as they usher us on board — the upside of which is that cabin crew can’t be grounded for untidy hair or putting on weight anymore. But in general, these times need us to update that old adage about when God closes a door... she double-locks it! Here are the ones who could be out of a job:  DJs: Let’s face it, they were warned it wasn’t a stable career choice. But on the upside, most DJs are actually qualified engineers/doctors who “chased their passions”. So finding a job with their legit degrees will be an easy reverse.  Restaurateurs: Not just owners but managers, chefs, staff… all are in the same leaky boat. Sanitary and social distancing norms aside, considering how everyone can now make sourdough and Poulet Sauté Chasseur at home, I think it will be a long time before anybody does the dance of death and dines out. And if they do, nobody’s tipping generously.    Flying c rew: With no food being served onboard comes no need for those pesky people. While I feel bad for jobs being lost, I can’t help but wonder if it is down to karma. But don’t despair cabin crew, if you still wish to fly, buy a ticket like the rest of us, and you will know why empathy matters.     Influencers: Well they can never be out of a job because, technically, ‘influencing’ wasn’t ever a job to begin with. But yeah, they will be even more annoying as they try to pivot and find new ways to feel relevant.     Tailors: We might need an occasional shirt but pants are going to be rarer than working Sundays. They stand to get (down)sized. Sorry, couldn’t resist. The newly-jobless thus may rush their CVs for these positions:     Delivery b oys: All those Amazon packages won’t deliver themselves. Go chip in and help Mr Bezos make his next trillion. There’s honour in all jobs.     Dentists: To stare into the mouth of an abyss of death from where viral particulate could come flying at any moment, volcano surfing is tamer. We’ll constantly need more of them as old dentists quit or go to that great, big, white enamel in the sky.     Tech n erds: With most businesses shifting online, we’ll need a whole lotta’ nerd power to keep things going. Only caveat — too many geeky, socially-inept people huddling is always a bad omen for mankind.     Wildlife s pecialists: What with all this wildlife mucking about in town squares and residential areas, we need people who know how to handle the situation. Guess we put Joe Exotic away at the wrong time.  This column is for anyone who gives an existential toss.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Can’t stop fashion||Over 70 days of closure has been tough on retail, and fashion hasn’t been spared. But it is interesting to note how some brands have been picking up the pieces. Italian luxury house, Gucci, has continued its expansion into the gaming realm with a Tennis Clash collab. This means an exclusive wardrobe (both virtual and otherwise) for players of the mobile game, as well as an in-game tournament, the Gucci Open. A good diversion for tennis fans, what with Wimbledon cancelled? Meanwhile, French fashion major, Louis Vuitton, has just expanded its Art of Gaming line (proud owners of last year’s LV Jenga set, take note). The Billiards table and Le Babyfoot (foosball table at approx Rs. 50 lakh onwards) feature the house’s traditional leathers or canvas and hand-painted balls and coins. Perhaps all that time spent indoors fine-tuning the home bar must have fuelled the demand for games that match up? In India, digital fashion weeks are being discussed and Lakme Fashion Week has launched a virtual showroom that they say will be a marketplace for both designers and artisans who are grappling with high inventories. As for the opening of physical stores, a few designers like Manish Malhotra, Sabyasachi, Sanjay Garg of Raw Mango and Payal Khandwala have bravely gone ahead. Besides ramping up their e-commerce and digital presence, and offering WhatsApp styling consultations, these designers (except Sabyasachi who only has contactless pickups) have begun allowing shop visits by appointment. They seem confident that the wedding season with its small, intimate affairs, will bring in the brides and grooms.  Read Rosella Stephen’s interviews with both Manish Malhotra and Payal Khandwala online at weekend.thehindu.com
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Films for all||The ongoing We Are One Film Festival on YouTube brings the best of films and pre-recorded conversations from 21 events, including Berlin, Cannes, Venice, Sundance, Toronto, Tribeca and India’s Jio Mami Mumbai Film Festival. Pick from short films ( 24 Frames Per Century , Atlantiques ), feature films ( 45 Days in Harvar , Amreeka ) and documentaries ( The Epic of Everest , Ghost Fleet VR ). Other highlights include a discussion between French filmmaking legends Claire Denis and Olivier Assayas and a chat between Oscar winner Ang Lee and Palme d’Or winner Hirokazu Kore-eda ( Shoplifters ). Till June 7. Details and schedule on weareoneglobalfestival.com.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Time to dance||Disney+ Hotstar’s latest is an online competition for all ages, titled Home Dancer. The bi-weekly show, hosted by Karan Wahi, premiered on May 25, and allows viewers to vote for their favourite entries. A cash prize of Rs. 4 lakh is up for grabs each week. To participate, log in to their mobile app. Bellydancing seems to be the flavour of the season, with multiple online classes available. And from June 1 to 21, an online dance festival highlights the genre, with proceeds going to the NGO Goonj, to support migrant workers.Details on insider.in
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Learn a skill||Curly hair does not need hair spas or chemical intervention, says stylist Vinita Makhija. An avid proponent of the Curly Girl Method, she is hosting a curl care webinar tomorrow at 5 pm. Learn basic techniques, get personalised homemade product recommendations and free follow-up advice as well. At Rs. 400 on insider.in. Join the Skrap and Eco Femme team for a DIY workshop, where you can learn how to stitch a fully functional, reusable cloth pad. At Rs. 350. Details on @skrap.zerowaste on Instagram.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Read on||Harry Potter author JK Rowling announced the release of a new book,The Ickabog. Clarifying that it is not an extension of her hugely popular series on the wizarding world, she added that a chapter would be shared online each weekday till June 10. Now on theickabog.com. Suzanne Collins gives us a prequel toThe Hunger GamesinThe Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes. The story looks at the life of Coriolanus Snow — Katniss Everdeen’s nemesis — and what led him to be the way he is. At Rs. 683 for the Kindle version on amazon.in.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Today, on our Instagram Live series, join actor Richa Chadha as she talks about the roles that influenced her work. In conversation with Namrata Joshi, on @the_hindu at 8 pm. On Sunday, columnist and wellness expert Vasudha Rai speaks to Sandeep Agarwalla and Dr Naresh Perumbuduri of Ananda in the Himalayas. They will share essential morning rituals, yogic kriyas and simple breathing and meditation techniques to practise during the lockdown and beyond. On @thehinduweekend Instagram at 5 pm.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrities on YouTube||Known for his dark and twisted movies, such asLost HighwayandMulholland Drive, director David Lynch has now taken to reporting the Los Angeles weather. The surprisingly soothing videos are shot in what looks like a home office/bunker. Subscribe to ‘David Lynch Theatre’ on YouTube. The outspoken Jameela Jamil takes her body positive activism to the video sharing platform through her new channel, launched earlier this week. It will focus largely on her work with I Weigh and feature interviews and more.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Lifting the lockdown: With the number of coronavirus infections steadily rising in some regions, the Central government has put the onus on States and Union Territories to come up with guidelines. As domestic flights begin to operate and businesses and offices open again, at least partially from Monday, it remains to be seen if the curve will flatten any time soon in the country.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Concerts from your couch||Through the quarantine, independent artistes have kept us entertained. Hungama Artist Aloud’s Indian Independent Music Awards aims to identify and highlight the best of the lot across 25 categories including pop, rock, hip-hop and folk. Registrations open on July 1. Details: artistaloud.com. The One India Virtual Concert tomorrow at 5 pm featuresThe Voicewinner Sumit Saini and standup comic Manan Desai, among others. The event will raise funds for workers in the event management industry. @IEPAInitiatives on Facebook.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||#DressUpFridays: Ever since the lockdown began, there has hardly been a difference between weekdays and weekends. Lucy Walsh (@_dressupfriday) decided to shake things up and motivate everyone to get out of their fashion funk with this online movement. She is encouraging people to pull out the most extravagant outfit they own, style it, do their hair and make-up and post it on Instagram.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual wellness||Jindal Naturecure Institute, a Bengaluru-based Naturopathy hospital, has launched a series of initiatives, including advising patients through webinars. Till May 31, free virtual yoga sessions will be shared at 8 am on their Facebook page @JindalNatureCure. The ongoing Mitra Yoga Fest online features guided meditation by Divya Srinivasan, Yogasana by Stewart Gilchrist and a discourse on the science of Kundalini by Rita Hraiz. Till May 31, at Rs. 2,500 for a full pass and Rs. 1,400 for a day pass. Details: mitrayogafest.com
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Homebound, but in high spirits||If life gives you lemons, make limoncello. If you are handed tomatoes, sip on a Bloody Mary. Mumbai-based Mallika Sarkar may have taken this to heart while celebrating her lockdown birthday recently. Physically distanced from friends but not socially isolated, she organised the party over Zoom — and ordered a batch of premixed cocktails (sans alcohol) from the bar Social, popular with her set in pre-Covid times. The mixes were delivered to her and each of her friends individually, and the fiery Bloody Marys (with alcohol added from home bars) got the party going. The way young, metropolitan India was used to socialising has been turned upside down in the last few months. Yet despite the closure of restaurants and bars, alcohol still remains a big part of our lives: whether it is to deal with the stress in Covid-19 times, to wind down for the day, or meet friends, albeit virtually.    Living room mixologists   In India, liquor sales may have been hit during lockdown, but now all eyes are on home bars to rev up spirits. Literally. Brands,retailers, professional bartenders and influencers are focussing on ways to engage with consumers at home. Consumers, for their part, are moving on from plain vanilla drinks, to paying more attention to what is in their glass — not just the quality of spirits (which is invariably better at home when people are likely to drink in a more discerning way than while bar-hopping on a budget) but also the mixers, garnishes and the ice that go into their drinks. Globally, in pandemic-hit capitals such as New York, one category that has been cheering up otherwise beleaguered restaurants is high quality to-go cocktails. Authorities in the Big Apple allowed restaurants serving food to also home deliver cocktails, wine and spirits in March, and since then, homebound customers seem to be going all out for well-balanced Negronis, Martinis and Manhattans. Research firm, Nielsen, reported that the category of home-delivered premixed cocktails had shot up by over 75% by the end of March. In fact, chef Sujan Sarkar, whose restaurant, Rooh, in Chicago has been delivering three-course menus successfully (commanding a higher $45 per meal price than many takeaways), says that customers are even demanding things like square ice cubes to enhance their drinking experience.   Local flavours  In India, the cocktail culture had been growing steadily in the last few years, but was still nowhere close to what you’d find in other global cities like London or Singapore. Despite the emerging cult of the Negroni, sales were led by weekend binge-drinking, claustrophobic events, or over-priced shots. The culture of small cocktail bars where people could converse and savour well-made drinks was hardly pervasive even in more alcohol-friendly markets such as Delhi-NCR, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. Home-delivered cocktails may change that. Some of our best establishments are luring millennial customers with artisanal premixes sans spirits (because delivery of alcohol-laced cocktails is not permitted in India). Social recently launched SocialMixers in Mumbai, Bengaluru and Chandigarh, with mixes made using seasonal ingredients and prepared in individual outlet kitchens. Then there is Masque, the luxury restaurant in Mumbai, which is delivering two delicious mixes made by chef Prateek Sadhu, to be ordered alongside food. These include Limetter, a cordial made with smoked sweet lime (add gin or vodka at home), and The Terra, made from turmeric, ginger and honey. Both have been doing very well. In Delhi, bars like Sidecar are offering bael (wood apple) and elderflower-basil spritzers delivered in serves of four to six people, with instructions on how to blend these with alcohol at home. As celebrity mixologist Nitin Tiwari, of Together At 12th in Gurugram, points out, “Bottled premixers and pre-batched drinks are becoming popular because when people are drinking at home, they are more conscious about quality. Local bars are using seasonal ingredients such as wood apples, turmeric, mangoes and tamarind, which can be made into cordials.”  Big brands, big winners?  Meanwhile, liquor brands are hoping to up the game on their luxury portfolios; the rationale being that people at home invariably consume higher quality of alcohol (albeit in more limited quantities). In pre-Covid days, the majority of marketing spends for big brands were directed at eyeball-grabbing, high-energy events such as music or fashion festivals — enabling consumption within bars — but now the accent has shifted to online engagements that educate the customer as to the legacy, taste profile and other attributes of the spirit and brand. While earlier, the average budget for a three-day music festival, attracting 2,000 to 3,000 people per day, could be as much as Rs. 50 lakh by a liquor brand, now these kinds of approaches have been recalibrated to focus on in-home consumption. “The biggest shift is to move our resources to engage with consumers on digital and at retail stores,” says Siddharth Wadia, of Brown-Forman Worldwide LLC. Social media sessions where consumers can interact with global brand ambassadors, learn to make cocktails using kitchen ingredients, and participate in online quizzes are some ways in which campaigns are happening. “We are seeing consumers more inclined to experiment and go deeper into knowing what they are drinking. Our initiatives such as Grant’s Triple Wood Trivia Nights online and Monkey Kitchen Cocktails [with Monkey Shoulder] have been very successful,” says Payal Nijhawan, Head of Marketing, William Grant & Sons India, with brands such as Glenfiddich and Grant’s. Most luxury brands say they get around 250-300 people viewing each online session. It is a far more sedate engagement, where the assumption is that the Indian customer at home is actually as thirsty for knowledge as for the beverage. This means that, eventually, premium brands may be the biggest gainers. While lockdown and high taxation in states such as Delhi have seen business suffer, Sanjeev Banga, president, International Business, Radico Khaitan (with brands such as Jaisalmer gin and Rampur whisky) says luxury brands will see an increase in sales. “When you drink less, you always drink premium,” he quips. He is right. The days of endless Long Island Iced Teas in bars may be over for a while, but we can sip (attentively) on a perfect Martini — balanced between the juniper of the gin and the herbal of the dry vermouth, stirred not shaken — while comparing it with the smooth Belvedere Vodkatini we may contemplate next.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A series of unlikely events||The coronavirus forced practically every single business in the country to rethink their plans, but it’s fair to say that event organisers faced a singular challenge. Whether it is ticketing platforms or on-ground event planners, everybody was forced to adapt to the new normal and reinvent their businesses accordingly. If you open any online ticketing platform right now, you’ll see a variety of things you wouldn’t necessarily associate with these brands — dozens of classes (for music, dance, theatre, hip-hop), kids’ activities (including ‘virtual summer camps’), not to mention paid online versions of their regular programming: stand-up comedy acts, musical concerts... BookMyShow and Paytm Insider are two of the most popular platforms for these shows. Online stand-up comedy events can be priced anywhere in the Rs. 199 to 499 range (tickets for the Roast of Danish Sait on Insider are priced at Rs. 299). Zoom classes are pricier, generally Rs. 500 and above per session (BookMyShow offers a four-hour masterclass by acting teacher Atul Satya Koushik for Rs. 499). The better-known the artiste, the higher the price to access the event — an all-new Vir Das comedy show, shot during lockdown, costs Rs. 499 on BookMyShow. Adapting to the times According to Shreyas Srinivasan, founder-CEO of Paytm Insider, “Apart from the hour-long video format, which includes music, comedy and so on, there’s also content that involves recurring engagements. This content works like your standard gym-class package, where the number of sessions is pre-decided.” He also says that the interaction between fans online and the artiste represents a clean break from the experience that a Netflix would provide. “This is more of a community experience, and we need more of that during this time,” he explains. Others, like BookMyShow, are adjusting to the fact that their consumers have never spent more time online. Albert Almeida, COO, BookMyShow, says, “We recently launched our content discovery platform, Watch Guide, which helps users look at all forms of content available online across streaming platforms. It customises content selection and views based on your past transactions and search behaviour.” The B2B counterparts of these companies have also readjusted their products subtly. Jai Mundra, founder and managing director of experiential marketing agency Beep Experience, says, “Although we continue to create employee engagement for a number of corporate companies, there’s obviously an additional focus on areas like health and awareness, webinars with motivational speakers and so on. For example, Wipro has partnered with us for a digital calendar for their employees. These engagements could be a digital treasure hunt, an online antakshari or a motivational session with a famous author.” He acknowledged that there’s no returning to the way things were “for six months minimum” because even live events are unlikely to be resumed until then. Creating engagement The way one builds online engagement is completely different from the dynamics of planning, marketing and managing an on-ground show. In some cases, the online medium offers some much-needed breathing space — without sacrificing accessibility or potential for growth. The Jaipur Literature Festival, for instance, has been doing live conversations with authors like Margaret Atwood, Orhan Pamuk, Gloria Steinem and so on, as part of its ‘Brave New World’ series of online events. According to Sanjoy Roy, managing director of Teamwork Arts, the series was planned pre-Covid, but the plans were accelerated once the lockdown started. And one of the things that he was clear on was that the digital format needed a new approach, different from the regular panel discussion format with four to six authors at a time. “For this [Brave New World] we thought, ‘Let’s do a deep dive’. It should be one-on-one, mostly, like Esther Duflo and Abhijit Banerjee talking to each other. If you look at the Atwood or the Elif Shafak videos or any of the other outliers with a huge number of views — these might be the same people who’ve spoken at Jaipur, but this content is very different. It is far more intimate, far more reflective.” The change in approach Roy speaks of is also reflected in the many ways artists are going about their business. According to comedian Kautuk Srivastava (a featured artist on Paytm Insider), stand-up comedy has been uniquely affected by the ongoing hiatus on live events. “Stand-up is the only art form that requires an audience to practise,” says the comic, who has also written a young adult novel titled Red Card . “Writers and painters can practice their art during lockdown. But in order to create a joke, a finished product that you might see in a YouTube clip, you have to test it with audiences several times, changing it if necessary.” Stand-up has a lot to do with the atmosphere of the space you’re in. With made-for-online comedic content, however, Srivastava says, “your lines have to be cleaner; you can’t have a banter-like rhythm to it”. As online events grow in scale and engagements, it is clear that this period may well end up making structural changes to the way we create and consume things.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||AIIMS reports 62 fresh COVID-19 cases in 3 days||After two resident doctors each from the Cardiology and Ophthalmology Departments tested positive for COVID-19 at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here earlier this week, 11 staff members have tested positive on Friday taking the total number of cases testing positive for the virus in three days to 62, a senior health official said. He added that so far, 205 AIIMS staffers have tested positive for the virus since March 15 and 150 have been discharged. AIIMS Medical Superintendent D.K. Sharma, said: “All precautionary and safety measures for our healthcare workers is being taken at the institute. The moment any healthcare worker tests positive, we immediately isolate him or her and initiate the process of contact tracing.” Healthcare personnel, including resident doctors, nurses, laboratory staff, technicians, sanitation staff and security guards have tested positive at AIIMS. AIIMS Resident Doctors’ Association General Secretary Srinivas Rajkumar said that since March the association has been writing and fighting for improving safety of hostel premises, sanitation, provision of stay and proper quarantine protocol and adequate testing without any satisfactory response. “Even issues about quality of N95 masks provided and other components of PPE have not been addressed. The N95 masks provided in many regions of hospital doesnt meet even the Health Ministry’s safety standards, forget international standards,” he said. He added that it is not the virus that the staff is worried about but the apathy of the government and AIIMS administration.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Why shouldn’t designers sell masks?||The advent of ‘designer’ face masks has led to a fair bit of pearl clutching in the past few weeks. Fashion designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee has vowed never to make them, calling them obnoxious and offensive. “We are talking about a health crisis and I hope we don’t put privilege on things that are essential for health,” he told Harper’s Bazaar India editor Nonita Kalra over a video conference last month. But before we take Mukherjee’s personal views as gospel, it is perhaps worthwhile to explore the idea of this new fashion category a little more. The reality is that the coronavirus is here to stay, at least till we have a vaccine. Meanwhile, the face mask has transcended its utilitarian image and become emblematic of the world’s many problems in 2020. We have laughed at the irony of France making masks compulsory but still denying Muslim women their right to cover their faces in accordance with their faith. And we have shaken our heads at how US president Trump refuses to wear one even against his own administration’s strictest advisories. At home, PM Modi is known to begin his televised broadcasts to the nation wearing a ‘ gamcha ’ to cover his nose and mouth that he takes off when he begins speaking. These and many other occurrences have made masks one of the biggest talking points of the year. By that logic alone, the fashion industry would be remiss in its duty if they didn’t ‘design’ face masks at this time. After all, fashion represents the zeitgeist and responds to what is happening in the world at large. Sartorial emergency Besides, the Kolkata-based couturier’s comment is telling. He looks at masks as essential to health, even though they classify as protective equipment. The masks being made by Namrata Joshipura will have a filter for safety, yet will also be ‘designed’ as per her aesthetics. “I’m not competing with anyone making medical-grade masks, neither am I marketing them as anything else than what they are,” says the designer, who is also an avid runner and has often been seen wearing face masks for the past two years or so on her social media. “I’m not trying to monetise a global pandemic; I’m responding to a demand that will arise in the times to come, when people may not want to wear medical-grade masks in social situations.” Soon to be launched on her website, her masks will be priced between Rs. 2,500 and Rs. 3,500. By contrast, designer Krsnaa Mehta’s label, India Circus, is offering printed face masks at Rs. 199. His website mentions that these are reusable, as are Joshipura’s. And even with their cost difference, both are priced well above the usual medical-grade masks available at chemist shops that retail for Rs. 20. As time passes, we will see many more designers come up with their versions — many of them have already produced masks for charity, or even for their workers. The sustainability argument Medical-grade masks are usually of the use-and-throw variety, whereas designer masks are designed to be reusable, reducing waste. Designers can also reclaim their fabric waste to make them. The level of skill required to stitch masks is also considerably lower than that required to stitch, for example, a lehenga. Could this new fashion category not be seen as an opportunity to generate employment? Ultimately, we need to examine why the idea of ‘designer masks’ upsets us. Are we against them simply because they are ‘designed’ by a fashion designer, or because we resent what they stand for? If our fashion designers — whose collections often tell the stories of entire cultures — think making masks is required, then is it not possible that we are resistant, simply not ready to accept the emergence of a ‘new normal’? Are we scared of the constant state of being cautious that they represent? In this case, wouldn’t we actually want face masks with a bit of pizzazz to brighten the scenery around us? Or do we simply not like it that some designers have had the foresight to ‘design’ them before we actually start wanting them?  The author is a fashion commentator and Communications Director at The House of Angadi   “I’m not trying to monetise a global pandemic; I’m responding to a demand that will arise in the times to come, when people may not want to wear medical-grade masks in social situations.” Namrata Joshipura, designer
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||Five hotels to be extensions for private hospitals||To increase the number of beds available for the infected, the Delhi government on Friday ordered conversion of five hotels into extensions of five private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients. “Hotel Crown Plaza, Okhla Phase-I; Hotel Surya, New Friends Colony; Hotel Siddharth, Rajendra Place; Hotel Jivitesh, Pusa Road; and Hotel Sheraton, Saket District Centre, have been requisitioned by the District Magistrate and given to attached hospitals for converting them into extended COVID hospital wherein the medical services shall be provided by the attached identified COVID private hospital,” read an order issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department. Hospitals can admit COVID-19 patients in the extensions as per the medical condition of the infected person. “In case a patient’s condition turns severe while staying at the extension, he/she shall be transferred/admitted to the attached private hospital,” the order stated. The government has also capped the rates for services. “The hotel shall provide regular services, including rooms, housekeeping, disinfection and food for the patients at a price not greater than Rs. 5,000 per day per person for five-star hotels and Rs. 4,000 per day per person for the other hotels,” read the order. The linked hospital will be paid a maximum of Rs. 5,000 per patient per day for their medical services, inclusive of all consumables, services of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and nursing staff. “Investigation charges, if any, shall be charged by the linked hospital as per their scheduled rates, and for oxygen support the linked hospital is allowed to charge at the hotel Rs. 2,000 per bed per day. The medical services provided by the attached hospital at their facility shall be charged at their respective schedule rates,” the order said. All charges will be collected by the linked hospital and they will make payment to the hotels. Two more hospitals Two more hospitals, Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital and Satyavadi Raja Harish Chander Hospital, have been declared designated COVID-19 treatment facilities by the Delhi government. “Medical superintendents of the hospitals are directed to convert their hospital by June 2,” read an order issued by the Delhi government. There are 200 beds each in the two hospitals. The government also declared GTB Hospital as a designated COVID-19 treatment facility. But only 500 beds of the hospital will be reserved for COVID-19 patients. The government has also stated that infected people who are eligible for home quarantine can quarantine themselves in 10 hotels in the city on payment basis. Five of the 10 hotels are in Aerocity: Holiday Inn, Hotel Pride Plaza, Aloft Hotel, IBIS Hotel and JW Marriot. The other hotels are Sheraton Hotel in Saket, ITC Welcome in Dwarka, Taj Vivanta in Dwarka, Suryaa Hotel in New Friends Colony, and Hotel Le Meridian.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Eeb Allay Ooo! The kingdom of monkeys||“ Kahan narak mein laake phenk diye hain (You have thrown me into hell).” Anjani (Shardul Bharadwaj), the protagonist of Eeb Allay Ooo! tells Mahender (Mahender Nath), his mentor and friend in the unusual monkey repelling business. The phrase sums up what Prateek Vats manages to do in his second feature — he takes the viewers into the veritable paataal lok of the working classes in the sprawling urban jungle of the Indian capital. It’s a world where young migrants looking for a job and a secure future, end up facing inner fears, a deep sense of frustration and indescribable humiliation that builds an insane anger and bitterness within. You can see it on the face of Anjani who lands the prized contractual job of mimicking langurs to drive monkeys away, but somehow can’t put his heart and soul into it. Vats tells the story through a quintessentially Delhi phenomenon — the monkey menace and an entire business that has been built around driving them away, especially in Lutyen’s Delhi. The film starts off as a light-hearted satire, playing on the human-simian divide — the odd ways in which they come together, and how they spar and wage a battle. Gradually the film acquires a darker shade of the absurd and its many unresolved crises, and visual metaphors continue to dazzle and disturb us, much after the film gets over. Even as the monkeys assert themselves more and more, the humans get further dehumanised. The film has an overwhelmingly lived-in feel. It is in the incidental sights and sounds of Delhi. It is in the details of the way the government departments function and in their environment and feel; it’s in the ways that even a walk-on character-like the gynaecologist being consulted by Anjani’s pregnant sister — feels straight out of reality rather than fiction. The real comes together in the naturalistic performances and it gets difficult to separate the professional actors playing the roles from the real people Vats has woven in the narrative. It’s in how Saumyananda Sahi’s camera winds through the narrow lanes of the blue-collar workers’ ghettos as well as flies over the wide expanse of the privileged heart of New Delhi. It is also in how Sahi and Vats capture the monkeys themselves, as the kings of their own world, more human than humans can ever afford to be. Politics, nationalism, religiosity, bigotry, the talk of gods turning pests, class divides — all are explored by Vats in a matter of fact, non-judgmental way. What stands out the most is the all-round exploitation of the labour and working class.In the light of the current migrant crises, the film acquires an added note of urgency all its own and reaches out in newer ways in these fractured times. Eeb Allay Ooo! will stream for 24 hours on May 30 at 4.30 p.m. as part of the free 10-day, ‘We are One’ digital festival on YouTube
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||Lack of communication between AIIMS, govt.: HC||The Delhi High Court has remarked that there is lack of communication protocol between AIIMS and the Delhi government that led to several of its patients who tested positive for COVID-19 being shifted to other Delhi government hospitals instead of the COVID-19 facility at AIIMS. The court said that these 20-odd patient were already receiving treatment for other ailments at AIIMS, when they were shifted to the Delhi government hospitals. During the hearing, Delhi government’s standing counsel Rahul Mehra “raised the grievance that AIIMS is not within the access of the common man”. “AIIMS is turning away the COVID-19-positive patients unless they are well-connected and influential.” Advocate Anand Varma, who appeared for AIIMS, countered saying AIIMS admits any person who reports at the emergency and is found COVID-19-positive, and in case the person requires hospitalisation, and home quarantine is not sufficient to deal with his condition. The government, in its affidavit, stated that due to the inability to contact the AIIMS authorities at the relevant time, patients were shifted to Lok Nayak Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. AIIMS disputed this position and stated that nobody from the Delhi government contacted any of its officer. The court said the issue can be resolved by both AIIMS and the Delhi government nominating nodal officers.
30 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Thunderstorms bring relief from searing heat||Thunderstorms accompanied by rain and wind provided a much-needed relief from the heat in the Capital on Friday with the maximum temperature settling three degrees below normal at 37 degrees Celsius. The minimum settled four degrees below normal at 22.6 degrees. The relief comes after a heatwave made temperature rise to the hottest in 18 years, with the city recording highs of 46 and 45.9 degrees Celsius on Tuesday and Wednesday. The temperature at Palam also fell to 37.6 degrees from a high of 47.6 degrees which was the season’s highest on Tuesday. Humidity was high and hovered between 42% and 88%. The city recorded overnight rainfall of 5.2 mm with no shower between 8 30 a.m. and 5 p.m. though. Several parts of the city received rainfall after 5 p.m on Friday. The Met Department has forecast that the temperatures will stay in check for the next few days and will gradually rise to reach the 40 degrees Celsius mark again on June 2.
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Taking steps to avoid piling up of bodies at mortuaries’||The Delhi High Court was on Friday informed by the Delhi government that it was taking urgent steps, including extending the timings of crematoriums, for cremating those who have died due to COVID-19, to avoid piling up of bodies at mortuaries. The Delhi government also said that Lok Nayak Hospital has been authorised to divert bodies to crematoriums at Panchkuian and Punjab Bagh, as opposed to the earlier norm of sending them to Nigambodh Ghat only. It further said that 28 bodies were disposed of on Thursday and by Saturday the remaining 35 bodies will be cremated. Only those bodies will be retained where post-mortem or investigations are to be carried out. The court, which initiated the case suo moto, said that this situation should not be repeated. It also asked the Delhi government and the civic bodies to submit a status report by the next date of hearing on June 2. The High Court had taken note of newspaper reports on lack of facilities to cremate those who died due to COVID-19 and the bodies piling up in the mortuaries on Thursday.
30 May 2020||New Delhi,||Crematoriums in city increase capacity||Civic bodies here have increased the capacity to cremate bodies from about 45 per day to about 95 per day by allowing the use of wood pyres at five crematoriums, a senior SDMC official said on Friday. Prior to this, the civic bodies were using only CNG furnaces to dispose of the bodies of COVID-19 patients. A total of seven such furnaces at the Nigambodh Ghat and Punjabi Bagh crematoriums could dispose of 18 and 24 bodies every day respectively, officials said. Apart from this, bodies were also disposed of at burial grounds at Bahadurshah Zafar Marg, Mangolpuri and Madanpur Khadar.  Keeping in view the rise in COVID-19 cases, the civic bodies decided to allow cremation on wood pyres at Punjabi Bagh, Nigambodh Ghat, Panchkuiyan Road, Karkardooma cremation grounds as well as at the Lodhi Road Crematorium, the official said.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||#DressUpFridays: Ever since the lockdown began, there has hardly been a difference between weekdays and weekends. Lucy Walsh (@_dressupfriday) decided to shake things up and motivate everyone to get out of their fashion funk with this online movement. She is encouraging people to pull out the most extravagant outfit they own, style it, do their hair and make-up and post it on Instagram.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual wellness||Jindal Naturecure Institute, a Bengaluru-based Naturopathy hospital, has launched a series of initiatives, including advising patients through webinars. Till May 31, free virtual yoga sessions will be shared at 8 am on their Facebook page @JindalNatureCure. The ongoing Mitra Yoga Fest online features guided meditation by Divya Srinivasan, Yogasana by Stewart Gilchrist and a discourse on the science of Kundalini by Rita Hraiz. Till May 31, at Rs. 2,500 for a full pass and Rs. 1,400 for a day pass. Details: mitrayogafest.com
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Time to dance||Disney+ Hotstar’s latest is an online competition for all ages, titled Home Dancer. The bi-weekly show, hosted by Karan Wahi, premiered on May 25, and allows viewers to vote for their favourite entries. A cash prize of Rs. 4 lakh is up for grabs each week. To participate, log in to their mobile app. Bellydancing seems to be the flavour of the season, with multiple online classes available. And from June 1 to 21, an online dance festival highlights the genre, with proceeds going to the NGO Goonj, to support migrant workers.Details on insider.in
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Learn a skill||Curly hair does not need hair spas or chemical intervention, says stylist Vinita Makhija. An avid proponent of the Curly Girl Method, she is hosting a curl care webinar tomorrow at 5 pm. Learn basic techniques, get personalised homemade product recommendations and free follow-up advice as well. At Rs. 400 on insider.in. Join the Skrap and Eco Femme team for a DIY workshop, where you can learn how to stitch a fully functional, reusable cloth pad. At Rs. 350. Details on @skrap.zerowaste on Instagram.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Read on||Harry Potter author JK Rowling announced the release of a new book,The Ickabog. Clarifying that it is not an extension of her hugely popular series on the wizarding world, she added that a chapter would be shared online each weekday till June 10. Now on theickabog.com. Suzanne Collins gives us a prequel toThe Hunger GamesinThe Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes. The story looks at the life of Coriolanus Snow — Katniss Everdeen’s nemesis — and what led him to be the way he is. At Rs. 683 for the Kindle version on amazon.in.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Today, on our Instagram Live series, join actor Richa Chadha as she talks about the roles that influenced her work. In conversation with Namrata Joshi, on @the_hindu at 8 pm. On Sunday, columnist and wellness expert Vasudha Rai speaks to Sandeep Agarwalla and Dr Naresh Perumbuduri of Ananda in the Himalayas. They will share essential morning rituals, yogic kriyas and simple breathing and meditation techniques to practise during the lockdown and beyond. On @thehinduweekend Instagram at 5 pm.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrities on YouTube||Known for his dark and twisted movies, such asLost HighwayandMulholland Drive, director David Lynch has now taken to reporting the Los Angeles weather. The surprisingly soothing videos are shot in what looks like a home office/bunker. Subscribe to ‘David Lynch Theatre’ on YouTube. The outspoken Jameela Jamil takes her body positive activism to the video sharing platform through her new channel, launched earlier this week. It will focus largely on her work with I Weigh and feature interviews and more.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Lifting the lockdown: With the number of coronavirus infections steadily rising in some regions, the Central government has put the onus on States and Union Territories to come up with guidelines. As domestic flights begin to operate and businesses and offices open again, at least partially from Monday, it remains to be seen if the curve will flatten any time soon in the country.
30 May 2020||May 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Concerts from your couch||Through the quarantine, independent artistes have kept us entertained. Hungama Artist Aloud’s Indian Independent Music Awards aims to identify and highlight the best of the lot across 25 categories including pop, rock, hip-hop and folk. Registrations open on July 1. Details: artistaloud.com. The One India Virtual Concert tomorrow at 5 pm featuresThe Voicewinner Sumit Saini and standup comic Manan Desai, among others. The event will raise funds for workers in the event management industry. @IEPAInitiatives on Facebook.
