30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||4-year UG courses in, M.Phil. out in new education policy||The new National Education Policy approved by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday will introduce four-year undergraduate degrees with multiple entry and exit options, abolish the M.Phil. degree, and establish a common higher education regulator with fee fixation for both private and public institutions. It also envisions universalisation of early childhood education from ages 3 to 6 by 2030, a new school curriculum with coding and vocational studies from Class 6, and a child’s mother tongue being used as the medium of instruction till Class 5. This is the first new education policy in 34 years, and was a poll promise of the BJP in 2014. A panel headed by former ISRO chief K. Kasturirangan submitted a draft in December 2018, which was made public and opened for feedback after the Lok Sabha election in May 2019. Language issues Language issues caused the most outrage at that time, as the original draft called for mandatory teaching of Hindi to all school students. That clause was dropped and the final policy document makes it clear that “there will be a greater flexibility in the three-language formula, and no language will be imposed on any State. The three languages learned by children will be the choices of States, regions, and of course the students themselves, so long as at least two of the three languages are native to India. Sanskrit will be offered as an option at all levels of school and higher education,” said the policy, adding that other classical languages will also be available, possibly as online modules, while foreign languages will be offered at the secondary level. “Wherever possible, the medium of instruction until at least Grade 5, but preferably till Grade 8 and beyond, will be the home language/ mother tongue/ local language/ regional language ... This will be followed by both public and private schools,” said the policy. Senior officials said that as education was a concurrent subject, with most States having their own school boards, State governments would have to be brought on board for actual implementation of this decision. A new curricular framework is to be introduced, including the pre-school and anganwadi years. A National Mission on Foundational Literacy and Numeracy will ensure basic skills at the Class 3 level by 2025. Students will begin classes on coding as well as vocational activities from Class 6 onwards. Indian knowledge systems, including tribal and indigenous knowledge, will be incorporated into the curriculum in an accurate and scientific manner, said the policy.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||Night curfew to end under Unlock 3 norms, says MHA||Gymnasium and yoga institutes will open from August 5 and night curfew will end even as educational institutions, metro rail services and cinema halls will remain shut till the end of August, according to the fresh guidelines for Unlock 3 issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday. Swimming pools and entertainment parks will remain shut and all kinds of social, political or religious gatherings are prohibited. The MHA said the lockdown measures were to be strictly enforced in containment zones till August 31. The lockdown, first imposed in March in the wake of COVID-19, has been relaxed considerably over the past three months. The total number of cases has surged past 15 lakh, and more than 34,000 deaths have been reported. Gyms to open “Yoga institutes and gymnasiums will be allowed to open from August 5, 2020. In this regard, the Standard Operating Procedure [SOP] will be issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for ensuring social distancing and to contain the spread of COVID-19,” the guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, said. The Disaster Management Act was invoked for the first time in the country in March in the wake of the pandemic. The Unlock 2 guidelines issued on June 29 will be in force till July 31. I-Day functions The MHA said Independence Day functions would be allowed with social distancing and by following other health protocols such as wearing of masks. “After extensive consultation with the States and Union Territories, it has been decided that schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till August 31,” the MHA said. International air travel of passengers had been permitted in a limited manner under the Vande Bharat mission, and “further opening up will take place in a calibrated manner”, the Ministry said. The MHA said only essential activities would be allowed in containment zones.
30 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Amateur riders clear the first hurdle||Prakash Mehta is a man of many hats when it comes to the horse-racing track. He is a rider, a horse-owner and a member of the managing committee of the Amateur Riders’ Club (ARC), a renowned riding club situated in the premises of the Mahalaxmi Race Course. However, for almost four months, with COVID-19 having moved the whole world indoors, Mr. Mehta couldn’t start his day with a ride on his favourite filly or colt. But for over a week now, he has been starting his day on the most desired note, thanks to the ARC resuming riding operations, albeit on a limited scale, earlier this month. “For anyone who rides, riding a horse is the closest thing to heaven on earth. It means a world to me and several others who were craving to get back on the saddle,” Mr. Mehta told The Hindu . The ARC, one of the oldest civilian riders’ club, pulled its shutters down mid-way through the international polo tournament in March. After tending to scores of horses and grooms (handlers), including 200 animals and 125 handlers from Jaipur who were stranded at the club for almost a month, the club has resumed activities in a clinical manner. President Shyam Mehta said strict health-related protocols were in place, adding that the tracks have been reopened only for members, “keeping in mind the health and the lost training time of our members and the horses”. Despite a few members being skeptical since the pandemic has far from subsided, the president said the response has been encouraging. Mr. Prakash said the club has also got plastic covers “with rain-coat like material for all the saddles” as an additional safety measure. As a result, the polo, show jumping and dressage athletes have returned to track with their horses. “A majority of the competitive athletes have returned to the tracks, which was expected. And most of the other riders have taken a cue. Ultimately, an owner has a special bond with his or her horse and wants to be with him,” said Mr. Prakash. “As for amateur riders, the confinement has made them, just like thousands of others, depressed. And there cannot be a better way to start the day than breathing in an open space and riding a horse,” he said.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||I-Day: quarantine must for all personnel||All senior officers and other police and defence personnel who will be part of the Independence Day celebrations and are expected to come in close contact with Prime Minister Narendra Modi have been ordered to be in quarantine from August 1 onwards, said a police officer on Wednesday. The decision has been taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 infection during the celebrations, said the officer. The security of the Red Fort will be taken over by Special Protection Group and Army, while the Delhi police will guard the periphery and other roads leading to the venue. Daily medical check-up “We have ordered the Delhi police officers and other personnel who will be part of the marching contingents to directly go home after the rehearsal ends. We are taking all care to prevent the spread of the virus during the event. The police personnel will have to undergo medical check-up daily as per protocol,” said the officer. Similar protocols are in place for the Army, Navy and Air Force marching contingents, the officer added. “The defence personnel who would be close to the Prime Minister during the Guard of Honour ceremony will be quarantined at a camp. The vehicles used to ferry the defence personnel will be sanitised on a daily basis,” the officer said. The cooks, drivers, co-drivers, operators and other staff will be quarantined at a camp. Protection from virus The decision has been taken to protect the Prime Minister and the VVIP guests who will be present at the event from COVID-19 infection. The officers who will be present at the ramparts of the Red Fort when Mr. Modi unfurls the Tricolour also have to undergo quarantine. The seating arrangements for the VVIPs will be shifted from the ramparts to the park on the side of the Red Fort building and gaps will be maintained as per social distancing norms. A total of 1,500 “corona warriors” and 400 NCC cadets have been invited to the event. The officer said this year the event is restricted for the general public in view of the pandemic. More electronic devices/gadgets are being installed at the security checkpoints to avoid any kind of close contact during frisking.
30 July 2020||Bengaluru,||All those with valid hall ticket should be allowed for CET: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed that all the students who report to designated examination centres with valid hall tickets should be allowed to write the Common Entrance Test (CET) for professional courses, on July 30 and 31. It also directed the State government and its authorities to ensure that all logistic support was extended to candidates who require medical attention, transportation, including from containment zones, food (in case of COVID-19 candidates), and other facilities. A Division Bench comprising Justice Aravind Kumar and Justice M.I. Arun, while hearing a batch of PIL petitions, passed the interim order at 7.30 p.m. while declining to interfere with conducting the CET amid the increasing number of COVID-19 cases across the State. Though the standard operating procedure (SOP) for CET specifies that the students who have tested positive for COVID-19 will have to produce a certificate of fitness to appear for the test from a medical practitioner and a ‘risk and consent’ declaration, the Bench said the authorities should not insist on such documents while pointing out grey areas in the SOP that may deprive genuine students of their right to appear for the test. “At present, general physicians practising in the State of Karnataka may or may not be available and this should not become a stumbling block from candidates writing the examination. Hence, insisting upon candidates procuring medical certificates about their fitness may not be feasible and would not only be onerous but also may be impossible,” it said. “In such circumstances, the right to appear for the examination cannot be taken away as it would infringe upon their fundamental rights and such an act would be in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India,” the Bench observed. The Bench also said that it cannot lose sight of the fact that more than 1,84,368 students have already downloaded hall tickets for the examination. This indicated the preparedness and interest of the students, who are not before the court and whose interest is required to be protected by the court. The court had asked the government on July 28 to reconsider the decision to hold the CET considering the “drastic change” in the COVID-19 situation in the State. However, the government affirmed its stand of holding the test while claiming that official machinery has been put on complete preparedness to conduct the test with special care for students who have tested positive for COVID-19 and allowing the students residing in containment zones, to come out of the zone to attend the test. The Bench also made it clear that it is not expressing or opining that CET-2020 should be cancelled or postponed indefinitely as the same has to be necessarily held in the interest of students.
30 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Daily count crosses the 10,000-mark||The State has reported a whopping 10,093 new COVID-19 infections and 65 deaths during the past 24 hours as of Wednesday morning. It was the highest single-day tally of cases reported so far. Four districts reported more than 1, 000 new cases with East Godavari alone accounting for 1,676 new cases. The overall tally surged to 1,20,390 and the death toll increased to 1,213. There are 63,771 active cases in the State and with 2,784 new recoveries, a total of 55, 406 patients (46%) have recovered so far. New high in testing Meanwhile, the State also tested a record number of 70,584 samples in a day for the first time and the positivity rate is 14.30%. The overall positivity rate of the total 18.20 lakh tests is 6.61%. East Godavari reported 14 deaths in the past day besides the highest single-day tally among the districts. It is followed by Anantapur (1,371 new cases, 8 new deaths), Guntur (1,124, 3), Kurnool (1,091, 5), Visakhapatnam (841, 2), Chittoor (819,6), West Godavari (779, 2), Kadapa (734,3), Nellore (608,5), Srikakulam (496,2), Krishna (259,4), Prakasam (242,4) and Vizianagaram (53,7). The district tallies of cases are as follows: East Godavari (17,739), Kurnool (14,471), Guntur (12,816), Anantapur (12,358), West Godavari (10,356), Chittoor (9,080),Visakhapatnam (8,559), Kadapa (6,477), Krishna (6,259), Nellore (5,753), Srikakulam (5,582), Prakasam (4,443) and Vizianagaram (3,602). Krishna district continues to have the highest recovery rate of 70.8% due to less number of new cases and more recoveries daily. Next to it are Chittoor, Kadapa and Srikakulam which has a recovery rate of around 53%. Other districts have recovery rates between 52% and 33%. East Godavari district, which has been witnessing a huge number of cases, has a recovery rate of just 32% and Visakhapatnam has the least recovery rate of 25%.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajasthan Governor gives nod to House session from Aug. 14||Ending the impasse with the Congress government, Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Wednesday approved a revised proposal of the Cabinet to convene a session of the Assembly from August 14. Mr. Mishra orally instructed that all precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 infection should be taken during the sitting of the House. The government had sent the proposal to the Raj Bhavan for the fourth time on Wednesday evening. Earlier, amid a deepening political crisis, Mr. Mishra had on Wednesday spurned the revised proposal for convening a session of the Assembly and returned for the third time the Cabinet’s advice to summon the House from July 31. The Governor asked for “concrete reasons” to call the session on short notice. Soon after receiving the missive from the Raj Bhavan, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had called for a Cabinet meeting to deliberate on the future course of action, including sending yet another reply to the Governor. Mr. Gehlot also went to the Raj Bhavan to meet Mr. Mishra for the second time in recent days, apparently to clarify the government’s stance. According to Congress sources, a revised proposal was sent to the Governor, with the recommendation to convene the Assembly session on August 14. Sources said the new date met the 21-day notice requirement being insisted upon by the Governor as the first proposal was made on July 23. In its proposals sent earlier to the Raj Bhavan, the government had refrained from stating that a confidence vote would be sought during the session. The Governor had told the ruling party more than once that only a written undertaking on the trust vote as an agenda of the session could form a basis for calling the House on a short notice.
30 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Trust set up to build mosque in Ayodhya||The Trust to build a mosque in Ayodhya, following the verdict of the Supreme Court in the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi title suit, would have a maximum of 15 members, the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board announced on Wednesday as it constituted the body. Nine trustees announced The Trust will be called the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation, Board chairperson Zufar Faruqi said. Nine trustees have been announced, while it will “co-opt” the remaining six, the Board said. Four out of the nine trustees are affiliated to the Board, a source said. The Board, through its CEO, will be the founder-trustee of the Trust, while Mr. Faruqi will be the chief trustee or president. Adnan Farrukh Shah of Gorakhpur will be vice-president, Athar Hussain of Lucknow secretary, and Faez Aftab of Meerut the treasurer. The Trust has also named four members — Imran Ahmad, Mohammad Junaid Siddiqui and Mohammad Rashid of Lucknow, and Sheikh Saiduzzaman of Banda. On February 24, the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board decided to accept the five acres of land allotted to it by the State government for building a mosque in Dhannipur village in Sohawal tehsil of Ayodhya, around 25 km from the site where the Babri Masjid stood. Mr. Faruqi had also announced that the Trust would construct a centre showcasing Indo-Islamic culture of several centuries, a centre for research and study of Indo-Islamic culture, a charitable hospital, a public library and other public utilities at the site in Dhannipur. Trust spokesperson Mr. Hussain told The Hindu that there was no timeline yet on when the blueprint and deadline on the construction of the mosque would be revealed. “We have not met across the table as yet,” he said, citing delays in the formation of the Trust and possession of land in Dhannipur village due to the pandemic.
30 July 2020||Kolkata,||TMC, BJP spar over Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar||Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Abhishek Banerjee on Wednesday took a swipe at Union Home Minister Amit Shah when the former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief paid tribute to social reformer and educationist Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar on his death anniversary. Mr. Banerjee, who heads the youth wing of TMC, raked up the vandalism of the bust of the social reformer during Mr. Shah’s rally in Kolkata in May 2019. The TMC MP described Mr. Shah’s homage to Vidyasagar as “petty tokenism”. “Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar was a great social reformer who still stands tall as an inspiration for secular, free-thinking society. Ironic how @AmitShah ji had scant regard for Vidyasagar’s values when his men vandalised the latter’s bust. Please drop this facade of petty tokenism!” he tweeted. Earlier in the day, Mr. Shah tweeted, “I bow to Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar ji on his punyatithi (death anniversary). A distinguished social reformer and one of the pillars of Bengal Renaissance, who played a major role towards women empowerment. His relentless efforts eradicated many social evils and made Widows’ Remarriage Act possible.” The exchange on Twitter had a lot to do with appropriation of the cultural icons of West Bengal before the State Assembly goes to polls in 2021. Earlier this month, BJP president J.P. Nadda, while participating in a virtual rally on the birth anniversary of Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee, targeted the Trinamool government. ‘No place for outsiders’ Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, during her address at a Martyrs Day rally, said “outsiders will not run Bengal and those from the State will administer it”. The remarks were aimed at painting the BJP as a party of outsiders and alien to the culture of the State. Biswanath Chakraborty, political observer and head of the department of political science at Rabindra Bharati University, said from the end of 2016, the BJP has been systemically trying to project that it was not alien to the culture and history of the State. While the BJP is trying to drive home the point that it is inheriting the rich cultural and philosophical legacy of the State, the TMC leaves no opportunity to say that it is a party of outsiders, distant from the secular ethos propagated by the cultural icons of the State. Mr. Chakraborty said, “Amit Shah has given lectures in Kolkata on Bamkim Chandra Chattopadhyay. From Bamkim Chandra to Vivekananda to Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, the BJP is trying to shun the tag that it is the party of outsiders. In fact, from the time of its rise in the State, the party has been trying to appropriate Bengal’s cultural icons.”  The BJP is trying to shun the tag that it is the party of outsiders. In fact, from the time of its rise in the State, the party has been trying to appropriate Bengal’s cultural icons Biswanath ChakrabortyPolitical observer
30 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||The school goes to students in remote areas||The trying phase of the COVID-19 pandemic has prompted the Department of School Education to explore innovative ways to reach out to the students who are confined to their homes. Even as online teaching is gaining ground as a tool to help the students keep pace with their lessons, it is not free from challenges when it comes to availability of the required gadgets and Internet connectivity. In a bid to address such issues, the department has instructed the teachers to categorise the students in three groups — High Tech (children who have access to computers), Low Tech (students with access to only radio or TV sets) and No Tech (the section that does not have computers or radios or TV sets). The department proposes to introduce ‘Vidya Varadhi’, as part of which mobile classrooms, equipped with audio-visual gadgets, will reach the pockets where the students have no access to computers and Internet connectivity, and help them learn their lessons. “Of the total 38 lakh students in the State, nearly 1.2 lakh fall under the ‘No Tech’ category. These vehicles will reach the remote areas and impart lessons to the students,” says Director of Andhra Pradesh State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) B. Pratap Reddy. Trial run completed A trial run of the ‘Vidya Varadhi’ project has been done, and it has been decided to allot three vehicles to each of the 13 districts. “These mobile classrooms will focus on the bridge courses and other key points that are highlighted in classroom teaching,” he explains. The department sees it as a feasible project as the number of students who do not have gadgets is not very high. A survey conducted by the SCERT suggested that most households even in remote villages have at least TV sets. Teachers have been asked to be in constant touch with the ‘No Tech’ category students and their parents. Each of them needs to interact with at least 40 persons in a week and fill up a ‘Google form’, explaining the progress of the children under their guidance. Doordarshan The officials are happy with the response to classroom lessons being imparted through Doordarshan. “Children are making good use of the bridge course material given to them,” says Mr. Reddy.
30 July 2020||NEw Delhi,||‘Sero-surveys show COVID-19 peak far away’||Half the people, or 57%, tested in the slums in Mumbai had been exposed to and developed antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 virus as compared with only 16% of those tested in residential societies, according to a survey conducted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation in three wards of Mumbai. Results from Delhi’s seroprevalence study earlier this month found that nearly a quarter of the 21,000-odd samples tested suggested exposure to the virus, and some of the densest districts had over 20% prevalence. These studies, said an expert, suggested that a peak in infections was nowhere on the horizon. “Testing strategies differ in the two cities, though they lead the tables in confirmed cases. The positive is that casualty rates from the disease are lower than initially expected. However, it is also evident that the lockdown or the measures to arrest the spread of the disease have largely failed,” said a government epidemiologist involved in the surveys, who did not want to be identified.  Dr. Giridhar Babu, Professor and head, Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India, told The Hindu : “We need more rounds in future to understand the nature and extent of the transmission. It is too early to provide definitive inferences based on the available seroprevalence estimates. Except for the slum settings in Mumbai, early indicators suggest that three cities [non-slum settings of Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Delhi] have seroprevalence of around 20%. Most parts of these three metros might have had a peak in the past but still, a vast majority of people in urban areas are susceptible.”
30 July 2020||Belagavi,||Former Sainik School Bijapur student among pilots to bring Rafale home||Four of the five pilots who flew the Rafale fighter planes from France to India are former students of Sainik Schools. One of them, Wing Commander Arun Kumar, is from Sainik School Bijapur. Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria and Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief Western Air Command Air Marshal B. Suresh welcomed the first five IAF Rafales at the Air Force Station in Ambala on Wednesday afternoon. There were seven pilots on the tarmac. Five of them had piloted the fighter jets over 7,000 kilometres from France. The other two steered the Sukhoi Su-30MKIs that escorted them. Among the five Rafale pilots was Wing Commander Arun Kumar, who hails from Bihar, but studied in Vijayapura, then known as Bijapur. He had joined the National Defence Academy after passing out of the defence grooming school in Vijayapura in 2001. Images of the pilots were shared widely on the social media. Messages such as Sainik School brings the Golden Arrows home were shared on groups of Ajits, as the Sainik School alumni are called. “All of us Ajits are very proud today,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kalaburagi, Gangadhar Mathpati, who is a former student of the Sainik School Bijapur. “The motto of Sainik Schools is Ajit hi Abheet hai (Ajits are fearless). Our old students have demonstrated that today,” Mr. Mathpati said. P.S. Ramamurthy, who is still teaching at the school, recalled that Arun Kumar was a “silent student with consistently high grades”. “His father was a junior warrant officer in the military. Arun Kumar used to tell us that he wanted to attain a position in the defence forces that was higher than his father’s,” Mr. Ramamurthy said. “His name figures on the list of students who have joined the NDA after passing out from here,” said principal of Sainik School Bijapur Captain Vinay Tewari.
30 July 2020||MANGALURU,||11 deaths in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||As many as 11 COVID-19-affected persons and having co-morbidities died, while 381 tested positive in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Wednesday. The Dakshina Kannada district administration on Wednesday announced the death of seven persons. While a 52-year-old man from Padubidri in Udupi district passed away here on Monday, the remaining, including a 66-year-old man from Dharwad and a 66-year-old man from Karwar, died here on Tuesday. The total number of such fatalities in Dakshina Kannada has reached 123. Of the 208 who tested positive for COVID-19, 75 had influenza like illness and 65 were primary contacts of COVID-19 positive patients. In all, 2,715 COVID-19 positive persons are under treatment. In Udupi, two persons each died on July 27 and July 28 taking the toll to 25. With 173 new cases on Wednesday, the number of active cases in Udupi rose to 1,547. As many as 33 persons were discharged.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Decision on T.N. lockdown today||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will on Thursday take a call on extending/relaxing the lockdown in the State after holding consultations with medical and public health experts at the Secretariat. At a videoconference with District Collectors and senior officials on Wednesday, Mr. Palaniswami said, “Due to the steps the State government has taken over the past four months, the spread of COVID-19 has been brought under control. The fatality rate has come down.” The State government ensured essential supplies to the public in spite of the lockdown, he said, adding that face masks would be distributed for free through ration shops from August 5.
30 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Change in GST sharing formula to deepen crisis||The Central government’s move to alter the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation sharing formula citing a fall in tax collection will deepen the State’s fiscal crisis and seriously impact the relief and welfare initiatives being taken up to ease the COVID-19 crisis. The State government has implemented a slew of welfare measures, including distribution of kits of essentials, free ration and health-care amenities. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has reiterated that the government would only increase the spending in the health sector in view of the present crisis. Additional burden The government has distributed welfare pensions in advance and is gearing up to distribute Onam kits and welfare pensions to address the cash crunch faced by indigent sections. All these would incur additional burden and the only option left is rationalisation of expenditure, which is set to be taken up soon. Finance Department sources told The Hindu that the State is banking on a protected revenue of Rs. 2,600 crore as compensation to make up for the revenue shortfall while preparing the budget. The present move to alter the formula would derail the budget itself. The tax collection in May was about Rs. 900 crore and as per the present indications it is unlikely to pick up in the months ahead. Even the Onam season may not revive the business activity. The States will have to take up their case for compensation at the GST Council meeting. But if it fails to evoke positive response, the other option is to seek legal recourse and Kerala may have to take the lead in mobilising States, sources said.
30 July 2020||Belagavi,||Umesh Katti says he may be inducted as Minister||“The State Cabinet is likely to be expanded in a week and I am likely to be inducted,” the former Minister and BJP leader Umesh Katti said in Hukkeri on Wednesday. “I might be among the new Ministers. I have worked as Minister in the past and I would like to serve the State and the people of my constituency if given an opportunity,” he told journalists at his house. “I have been an MLA nine times. I will continue in State politics for another 20 years. In those 20 years, I will serve as Minister several times. One day, I will become the Chief Minister too,” he said. He said that there were no plans in the party for a change in leadership in the State and that B.S. Yediyurappa would definitely complete his term. “Mr. Yediyurappa is our leader. He is among the best Chief Ministers in the country today. He has bravely handled challenges such as COVID-19 and the floods,” he said.
30 July 2020||Srinagar,||J&K extends 4G Net ban until August 19||Days after J&K Lieutenant-Governor G.C. Murmu hinted at restoring high-speed 4G Internet, the Union Territory administration on Wednesday extended the ban up to August 19, citing fears of anti-national activities. “There are inputs suggesting rise in the anti-national activities over the coming weeks, more so in view of the completion of a year since the implementation of the constitutional changes in J&K (August 5), Independence Day celebrations etc.,” reads the order issued by the Home department. The order expressed apprehensions over the “misuse [of 4G] in planning and executing militant acts, propagation of ideologies inimical to the interests of the country, misguiding the youth to join [militant] ra-nks and coordination with handlers across the border to facilitate infiltration.
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Surge in COVID cases again in TS||Another spike in COVID-19 cases was recorded in Telangana as 1,764 swab samples tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. The total now stands at 58,906. The fatalities too increased as 12 patients succumbed. COVID-19 details recorded on Tuesday was released in media bulletin on Wednesday. After consistent spike in cases till July 8, they dropped from July 9-12. Positive cases spiked again from July 13-16 and started to gradually drop. Another spike was observed thereafter till July 28. This surge might continue as officials from State Health department have been cautioning that coming four weeks are crucial. Of the 1,764 new cases, 509 are from GHMC area , 158 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 147 from Rangareddy, 138 from Warangal Urban districts. Of the total 58,906 cases, 14,663 are active cases.
30 July 2020||Kolkata,||Saradha scam accused Kunal Ghosh back in TMC fold||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) has sprung a surprise by inducting former MP and Saradha scam accused Kunal Ghosh in its official list of spokespersons. A well-known journalist, Mr. Ghosh was nominated by the TMC to the Rajya Sabha, but he was suspended from the party after a bitter fallout in 2013. The same year, the West Bengal Police’s special investigation team arrested him in connection with the multi-crore Saradha scam. Mr. Ghosh was the editor-in-chief of the publications run by Saradha group managing director Sudipta Sen. Following his arrest, Mr. Ghosh was unsparing in his criticism of the party and its president — Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. However, after his release from prison in 2016, the TMC leadership started reaching out to him.
30 July 2020||KALABURAGI,||Kalaburagi reports 10 deaths, Ballari two||Kalaburagi district reported 10 COVID-19 deaths on Wednesday taking the toll to 82. As per information provided by the district administration, eight of the 10 people were from Kalaburagi city. One was from Sedam town and the other from a village in Chittapur taluk. The district also reported 168 new cases and 119 patients were discharged after recovery. These figures take the number of positive cases to 4,946 and there are 2,435 active cases. Meanwhile, Ballari, another worst-affected district in Kalyana Karnataka region, reported 338 new cases and two deaths taking the number of infected persons to 5,720 and the toll to 74. Two women, one aged 55 and the other 54, were the latest victims of the pandemic in the district.
30 July 2020||Mumbai,||Lockdown in State extended till August 31||The State government on Wednesday announced the extension of the lockdown till the midnight of August 31. As per the new guidelines under the State’s Mission Begin Again, malls and complexes can now remain open between 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. without theatres, food courts or restaurants, from August 5. Along with this, the new guidelines mention that outdoor non-team sports like Golf courses, outdoor firing ranges, outdoor gymnastics, tennis, outdoor badminton and malkhamb, will be allowed with physical distancing and sanitation measures with effect from August 5. However swimming pools are not allowed to open. Apart from this, all previously issued guidelines remain the same. While essential item shops will remain open, non-essential shops will continue to function as per the guidelines issued. All construction activities will continue while home delivery from restaurants is allowed.  All previous orders for marriage related gatherings, outdoor physical activities, printing and distribution of newspapers, barber shops, spas, salons remain the same.
30 July 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra cases cross 4 lakh mark||After two days of relatively low single-day jumps, Maharashtra reported a big surge of 9,211 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, as the State’s total case tally raced past the 4 lakh mark to reach 4,00,651. A proportionately high fatality spike of 298 deaths saw the total death toll rise to 14,463. However, the active case tally stood at 1,46,129, said State Health Department officials. However, the rate of recovery offset the spike with 7,478 patients being discharged today, taking total recoveries to 2,39,755. “Till date, of 20,16,934 laboratory samples, 4,00,651 (19.87%) have tested positive with nearly 48,000 samples being tested in 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the recovery rate had risen to 59.84% while case fatality rate had marginally reduced to 3.61%.
30 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||45,299 apply for Plus One course||As many as 45,299 students applied online for admission to the Plus One higher secondary course on the first day of the admission process on Wednesday. The maximum number of applicants was from Ernakulam (5,317), followed by Malappuram (4,668). Next was Thiruvananthapuram district with 4,392 applications. The least was in Wayanad (1,160). Help desks will be functioning in each institutions to facilitate the application process.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Speaker moves Supreme Court||Rajasthan Speaker C.P. Joshi on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court against the High Court’s July 24 order effectively deferring his disqualification action against ousted Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs.Page 11
30 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||HC rejects Atchannaidu’s bail plea||The High Court on Wednesday dismissed the bail petitions filed by TDP MLA K. Atchannaidu, ESI former director C.K. Ramesh Kumar and two others, who were accused of committing irregularities in the procurement of equipment for ESI hospitals across the State. Justice M. Venkata Ramana pronounced the order against the release on bail of Mr. Atchannaidu, who is currently undergoing treatment for complications he developed after a surgery at a private hospital in Guntur. The ACB had arrested Mr. Atchannaidu on June 12. Cases were booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018, and Sections 409, 420 and 120-B of the IPC. The Advocate-General argued that Mr. Atchannaidu could hamper the probe if released on bail.
30 July 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases in West Bengal cross 65,000||West Bengal observed a near total lockdown on Wednesday even as it recorded 2,294 new COVID-19 cases, taking its total case tally past the 65,000 mark to 65,268. The active cases in the State now stand at 19,652. The death toll from the pandemic rose to 1,490, with 41 more deaths reported on Wednesday. Kolkata recorded 17 of the 41 deaths, followed by nine in North 24 Parganas, five in South 24 Parganas and four in Howrah. 2,094 discharged A total of 2,094 people were discharged from health facilities in the day, taking the total number of recoveries to 44,116. The recovery rate now stands at 67.6%. The number of samples tested for COVID-19 in the past 24 hours was 17,114. 721 booked Police personnel in Kolkata and other districts ensured that there were no people or vehicles on roads except those who were engaged in essential or emergency services. They used drones to keep a vigil on the thoroughfares and 721 people were arrested or prosecuted for violating the lockdown restrictions.
30 July 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 cases cross 50k in Bengaluru Urban||With Bengaluru Urban recording 2,270 of the 5,503 new COVID-19 cases reported on Wednesday, the total number of cases in the tech capital touched 51,091. The district now has 36,224 active cases.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||Less than 1,500 fresh COVID cases for 13th day||Delhi reported 1,035 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,33,310, said a government health bulletin. Also, 26 more deaths were reported in a single day, taking the toll to 3,907. The number of new cases has been less than 1,500 for the past 13 days.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista: SC allows writ pleas against nod||The Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed persons and groups to separately challenge a June 17 environ-mental clearance granted to the Central Vista project in writ petitions. They have been asked to file their pleas in a week and the government has to respond the week after.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI seeks 7-year jail for Jaya Jaitly in graft case||The CBI on Wednesday sought seven-year jail term for former Samata Party chief Jaya Jaitly and two others, convicted by a special court in a corruption case. The court is expected to announce the quantum of sentence on Thursday.
30 July 2020||Madurai,||225 people test positive||A total of 225 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai district on Wednesday taking the total tally to 10,618. Seventy-two patients who tested positive had influenza-like illness or symptoms of acute respiratory infection. A total of 107 people were contacts of positive patients.
30 July 2020||Belagavi,||279 new cases in Belagavi district||Belagavi district recorded 279 new COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday. While 67 patients were discharged, three persons died. The district now has 1,950 active cases with just three cases in the intensive care unit. A total of 61 persons have died so far. A total of 2,817 have tested positive till now and 80 have been discharged.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Widespread rain may continue till Friday||The Tamil Nadu Higher Education Department has decided to abolish the two-shift system in 50 recently established government arts and science colleges. From the academic year 2020-21, these colleges will function from 9.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. with an hour’s lunch break.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Police tighten norms for making arrests||Arrest and remand of suspects involved in offences where punishment is seven years of imprisonment or less, will no longer be done as a matter of routine. The move comes weeks after the alleged torture of trader P. Jayaraj, 58, and his son J. Benicks, 31, in the Sattankulam police station.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,||6,426 new COVID-19 cases reported in T.N.||The number of new COVID-19 cases continued to stay above the 6,000-mark in Tamil Nadu as another 6,426 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. This took the State’s overall tally to 2,34,114 of which 57,490 were active cases. Chennai reported 1,117 cases taking the tally to 97,575.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI seeks 7-year jail for Jaya Jaitly in graft case||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Wednesday sought the maximum punishment of seven years’ imprisonment for former Samata Party chief Jaya Jaitly and two others, who have been convicted by a special court in a corruption case. “On Wednesday, during in-camera proceedings, the court heard arguments from both sides on the quantum of sentence, which is expected to be announced on Thursday,” said a CBI official. Lawyer for the convicts has reportedly urged the court for leniency on account of their age. The court earlier held Ms. Jaitly, her then party colleague Gopal Pacherwal and Major General (retd.) S.P. Murgai guilty of criminal conspiracy and corruption. The case pertains to a sting “Operation Westend” carried out by news portal Tehelka, which was made public in January 2001. In the sting operation, Ms. Jaitly was shown to have accepted Rs. 2 lakh in illegal gratification from Mathew Samuel, who represented a non-existing firm named Westend International, while the retired Major General received Rs. 20,000. The CBI proved in the court that, as shown in the sting, at a meeting on December 25, 2000, the retired Major General and Surender Kumar Surekha, who turned an approver, had agreed to help Mr. Samuel in getting a letter of evaluation from the Defence Ministry for the company’s hand-held thermal imagers. They also agreed to introduce him to Ms. Jaitly, for which they were to be paid. During the meeting with Ms. Jaitly on December 28, 2000, at the official residence of the then Defence Minister George Fernandes, Mr. Samuel offered Rs. 2 lakh to her. She directed him to hand over the money to Mr. Pacherwal, the agency said.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Antibiotics in livestock a worry||Antibiotics are extensively misused in the dairy sector and its residues remain largely untested in milk, noted a recently published survey report by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). The organisation held an online meeting on antibiotic use in the dairy sector on Wednesday. “We are concerned. While we continue to struggle against COVID-19, we are staring at another pandemic-like situation — that of antibiotic resistance fuelled by the way we are producing our food, which has become chemical-intensive,” CSE director-general Sunita Narain said. The meeting was attended by a wide spectrum of experts and participants from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB); the World Health Organization (WHO), the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation and representatives from specialised educational and research institutions, civil society bodies, and departments concerned from States. Crisis of resistance The CSE’s assessment shows that dairy farmers indiscriminately use antibiotics for diseases such as mastitis (infection/inflammation of the udder), a common ailment in dairy animals. Often, these include critically important antibiotics (CIAs) for humans — the WHO has warned that they should be preserved in view of the growing crisis of antibiotic resistance. India is the world’s largest milk producer — it produced a massive 188 million tonnes in 2018-19. Urban areas consume 52% of it, and the unorganised sector, comprising milkmen and contractors, caters to 60% of this consumer base; the remaining demand is met by dairy cooperatives and private dairies which represent the organised sector. “The abused antibiotics — despite a law against it — are easily available without the prescription of a registered veterinarian and stocked at farms. Farmers often inject animals based on their own judgment of signs and symptoms of a disease without any veterinary supervision,’’ noted the CSE in its latest report. Inadequate focus The CSE researchers also point towards inadequate focus on testing for antibiotic residues in the milk collected by some State federations, which process it and sell packaged milk and dairy products under popular brands. “Farmers often sell milk while the animal is under treatment, which increases the chances of antibiotic residues. While milk sold directly to consumers is not tested, contrary to what one would expect, processed milk sold in packets is also largely unchecked for antibiotic residues,” says Amit Khurana, programme director, food safety and toxins programme, CSE.
30 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||6,426 new cases of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu||Andhra Pradesh reported a whopping 10,093 new COVID-19 infections and 65 deaths on Wednesday. It was the highest single-day tally so far. Four districts had a thousand fresh cases and East Godavari alone reported 1,676. Kerala reported 903 new cases and 641 recoveries. With 739 of the new cases being locally acquired infections, disease transmission in the community was active. In 35 cases, an epidemiological link could not be found. One more death in Malappuram raised the State’s toll to 68. Also, 30 health-care workers tested positive on Wednesday. Cumulative cases stood at 21,799, of whom 11,369 had recovered. The number of patients in hospitals was 10,350. In Thiruvananthapuram, of 213 cases reported on Wednesday, 208 were locally acquired infections, including those of 10 health-care workers. Many districts had a case load of less than 100. Malappuram had 87 cases, 52 linked to local transmission. Kollam had 84 cases, Ernakulam 83, Kozhikode 67, Pathanamthitta 54, Palakkad 49, Kasaragod 49, Wayanad 43, Kannur 42, Alappuzha 38, Idukki 34, Thrissur 31 and Kottayam 29. Over 1.47 lakh people were in quarantine, 10,057 of them with mild COVID-19-like symptoms in hospitals. Samples sent for testing in a day rose to 23,924. Telangana recorded 1,764 fresh positive cases as of Tuesday, with the total standing at 58,906. Fatalities too rose as 12 patients succumbed. COVID-19 details for Tuesday were released on Wednesday. Of the 1,764 new cases, 509 were from Greater Hyderabad, 158 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 147 from Rangareddy, and 138 from Warangal Urban districts. Of the total 58,906 cases, 14,663 were active and 492 died. The cumulative Test Positivity Rate was 14.8%. The overall Andhra Pradesh tally surged to 1,20,390 and the death toll rose to 1,213. There were 63,771 active cases, and a total of 55, 406 patients had recovered. The State also tested a record 70,584 samples in a day and the positivity rate was 14.30%. East Godavari reported 14 deaths, followed by Anantapur (1371 new cases, 8 new deaths), Guntur (1124, 3), Kurnool (1091, 5), Visakhapatnam (841, 2), Chittoor (819, 6), West Godavari 9779, 2), Kadapa (734, 3), Nellore (608, 5), Srikakulam (496, 2), Krishna (259, 4), Prakasam (242, 4) and Vizianagaram (53, 7). The number of new infections continued to stay above the 6,000 mark in Tamil Nadu as another 6,426 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. This took the State’s overall tally to 2,34,114 of which 57,490 were active cases. Chennai continued to account for less than 20% of the fresh cases reported in the State.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)
30 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Trust set up to build mosque in Ayodhya||The Trust to build a mosque in Ayodhya, following the verdict of the Supreme Court in the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi title suit, would have a maximum of 15 members, the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board announced on Wednesday as it constituted the body. The Trust would be called the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation, U.P. Sunni Waqf Board chairperson Zufar Faruqi said. Nine trustees of the Trust have been announced, while it will “co-opt” the remaining six, the Board said. Four out of the nine trustees are affiliated to the Board, a source said. The Board, through its CEO, would be the founder-trustee of the Trust, while Mr. Faruqi would be the chief trustee or president. Adnan Farrukh Shah of Gorakhpur would be vice-president, Athar Hussain of Lucknow secretary, and Faez Aftab of Meerut treasurer. The Trust has also named four members — Imran Ahmad, Mohammad Junaid Siddiqui and Mohammad Rashid of Lucknow, and Sheikh Saiduzzaman of Banda. On February 24, the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board decided to accept the five acres of land allotted to it by the State government for building a mosque in Dhannipur village in Sohawal tehsil of Ayodhya, around 25 km from the site where the Babri Masjid stood. Mr. Faruqi had also announced that the Trust would construct a centre showcasing Indo-Islamic culture of several centuries, a centre for research and study of Indo-Islamic culture, a charitable hospital, a public library and other public utilities at the site in Dhannipur.
30 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Kangaroo, blue macaws rescued in Assam||Forest officials in southern Assam’s Cachar district have rescued a kangaroo and blue macaws among exotic wildlife species being smuggled out of Mizoram. They were packed among crates of fruits in a truck. The seizure of these animals came less than two years after sleuths of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) busted an international syndicate of exotic wildlife smugglers whose kingpin was based in Mizoram. That operation in October 2018 was carried out simultaneously in Chennai, Kolkata, Guwahati and Mizoram’s capital Aizawl. “The forest personnel were on a routine check of trucks around 11.30 p.m. on Tuesday for detecting illegal timber being carried. Foul smell emanating from one of the trucks made them suspicious,” said Sunnydeo Chaudhary, Cachar’s Divisional Forest Officer. A closer inspection revealed a kangaroo from Australia, six hyacinth or blue macaws and two capuchin monkeys from South America and three Aldabra tortoises, one of the largest species from the Seychelles group of islands. Two detained Two persons identified as Narsimha Reddy and Navnath Tukaram Daigude have been detained and were being interrogated to find their “forward and backward linkages”, officials said. “They said they picked up the consignment from Mizoram for delivery in Guwahati. But we know from past records that exotic animals are smuggled in from Myanmar and are destined to Kolkata and other major cities across the country,” Mr. Chaudhary told The Hindu . In March 2018, a large consignment of exotic animals, including venomous snakes and giant scorpions, was seized from a vehicle at Jorabat, about 19 km from Guwahati and on the Assam-Meghalaya border. The consignment had come from Aizawl and was to be sold to a pet trader in New Delhi.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajasthan Speaker moves SC again||Rajasthan Assembly Speaker, C.P. Joshi, on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court against the State High Court’s July 24 order effectively deferring his disqualification action against ousted deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other dissident Congress legislators. Mr. Joshi, represented by advocate Sunil Fernandes, said the “status quo” order of the High Court crossed the “Lakshman Rekha” between the domains of the judiciary and the legislature. “Judiciary was never expected under the Tenth Schedule to interfere in the manner it has done in the instant case resulting in encroachment by the High Court in the field exclusively reserved for the Speaker. The status quo order interdicts the Speaker from proceeding to even adjudicate the disqualification petitions pending before him under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution,” the special leave petition said. Mr. Joshi said the Court, as the “sentinel on the qui vive”, should restore the Principle of Separation of Governance. He said the July 24 order of the High Court was “ exfacie unconstitutional and in the teeth of the law” declared in Kihoto Hollohan v. Zachillhu 1992 judgment of the Supreme Court, which held that judicial review is impermissible until the Speaker gives a final decision in disqualification proceedings under the Tenth Schedule. “The order restraining the Speaker from performing his constitutional duties under the Tenth Schedule is a direct intrusion by the High Court into the domain exclusively reserved for the Speaker ... The impugned order of the High Court is a direct interference in the ‘proceedings of the House’ under Para 6(2) of the Tenth Schedule which is prohibited under Article 212 of the Constitution,” the petition said. The Speaker’s office had on Monday withdrawn an earlier petition challenging an order of the High Court on July 21, requesting him to defer the disqualification proceedings.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rafales arrive at Ambala airbase||Forty-six months after a €7.87 billion contract was signed with France, the first five of the 36 Rafale fighter jets landed at the Ambala airbase on Wednesday. The crew were welcomed by the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria. A formal induction ceremony of the Rafale aircraft in 17 Squadron is scheduled for the second half of August, the IAF said in a statement. “The touchdown of Rafale combat aircraft in India marks the beginning of a new era in our Military History. These multirole aircraft will revolutionalise the capabilities of the IAF,” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said in a series of tweets. “I would like to add, if it is anyone who should be worried about or critical about this new capability of the IAF, it should be those who want to threaten our territorial integrity.” As the jets entered the Indian Ocean Region, stealth destroyer INS Kolkata established contact and wished them a happy landing. They were escorted by two Su-30MKI fighters and as the jets landed at Ambala, they were given a water cannon salute. The five jets, three single-seat and two twin-seat trainers, were flown by IAF pilots led by Group Captain Harkirat Singh, Commanding Officer of No. 17 ‘Golden Arrows’ Squadron, covering nearly 8,500 km, the IAF said. The Rafale gives a capability boost to the IAF with its armaments and comes at a time of tensions with China on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh.
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||No prayers at eidgahs, no hugging this Bakrid||The Telangana State Waqf Board on Wednesday sent a list of guidelines to the State government for dissemination ahead of Id-al-Adha, popularly known as Bakrid, which include barring special prayers at eidgahs as they can ‘cause the spread of COVID’, and avoiding converging to buy sheep for ritual sacrifice. “Prayers at eidgahs are not permitted since congregational prayers can cause the spread of virus,” an excerpt reads. While on the one hand the guidelines state that “the general public are advised to offer prayers at their respective homes”, on the other they provide for permitting 50 congregants to offer prayers in mosques “at one time duly maintaining two metres physical distancing”. However, the guidelines recommend prayers in two spells if there are more than 50 congregants. Mosque managing panels have been instructed to keep sanitisers at entry points. “Musallis (congregants) should not be allowed to shake hands or hug fellow musallis,” another guideline reads. Further, sheep markets are recommended to be set up on the city outskirts. Other recommendations include a complete prohibition of slaughtering animals in public spaces, including streets. Officials said that the two important mosques of the city – Mecca Masjid and the Shahi Masjid – will remain off limits for the public. The guidelines are similar to those issued ahead of Id-ul-Fitr, the festival after the holy month of Ramzan. “Tens of thousands of people come to Mecca Masjid every Id, so much so that the roads outside are filled with congregants. This is one of the reasons why we are recommending no Id prayers there,” an official said.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||AIADMK-BJP ties under strain after controversies||AIADMK-BJP ties have come under strain in the light of recent controversies over Kanda Sashti Kavasam , a compilation of Tamil hymns in praise of Lord Murugan, and the draping of a saffron shawl around the statue of AIADMK founder M.G. Ramachandran in Puducherry. The visible discord has prompted many to wonder whether this could lead to a separation of the allies before the Assembly election, scheduled for April-May next year. Conceding that there are differences in the way they view the rows, the parties say they will, however, stick to their tie-up. The respective position of each of the parties under the existing circumstances need not be viewed in terms of electoral considerations, according to their spokespersons. It all started with a little-known group called ‘Karuppar Kootam’ (Group of Blacks) hosting content on social media about the Tamil devotional work,  which is regarded by the BJP, a few political parties and sections of Hindus, as an act of blasphemy .  While accusing the DMK of providing “tacit support” to the group, the national party is not happy with the ruling party either. “Neither the AIADMK’s coordinator [O. Panneerselvam] and co-coordinator [Edappadi K. Palaniswami] nor the DMK’s leader [M.K. Stalin] condemned the Karuppar Kootam for its action, which has hurt the dignity of Tamil women too,” T. Narayanan, spokesperson of the BJP, observes. “Even the police action [arresting four persons purportedly belonging to the group and booking one under Goondas’ Act] came four days after us giving a complaint and exerting pressure. We need more action as we believe there are more people behind this group,” he said. Contrasting the “passive approach” of the AIADMK on this issue with how the ruling party’s leadership reacted “strongly and almost instantaneously” to the MGR statue row, Mr. Narayanan says that while he is not holding a brief for those behind the statue incident if the intention is to cause trouble, his party does not see anything amiss with regard to the use of the saffron shawl per se. “Saffron is a symbol of purity and, after all, MGR was not an atheist.” Different styles However, Kovai Sathyan, the ruling party’s spokesperson, says his party cannot be expected to react to certain events the way the BJP responds. “Their [the BJP’s] political style is inclined towards religious polarisation but my party’s is different. We, the AIADMK, are known as a secular party, favouring all sections of society. Our philosophy is based on what Anna [former Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai] had set out and Puratchi Thalaivar and Amma [MGR and Jayalalithaa] had followed — egalitarianism, social justice and rationalism.” At the same time, the ruling party is fulfilling its responsibility by taking action that is required to ensure the maintenance of law and order. And “we have done it with an iron hand,” he says, recalling how the police, exactly a year ago, arrested a man in Kumbakonam for posting an “invitation” on social media for a “beef eating” event. Mr. Sathyan explains that the BJP may view the Kanda Sashti Kavasam row as a “political opportunity,” but the AIADMK’s approach is to ensure that no law and order problems arise, maintaining peace and and public order.
30 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||COVID-19 dims Bakrid cheer for U.P. goat sellers||A rough path near the iconic ‘Pakka Pul’ slopes down to a flat patch of land bordered with dense overgrowth on the bank of the Gomti here. Small clusters of different breeds of goats, from the Ajmeri to the Totapuri and Barbari, tightly held by their eager guardians, dot the area. Potential buyers trickle in slowly. Little regard is shown for social distancing, perhaps constrained by the lack of space, arrangement and supervision. Goat owners have to skelter from one spot to another to catch the eye of customers. Shakeel sold three goats, for Rs. 10,000-11,000 each, but they were smaller than the two he is now holding — a Barbari and a Rajasthani breed — he quickly points out. “This time there is a demand for smaller goats,” says Shakeel, who came all the way from Misrikh in Sitapur district to sell his goats for the Id-ul-zuha festival in which Muslims sacrifice animals. Shakeel has billed his two remaining goats at Rs. 35,000. But he is yet to get the right price. “The lockdown went for three-four months. This has crushed the common man,” he says, when asked why it was difficult to get good prices this time. For many traders, the prices offered did not even meet the costs of rearing. On average, a goat rearer spent Rs. 2,000 for an animal each month, mainly on ‘chana’, wheat and hay, they said. While customers in the city say it has not been too difficult to locate goats even without designated bazaars — many are purchasing them from rural markets— some are hassled and feel the pinch. Shakeel Ahmed has bought a pair of goats for Rs. 22,000. “The goat that came for Rs. 7,000 last year cost Rs. 12,000-13,000 this time,” says Shakeel, who is into embroidery business.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista: SC to allow writ pleas against green nod||The Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed persons and environmental groups to separately challenge a June 17 environmental clearance granted to the Central Vista project, which involves the construction of a new Parliament House and ministry buildings across the historical boulevard from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate in Lutyens’ Delhi, in writ petitions. They have been asked to file their writ pleas in a week and the government has to respond the week after. The case is scheduled for August 17. A three-judge Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar heard arguments led by senior advocate Shyam Divan that permissions granted piecemeal to the multi-crore project raised several legal questions that need to agitated across multiple forums. Mr. Divan said the court should not restrain the challenge to the June 17 environmental clearance, but allow citizens to approach the National Green Tribunal too. On June 19, the Bench ordered that “any petition or proceedings” concerning the Central Vista project would be heard only by it. Advocate Shikhil Suri, for petitioner Rajiv Suri, questioned the proposed change in land use in the Central Vista area. He said the boulevard was a symbol of India’s historic past, its nationhood and its vibrant democracy. “It is where living history breathes from every inch of this cherished stretch of land, where the Republic Day parade and Beating Retreat are held every year. Central Vista is an essential ingredient of our sovereignty and pride”, he argued. Plea to quash NOC Another plea by architect A.G.K. Menon, represented by senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, sought the quashing of the no objection certificate granted by the Central Vista Committee to the project on April 23. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, however, said the arguments made in the issue need not take an adversarial tone. There was no need for a “we versus they” attitude on the part of the petitioners. “Our Parliament is being constructed. In future also, Defence and Finance Ministry buildings will be constructed”, he said. The makeover was announced in September last. It envisages a new triangular Parliament building, with a seating capacity of 900 to 1,200 MPs, to be completed by August, 2022, when the country celebrates its 75th Independence Day.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||No new govt. jobs in J&K a year after Article 370 move||A year after the special status of Jammu and Kashmir was revoked on August 5, 2019, the State administration is yet to create new government jobs in the newly created Union Territory (UT). As many as 10,000 vacancies at all levels are to be filled in Phase-1, a senior government official said. The recruitment drive had been badly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, he pointed out. On August 5 last, Union Home Minister Amit Shah moved two bills in the Rajya Sabha to revoke the special status of J&K under Article 370 of the Constitution and to downgrade and bifurcate the State into J&K and Ladakh UTs. During discussion in the Upper House, he said Article 370 was an impediment to J&K’s development. According to the Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) reply to a parliamentary panel on February 18, there are over 84,000 vacancies in J&K, of which 22,078 vacancies pertain to Class IV employees, 54,375 to non-gazettted and 7,552 vacancies at gazetted level. As per a latest MHA data, as many as 168 Memorandum of Understandings (MoU) worth Rs. 13,600 crores have been signed for investments in J&K. “The pace of recruitment in government sector slowed largely due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Before that, the UT officially came into existence only on October 31 last year, the day of the reorganisation,” said a senior government official. A new land policy for purchase and acquisition of land was under construction and the administration had identified 6,000 acres of government land for setting up industries, the official stated. Rs. 40,000 crore loss Sheikh Ashiq Ahmed, President of Kashmir Chamber of Commerce, however, said that since August 5, trade and businesses in J&K had suffered a loss of Rs. 40,000 crore. “The Rs. 40,000 crore-loss is a conservative estimate from 10 districts in Kashmir division. Our main concern is unemployment of lakhs of youth. The lockdown was lifted December onward and we had begun picking up pace when the pandemic struck in March,” Mr. Ahmed told The Hindu .  He said a delegation of businessmen were given assurances by Home Minister Amit Shah and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in March but nothing concrete had been offered so far. “We are a small economy, contributing only .77% to the GDP. We require hand-holding from the government as the situation is grim in every sector,” he added. The official said the Rs. 80,000-crore Prime Minister Development Package (PDMP) that was announced in 2015 had been accelerated, and out of total 63 projects, 17 have been completed so far. “In June 2018, only 7 projects of the PDMP were complete. By June this year, 17 have been completed and 49% funds exhausted,” said the official.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||NEP focus: leave no child behind, bridge digital divide||The closure of schools and universities over the last four months has highlighted the inequities in the Indian education system, with some students able to continue the learning process via online tools, while others being left out. The National Education Policy (NEP), approved by the Cabinet on Wednesday, has a new section on digital education to ensure “equitable use of technology”. “When we introduce technology, we must ensure that no child is left behind,” said Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare, speaking to presspersons after the Cabinet decision. A dedicated unit to coordinate digital infrastructure, content and capacity building will be created within the Education Ministry to look after the online learning needs of both school and higher education, he said. Teachers will also be given training in online educational methods relevant to the Indian situation in order to help bridge the digital divide. Enrolment ratio Inclusion is a theme of the Policy beyond technology as well. The NEP emphasises universal access to schools, and aims to bring two crore out-of-school children back into the educational mainstream. It also aims to double the Gross Enrolment Ratio in higher education, including vocational education, from 26.3% in 2018 to 50% by 2035, with an additional 3.5 crore new seats. In order to achieve all this, public financing of education by States and Centre must grow from the current 4.43% of GDP to 6% at least, says the Policy. The National Scholarship Portal will be expanded to support, foster, and track the progress of students receiving scholarships. Regions such as aspirational districts, which have large numbers of students facing economic, social or caste barriers will be designated as ‘Special Educational Zones’, added the Policy. Gender Inclusion Fund The Centre will also set up a ‘Gender-Inclusion Fund’ to build the country’s capacity to provide equitable quality education to all girls and transgender students. “The fund will be available to States to implement priorities determined by the Central government critical for assisting female and transgender children in gaining access to education (such as the provisions of sanitation and toilets, bicycles, conditional cash transfers, etc),” said the Policy.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tocilizumab fails to treat pneumonia||Tocilizumab, a drug that was recommended by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for emergency use in COVID-19 patients, has been found to be ineffective in reducing the associated pneumonia, according to a press release issued by its promoters. Though unproven, a rise in cases and mortality translated into a global scamper for the drug. There was high demand for it in India too with stocks running out and reports that it was being blackmarketed for as much as Rs. 1.5 lakh a dose. Originally developed for rheumatoid arthritis, Actemra/RoActerma, the brand name under which the drug is sold, was first approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to be tested in large phase-3 trial randomised, double-blinded control trial called COVACTA in March. The primary aim was to check if the drug, which is given intravenously, improved health or reduced mortality when compared with standard of care treatment. About 450, with severe COVID-19-related pneumonia, were a part of the trial. There was no difference between Actemra/RoActemra and placebo in the percentage of patients that died by week four. For those who were discharged from hospital, those who didn’t get the drug on average were likely to spend 28 days in hospital whereas those on the drug spent 20 — the latter the only positive that was highlighted by the company. Taking the drug also didn’t improve patients’ chances of staying off ventilator support or even reducing their dependence on it, say the results. “We are disappointed that COVACTA did not demonstrate a benefit for patients in either clinical status or mortality at week four. We will continue to generate evidence to provide a more complete understanding of Actemra/RoActemra,” said Levi Garraway, M.D., Ph.D., Roche’s Chief Medical Officer and Head of Global Product Development.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||High prices of pulses may affect nutrition security: study||Food habits during COVID-19 may have shifted from diverse and nutritive diets to staple foods such as wheat and rice as the prices of vegetables, pulses and eggs rose sharply after the lockdown while those of cereals remained relatively stable, according to a new study by the Tata-Cornell Institute for Agriculture and Nutrition in New York. The study, “Pandemic Prices: COVID-19 price shocks and their implications for nutrition security in India,” authored by Payal Seth, Prabhu Pingali and Bhaskar Mittra, was launched earlier this month. It analyses prices of cereals (wheat and rice) and non-cereals (onion, tomatoes, potatoes, five pulses and eggs) in 11 tier-1 and tier-2 cities from March 1 to May 31 compared to the same period last year. It uses weekly-level retail data from the Department of Commerce Affairs of the Union government and wholesale prices from the National Egg Coordination Committee. The nationwide lockdown was imposed from March 25. The study revealed that following the lockdown all food groups witnessed a rise in prices compared to 2019, but the rise in prices was higher for non-cereals compared to cereals. After the lockdown was lifted, prices of cereals, eggs, potatoes, onions and tomatoes stabilised quickly while those of protein-rich pulses continued to remain high. Wheat price Retail wheat and rice prices were either stable or cheaper than weeks preceding the lockdown as well as same time last year. Compared to last year, the potato price was as high as 30-90% in several cities but stabilised by the first week of May; the price of onions was as high as 200-250% immediately after the lockdown in some States and stabilised by April end, and higher in some cases; and tomatoes were higher compared to pre-COVID-19 period but began to show a downward trend. The wholesale prices of eggs show that they fell initially (authors argue it was because of fear of coronavirus through poultry), increased by March end and then stabilised two months later. Prices of pulses rose and continued to remain higher than the pre-COVID-19 levels — arhar (tur dal) was up by up to 45%, red lentil (masur dal) by 20-50%, moong dal by 20-80% gram dal ranged from 10 to 40% and urad dal by 0-80%. “The relative stability in cereal prices and enhanced prices of pulses will most likely distort spending and consumption decisions. This will perpetuate reliance on a staple-based, protein-deficient diet. The government can ensure the provision of supplementary protein...,” it recommends.
30 July 2020||Bengaluru,||After drawing flak, Karnataka puts trimmed syllabi on hold||After drawing flak for ‘selectively’ trimming the syllabi for classes 1 to 10, the State government made a U-turn on Wednesday, with Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar asking officials to put it temporarily on hold. The reduced and revised syllabi, in view of the pandemic and reduced teaching hours, had been published on the Karnataka Textbook Society website. Mr. Kumar said no decision was taken as the duration of the 2020–21 academic year was not finalised. Once the academic year’s duration gets finalised, the textbooks would be revised in a “scientific manner” and no chapters would be cut “unnecessarily”, he said. Lesson units that deal with Mysuru ruler Tipu Sultan, some sections on the Indian Constitution, and entire lessons on Jesus Christ and Prophet Mohammed were dropped for classes 6 and 7 in the reduced syllabi. This drew flak from different stakeholders. Mr. Kumar said officials of the department were instructed to frame teaching modules suitable for mass media or digital teaching. “Even before they were finalised, the same was uploaded on the website, which led to confusion,” the Minister said in a statement. Referring to the controversy, he said, “There is no question of hiding information relating to any particular person, document or historical event.” The government was not for dividing society and there was no need to politicise the issue, he added. The syllabus was reduced by 30% and trimmed for 120 working days for classes 1 to 10 as the 2020–21 academic year will be reduced by many days. The syllabus was trimmed assuming that schools are going to reopen by September 1. Last year, there was a controversy over the issue of lessons pertaining to Tipu Sultan. A committee had been set up by the department to study the possibility of dropping lessons on the Mysuru ruler, following a demand by a section of BJP leaders. The committee, however, had overruled this and said it was impossible to study history of Mysuru without highlighting Tipu’s role.
30 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Heavy rain in Kerala, low-lying areas inundated||Heavy rain lashed the State on Wednesday causing severe waterlogging and damage in several districts, including Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kottayam. North and central Kerala districts can expect heavy to very heavy rainfall on Thursday also, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has indicated. Most parts of Kochi city, including several thickly populated West Kochi areas, were inundated in the heavy downpour. Low-lying areas such as Udaya Colony, P&T Colony and Mattancherry were hit badly, with storm water entering houses. Heavy rain since Tuesday midnight brought life to a standstill in Kottayam on Wednesday. Traffic disruptions were reported from several areas across the district following flooding and uprooting of trees. The Meenachil and Manimala rivers are in spate and breached their banks at several places. With a steady rise in water level, low-lying areas in the district are under the threat of inundation. Official sources said the opening of relief camps along the low-lying areas from Vaikom to Changanassery, which reported a rapid rise in COVID-19 cases, would present a major challenge to the authorities this time. Relief camps in Idukki The State Disaster Management Authority has issued directions to open relief camps well in advance as the situation may worsen in case of extreme rainfall in Idukki. Landslips on the tracks near Muttambalam and Gandhinagar disrupted rail traffic. Low-lying areas in Thrissur were waterlogged following the torrential rain which lashed the district from Tuesday night. Traffic was hit on the Swaraj Round after a jackfruit tree in the Thekkinkadu ground fell on the road. Many parts of Thiruvananthapuram district, including the city area, also experienced heavy rainfall and strong winds on Wednesday.
30 July 2020||SRINAGAR,||2 infiltrators, Army porter killed in J&K||An Army porter and two infiltrators were killed in two separate incidents of firing along the Line of Control (LoC) in J&K on Wednesday. “Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation in the afternoon along the LoC in Uri Sector of Baramulla by firing mortars and other weapons. The Army porter was hit and he succumbed to his injuries,” said a Srinagar-based Army spokesman. The spokesman said the Army gave “a befitting response”.  Infiltration bid In a separate incident, the Army foiled an infiltration bid along the LoC in the Nowshera Sector of Rajouri district, officials said. “The troops intercepted a group that was trying to sneak inside the Indian territory and asked it to surrender. However, the group opened fire on the forces and an exchange of fire ensued,” the officials said. Meanwhile, the armed militants triggered a blast when they stepped on a live mine. Two militants died in the exchange of fire and the mine blast. “The bodies have not been recovered so far. Another injured militant fled from the encounter site,” the officials said.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 fatality rate at 2.23%: govt.||India’s COVID-19 Case Fatality Rate (CFR) stands at 2.23% on Wednesday, the lowest since April 1, 2020, said a statement by the Union Health Ministry. It added that “the successful implementation of effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols based on holistic standard of care approach have resulted in a consistent trend of more than 30,000 recoveries/day for the sixth consecutive day.” The Ministry noted that the total number of recovered cases is fast approaching 1 million, with 35,286 patients having been discharged in the last 24 hours. “The total recoveries have jumped to 9,88,029. The recovery rate has reached another high of 64.51% amongst COVID-19 patients,” it said, adding that with the consistent increase in recoveries, the gap between recovered patients and active cases currently stands at 4,78,582. Active cases (5,09,447) are under medical supervision. As per information released by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), with 4,08,855 samples tested in the last 24 hours, the number of Tests Per Million (TPM) has now increased to 12,858 and cumulative testing has crossed 1.77 crore.
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Apex Council meeting on TS, AP water row on Aug. 5||The Ministry of Jal Shakti has convened a meeting of the Apex Council comprising Union Minister of Jal Shakti and Chief Ministers of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on August 5 to discuss disputes over sharing river waters between the two states. It would be a virtual meeting through video linkage in the wake of COVID. According to official sources, the agenda for the meeting includes discussion over sharing of detailed project reports (DPRs) of new irrigation projects taken up by the two states, over utilisation of Godavari water by the states as the Bachawat Tribunal Award, deciding share of Krishna water, and shifting of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) office from Hyderabad to Vijayawada or any other place suggested by AP. Besides, issues such as finalisation of the working manuals for KRMB and Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) including composition of staffing, claims of Telangana over additional allocation of Krishna water in lieu of AP’s diversion of Godavari water to Krishna Basin through Polavaram/Pattiseema projects are expected to be discussed. The immediate reason for convening the meeting is Telangana’s objection to AP’s plans to divert about 8 tmc ft of water a day from Srisailam reservoir by taking up Rayalaseema LI Project and enhancing the water drawal capacity of Pothireddypadu Head Regulator system to 80,000 cusecs from the existing 44,000 cusecs. The meeting was initially planned to be held in June and the MoJS had written to the two states seeking agenda points for the meeting during the third week of May. It was scheduled on August 5 would be only the second meeting of the Apex Council, constituted as per the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act to discuss water disputes, particularly on sharing the waters in tune with the existing tribunal awards and over construction of new irrigation projects. The meeting to be chaired by Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat would be attended by CMs K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, respectively, through video conference to put forth their point of views. “The meeting assumes significance as it comes ahead of opening of bids for the Rayalaseema LI Project planned by AP to draw 3 tmc ft of water every day from Srisailam,” a senior official said adding Telangana is strongly opposing it since entire share of water in the Krishna Basin had already been tied up.
30 July 2020||Chennai,||Natesa of Rajasthan temple returns to India||A long-pending case of idol theft finally saw an important development as Natesa, a rare sandstone idol in the 9th century Prathihara style of Rajasthan, is returning to the country after 22 years. The Natesa icon, currently at the Indian High Commission, London, was originally from the Ghateswara Temple, Baroli, Rajasthan. Stolen in 1998, the icon has had a tortuous journey to the present. The suspected thieves had replaced it with a fake and smuggled the original out of the country. Eventually, a London collector J. Kasmin, who had possession of it in 2003, handed it over to the Indian High Commission at the time. The sandstone Natesa figure stands tall at almost 4 ft. in a rare and brilliant depiction of Shiva in the late 9th century Prathihara style of Rajasthan. A beautiful depiction of Nandi is shown behind the right leg of the Natesa icon. Based on an expose by Peter Watson in the book and the BBC programme titled Sotheby’s: The Inside Story (1997), the Rajasthan Police opened Operation Blackhole, an investigation into one Vaman Ghiya’s collection. Ghiya was arrested in 2003, standing accused of having stolen 20,000 pieces of art and laundering them via a host of Swiss front companies and Sotheby’s, the international auction house. In raids on farm houses linked to Ghiya in Delhi, 506 artefacts were seized by the police, of which 485 were confirmed as antiquities by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). Ghiya was convicted in a trial court but eventually acquitted in 2014 by the Rajasthan High Court, partially because India had not repatriated even a single piece of art allegedly smuggled abroad by Ghiya. In 1998, Kirit Mankodi, a retired archaeologist, was instrumental in the case and provided documents and photographs to prove that the idol in India was fake. A few archaeologists and enthusiasts behind the ‘India Pride Project’ have also taken consistent efforts for the restitution of the Natesa icon. S. Vijaya Kumar of the India Pride Project said, “The ASI and the Ministry of Culture should also use this restitution as a much-needed impetus to reopen the Vaman Ghiya case, resurrect Operation Blackhole, go after thousands of artefacts stolen since the 1960s by the Vaman Ghiya gang, and also appeal against his acquittal.”
30 July 2020||KOCHI,||Thrikkakara to conduct tests in community||Thrikkakara, which has seen a spike in COVID-19 cases this week in the municipal area, has received permission from the district medical authorities to launch tests for detecting the disease in collaboration with the public sector Hindustan Lifecare Limited. Chairperson of the municipality, Usha Praveen, said that the municipal administration had decided to go in for testing a group of the most vulnerable and exposed group, including health workers, in a bid to contain the spread of the pandemic. The municipality saw a spike in the number of positive cases early this week after more than 50 persons in a care home in the municipality tested positive. Vice-Chairperson K. T. Eldho said that the steering committee of the council had approved the decision to go in for COVID-19 tests taking into consideration the prevailing situation. The total number of positive cases has gone up to nearly 90 in the municipal area, including those in the care home in Mundampalam which has been declared a containment zone with a firstline treatment facility being established within the care home. At present, the Maithripuram residential area close to the NGO Quarters, Kollamkudimugal, and Navodaya wards have been declared containment zones. Though the COVID-19 cases in the care home threatened to spiral out of control, infection appears to have been contained within the care home itself with the opening of the FLTCs. No new positive cases came up on Tuesday in the municipal area. A senior official of the municipality said that around 500 anti-body tests were being planned for the select groups in containment zones, health workers, councillors, public servants in the municipal administration and sanitation workers. Besides, random samples would also be collected for tests from the more sensitive wards. The test results will be directly sent to the municipal administration, which have prepared a 100-bed facility at two First Line Rreatment Centres. The health centres under the municipality have been geared up to meet any rise in numbers. Volunteers under various political parties are also being trained to help out at the treatment centres.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||DoPT grants relief to employees on leave||The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) has relaxed the rules for regularisation of the absence of Central government officials who could not join duty due to travel restrictions during the lockdown. The DoPT has issued clarifications following receipt of several queries from the employees, who had proceeded on leave with permission but could not report for duty due to travel and movement restrictions. The officials who were on tour and could not return to their headquarters will be deemed to have joined duty on the date of expiry of the tour period, if intimation in any form indicating difficulty in joining duty has been given to the office. The government servants who were on leave prior to the lockdown orders from March 25 onward, and the leave ended during the lockdown period, will also be deemed to have joined duty from the date of the expiry of leave, if any intimation was given to the office. In case of leave on medical grounds, the regularisation will be subject to production of medical/fitness certificate. A clarification has also been issued for those who had left the headquarters on the weekend prior to the lockdown, on March 20. They will be deemed to have joined on March 23, provided that they had intimated their office about the difficulty in reporting for duty. For the officials who were on leave before the lockdown began and their leave got expired during the period, but who wanted to curtail the sanctioned leave and join duty, the curtailment may not be allowed, unless approved by the sanctioning authority only in rare cases, depending on official exigency.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Up in arms||
30 July 2020||KOCHI,||Prove terror funding charge, court tells NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has been asked by the NIA Special Court here to come up with evidence to substantiate its charges of terror funding in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. If the agency is unable to come up with evidence to defend the charges, the court will not entertain the case under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act on the accused, the NIA Special Judge informed the investigation agency on Wednesday while considering the bail application of Swapna Suresh, second accused in the case. The accused were given in the custody of the investigation agency on the assurance that there was evidence to substantiate the charges. The accused had already been in the custody of the agency for over 15 days. The charges would not stand unless the agency succeeded to convince the court about the terror funding as alleged against them, the judge observed. NIA’s stand Arjun Ambalapatte, senior public prosecutor for the NIA, said there existed material evidence to prove the charges and the agency would produce the case diary and relevant materials before the court. According to the NIA, while some of the accused might have got involved themselves in gold smuggling for monetary benefits, it was not monetary benefits alone that persons on either end of the crime were interested in. The NIA was probing the international and domestic links to the case, he submitted. K. T. Rameeez, another accused in the case, was convicted in some other offences. He was an accused in a case related to the Arms Act and had close links with the accused in the smuggling case, the agency submitted. Accused’s stand However, Geo Paul, lawyer for the accused, said there was nothing on record to incriminate the accused to the UAPA. There were political reasons for slapping the UAPA on the accused. There was an ugly haste in invoking the sections of the Act against the accused, he said. While the agency noted in the First Information Report and the remand report that the proceeds of the gold smuggling might have been used for terror funding, it later observed in the remand extension report that the accused made investments in bank using the proceeds of the crime. There was no material on records to prove that the proceeds were used for terror funding, he said. The court posted the case for August 4.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Smokers more likely to contract COVID-19’||Smokers are likely to be more vulnerable to COVID-19 as the act of smoking means that fingers (and possibly contaminated cigarettes) are in contact with the lips, increasing the possibility of transmission of virus from hand to mouth, warned the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday. An official at the Ministry said they had inputs from experts who “confirmed that smokers are more likely to develop severe symptoms or die from COVID-19.” “Smoking products often involves the sharing of mouth-pieces, which could facilitate the transmission of COVID-19... Evidence from countries reporting COVID-19 related fatalities has highlighted that those with pre-existing non-communicable diseases are more susceptible to becoming severely ill with COVID-19,” he said.
30 July 2020||Staff Reporter Salem,||Three arrested in country-made bomb hurling case in Salem||Three persons, accused of hurling country-made bomb at a house in Sivaganga district, were arrested here on Wednesday. The police said that the incident occurred at the house of Rajapandi (27) of Devakottai on the night of July 21 when three persons in two-wheelers hurled bombs and fled the spot. While Rajapandi escaped unhurt, his mother Chitra sustained injuries and was admitted to a hospital. Aravayal police registered a case. The police said that enmity prevailed between Rajapandi and Vijayakumar of the same area. Vijayakumar along with his friends Madhubala (23) and Muthuraman (27) hurled the bombs. Special teams were formed to nab the accused, who traced the three to a house at Gupta Nagar in Salem city. On Wednesday, the police team arrived at Gupta Nagar and attempted to nab the three. However, the police said that the three jumped from the house and sustained injuries in hands and legs. They were admitted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital and the Salem city police was also alerted.
30 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||NEP a blow to federal structure: Minister||Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath has said that the new National Education Policy (NEP) that has been approved by the Union Cabinet will lead to loss of federal character of education in the State. The Minister told The Hindu on Wednesday that the new policy tended towards centralisation of power. During a discussion on the draft policy last year, Kerala had demanded that the federal system of education that was prevalent in the State should be maintained. Any concentration of power would be disastrous for education in the State, he said. The policy would also open the doors to commercialisation and communalisation of education. The State’s secular and democratic education would be eroded. Public education nurtured by the government would suffer. This would be a setback and could not be accepted. Successful system Moreover, the 10+2+3 structure of education had proved to be a success in the State. Kerala was leading in all areas, as Union government statistics showed. The new policy replaced a successful system by the 5+3+3+4 model. The State’s successful school structure should be continued, Mr. Ravindranath said.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Sero-surveys show that COVID-19 peak far away’||“Continuing use of masks is important as 80% of the people in India are still susceptible to COVID-19,” he added. In the Mumbai survey, 6,936 people — 61% of them slum-dwellers — were sampled. The study also found a high proportion of asymptomatic COVID-19 infections in the city. Civic authorities claimed the sero surveillance result indicates that “asymptomatic infections are likely to be a high proportion of all infections”. “Although prevalence in women was marginally higher than men, age-wise prevalence in the population was comparable in these wards,” the BMC said in a statement. The high exposure in slums indicates that fatality rate in Mumbai may be “as low as 0.05-0.10%”, instead of the existing 5.5%, said a release accompanying the survey. Delhi has adopted a policy of widely deploying antigen tests, a quicker alternative to the RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test, but the results are potentially missing nearly half of those who could be carrying the virus. The prescribed procedure is to retest those with symptoms but only a small fraction in Delhi, less than 0.5%, were retested, as The Hindu has previously reported. This strategy also misses out asymptomatics who may be potential carriers of the infection.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||Dire need of a futuristic plan, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday welcomed the ‘National Education Policy 2020’, and said India was in dire need of such a futuristic plan. Mr. Shah also said it is a ‘remarkable day’ in the history of the education system. “Education is the foundation of any nation and for the last 34 years, India was in dire need of such a futuristic policy,” he tweeted. He said it will play an unprecedented role in the building of a “New India”. “No nation in the world can excel by giving up its culture and values. The aim of Prime Minister Modi’s National Education Policy 2020 is to create an education system which is deeply rooted in Indian ethos and can rebuild India as a global knowledge superpower, by providing high-quality education to all.” he tweeted.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||J&K Bar assn. chief will be released, govt. tells SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday urged the people of Kashmir to “look to the future”, saying the Valley has gone through troubled times. Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, leading a three-judge Bench, said orally, “Kashmir is blessed by nature but it has gone through troubled times. But we have to look to the future”. The court highlighted the potential for tourism in the former State of Jammu and Kashmir, which was bifurcated and made a Union Territory last year after the abrogation on August 5 of Article 370 of the Constitution that gave special rights to its people. The court’s remarks came even as it agreed with the J&K administration’s promise that senior lawyer and J&K High Court Bar Association president Mian Abdul Qayoom would be released immediately from his nearly year-long detention. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta agreed with the court’s suggestion that Mr. Qayoom ought to remain in Delhi till August 7 and not issue any statement. In an earlier hearing, the government informed that it would not detain Mr. Qayoom beyond August 6. His detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA) expires that day. His lawyers, Dushyant Dave and Vrinda Grover, have been calling for his immediate release. The court had asked the J&K administration to explain the basis for detaining Mr. Qayoom. Justice Kaul had said, “He is 73. We want to know on what basis you like to detain him in Tihar [jail]. His detention as per the order has already expired.” On May 28, the J&K High Court rejected his habeas corpus petition to quash his “illegal and prolonged detention”.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,||High Court directs vlogger to pull down defamatory videos against news channel||The Madras High Court on Wednesday restrained Maridhas, a Madurai-based vlogger, from continuing to display allegedly defamatory and derogatory videos on his YouTube, Twitter and Facebook accounts against TV18 Broadcast Limited and senior editor M. Gunasekaran of its Tamil news channel, News18 Tamil Nadu. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan granted the interim injunction, valid till August 12, following a civil suit preferred jointly by the television company, Mr. Gunasekaran and senior anchor Jeeva Sagapthan seeking damages of Rs. 1.5 crore from the vlogger. The judge also restrained him from uploading any new defamatory videos against the company. Since the Tamil channel was just one of a bouquet of television channels owned by the plaintiff company, the judge said that any defamatory content circulated against it on social media might have a cascading effect on all other channels too. He agreed that the company was entitled to maintain a suit to protect its reputation. The interim orders were passed after the court was convinced with the submissions of senior counsel M.S. Krishnan and advocate Anirudh Krishnan, representing the plaintiffs. As far as larger relief such as damages, permanent injunctions and insistence on issuing a public apology in a national newspaper was concerned, the judge ordered notice to the vlogger, returnable by August 12. Earlier, the senior counsel said the vlogger had shot an e-mail to the plaintiff company on July 5 levelling certain allegations against its employees. On the same day, he released a video on social media platforms accusing Mr. Gunasekaran and a few other journalists in the news channel of being ideologically aligned and biased towards the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the Dravidar Kazhagam. “Such baseless allegations go against the company’s core principle of maintaining neutrality,” Mr. Krishnan said. Mr. Krishnan said the defendant had every right to express his views on varied subjects on social media but he did not have the right to defame anyone and make false claims using fabricated documents. “This is nothing but a sheer act of fraud,” the counsel said and insisted on interim orders.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||4-year UG courses in||Senior officials said that as education was a concurrent subject, with most States having their own school boards, State governments would have to be brought on board for actual implementation of this decision. A new curricular framework is to be introduced, including the pre-school and anganwadi years. A National Mission on Foundational Literacy and Numeracy will ensure basic skills at the Class 3 level by 2025. Students will begin classes on coding as well as vocational activities from Class 6 onwards. Indian knowledge systems, including tribal and indigenous knowledge, will be incorporated into the curriculum in an accurate and scientific manner, said the policy.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Governor approves revised proposal of State||The Governor had told the ruling party more than once that only a written undertaking on the trust vote as an agenda of the session could form a basis for calling the House on a short notice. Mr. Mishra had said in his missive on Wednesday that it would be appropriate for the government to convene a regular sitting — like the monsoon session — on a 21-day notice. “If the government wants to call the session on a short notice, it should explain the urgency as well as the reasons for convening the sitting in the present extraordinary situation and adverse circumstances,” he had said, in an apparent reference to the COVID-19 pandemic. Before meeting the Governor, Mr. Gehlot said at a function at the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) headquarters here that his government would survive a floor test, if and when it was carried out in the Assembly. “Whether the Governor seeks a notice of 21 days or 31 days to call the session, we will be victorious,” he affirmed. However, Mr. Mishra regretted that the Cabinet had repeatedly told the Raj Bhavan in its replies that the Governor was bound by its advice and had no right to know the reasons for its decisions. “The Cabinet has not responded to my query about a reasonable basis for calling the session urgently. On the other hand, I have received a memorandum from 17 MLAs, including the Leader of Opposition, on the need to ensure free movements and presence of all legislators,” he said. While Congress leaders have accused him of acting “under pressure” from the BJP government at the Centre, Mr. Mishra said his decision in the matter was “dictated by reason, actuated by good faith and tempered by caution”. He referred to the SC judgment of 2016 in the Nabam Rebia case. The Ashok Gehlot government is keen on holding the Assembly session as early as possible for proving its majority on the floor of the House. If the now sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot and 18 other dissident MLAs violate the Congress party’s whip to cast the vote, the Speaker could initiate disqualification proceedings against them.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Night curfew to end under Unlock 3 norms, says MHA||“After extensive consultation with the States and Union Territories, it has been decided that schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till August 31,” the MHA said. International air travel of passengers had been permitted in a limited manner under the Vande Bharat mission, and “further opening up will take place in a calibrated manner”, the Ministry said. The MHA said only essential activities would be allowed in containment zones. “Lockdown will continue to be implemented strictly in the containment zones till August 31. The containment zones are required to be carefully demarcated by the State/UT governments with a view to contain the spread of COVID-19, after taking into consideration the guidelines issued by the Health Ministry,” the MHA said. The Home Ministry reiterated that States, based on their assessment of the situation, might prohibit certain activities outside the containment zones, or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary. “However, there will be no restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/ approval/e-permit will be required for such movements,” MHA stated. It said vulnerable persons, i.e., persons above 65 years, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10, were advised to stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes. Trains and international air travel would continue to be allowed in a limited manner. Malls, restaurants and religious places were allowed to open in all areas except containment zones from June 8.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||4-year UG courses in, M.Phil. out in new education policy||Senior officials said that as education was a concurrent subject, with most States having their own school boards, State governments would have to be brought on board for actual implementation of this decision. A new curricular framework is to be introduced, including the pre-school and anganwadi years. A National Mission on Foundational Literacy and Numeracy will ensure basic skills at the Class 3 level by 2025. Students will begin classes on coding as well as vocational activities from Class 6 onwards. Indian knowledge systems, including tribal and indigenous knowledge, will be incorporated into the curriculum in an accurate and scientific manner, said the policy.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Ranganatha’s acceptance||Maraneri Nambi was a disciple of Alavandar. But Maraneri Nambi’s family members were not devout Sri Vaishnavas, and Maraneri Nambi did not want them to perform his last rites after his death. So Peria Nambi, another disciple of Alavandar, performed the last rites for Maraneri Nambi. Peria Nambi was a Brahmin and Maraneri Nambi was not. People began to say that Peria Nambi being a Brahmin should not have performed the last rites of Maraneri Nambi. When people complained to Ramanuja about Peria Nambi, Ramanuja wanted to show the world the greatness of Maraneri Nambi, said Akkarakkani Srinidhi in a discourse. So he met Peria Nambi and asked him why he had performed the last rites of Maraneri Nambi. Peria Nambi’s reply pleased Ramanuja very much, for that is what he had expected to hear. Peria Nambi said, “Lord Rama granted moksha to the bird Jatayu. Maraneri Nambi is not lower in status than a bird. Nor am I greater than Lord Rama.” Lord Ranganatha of Srirangam also gave His approval for Peria Nambi’s act. Peria Nambi’s family had been ostracised, and none of the inhabitants of Srirangam would talk to anyone in his family. Peria Nambi, who had never missed participating in Lord Ranganatha’s festivals, stayed at home, sad because he could not witness the Lord’s procession in His chariot. But Lord Ranganatha, who was out on His chariot, wanted to show the world that He fully supported Peria Nambi. Even as people walked along with the chariot, the chariot suddenly stopped outside Peria Nambi’s house. No one was able to move the chariot even an inch until Peria Nambi had had darshan of the Lord. The Lord thus showed His acceptance of what Peria Nambi had done, and also showed the others that He disapproved of their attitude.
30 July 2020||Chennai,||T. N. does away with shift system in 50 govt. colleges||In a significant decision aimed at improving the Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER), the Tamil Nadu Higher Education Department has decided to abolish the two-shift system in 50 recently-established government arts and science colleges. From academic year 2020-21, these colleges will function in a single shift from 9.30 a.m to 4.30 p.m. with an hour’s lunch break. As for 59 older government arts colleges, where ever there is no overlap in courses offered in the two shifts, the revised timing would be implemented. The two-shift system, as opposed to the previously existing day and evening college, came into vogue in 2006. A cross-section of academics was of the view that college timings for each shift were so inadequate that a learner acquired neither knowledge nor skills to the extent the job market demanded of them. Sources said with funding under the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA), the UGC and the State, significant additions had been made to the classroom and allied infrastructure. Therefore, enrolling more students in a single shift and providing quality education with classes spread through the day is feasible. A Government Order said, “Interaction and spending more time with teachers will be an avenue for students to identify their abilities.” The students can participate in various sports activities and skill development programmes. “It would also avoid health issues like anemia among students. Further, more involvement in academics, in turn, will pave way for quality education and enhanced employment,” the G.O. added. Prof M. Ravichandran, a former principal of the Tamil Nadu Government Collegiate Service, said while the two-shift system had also led to an increase in GER, quality of education was compromised in view of the “the truncated, in effect half-a day-colleges”. He acknowledged that the single-shift system could affect students from poor families, who go to work part time. He suggested that for such students, the placement cells must facilitate evening jobs. The G.O. said in the 59 older colleges it was found that only few courses were conducted parallelly with the same subject as shift-II courses. Hence, the shift-I courses in these colleges where no same course is conducted in shift-II can also follow the suggested revised time schedule. Courses, which are conducted in both shift-I and shift-II in these 59 colleges will work in the existing time schedules until adequate infrastructure facilities are provided. Once the classrooms are ready, they automatically should be reverted to the revised single shift time schedule.
30 July 2020||Bhopal,||Two more M.P. Ministers get COVID-19||Two Ministers in the Madhya Pradesh government have tested positive for COVID-19, days after Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was confirmed as having the infection. Water Resources Minister Tulsi Ram Silawat announced his test result on Tuesday night, while Bhopal district authorities on Wednesday said Minister of State for Panchayat and Rural Development Ramkhelawan Patel had tested positive too. Further, it said BJP State general secretary (Organisation) Suhas Bhagat and organisation secretary, Gwalior and Bhopal division, Ashutosh Tiwari had also tested positive. “While Mr. Bhagat has been home-quarantined, Mr. Patel is being moved to a private hospital,” said an official. Nine legislators — eight from the BJP and one Congressman — have been infected so far.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||Transfer GST dues to States, says CPI (M)||The GST compensation dues for the first quarter of 2020-21, which has just ended, should be immediately transferred to the State governments, the CPI(M) said here on Wednesday, adding that reneging on its commitment to the States tantamount to a violation of the federal principles of the Constitution.  The Hindu had reported on Tuesday that the Finance Secretary had informed the Parliamentary Standing Committee that the government was not in a position to pay the GST share to the States as per the current revenue sharing formula for the financial year 2020-21.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED summons Ashok Gehlot’s brother||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has asked Agrasen Gehlot, brother of Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, to record his statement on August 4 in connection with the alleged illegal export of subsidised fertilizer. The agency had summoned Mr. Agrasen Gehlot on Wednesday. “His son informed the probe team that he could not join the investigation for health reasons. We have now asked him to appear on Tuesday [August 4],” said an ED official. Earlier this month, the agency had searched multiple locations linked to the suspects in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Mumbai and West Bengal. It is alleged that potassium chloride, known as muriate of potash (MoP), was illegally exported to Malaysia and Taiwan from 2007 to 2009. The chemical had been provided at subsidised rates for distribution among farmers. “Three parties were involved in the illegal export, including Jodhpur-based Anupam Krishi, owned by Mr. Agrasen Gehlot. His company allegedly made Rs. 150 crore through the export of 35,000 tonnes of MoP. The other parties also made huge financial gains,” the official had earlier said.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cashless virus treatment for poll officials||The Election Commission of India (EC) has told the States to make arrangements for cashless medical treatment and special quarantine facilities for security forces who may contract COVID-19 while on election duty. The EC has also decided that a compensation of Rs. 30 lakh would be given to the families of the security and polling personnel who die of COVID-19 while on election duty. So far, the ex gratia compensation has been in place for security personnel killed in violent attacks while on poll duty. The instructions come at a time when poll authorities are trying to figure out the modalities of elections during the pandemic.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||CPI(M) slams ‘unilateral’ move on NEP||The CPI(M) Polit Bureau has strongly denounced the “unilateral” decision to “impose” the new education policy, without discussing it in Parliament first. It also alleged that none of the suggestions given by the stakeholders, mainly the academicia, the teaching community and the students was accommodated. “Education is in the Concurrent List in our Constitution. It is a gross violation by the Central government to impose a New Education Policy unilaterally bypassing all the objections and opposition recorded by various state governments,” the Polit Bureau said in a statement. The government had assured that the policy would be discussed in Parliament. “The draft is, as per norm, placed on the table of the Houses with a statutory time limit within which Members of Parliament can move amendments/give opinions. The Parliament has been completely bypassed,” the CPI(M) said. “This unilateral drive is to destroy the Indian education system with a policy that seeks greater centralization, communalization and commercialization of Indian education,” the party said.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Former CBI chief violated service rules’||CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat, in a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah, has demanded immediate action against former CBI chief and IPS officer Nageswar Rao for his recent tweets, which she said are a violation of the service rules. Mr. Rao in a series of tweets on Saturday had said that Indian history had been “distorted” with the “whitewashing” of “bloody Islamic invasions/rule”.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul targets Modi govt. on Rafale pricing||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday congratulated the Indian Air Force (IAF) on acquiring the Rafale fighters but continued to target the Narendra Modi government over the pricing of the aircraft and the way the deal was handled. “Congratulations to IAF for Rafale. Meanwhile, can GOI answer: 1) Why each aircraft costs Rs. 1670 Crores instead of Rs. 526 Crores? 2) Why 36 aircraft were bought instead of 126? 3) Why was bankrupt Anil given a Rs. 30,000 Crores contract instead of HAL?” tweeted Mr. Gandhi.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC closes plea filed by Soz’s wife||The Supreme Court on Wednesday closed a habeas corpus petition filed by Mumtazunnisa Soz, wife of former Union Minister Saifuddin Soz, after the Jammu and Kashmir administration assured the court that he is neither in detention nor under house arrest. The plea had sought his whereabouts for the past 10 months.
30 July 2020||Shimla,||Himachal Cabinet expansion today||The Himachal Pradesh Cabinet will be expanded on Thursday, an official spokesperson said. The oath-taking ceremony of the new Ministers will be held at Raj Bhavan at 11.15 a.m., he said, adding that there will be a live webcast of the ceremony. The spokesperson made the announcement soon after Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur called on Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday evening.PTI
30 July 2020||Patna,||Bihar floods: 3 more deaths take toll to 11||The death toll in Bihar floods rose to 11 on Wednesday with three fresh fatalities, while the number of people affected by the calamity rose to over 38 lakh, the State disaster management department said. According to a bulletin, the fresh fatalities were reported from Darbhanga district, where the total number of deaths caused by the floods has now reached seven. Of the total 11 deaths, the other four have been reported from West Champaran district.PTI
30 July 2020||Agartala,||Tripura govt. extends lockdown till August 4||The Tripura government has extended the lockdown by another week as the coronavirus cases continue to surge in the State. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb announced the decision on Wednesday evening and said the measure was needed to check the spread of infection and complete an ongoing door-to-door health survey.
30 July 2020||Shimla,||Himachal Cabinet expansion today||The Himachal Pradesh Cabinet will be expanded on Thursday, an official spokesperson said. The oath-taking ceremony of the new ministers will be held at Raj Bhavan at 11.15 a.m., he said. The spokesperson made the announcement soon after Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur called on Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday evening.PTI
30 July 2020||Mumbai,||Maha: India’s largest wildlife orphanage to come up in Warje||India’s largest wildlife orphanage will come up on a 130-acre land at Warje in Pune district and the project has been approved by the Maharashtra government, NCP MP Supriya Sule said on Wednesday. Taking to Twitter, the NCP leader said, “Country’s largest wildlife orphanage and safari world will come up at survey number 96, Chandani Chowk, Warje on a 130-acre land in our Baramati Lok Sabha constituency. The state government has approved it and the project will cost Rs 56.48 crore.”PTI
30 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab sees 25 COVID-19 deaths, Haryana seven||Punjab recorded 568 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday and reported 25 more deaths, taking the tally to 361, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 14,946. The Health Department said active cases are 4,372 and 10,213 patients have recovered so far. In Haryana, 755 fresh cases surfaced, taking the total tally of cumulative cases to 33,631. Haryana also reported seven deaths, taking the total tally to 413.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI seeks 7-year jail for Jaya Jaitly, two in graft case||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Wednesday sought the maximum punishment of seven years’ imprisonment for former Samata Party chief Jaya Jaitly and two others, convicted by a special court in a corruption case. The court is expected to announce the quantum of sentence on Thursday, said a CBI official.
30 July 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Scrapped notes worth Rs. 4.76 cr. recovered in Godhra, 2 held||After four years of demonetisation, demonetised notes with a face value of Rs. 4.76 crore have been recovered in Godhra town and two persons arrested. This followed a raid by the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the police on Tuesday night, a statement issued by the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) said. The police conducted the raid and nabbed Zuber Hayat and Farookh Chhota. But the key accused, Idrish Hayat, managed to escape, police said.
30 July 2020||Lucknow,||Gorakhpur activist who was petitioner in ‘hate speech’ case against Yogi gets life term for gangrape||A court in Gorakhpur has convicted and sentenced a local activist, who was a co-petitioner in the alleged hate speech case against Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath during the 2007 Gorakhpur communal violence when he was the MP from the constituency, to life imprisonment in a gang rape case. Activist Parvez Parvaz and Mahmood alias Jumman Baba were sentenced by a district sessions court, said Parvaz’s lawyer Miftahul Islam.
30 July 2020||Bhopal,||Man found dead at COVID-19 care centre in Madhya Pradesh||A 35-year-old man was found hanging at a COVID-19 care centre in Chhatarpur district. “The man tested positive on July 26 and was admitted to the centre as he was asymptomatic,” said Pooja Thapak, Public Relations Officer of the district administration. “The man had chest and throat infection six months ago, which had nothing to do with COVID-19. When he tested positive, he became paranoid,” said Sachin Sharma, Superintendent of Police. (Those in distress can dial +91 9630899002 or +91 7389366696 for assistance)
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Journalists petition for ailing Varavara Rao’s bail||Hundreds of journalists from the Telugu states have petitioned the Chief Justice of India, Chief Justice of Bombay High Court and Maharashtra government, to grant bail to ailing poet Varavara Rao, incarcerated at Taloja jail. Letter expresses shock Signed by a total of 765 journalists from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the letter conveyed shock at the news that Mr. Varavara Rao was infected with COVID, and was unable to even recognise his family members. It said that bail is the right of the accused, and that jail is not unavoidable. Describing Mr. Varavara Rao as a poet, journalist, writer and orator whose writings have been translated into Indian and foreign languages, the petition said that he had been proven innocent in several conspiracy cases earlier. The letter also requested for bail to the disabled academic and writer G.N. Saibaba lodged in Nagpur jail.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Experimental smog tower: Supreme Court warns IIT-Bombay of contempt action||The Supreme Court on Wednesday threatened contempt action against the Indian Institute of Technology (Bombay) on learning that the premier institution has opted to pull out of a court-ordered project to instal an experimental smog tower to curb air pollution in Delhi. “Is this a child’s game? We will not tolerate nonsense. Talk to the IIT persons now,” Justice Arun Mishra, leading a three-judge Bench, addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the government and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). A week ago, the court had given the Centre seven days to enter into an MoU with the institution to instal the tower. “We will draw contempt against IIT Bombay... They cannot withdraw from the project like this. How can they back out after this court passed orders?, Justice Mishra said on Wednesday. Stern view In the previous hearing, the Bench had taken a stern view against the Centre when it realised that its order of January 13 to instal the tower at the busy Anand Vihar intersection has not been complied with even after seven months. The January 13 order had directed the project to be completed in three months. However, the government had in an affidavit blamed IIT-B for not agreeing to “take the lead and responsibility” for overall coordination of the Rs. 18.52-crore project and verification of work to be carried out by Tata Projects Limited, the agency involved by IIT-B for construction, operation and maintenance of the tower. On Wednesday, Justice Mishra gave Mr. Mehta first 15 minutes and then 30 minutes to bring IIT-B authorities on board or face contempt. Mr. Mehta tried to assuage the situation and urged the court to give him another day to talk to the institute. The government and the CPCB have said “several concessions” were made for IIT-B and Tata Projects, including a hike in project cost from Rs. 15.46 crore to Rs. 18.52 crore and removal of penalty clause in case of delay. They said the CPCB had agreed to the additional cost of operation and maintenance to Tata Projects though the IIT-B proposal had “mentioned smooth operation of the facility for two years after commissioning and continuous monitoring of pollutants as one of the deliverables of the project”.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||Ensure physical participation of voters in Bihar polls, says CPI(M)||In response to the Election Commission of India’s letters to political parties seeking their views on the modalities to be followed for holding the Bihar Assembly election at a time of COVID-19 pandemic, the CPI(M) has said the Commission should “ensure conditions that permit elections to be held on the basis of physical participation of voters and political parties”.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||Actor Rhea Chakraborty moves SC, seeks transfer of probe from Patna to Mumbai||Actor Rhea Chakraborty moved the Supreme Court on Wednesday seeking transfer of an FIR lodged against her in Patna to Mumbai, where a probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput has begun. The move came a day after Rajput’s father K.K. Singh lodged a police complaint in Patna against Ms. Chakraborty and six others, including her family members.PTI
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||NEET 2020: Supreme Court seeks response of Centre, MCI on plea by parents of Middle East students||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Central government and the Medical Council of India (MCI) to respond to a petition filed by the parents of over 4,000 National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) candidates in the Middle East for a direction to either allocate exam centres in these countries or postpone the exams. The court sought a response in two weeks and posted the case for hearing in the second week of August.
30 July 2020||Mumbai,||Hany Babu remanded in NIA custody for 7 days||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Wednesday sent Hany Babu to seven-day NIA custody till August 4 in the Bhima Koregaon case. Mr. Babu, an associate professor at Delhi University, was arrested by the NIA on July 28. The NIA application said the accused (Mr. Babu) had links with the CPI(Maoist). During investigation, letters were recovered from the seized electronic articles, wherein the role of the accused transpired.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rain on the cards||Wednesday turned out to be another day of scattered showers and thunderstorms in several parts of the State, including Chennai, under the influence of a weather system persisting over the Bay of Bengal. This year, Tamil Nadu has recorded the highest July rains in the past decade. Officials of the Meteorological Department said that this July, the State had recorded 64% excess rainfall. The rainfall in July was nearly 13 cm against the monthly average of 8 cm. This was the highest rainfall in July in the past 10 years. Various weather systems that triggered thunderstorms this month influenced wet weather across the State. Chennai received nearly 15.5 cm of rain this July against its monthly normal of 11 cm, which was in excess by 41%. However, last year, the city received 20 cm in July, exceeding the monthly average by 74%. On Wednesday, the cyclonic circulation persisted over southwest and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal off the south Andhra Pradesh and north Tamil Nadu coast. This would result in fairly widespread rain in most parts of the State till Friday. One or two places in districts such as Tiruvallur, Vellore and Theni may get very heavy rain on Thursday, and isolated heavy rainfall of up to 13 cm was likely in Kancheepuram, Villupuram and Salem districts. According to the Meteorological Department, Cheyyur in Chengalpattu district and Thalaignayar and Thirupoondi in Nagapattinam district received the highest amount of 10 cm. Tamaraipakkam and Kolapakkam received 9 cm and Poonamallee 5.4 cm in the past 24 hours till 8.30 a.m. Wednesday. While the core parts of Chennai missed much of the thundershowers, the southern and western parts enjoyed a good share of intense thunderstorms. Among others that received a significant amount of rain were Chembarambakkam 4 cm, Anna University and Meenambakkam 3 cm each, Kelambakkam, Taramani, Red Hills and Nungambakkam 2 cm each and the weather station at Sathyabama University 1 cm. However, overnight rain did not bring much flow into the city’s reservoirs. On Wednesday, Chennai experienced a minimal rainfall till 5.30 p.m. Moisture moves in S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said that during the southwest monsoon, rains occurred during evening or night hours. But with the cyclonic circulation close to the Tamil Nadu coast, it helped to pump moisture into the land region. Chennai experienced a typical northeast monsoon day, with the weather system triggering rains during early morning hours and the same weather pattern would continue till Friday, he said.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu reports 6,426 fresh COVID-19 cases, 82 fatalities||The number of fresh cases of COVID-19 continued to stay above the 6,000-mark in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, as 6,426 more persons tested positive for the disease. This took the State’s overall case tally to 2,34,114, of which 57,490 were active cases. Another 82 persons, including two women in their twenties, died in the State, taking the toll to 3,741. A 22-year-old woman (ninth day postnatal mother) died at the Government Headquarters Hospital, Ariyalur, within an hour of admission on July 27. She had anaemia and was admitted with complaints of difficulty in breathing for a day. Her death was due to COVID-19 pneumonia and cardiorespiratory arrest, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. The second woman — a 20-year-old from Nagapattinam — was admitted to the Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital on July 25. She died on July 27 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia and chronic kidney disease. The number of persons discharged after treatment increased to 1,72,883, with the discharge of 5,927 on Wednesday. Of these, 1,234 persons were discharged from hospitals in Chennai. Chennai’s count Chennai continued to account for less than 20% of the fresh cases reported in the State. With 1,117 cases, the city’s tally increased to 97,575, of which 12,735 were under treatment. However, Chengalpattu saw a surge in cases, with 540 persons testing positive. Five districts had more than 300 cases each: Tiruvallur-382, Tirunelveli- 379, Kancheepuram-373, Virudhunagar-370 and Thoothukudi-316. Districts with more than 200 cases each are Coimbatore-289, Madurai-225 and Kanyakumari-202. Eleven districts, including Cuddalore, Ranipet, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Tiruchi and Vellore, had more than 100 cases each. Thirty-three returnees tested positive in the State. Of the 82 deaths (54 at government hospitals and 28 at private hospitals), 75 persons had co-morbid conditions. While Chennai accounted for 21 of these deaths, nine persons died in Madurai and six in Dindigul. Ten persons in their 40s succumbed to the infection, while two persons in their 30s also died. These included a 37-year-old man from Kancheepuram, who had no co-morbidities. He had complaints of fever for eight days and cough and difficulty in breathing for three days and was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital, Kancheepuram, on July 20. He died on July 27 owing to severe acute respiratory distress syndrome, respiratory failure and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 40-year-old man, with no co-morbidities, died on July 28 at the same hospital owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. The total number of samples tested in the State so far has crossed 25 lakh. In the last 24 hours, 60,794 samples were tested, taking the total to 25,36,660. New high in U.T. In a new single-day high, the Union Territory of Puducherry recorded 166 admissions on Wednesday. With 143 more patients in home quarantine, the active cases stood at 1,112 and the cumulative total aggregated 3,171 cases. The new cases emerged from the testing of 837 samples, showing an infection rate of 19.8%. Puducherry accounted for 154 of the new admissions and Karaikal 12, while no new cases were added in the Yanam and Mahe enclaves. The total active cases aggregated 1,028 in Puducherry, 36 in Karaikal, 47 in Yanam and one in Mahe.  With the discharge of 5,927 persons on Wednesday, the total has increased to 1,72,883
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Test results to be sent by SMS||The Greater Chennai Corporation is planning to automate the system of declaring results of COVID-19 tests. Once the system is automated, residents will receive results on mobile phones through SMS, followed by response from volunteers in case of positive results, to reduce the turnaround time to less than four hours. At present, positive results of COVID-19 testing is communicated by volunteers who receive a list from ward-level officials, causing a delay in providing information on COVID-19 results in many areas. Residents had complained that they were not getting results on their mobile phones. “Volunteers say they cannot tell us about negative results for COVID-19. The volunteers are given information only about positive cases. Residents have to wait for many days before assuming that they have tested negative. This is causing anxiety,” said a resident. Complaints of delay A section of volunteers was delaying giving information in zones such as Kodambakkam, Anna Nagar, Teynampet and Adyar, the residents said. Residents in various parts of the city had complained in the past few days about delay of at least four days for getting results of tests done in Corporation facilities. The Corporation has been testing 13,000 residents every day. The positivity rate is hovering around 10%. In suburban areas, considerable time is lost, which leads to deterioration in the condition of some patients. Doctors said the civic officials were not able to speed up release of results as they wanted to ensure that only correct information was given. As a number of volunteers had tested positive, their replacement remained a challenge, causing delay in reaching the information to residents. Many complained they had received information that they tested negative only four days after the test and, that too, after requesting for the same with civic officials. To prevent COVID-19 deaths, the Corporation has ordered officials to admit residents with symptoms, especially those having breathlessness, to hospitals without waiting for results.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police tighten norms on arrest, remand procedure||Arrest and remand of suspects involved in offences where the punishment is seven years of imprisonment or less will no longer be done as a matter of routine. The move comes weeks after the alleged torture of trader P. Jayaraj, 58, and his son J. Benicks, 31, in the Sattankulam police station on May 19 and their subsequent death in custody a couple of days later. The father-son duo, arrested on charges of violating prohibitory orders, preventing officials from discharging their duties etc., died while in custody, triggering a nationwide furore. Tamil Nadu Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy has issued an order to all Commissioners/Superintendents of Police that investigating officers should not arrest suspects involved in cognizable offences where the punishment under law is seven years in prison or less. Where such an arrest and judicial custody is inevitable, the police should submit a remand report to the judicial magistrate court justifying the decision, police sources said on Wednesday. The DGP’s order relies on the Supreme Court judgment in the Arnesh Kumar vs State of Bihar case in 2014. The court, while passing orders on arrest / remand guidelines, said the endeavour of the judgment was to ensure that “police officers do not arrest accused unnecessarily and Magistrates do not authorise detention casually and mechanically.” Fiat to States The top court directed all State governments to issue suitable direction to police officers not to automatically arrest when a case under Section 498(A) (Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) of IPC is registered but to satisfy themselves about the necessity for the arrest under the parameters laid down under the provisions of Section 41 of Cr.P.C. Acting on the court’s directions, the State police were told to follow arrest guidelines and complete a check list explaining the reasons / materials which necessitated the arrest, while producing the accused in court for judicial custody. The judicial magistrate, while authorising detention of the accused, should peruse the report furnished by the police officer and only after recording its satisfaction authorise judicial custody. The decision not to arrest an accused should be informed to the court within two weeks from the date of registering the case. SC direction The DGP’s order reiterated the directions of the Supreme Court that failure to comply with the arrest guidelines would render the police officers concerned liable for departmental action and they shall also be liable to be punished for contempt of court to be instituted before the High Court having territorial jurisdiction. The court had also ruled that authorising detention without recording reasons as explained in the order by the Judicial Magistrate concerned shall be liable for departmental action by the appropriate High Court. The Judges noted that the directions in the case shall not only apply to cases under Section 498(A) of IPC or Section 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, but also such cases where offence was punishable with imprisonment for a term which may be less than seven years or which may extend to seven years, whether with or without fine.  Investigating officers should not arrest suspects involved in cognizable offences where the punishment under law is seven years in prison or less  J.K. Tripathy  Director-General of Police
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Governor’s decision on Rajiv case convicts after MDMA gives report’||Governor Banwarilal Purohit has decided to take a call on releasing all seven convicts involved in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case only after the final report of a Multi-Disciplinary Monitoring Agency (MDMA), the Madras High Court was told on Wednesday. The agency was constituted, pursuant to the Jain Commission’s findings, to probe into the larger conspiracy behind the crime. Justices N. Kirubakaran and V.M. Velumani were informed by State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan that a Deputy Secretary to the Governor had written to an Additional Chief Secretary to the State government stating that a decision on the Cabinet recommendation to release the convicts would be taken only after the final report of the MDMA, led by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The information was submitted before the court in reply to a question raised regarding the delay in considering the recommendation made by the Cabinet on September 8, 2018. The SPP said that the Governor’s Secretariat had informed the government early this year that a decision on releasing the convicts could be taken only after taking into consideration the findings of the MDMA. As far as a habeas corpus petition filed by T. Arputham, mother of one of the convicts A.G. Perarivalan, for releasing her son on parole for 90 days was concerned, Mr. Natarajan told the court that he was not eligible to be let out on parole now since he was already granted 60 days of parole between November 12, 2019 and January 12, 2020. As per prison rules, every convict would be allowed to avail parole once in two years and Perarivalan had gone out in 2017 too, he said and sought time till Friday to file a detailed counter affidavit. Before acceding to his request, the judges expressed their displeasure over prison officials generally not passing any orders on representations made by prisoners for parole. Stating that they had come across such inaction on the part of the officials in many cases, they said, even in the present case, a representation had been given in March seeking parole for the convict and a reminder was also sent in April. Yet, no orders had been passed, forcing the litigant to approach the court by spending a considerable amount on lawyer’s fees. “The officials cannot sleep like Rip Van Winkle or Kumbhakarna. Some orders should be passed on the representations made by the prisoners. “Otherwise we would be forced to impose costs and direct the officers concerned to pay it to the petitioners,” the senior judge on the Bench warned before adjourning further hearing on the habeas corpus petition to Friday.
30 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Former V-C flags concerns over online education to HRD Minister||Expressing concern that online schooling does not guarantee equity or quality, well-known academic and former Anna University Vice-Chancellor E. Balagurusamy has written to Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, cautioning that online teaching should not be viewed as a viable substitute for traditional schooling. While welcoming the launch of Pragyata, an eight-step framework for online education in the time of COVID-19 lockdown, he pointed out that its real success would depend upon the role and response of the State governments, schools, teachers, parents and quality of digital infrastructure and e-content delivery in institutions. He argued that school education must be inclusive. This required setting a basic minimum standard for education that is shared by all students regardless of background, personal characteristics or location. The personal and social circumstances should not prevent students from achieving their academic potential. However, citing available statistics on families living below the poverty line and in single-room households, he said the idea of an inclusive environment is challenged by the prevailing economic conditions. “As most families live in a single- or two-room houses, it is practically impossible for them to provide an environment conducive to learning. It is a major hindrance to online learning,” Prof. Balagurusamy, a former member of UPSC, noted. Lack of access Likewise, lack of access to materials, technology, and reliable Internet services is a big barrier to remote and rural learners and students from low-income and BPL families. Besides, parents from low-income groups without an educational background are likely to find it difficult to support their children’s learning activities at home. An online learning environment can create a sense of isolation, he cautioned. “In conventional learning, the act of thinking together in a classroom builds a sense of community and connectedness. This may be missing in a digital learning environment,” he pointed out. Another area of concern was that most online education providers considered streaming of teaching material as the main form of teaching. However, such “monologues are not the way forward”, the academic contended. Development of creativity, problem-solving skills, leadership skills and social and life skills also become a casualty during online learning as it is an “isolated” process, he said. Therefore, he said, online education should not replace the traditional teaching process in the long run, and instead, a blend of online and hybrid teaching methods could be brought in, wherever appropriate.  In conventional learning, the act of thinking together in a classroom builds a sense of community and connectedness. This may be missing in a digital learning environment
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Merchants urge govt. to reopen Koyambedu market||Members of the Koyambedu Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers Merchants Welfare Association have made a representation to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam to reopen the Koyambedu wholesale market soon. Association president M. Thyagarajan said there were 3,941 shops in the Koyambedu complex, including the food grains market. About 30,000 families were dependent on the trade, apart from the retailers. Of these, only 500-600 traders had been provided space at the Thirumazhisai and Madhavaram temporary markets. As the Koyambedu market had remained closed for over three months now, several traders and labourers had lost their livelihoods. “I met the Deputy CM and represented the issues. He has assured us of measures. The State government must announce the date of reopening of the market soon,” he said.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cost, ‘larger-than-life’ image keep Tamil stars off OTT||When Tamil films like Jyothika’s Ponmagal Vandhal and Keerthy Suresh’s Penguin released first on OTT platforms, it was widely expected that several other flicks, including those involving big stars, would follow suit as cases of COVID-19 continued to rise, preventing the reopening of theatres. Many in the industry had predicted that the debilitating effect of debts and doubts over whether audiences would return to theatres would force producers and big stars to opt for a digital only release. But four months into the lockdown, Kollywood has not seen any such development, except for a few low-profile films like Yogi Babu’s Cocktail on Zee5. The issue, as always, is the cost. Producer T.G. Thyagarajan said a theatrical release remained the main source of revenue for big-budget films with big stars. “It is not viable for both of us — the revenue from an OTT digital release is not enough. At the same time, spending Rs. 200 crore to buy a big-budget film is not viable for them,” he said. “The value of a star will only be known in the theatres.” Entertainment journalist Sreedhar Pillai said the movies that were released on OTT platforms were those that were ready for a theatrical release. “Tamil Nadu has a rich culture of [people] watching films in theatres, and it cannot be changed overnight,” he said. Noting that Akshay Kumar’s Laxmmi Bomb was purchased for Rs. 120 crore for a digital-only OTT release, he argued that major stars in the regional film industry still preferred a theatrical release to maintain their ‘larger-than-life’ image. “The big stars think that OTT is small, whereas a theatrical release is big. They don’t look at the business part of it. They think that if they release their film on OTT, they become an ‘OTT star’. They prefer a theatrical release even if the OTT platforms compensate them very well,” a senior executive at an OTT platform said.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deaths top 90 on 2 days in July||The total number of deaths due to COVID-19 topped 90 on two days in July in Tamil Nadu. On July 21, 96 persons — with and without co-morbidities — died across the State, while 92 died on July 24. Till now, the maximum number of deaths recorded in the Health Department’s daily bulletin is 89 — on July 25. But the deaths reported on each day in the bulletin is an account of the deaths that had occurred in three to four days, while sometimes even deaths that occurred a week or two weeks ago are also accounted for. An analysis of day-wise deaths using data provided in the bulletin from July 1 to 28 showed that more than 90 patients died on two days so far in July. As of July 29, Tamil Nadu accounted for a total of 3,741 deaths, of which 444 were added after a reconciliation exercise recently. July alone has accounted for more than 2,000 deaths as the previous month ended with 1,201 deaths. From July 17, the number of deaths reported in the bulletin has stayed in the range of 70 to 89 every day. Apart from Chennai, more number of districts are recording deaths of COVID-19 patients in the past few weeks. Main causes A senior government doctor in Chennai said that among the main causes of death were the complications from co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and renal failure. “COVID-19 aggravates the underlying illnesses in patients. Obesity is one of the highest risk factors for mortality in COVID-19. If a COVID-19 patient is asymptomatic and his/her body mass index is 28 or 30, we consider the patient as being at high risk,” he said. Late referrals of patients from private hospitals continue to be an issue for government hospitals. “Many private hospitals are referring COVID-19 patients to government hospitals once complications set in. If six to seven persons die in the hospital per day, three of them are referred from private hospitals at the last minute. Similarly, patients are being referred from neighbouring districts, too,” he said. Among the causes for increased mortality were late presentation, the co-morbid conditions of diabetes, hypertension and obesity, the pre-existing lung diseases like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, coronary artery disease, chronic kidney disease and severity of disease, a hospital authority said. “For instance, when persons with the pre-existing lung diseases come in at a later stage of COVID-19, the chance of improvement of their lungs is slightly less. However, some patients have recovered with treatment,” he added. An official of the Health Department said they were making efforts to improve the survival rate of COVID-19 patients.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plus One results will be out tomorrow||The Directorate of Government Examinations (DGE) has announced that the results for the Plus One public exams held in March will be announced on July 31 at 9.30 a.m. Plus Two results for students who took up the final paper re-exam on July 27 will be announced at the same time. Students will be sent their results through an SMS, to the number that they have submitted in their schools. They can also log ontowww.tnresults.nic.in,www.dge1.tn.nic.inorwww.dge2.tn.nic.into access the results. Re-totalling The dates for applying for re-totalling as well as procuring their provisional marksheets will be announced soon, the DGE has said.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RGGGH nurses help patients eat their meals||A son’s appeal for help for his father, who had tested positive for COVID-19 and was unable to eat on his own, has prompted the authorities at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) to draft a group of nurses for helping patients eat their meals, as nutrition is vital for recovery. A group of nurses is being deployed to the Rheumatology Block to assist critically-ill COVID-19 patients in eating their meals, as patient attenders are not allowed in the COVID-19 wards. Six nurses are being posted in a shift per floor. The patient’s son had informed the authorities that his father, who had been admitted to the RGGGH, had sent a video of him being unable to eat a meal because of breathlessness. The authorities discussed the issue with the nurses, who were then deployed, with precautions. “Some patients, especially those in distress, are unable to eat on their own. So, our nurses will help them. This will also provide emotional support to patients. The nurses will feed patients who are unconscious or bed-ridden through Ryles tubes. We have had deaths among patients who had developed hypoglycemia in the early morning hours. So, feeding is very important for these patients,” Dean E. Theranirajan said. These nurses need not stay in the wards for six hours, but they will be around till the meal time is over. “Those who were willing to assist have been posted, and we have provided them with adequate personal protective equipment and proper instructions to take precaution...,” he added. This was part of the efforts to strengthen the care for COVID-19 patients at the micro level, he said. “We want to reduce morbidity and mortality... Nutrition plays an important role in the recovery of patients. Those in respiratory distress need energy.” The hospital has posted diabetologists in every block to check the sugar levels of COVID-19 patients who are diabetic or who have renal diseases. Anaesthetic technicians have also been deployed in every block for the respiratory care of patients requiring oxygen. “They will check if the oxygen supply is uninterrupted and if the masks are in place, especially when the patients are in a prone position. They will go on rounds, even at night,” Dr. Theranirajan said.  This will also provide emotional support to patients E. Theranirajan, RGGGH
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to offer grants up to Rs. 50 lakh each for innovative startups||The Tamil Nadu government has recently decided to fund startups and incubators anywhere between Rs. 25 lakh and Rs. 50 lakh each under the Tamil Nadu Startup Seed Grant Fund (TNSSGF) as part of implementing the Tamil Nadu Startup and Innovation Policy 2018-2023. According to the guidelines framed by the State government recently for the TNSSGF, which has a corpus fund of Rs. 50 crore, the seed funding is normally offered up to a maximum of Rs. 25 lakh. “In exceptional cases, for extraordinary projects, the funding may go up to a maximum of Rs. 50 lakh with the approval of the high-level committee,” a senior official told The Hindu . The funding by the government to ensure adequate resources to strengthen the startup ecosystem would support projects that develop a prototype of a working model to demonstrate proposed technology solutions. The grants would also cover hiring technical mentors to aid and assist in prototype creation, manpower for product development, test marketing, testing, certification and trials, among others. “An application made available online shall be filled and submitted, along with a presentation deck and supporting documents, within the prescribed date. This will be followed by shortlisting through evaluations by the panel and presentations before the TANSEED expert/high-level committee,” the guidelines said. The funding is for a maximum of 24 months in instalments against agreed milestones. The grants would also support student startups up to a maximum of Rs. 1 lakh. Students should be enrolled and studying in any of the colleges/universities within Tamil Nadu and should be working on an innovative idea towards a workable prototype. The Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute is the nodal agency for implementing the Tamil Nadu Startup and Innovation Policy 2018-2023. One of the policy interventions is providing financial grants to startups and incubators.  In exceptional cases, for extraordinary projects, the funding may go up to a maximum of Rs. 50 lakh with the approval of the high-level committee
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||V-C selection should be transparent: Stalin||Leader of the Opposition and DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday urged the AIADMK government not to give up the State’s rights in the selection of the Vice-Chancellor for the University of Madras and pave the way for the “saffronisation of the study of science and art subjects”. In a statement, he said that only a great educationist from Tamil Nadu should be made the Vice-Chancellor of the university. “It is highly condemnable that there is no transparency in the selection... The educationists in Tamil Nadu have already been humiliated with the appointment of the Vice-Chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru University, who has an engineering background, as the chairman of the search panel,” Mr. Stalin said. He of the 177 applicants, only 12 were invited for the final interview.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||It’s a treacherous journey on Velachery-Tambaram Road||Motorists taking the Velachery-Tambaram Road between the Tambaram flyover and Camp Road junction have to endure a back-breaking journey every day. The top layer of the road, especially from the old police station to the flyover, is worn off at several places and the sides full of slush make it difficult for pedestrians. Gautam, a resident of Selaiyur, said the road was wide on other stretches. “As it is, the stretch is narrow slowing down the traffic. Unless repairs are taken up soon, it will make matters worse,” he said and added that the space beneath the Medavakkam flyover needed repairs immediately. Sources in the Highways Department said the road had been dug up on both sides by the Tambaram Municipality for a sewage project. “The work has been going on for two years now. We restore the road from time to time. They have dug up the road at two locations. Unless they complete the work, the road cannot be relaid,” said an official. The slush would be removed in a couple of days and repairs, including filling of potholes, would be taken up, he added.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Draft EIA notification may turn State into a desert, says Alagiri||If the draft notification of the Environment Impact Assessment 2020 becomes law, Tamil Nadu might end up becoming a desert as the notification has given exemption to various projects such as oil and gas exploration, shale gas exploration, methane and coal, among others, and the draft seems to be aimed at Tamil Nadu, TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said. Even if all political parties oppose the draft, the State government has the duty to prevent it from becoming a law as the draft was against the State’s interest, he said, urging the Chief Minister to take immediate action. Slamming the Centre for the various proposals in the draft, Mr. Alagiri said these were aimed at protecting the corporates and would make the 2006 notification infructuous. “It will help usurp land from farmers and private landowners. The National Highways Authority of India’s submission in the Supreme Court that there is no need for environmental clearance for the Chennai-Salem eight-lane expressway shows that the draft EIA is targeted at Tamil Nadu,” he said. Mr. Alagiri said the Centre, with its brute majority in Parliament, believed that it could push through legislation without consultations or people’s support. “The loss of ecology, consequent to the damage that will be done because of this current notification, can never be offset at any time. The 2006 EIA notification was brought in with various precautions to protect the environment and the people. This should not be changed,” he said.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sonia writes to Stalin, lends support on OBC issue||Congress leader Sonia Gandhi has written to DMK president M.K. Stalin extending her party's support to the fight for educational advancement of the Backward Classes. Ms. Gandhi said she had, in a letter dated July 3, strongly urged the Centre to extend reservation to OBC candidates under the All-India Quota for UG/PG medical courses in State and Union Territories' medical colleges. Referring to the judgment of the Madras High Court on July 27 in the petition filed by the DMK and other parties, she said the Court categorically observed that the Central and State governments have to resolve the issue with the participation of the Medical Council of India and the Dental Council of India. The court directed the Centre to make an announcement regarding the implementation of the percentage of reservation, preferably within the next three months. Ms. Gandhi said she hoped that the Central government would consider providing OBC reservation under the All-India Quota, in accordance with the State reservation policy, and extended the party’s support to reservation for the Backward Classes.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘10,300 PPE kits given to frontline workers daily’||The State government on Wednesday told the Madras High Court that around 10,300 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits were being distributed every day to the frontline workers in government medical college hospitals across the State. In a status report filed before Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) supplies PPE kits to the hospitals once in two days. Further, triple layer masks and N95 respirator masks were also supplied to Joint Directors and Deputy Directors of Health Services, EMRI-108 ambulances, City Health Officer of the Greater Chennai Corporation and Employees State Insurance Corporation hospitals too. The report was filed in response to a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate S. Jimraj Milton of People’s Right Protection Centre. He had sought a direction to safeguard the lives of the frontline workers by providing them high quality PPE kits. In response, the Health Secretary said 3.64 lakh PPE kits, 3.16 lakh N95 masks and 22.96 lakh triple layer masks were available in stock in government medical college hospitals as on July 24. He also stated that orders had been placed for replenishing the stock. “Availability of PPE kits is being ensured daily,” the report read.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Assault on girl: SHRC calls for report||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Wednesday called for a report from the Villupuram Collector over a media report about four persons assaulting a girl, reportedly from the Irula community, who sought a community certificate. SHRC acting chairperson D. Jayachandran took suo motu cognisance of the media report and called for a detailed report into the incident within two weeks. According to the media report, the 17-year-old girl from Villupuram district had applied for a community certificate. Last week, four persons slapped her alleging that over 30 families in her village claimed to be Irulas only to avail themselves of community privileges. The police said a case under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, could not be registered against the four men since she did not have a community certificate.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for abusive tweets||The Cyber Crime Cell of Central Crime Branch (CCB) has booked Kishore K. Swamy for posting abusive comments on a woman journalist. The police said he had been posting abusive comments about women journalists and media organisations for a few years. He was arrested by CCB in October last following a complaint from Tamilnadu Women Journalists’ Forum but was released by a court the same day. Now, he has been booked on a complaint from a woman journalist. Sources said the police team let him off after serving a notice under Section 41 A of the Criminal Procedure Code asking him to appear before the investigation officer.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NEP evokes mixed reaction||As the Centre unveiled the New Education Policy on Wednesday, educationists in the State welcomed some aspects of it and preferred to share their views after understanding the policy entirely. Some features of the policy have been borrowed from the West, say academics. At the same time, the decision to make B.Ed. a four-year programme has left educators wondering if it would be feasible. A senior teacher educator said the new B.Ed. colleges were unable to attract candidates even for the two-year programme. “A student who wants to do a four-year programme will automatically go for either engineering or medicine,” said a former Vice-Chancellor. The decision to drop M. Phil as a programme was good, said P. Duraisamy, former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Madras. Language education When it was released in June 2019, the draft National Education Policy had a clause recommending mandatory Hindi in schools. Following strong criticism, the clause was dropped. The draft has retained the recommendation to introduce a three-language formula from Class 1. Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary, State Platform for Common School System Tamil Nadu, said the highlights indicated that the policy went against the federal character of the Constitution.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Convene Parliamentary panel meet’||DMK Rajya Sabha member R.S. Bharathi has urged Jairam Ramesh, Chairman, Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology, Environment and Forest, to convene a meeting at the earliest to discuss the draft Environment Impact Assessment 2020 notification. “The notification seeks to dilute the existing monitoring systems and strikes at the heart of the public consultation process. Our party president M.K. Stalin has called for its withdrawal,” said Mr. Bharathi, a member of the committee.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Total lockdown needed in 3 districts: MP||K. Jayakumar, Congress MP from Tiruvallur, has urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to enforce a total lockdown in the districts of Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram, where cases of COVID-19 are increasing. In a letter, he said the borders of these districts must be sealed for 10-15 days from August 1. Dharavi in Mumbai, Asia’s largest slum, had contained the spread of the contagion and won plaudits from the World Health Organization, he pointed out. Likewise, Kerala had succeeded largely in containing the spread of the novel coronavirus. “We don’t have to follow any other example to fight the virus,” he said. Mr. Jayakumar said the government must ensure that during the lockdown, no one, except the front-line workers, ventured out of their homes and take strict action against those who defied the order.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor advised isolation||Governor Banwarilal Purohit has been advised a seven-day isolation as three more persons at Raj Bhavan have tested positive for COVID-19. “Yesterday [July 28], the Raj Bhavan medical officer carried out regular health check-up of the Governor and found him fit and healthy. However, the doctor has advised him seven days isolation. Subsequently, the Governor has kept himself in isolation,” a Raj Bhavan release said. The situation is being closely monitored. Since a total of 84 persons tested positive for COVID-19 last week, the Raj Bhavan, as a precautionary measure, tested another 38 persons for the infection. Three persons tested positive and the others tested negative, the release said. “Three members who tested positive have been shifted to hospital by the Health Department and are undergoing treatment,” it added.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Certificates can be uploaded on TNEA website till August 12||The Tamil Nadu Engineering Admission 2020 on Wednesday released the schedule for uploading the necessary certificates and documents pertaining to single window counselling for engineering admissions. Candidates would be allowed to upload documents from July 31 to August 20 as per the registration number of their applications. So far 1,21,008 candidates have registered for counselling and 93,383 registrants have paid the fees. As per the schedule announced by Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan, around 20,000 candidates would be allowed to upload their documents over a period of two days according to their application registration number. Candidates with application registration number 200001 to 220000, inclusive of both numbers, will be allowed to upload documents on July 31 and August 1. Applicants bearing the registration number 300001 to 320000 can upload their documents on August 10 and 11. Those who fail to upload their certificates would be given an opportunity to upload their documents from August 12 to 20. TNEA has uploaded on its websitewww.tnea.orga video providing instructions on converting to digital format the signature of the applicant and uploading documents and photographs. Certificate verification will be undertaken from August 24 to September 1 at the TNEA facilitation centres. It is not necessary for candidates to come to the centres in person. The merit list will also be released on the TNEA website and candidates need not come in person, according to a release from the Higher Education Department. Applicants may call 044-22351014, 22351015 for queries.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Book sexual offenders under Goondas Act: Anbumani||PMK youth wing leader and Rajya Sabha MP Anbumani Ramadoss on Wednesday said that the State government should book those who commit sexual offences against women and children under the Goondas Act. In a statement, he welcomed the decision of the State government to arrest members of Karuppar Koottam, who had made a derogatory video on Kandha Sashti Kavasam.  “Crimes against women and children should also be dealt with strongly as per law in such a way that the punishment acts as a deterrent,” said Dr. Anbumani.  Meanwhile, PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Wednesday said that there were 21 universities in Tamil Nadu, but not a single person from the Vanniyar community has been appointed as the Vice Chancellor in the last five years.
30 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NIOT Director honoured||M.A. Atmanand, Director, National Institute of Ocean Technology, Chennai, was honoured with the National Award of Excellence in Ocean Technology by the Ministry of Earth Sciences recently. He has done pioneering work in deep sea technologies.
30 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DMK condemns poor water supply in Coimbatore city||The Coimbatore urban east and west units of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam on Wednesday staged protests against the Coimbatore Corporation at several places in the city, condemning the poor water supply situation. The east unit in-charge N. Karthik and west unit in-charge M. Muthusamy led the protest in their respective localities. Mr. Karthik said the water supply situation was so bad in the city that people in a few pockets waited for nearly 30 days for the Corporation to supply water. In most others, they waited for water for 10 to 12 days. The situation was not bad nine years ago when the DMK demitted office in the State. And, it had turned worse because the AIADMK government had failed to improve the water distribution infrastructure. It was water from the Pilloor II drinking water supply scheme, which the DMK had conceived and implemented, that was helping the city. At the time of demitting office, the then Corporation administration had completed 85% work. But to complete the remaining 15% work, it had taken the Corporation nearly four years. Likewise, it was the Congress-DMK-led council in the Corporation that had conceived the 24x7 drinking scheme to improve the water distribution infrastructure. The Corporation, finally, floated tender for the project only in 2018. This, again, showed the importance the AIADMK government attached to water distribution, Mr. Karthik charged.
30 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man who desecrated Periyar statue detained under NSA||Coimbatore city Police invoked provisions of the National Security Act (NSA) against M. Arun Krishnan, a Bharat Sena functionary, who was arrested for desecrating the statue of Dravidar Kazhagam founder and social activist Periyar E.V. Ramasamy, at Sundarpuram here on July 17. Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan issued the detention order against Krishanan on Tuesday. Krishnan, Coimbatore south district organiser of Bharat Sena, had splashed saffron-coloured liquid on the statue. He had surrendered at the Podanur police station on the same day.
30 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||State should oppose draft EIA notification: Mutharasan||The State Government should oppose the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 and the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) draft notification, Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary R. Mutharasan told presspersons here on Wednesday. Mr. Mutharasan said that rather than asking for exemption for Tamil Nadu from the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020, the State should oppose and reject it. The Central Government is trying to bring in several ordinances using the lockdown restrictions. The Electricity Amendment Bill is against the public and farmers. Similarly, the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act amendment will only benefit large companies and not the farmers. The draft EIA notification is against the public, he said. He added that the State and Central Governments have not focused on supporting workers in organised and unorganised sector who are affected because of the lockdown and COVID-19 pandemic. Compensation They should provide monthly compensation of Rs. 5,000 to organised sector workers and Rs. 7,500 to unorganised sector workers.
30 July 2020||COIMBATORE/Erode,TAMIL NADU||More tigers sighted outside reserves, says report||Tamil Nadu has registered an estimated increase of 35 tigers, taking the population from 229 in 2014 to 264 in 2018 as per the ‘Status of Tigers, Co-predators, and Prey in India’ report released by the Union Ministry for Environment, Forests and Climate Change on Tuesday. The estimate showed significant presence of tigers outside the four tiger reserves in Tamil Nadu, demanding more focus by the Forest Department in those areas in terms of conservation. The survey covered forest divisions and wildlife sanctuaries that are connected to the four tiger reserves — Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) and Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR) — and their buffers. Camera traps placed in these places outside the tiger reserves recorded the presence of individual tigers, pointing at the metapopulation dynamics of the species in the landscape. As per the report, 34 individual tigers were identified from images captured by 273 camera traps placed in the Nilgiri wildlife division comprising the forest ranges of Sigur, Singara, North Eastern Slopes, Kotagiri, Coonoor, Kattabettu and Ooty North. Camera traps in the Mukurthi National Park captured six individual tigers. The Coimbatore forest division, which is connected to STR and the Nilgiris eastern slope, has been mentioned as an important tiger habitat where camera traps recorded 11 individual tigers. “Better protection, minimising human-wildlife conflict and mitigating developmental projects are some of the key recipes for conservation of this division,” said the report. Individual tigers were also recorded in cameras at the Gudalur forest division (11), the Erode forest division (10), the Kodaikanal Wildlife Sanctuary (4), the Megamalai Wildlife Sanctuary (4), the Srivilliputhur Grizzled Squirrel Wildlife Sanctuary (2), the Nellai Wildlife Sanctuary (2) and the Kanyakumari Wildlife Sanctuary (1). “What we need to do now is to sustain the population for which the habitat and prey base should remain healthy. This requires professional management,” said Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) Sekhar Kumar Niraj, one of the two nodal officers for the tiger estimation in Tamil Nadu. Noting that Tamil Nadu has done a great job in conserving and protecting tiger population, A.J.T. Johnsingh, former dean of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), said these areas should be well managed further with dedicated officers. According to him, the upper Nilgiris should be treated on a par with a tiger reserve as protection of the area is very important for wildlife, biodiversity and water. A senior official with the Department felt that Theni-Megamalai-Srivilliputhur area has the potential for the dispersal of the population. “This cluster should be raised to the level of a tiger reserve,” said the official. People’s participation With a diverse prey base contributing to the increase in tiger population at STR, environmentalists call for more participation of local people and effective vigilance to maintain the growth in the coming years. The reserve covers an area of 1,411.6 km and is located in the strategic confluence of the Western and Eastern Ghats in the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve. Tiger Status Report 2018 revealed that 126 tigers use the reserve, while 83 are found within the reserve. Also, the density of tigers in the reserve was estimated at 3.75 per 100 km. “The tiger population has grown gradually over the years — 18 tigers in 2012, 54 in 2014 to the present 83,” said a senior official at the Forest Department who attributed the increase to a diverse prey base and less human-animal conflict.
30 July 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Poor students now get ‘homeschooled’||V. Mahalakshmi, 49, a Tamil teacher at the Naduveerapattu Government Higher Secondary School in Panruti block, has been exploring unconventional methods to discharge her duties during these extraordinary times. She meets Class X students at their doorstep to ensure they don’t lose out on education. “No student promoted to Class X should feel dejected due to the closure of schools. Though online classes are being held, students of government schools who don’t have smartphones are unable to access virtual classes,” she says. For the past one month, Ms. Mahalakshmi, who has 25 years of experience, has been visiting every Class X student of the government school at home. She helps them go beyond books by facilitating learning through Villu Paatu and YouTube videos. She asks parents not to engage their wards in domestic work as that would impact them academically and psychologically. She advises students who don’t have smartphones to get access to them through other students in the area. Ms. Mahalakshmi has also created a WhatsApp group, through which she carries out her academic work. “While students of private schools have access to the latest facilities, government school students hailing from poor backgrounds should be shown care, affection and concern in their formative stage so that they could perform well academically,” she says.
30 July 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Eight-lane expressway project: farmers seek MP’s intervention||Farmers opposed to the eight-lane expressway project met Dharmapuri MP S. Senthil Kumar and sought his intervention in enabling a joint resolution against the project along with the MLAs of five other project affected districts, here on Wednesday. They also urged the MP to take part in the Gram Sabha meeting scheduled to be held on August 15. Resolutions According to the project affected farmers, the attempts by the farmers to pass resolutions against the project in the Gram Sabha meetings in the previous years had failed after officials refused to allow the passing of resolutions against the government sanctioned project. This had defeated the spirit of Panchayati Raj as envisioned under the Constitution. The eight-lane expressway is slated to run through Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Thiruvannamalai and Kancheepuram. triggering objections from farmers and environmentalist. The opposition has to be the non-exploration of widening of the existing roads between the two cities, and also the ecological and livelihood costs incurred.
30 July 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Do not destroy green cover: MP||The proposal to convert a 300-acre social forestry project at Vellimalai into a SIPCOT industrial estate, proposed by the AIADMK MLA from Vedasandur constituency, must be dropped, said Karur MP S. Jothimani. The MP, in a letter submitted to Collector M. Vijayalakshmi, said she was not opposed to industrial development, but against the project which would destroy the green cover which had been there for the past 45 years. Industrialisation at the cost of destruction of natural resources should not be allowed, she said, adding residents of Velayuthampalayam were agitated about the move. Instead, hundreds of acres of fallow land could be used for the project after paying a fair price to the farmers, the MP said.
30 July 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Move to scrap free power flayed||Except the BJP, all major political parties in Tamil Nadu were opposed to the Centre’s move to scrap free power to farmers, said Congress MP Karti Chidambaram here on Wednesday. He told reporters that the decision to collect charges for electricity from farmers would not be permitted as the AIADMK too had opposed the move. Extend an olive branch to farmers and not victimise them, he said. The DMK-Congress combine was ready to face Assembly elections next year. Under the leadership of M.K. Stalin, the government would be formed. Edappadi K Palaniswami’s government was nothing but an accident. The AMMK and the AIADMK would come together as and when Sasikala stepped out of prison, he said. In an apparent reference to Ayodhya, he said there was no need for new temples in the country. What was required was good health and education for common man. The government should work towards this. He opposed the ‘Karuppar Kootam’ which spoke ill of Hindus. He took a dig at those who vandalised or disfigured statues of Periyar. On the pandemic, Mr. Karti said that neither the Centre nor Tamil Nadu contained the spread effectively. Only a vaccine looks like a solution. The number of positive cases were looking upward. The government was announcing lockdowns. But what is the plan to exit from it. How long can the people be made to sit indoors without food, when they have no work, he asked.
30 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Action will be taken against schools advertising top scorers: Minister||Action will be taken against schools if they place flex banners or advertisement boards with names of students who have scored the top marks in the board examinations, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan told reporters at Kodiveri, Gobichettipalayam, on Wednesday. The Minister, who inaugurated Rs. 2.69-crore projects for development of the anaicut, said the School Education Department had already issued a direction asking all schools in the State to refrain from using banners to announce their top scorers. “Action will be taken against schools if they violate the order,” he said. Asked whether the government plans to award marks or consider awarding grades for Class X students, the Minister said, “It is confidential and it will be revealed later.” Also, the Madras High Court had asked the Department to explain the steps taken to regulate online classes conducted by private schools in the State. “Discussion was held over the issue and submissions will be made in the court. Based on the court’s direction, steps will be taken”, he added. Asked why less number of Plus Two students re-appeared for the exam held on July 27, the Minister said that 34,842 students did not write their exam on March 24 and willingness was sought from all the students for appearing in the exam. “The government made all the arrangements for all the students to write the exam. But all did not turn up,” he added.
30 July 2020||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Tablets distributed||Faculty of Youth Red Cross Society of Alagappa University and members of Indian Red Cross Society in Sivaganga district distributed Zinc and Vitamin C tablets to teaching and non-teaching staff of the university on Wednesday.
30 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||210 history-sheeters nabbed across Madurai in three days||Amid COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, Madurai City Police have put its focus on checking activities of criminals and anti-social elements with combing operation and intensified vehicle checks. In the last three days since Sunday, 10 special teams carried out an exhaustive combing operation and caught 210 anti-social elements and brought them to book. “In the last several weeks, our focus was more on COVID-19 prevention and not much action was against history-sheeters. Now, we want to track every one and keep a tab on their activities, including what they were up to,” Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said. Many of the bad elements had come out of jail on bail in the intervening period and the police had to check their movement. As a result, the police have intensified vehicle checks and continuing combing operations. Sixteen criminal cases were registered against those indulged in anti-social activities. The police also booked 91 of them under Section 110 of Code of Criminal Procedure. “The activities of these persons are kept under close watch by jurisdictional officers,” he added. Nine were detained under Goondas Act. The police also picked up 103 suspects and after enquiry they were let off. Mr. Sinha said armed teams would conduct vehicle checks, and patrolling had been intensified to curtail movement of criminals.
30 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Desilt Sathaiyar dam and raise its storage, say Alanganallur farmers||Sathaiyar dam near Palamedu must be desilted to ensure maximum storage of water, said farmers from Alanganallur block in Madurai district. In the past five years, the dam has not reached its maximum storage level of 29 feet, despite good rains in catchment areas, said Muthuraman G., State vice-president of BJP Kisan Morcha, who recently petitioned the Collector regarding this issue. The dam has an ayacut area of 1,450 acres and it capacity to store 56 mcft of water. Since the dam had not reached its maximum level, many of the system tanks were remaining dry, dashing the hopes of farmers, said M. Selvaraj from Sukkampatti. Hence many had become dependent on water from wells to irrigate their fields. “But the groundwater table has drastically gone down in the recent years,” he said. Farmers were unable to irrigate their fields due to water scarcity. At many places, crops had withered. Mr. Muthuraman said out of the Sathaiyar dam’s maximum storage level 29 feet, around 10 feet was filled with alluvial soil. “The Public Works Department desilted the inlet channel for the dam two years back. However, the dam has not been desilted for so many years,” he said. A.M.M. Ambikapathy from Pudupatti said water released from Periyar Main Canal irrigated only one-third of the agricultural land in Alanganallur block. But if the Sathaiyar dam was filled, farmers dependent on system tanks would also stand to benefit. When more water got stored in the dam, the groundwater level in the region would also improve and benefit farmers dependent on well irrigation, he said. A PWD official said a proposal for desilting the dam had been sent to the government for approval. But there had been no update on it till date.
30 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MLA doubts death rate||The State government had utterly failed in managing the COVID-19 pandemic, said DMK MLA P. Saravanan here on Tuesday. He said the government was trying to suppress the actual number of COVID-19 deaths. All along the Health Minister had been claiming that the State had a lowest death rate even after DMK president M.K. Stalin pointed out “fudged” data on deaths. Now, the government had come up with 444 additional deaths, he said. The government was trying to hide itself behind the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research. The death of any patient, irrespective of the cause, should be recorded as COVID-19 death if the patient had contracted COVID-19 is an old guideline. “Even if only 20 persons had taken part in each funeral of these newly added 444 deaths, at least 8,000 people could have been exposed to the infection as these deaths were not declared as COVID-19 deaths then,” he said. Going by the number of bodies cremated and buried in Madurai district, the actual number of COVID-19 deaths could be at least three times the number of declared deaths, he said. Advocating for mass testing at the earliest to check infection and contact tracing and providing early treatment to avoid deaths, he wondered why 168 testing centres had been approved till date, while the State had a total of 362 testing facilities. “Now, it takes at least five days for the results to come and till then an infected person moves around freely and infect as many people as possible,” he said. Stating that RT-PCR equipment was a time consuming one and its kits were very costly, he said the alternative would be to introduce Rapid Antigen/Antibody Testing facilities. “Its kits are cheaper and test results would be out within 15 minutes and treatment could be started immediately,” he said. He said private hospitals were finding it difficult to get life-saving COVID-19 drugs.
30 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Revoke punitive action taken against government staff||Members of Joint Action Committee of Tamil Nadu Teachers Organisation-Government Employees Organisation (JACTTO-GEO) sought the revoking of punitive action taken against teachers and employees from other government departments here on Wednesday. They submitted a petition to Collector T. G. Vinay seeking reversal of transfers and other action initiated against employees. Tamil Nadu State Government Employees Association district secretary K. Neethiraja said all employees,including medical staff, employees from revenue and health departments,have been working through the COVID-19 period without a break and risking their lives. “Keeping the State government’s situation in mind, approximately 12 lakh teachers and government employees have contributed close to Rs. 150 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Yet, the State government is yet to revoke the punitive action against employees. Many are finding it difficult as annual increments, promotions and post-retirement benefits have been denied,” he said. The organisation demanded the revoking of disciplinary action against staff. Mr. Neethiraja said the State government should quash contributory pension scheme so that the old pension scheme could be brought back.
30 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea for probe into elephant carcass burning incident||M. Muthuselvam, an animal enthusiast from Madurai, filed a public interest litigation petition before the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Wednesday seeking a direction for a Wildlife Crime Control Bureau probe into elephant carcass burning incident in the Grizzled Squirrel Sanctuary in Srivilliputtur. The petitioner said he had read various news reports on mysterious death of an elephant inside the Saptur forest range. The information on death of the elephant was suppressed and its carcass was burnt inside the forest. Four officials of the Saptur forest range have been suspended. Had the officials conducted a post mortem, they could have ascertained cause of the death. But the carcass was burnt in a hasty, suspicious and mysterious manner, he said. Special Government Pleader V.R. Shanmuganathan submitted that an inquiry into the incident has been initiated and the remains of the elephant were sent to the Advanced Institute for Wildlife Conservation, Chennai, and the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad. Apart from the four officials, five temporary anti-poaching watchers have been removed. The team of Forest Officials had found the carcass on May 6 and without informing the Wildlife Warden burnt the carcass on May 8. A wildlife offence has been booked and an offence report has been submitted to the Judicial Magistrate, Peraiyur, he said. Taking cognisance of the submissions, a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the State government to submit a status report in the case and adjourned the hearing till August 18.
30 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses govt. servant’s plea for retransfer||Dismissing the petition filed by a government servant, who sought transfer back to his native village, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday observed that while keeping one’s own interest in mind, government servants should also think about the interests of society. The court was hearing a petition filed by Vasu, a village assistant from Ramanathapuram district. Originally appointed to the post in his native Radhanur, he was transferred to Odaikal in the same district 10 km away due to disciplinary proceedings initiated against him. Justice R. Suresh Kumar observed that the petitioner claimed that he faced threat from the predominant community in Odaikal and sought transfer back to his native. However, his allegation was not backed by any truth. He did not lodge any complaint nor did he file any document to that effect before the court. The petitioner should instead work to fulfil the needs of the villagers, and by his hard work earn reputation and goodwill among the people residing in the village. The court said it was not inclined to accept the prayer sought by the petitioner.
30 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Students rush to apply as MKU’s application process goes online||With the application process for colleges going online, authorities of colleges affiliated to Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) say they have been receiving more applications this year. The university has begun offering various undergraduate courses in constituent colleges starting July 20. Interested candidates can apply through the official websites. In the past, the application process ran into issues with allegations of inordinate delay and lack of transparency. Though steps have been taken to streamline the process, introduction of online procedure for application will open the floodgates, the authorities point out. M. Buvaneswaran, Principal of a constituent college in Tirumangalam, says there has been close to 250 enquiries on Wednesday. “Since constituent colleges are mostly surrounded by villages, we have many students looking to apply. They are now making the effort to switch to technology and we are available in case they face glitches. Many are applying through android phones,” Mr. Buvaneswaran says. A professor from another constituent college in Andipatti, which has been taken over by the State government now, says the institution has also been functioning as a facilitating centre for students finding it difficult to apply. “Many have been going to e-seva computer centres in their villages as well. There has been a good response this year despite the pandemic.” This is the case in other constituent colleges too, says Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan. Since students have access to laptop at schools and most families have android phone, they are aware of navigation techniques. “We too have tried to make it as easy as possible as our professors have to adapt to this method for the first time as well. Despite the constituent colleges being located in remote and rural areas, parents and students have been calling to enquire,” the Vice-Chancellor says. Low fees The low fee structure in the colleges is another attraction. “We anticipate a similar response until the last date for application,” he adds. V. Thangaraj, State president, Tamil Nadu All Government College UGC Qualified Guest Lecturers’ Association, says if the last date for application can be extended from July 31 to August 7, more students will get the chance to apply. The university will act as per State government norms, says the Vice-Chancellor.
30 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Veterinarian post remains vacant at three abattoirs||The post of a veterinarian at the three slaughter houses in the city - two for goats and one for cows - remains vacant for at least five years. Among the two goat slaughter houses, the one at Nelpettai is usually crowded and work begins as early as 2 a.m. every day. Around 1,000 goats are butchered on Sundays, says a source from Madurai Corporation. The other one is the modern slaughter house at Anuppanadi, which is usually busy only before festivals. At the old cow slaughter house at Mahaboobpalayam, only a few cows are slaughtered every day. A veterinarian must be present at these slaughter houses to check and certify an animal as healthy before slaughtering it. “But, since there is no doctor, the mutton shopkeepers tend to butcher even inferior quality goats at the slaughter house at Nelpettai. It raises health concerns among the customers who tend to eat them,” says A. Kaja Mohideen, president of Sungam Pallivasal at Nelpettai. “We have made several appeals to the Corporation to appoint a doctor. However, no action has been taken towards it,” he adds. Concurring with this viewpoint, S. Muthukrishnan, president of Madurai City Mutton Retail Merchants Association, who also owns a stall at Nelpettai market, says many mutton shopkeepers tend to butcher the goats at their own shops, rather than coming to the slaughter house. “It is mandatory that goats are butchered at the slaughter house. But, many shopkeepers, especially from Arapalayam, Mahaboobpalayam, Pudur and Palanganatham, tend to butcher the goats at their own shops, in violation of the norms,” he says. Despite repeated appeals, the Corporation officials are not inspecting the shops that violate the norms and penalise them, he adds. A source from the Animal Husbandry Department says since 2014 the veterinarian post at the slaughter houses have remained vacant. “There were discussions held earlier to appoint one veterinarian to take care of all the three slaughter houses,” said the source.
30 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to shift checkpost closer to Kerala border||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to file a status report on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State to shift a checkpost in Tenkasi district closer to Kerala border in order to stop people from the neighbouring State from dumping waste into Tamil Nadu. The court was hearing a PIL petition filed by A. Madasamy, an agriculturalist who sought a direction to restrain the government from constructing a permanent checkpost in Paravanpatrukulam in Puliyarai village in Tenkasi district, which was six km from Kerala border. Instead, the checkpost must be constructed at Kottaivasal, a km away from the border, he said. Construction of the checkpost six km from the border created problems for villagers residing beyond the barrier within Tamil Nadu. They were subjected to checking by police at the checkpost and agriculturalists found it difficult to transport agricultural produce, he pointed out. On the other hand, people from Kerala constantly dumped waste into Tamil Nadu near the border. Though villagers objected to this, the dumping had not stopped. The authorities neither took any steps to remove the waste nor stop the dumping of waste, he said. Taking into account the seriousness of the issue, a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the District Collector and the SP to file individual status reports on the case. The case was adjourned for further hearing till August 17.
30 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||File status report on PIL plea for Siddha centres: HC tells govt.||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to file a status report on a PIL petition that sought a direction to the State to set up exclusive Siddha treatment facility centre to treat positive patients in each district. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the Health Secretary to file the report on the petition filed by T.A. Omprakash from Tiruchi. The State should allocate sufficient funds to set up the centres. There was no approved medicine or vaccination. Hence, the option of alternate traditional medicines, which were more affordable, should be explored, he said.
30 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Taxi drivers want relief||The State government must give cash assistance to taxi drivers who were without work and income ever since the COVID-19 lockdown started in March, said a drivers’ association. In a petition submitted to Collector T. G. Vinay here on Wednesday, the association’s office-bearer S.P. Ganesh said all cab drivers, especially those who drive tourist vehicles were facing so much hardship. “We are denied e-pass as the government fears we might ferry passengers. We have no income and owners of vehicles do not give the salary during the lockdown period,” he said. Since the vehicles were remaining idle, the vehicle insurance must be extended for a six-month period. There is no welfare board for the thousands of taxi drivers. The government should set up one. The district borders must be opened up for transportation of passengers, Mr. Ganesh said.
30 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Report submitted||The State government has submitted the status and postmortem reports and the videograph of the postmortem to the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday in the petition seeking a CB-CID probe into the Tenkasi farmer’s death. Justice R. Pongiappan adjourned the hearing to July 30. The petitioner, Palammal, wife of Anaikarai Muthu, alleged that her husband died due to torture by the Forest department personnel who had picked up Anaikarai Muthu for an inquiry on illegal tapping of electricity.
30 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Wednesday stood at 114.70 feet (permissible level is 142 feet) with an inflow and discharge of 125 cusecs each. In Vaigai dam, the level was 30.74 feet (71 feet). The inflow was 14 cusecs and discharge was 72 cusces. The combined Periyar credit was 1,613 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Wednesday (in mm): Periyar dam 5.2, Thekkady 0.4, Gudalur 1.3, Kallandiri 1.6, Chittampatti 2, Pulipatti and Melur 1.2. The water level in Papanasam dam stood at 52.10 feet (143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 325.23 cusecs and 454.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 62.65 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 11 cusecs and 75 cusecs of water was discharged.
30 July 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain spells trouble for farmers||In view of the heavy rainfall in Nagapattinam during this month, the Agriculture Department has suggested to the Public Works Department to suspend water release into the rivers and canals in the district for a few days. The district recorded an average of 55.06 mm rainfall during the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday. The maximum rainfall of 100.6 mm was recorded in Talaignayar followed by 98.4 mm in Thirupoondi, 70.4 mm in Vedaranyam, 50.7 mm in Nagapattinam, 47 mm in Sirkazhi, 46 mm in Manalmedu, 30 mm in Tranquebar, 28.4 mm in Mayiladuthurai, and 24 mm in Kollidam. The district has recorded 196 mm rainfall so far this month. The timely release of water from Mettur dam in the Cauvery had prompted the farmers to increase the area of paddy cultivation. According to Agriculture Department officials, the rainfall has helped the district to bring 45,512 hectares under paddy cultivation against the targeted 41,000 hectares during the kuruvai season. The current spell has reportedly led to stagnation in about 1,500 hectares of paddy fields in the harvest stage in Sirkazhi-Mayiladuthurai belt. More heavy rainfall may lead to damage to crops or affect the yield, officials acknowledged. Nevertheless, there is now a higher inclination among farmers to insure their crops, and, hence, farmers would be compensated for the damaged crops, a senior official said. Farmers have been given time, until this month-end, to get their crops insured, they added.
30 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Centac to accept old copies of caste certificates||The Centralised Admission Committee (Centac) on Wednesday clarified that students seeking admission could even submit old copies of caste, residence, regional quota or other certificates. In a press release, Centac said the certificates would be verified through Revenue authorities by the committee. If the students did not have any certificates, they could submit their details in Centac application, obtain certificates from the authorities before August 21 and then upload them. The Chief Minister had announced on the floor of the Assembly that all students belonging to the Union Territory applying for Centac counselling would be given a month for submitting certificates, the release said.
30 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Late summer crop caught in rain||Paddy cultivated late during summer and ready for harvest now got submerged in water due to the latest spell of rain in Thiruvidaimaruthur and Thirukattupalli areas. Farmers in Thiruvidaimaruthur and Thirukattupalli areas have taken up summer cultivation on about 100 acres and 50 acres, respectively. The paddy cultivated by them was ready for harvest. However, the sudden downpour witnessed in these areas resulted in the crop submerging in water as the drainage channels were not desilted properly. Claiming that each farmer had spent around Rs. 20,000 per acre for cultivating paddy as summer crop, Selvagurunathan of Pazhingiyanallur in Thiruvidaimaruthur taluk said the 100 acres on which summer crop was cultivated got submerged in rainwater as the drainage channel in the region had several mounds on its bed obstructing the flow of the rainwater stagnated in the agriculture fields. While Thiruvidaimaruthur taluk farmers were all set to lose their crop, a section of farmers in Thirukattupalli region were struggling to save the harvested paddy from getting soaked in rain. Complaining that the paddy procurement process too was moving at a snail's pace, Sundaram of Ganapathi Agraharam said that the farmers were forced to stock the produce in open space near the Direct Procurement Centre. Meanwhile, a group of youth from Arumulai and Vannipattu hamlets in Orathanadu block stepped into the Arumulai irrigation channel to clear the blockades on the channel to ensure the smooth flow of the water to irrigate around 4000 acres in this region. Though sufficient quantity of water was being released into the Grand Anicut Canal for the past one and half months, the water flow in the Arumulai channel was hampered due to the presence of tree branches and weeds. The youngsters cleared the branches on Tuesday.
30 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||NEET coaching for students||Government school students in Thanjavur district, who are going to appear for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (Undergraduate) to be held on September 13, have started receiving extra attention from the District Education Department. A total of 152 students from different government schools have registered their names for the NEET examination and are undergoing the online coaching offered by the Education Department. Since the online-coaching course has been completed and the students have been asked to revise the syllabus on their own, the Chief Education Officer, Ramakrishnan has come out with a plan to keep in touch with these students over mobile phones through which they can get their doubts, if any, cleared by their tutors. Further, the tutors were advised to call on the NEET examination takers, whenever possible, to motivate them in person adhering to the safety norms prescribed to check the spread of COVID 19.
30 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Converting schools as care centres opposed||The Kumbakonam education district unit of the Tamil Nadu Nursery, Primary, Matric, Higher Secondary, CBSE Schools Association has opposed the conversion of private schools as COVID-19 care centres. In a resolution passed at the Executive Committee meeting at Kumbakonam on Wednesday, the association said that the government should first make use of the educational institutions under its control for setting up the centres.  The association has also passed a resolution seeking renewal of permission to run the educational institutions for another three years taking into consideration the difficulties in obtaining necessary certificates from different departments in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and sought an increase of 20 % in the school fees.
30 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Couple in hiding held after 10 years||The police have arrested a couple who had gone underground for the past 10 years to evade arrest in connection with a murder-for-gain case. A. Sahaya Lourdhu, 21, of Saveriyarpuram near Sattankulam was murdered in 2010 by unidentified persons who stole her gold ornaments weighing about four sovereigns. Thattaarmadam police, who registered a case, found that T. Murugan alias Esakki Muthu, 45, of Paaraikuttam near Maniyachi and his wife Petchithaai, 40, had committed the crime. As the couple went underground, the court issued a non-bailable warrant against them, which was pending for the past 10 years. When Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar formed a special team, comprising Sub-Inspector of Police, Kovilpatti, Esakki Raja, to nab the couple, the team arrested them at Nathampatti in Virudhunagar district on Wednesday. Mr. Jayakumar, who felicitated the special team, said the police would gather information from the neighbouring districts to ascertain whether they were involved in more crimes.
30 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 testing scaled up in Tiruchi||With the district administration taking steps to step up testing for COVID-19, the number of tests conducted in a day has crossed the 2,000-mark early this week. The number of testing stood at around 200 a day in the first few weeks of April after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) gave nod for COVID-19 testing facility at K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College in Tiruchi. It went up to 500 a day in the next few weeks, particularly after the resumption of train and flight services to Tiruchi. It was subsequently increased to 700 to 800 a day thereafter. It crossed the four-digit mark in the first week of July and then went up to 1,250 in the second week. It touched the 2,000-mark on Monday. The figure excludes the samples being lifted from the overseas returnees at Tiruchi international airport and samples being tested at the private laboratories. “Intensive testing is among the important steps to check the spread of the virus. Hence, we have scaled up swab tests. We collect as many samples as possible from people in the vulnerable spots and containment zones,” said Collector S. Sivarasu. He told The Hindu that there was a scope for scaling up the testing further. Besides primary and secondary contacts of those who had tested positive, the people in living congested areas, market zones, traders, vegetable vendors and grocery merchants were being tested. Mr. Sivarasu said that the laboratory at KAP. Viswanatham Medical College could process close to 2,000 samples a day. The action taken on Doctors Diagnostic Centre on screening COVID-19 tests would not affect the testing capacity in the district as four more private laboratories were permitted to process COVID-19 tests.
30 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Private firm sealed for violation||Revenue officials on Wednesday sealed Elfin E-Com Private Limited at Mannarpuram here after a large number of people were found inside the firm in violation of the prohibitory orders imposed to check the spread of COVID-19. The action against the firm, whose owner Raja has been in the thick of controversy with a cheating case also having been registered against him in Tiruchi City Police limits recently, was taken based on the direction from the Collector. Police sources said they received information regarding the presence of a sizeable number of persons inside the firm. Those present inside were district level functionaries of Aram Makkal Nala Sangam, an organisation also run by Mr.Raja. . The police officials found that the group was not following personal distancing norms. The firm was sealed by Mohan, tahsildar, Tiruchi East, on the direction of the District Collector, an official said. A team of police personnel, including an Assistant Commissioner of Police, were at the spot when the firm was sealed. Early this month, the Cantonment Police had registered a case against Mr. Raja and a few others on charges of assaulting, threatening and cheating a 30-year-old man who had invested Rs. 45 lakh in the firm. Mr. Raja had recently joined the Bharatiya Janata Party.
30 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Persons with disabilities rush to renew identity cards in Tiruchi||Over 200 persons with disabilities gathered outside the District Differently Abled Rehabilitation Office in Tiruchi to renew the National Disability Identity cards. Many who had gone to other districts for work or other reasons had visited the office to renew the card, officials here said. The Tiruchi DDRO, R. Ravichandran said that on Wednesdays special camps are conducted for persons with orthopaedic disabilities to visit a doctor at the office and to also renew their ID cards. Similarly, visually impaired persons would visit on Thursday. “We began distributing the blue coloured National ID cards in 2005. There are many with ID cards issued earlier than that, and are therefore now visiting the office for renewal,” he said. Since the ID cards are necessary for availing the COVID 19 of Rs. 1000 announced by the State government, many persons were rushing in to get their cards renewed. The crowd at the office on Wednesday was larger than usual as many are yet to receive the Rs. 1000 relief fund offered by the government visited the office, said Mr. Ravichandran. The camp was suspended due to COVID-19 and was resumed after a period of a few weeks. Of the 63,617 people registered in the district so far, 28,800 have received the assistance so far, he added. The assistance is being distributed at the Village Administrative Office across all taluks to ensure that persons with disabilities get it. However, despite that many, especially in urban areas, were yet to receive it, Mr. Ravichandran said. M. Kamaraj, disabilities rights activist said that more awareness was required among persons with disabilities. “There are many without the Disability Identity Card issued by the central government. There are many without any identity cards too. For them, an enrolment drive is required,” he said. Meanwhile, the district administration has requested persons with disabilities to avail themselves of the one-time relief fund by July 31. The VAO at all taluk offices would hand over the money if necessary documents were produced, an official release said.
30 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A robot meant for pandemic times||A city-based technology solutions company has developed a robot to scan customers’ body temperature, provide hand sanitisers and other assistance to them at showrooms. The robot, tested at a textile showroom, has received appreciation and further orders. Many shops and showrooms, which reopened after lockdown norms were eased, had to deploy an employee to check the temperature of customers and provide hand sanitisers. But the employee too would be susceptible to the infection. Hence the need for robot, said Aashik Rahman, Propeller Technologies. Recently some employees at a few stores tested positive. As a possible solution, Mr. Rahman and his 20-member team developed Zafira, a fully automated voice-activated robot to screen temperature, detect face masks and provide hand sanitisers. As soon as a customer enters the shop, Zafira will first ask for their name and contact details. She will then check their body temperature four times in a few seconds. “If the body temperature is normal, she will check if they are wearing a mask. She will then go on to dispense some sanitiser,” Mr. Rahman said. If the criteria is met, she will say “Hi! I am Zafira, Welcome to the store,” otherwise, she will ask them to return only when the conditions are met, he added. Zafira was test-run at the Chennai Silks on West Boulevard Road. “We approached them to help us replace the person at the gate. It works very well and we are in talks to order some more,” said the manager of the store. Now Zafira is being developed with some additional features. It can tell them where certain products are located and even advise them to maintain personal distance. “The robot has been programmed to turn 360 degrees and go all around the store,” Mr. Rahman said. Since it is being used at a textile showroom, the exterior of the robot was made in such a way it can be dressed up with sarees and other clothes. The robot will send detailed emails including the number of customers at the store at any given point of time, their contact details and body temperatures to the manager of the store on a daily basis. Zafira, fully made in India, is proof that we do not need to depend of foreign inventions, Mr. Rahman said, adding that Chennai Silks has ordered 15 robots of which 10 will be delivered in a month.
30 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||646 test positive, 7 die in central region||The central region on Wednesday witnessed a sharp increase in COVID-19 cases with 646 patients testing positive for the viral infection. Seven deaths were recorded — three in Nagapattinam and one each in Ariyalur, Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur. In Nagapattinam, a 20-year-old man with chronic kidney disease, a 50-year-old man with toxic hepatitis and a 65-year-old woman with coronary artery disease died at the Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital. A 22-year-old woman with anaemia from Ariyalur, a 65-year-old Pudukottai man with diabetes, a 74-year-old Thanjavur man with hypertension and diabetes and a 70- year- old woman from Tiruvarur who had been diagnosed with coronary artery disease died with COVID-19 related complications. On Wednesday, Thanjavur saw 188 patients testing positive. There were 136 fresh cases in Tiruchi, 112 in Tiruvarur, 81 in Pudukottai, 55 in Nagapattinam, 27 in Perambalur, 43 in Karur and four in Ariyalur. Among the fresh cases in Thanjavur, four were frontline health workers from a private hospital in the district, two policeman including a sub-inspector for Kumbakonam, an optometrist at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, a village health nurse at Thiruvidaimaruthur, a pharmacist at the Veppathur Primary Healthcare Centre and a private ambulance driver. Many among the 136 patients in Tiruchi hailed from Manapparai, Marungapuri and Thuraiyur in the district and Mela Chintamani, Palakkarai and Woraiyur in city. The patients have been admitted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Meanwhile, 39, including 34 from Tiruchi, were discharged from the Tiruchi MGMGH while 40 patients, including 33 from Tiruchi, were discharged from the COVID Care facility in Khajamalai and were sent to their hometowns. In Nagapattinam, two clusters were emerging, one at Paravai vegetable market and another among police personnel in Mayiladuthurai. Nine each among the two clusters tested positive on Wednesday. Senior officials here said that the market has been shut for three days as a precautionary measure. Meanwhile, three staff nurses, one working in Chennai, one at Mayiladuthurai and another at the Government Hospital in Nagore, tested positive. Two health inspectors, one from Nagapattinam and one from Vedaranyam Block also tested positive. Four pregnant women were also among the 55 who tested positive. Karur saw a rise in COVID-19 cases with 43 patients testing positive. The patients have been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. Meanwhile, 23 patients, all hailing from Karur were discharged after recovering from the infection. A total of 27 patients tested positive in Perambalur among who were two municipality workers, a medical officer at Valikandapuram, a CT technician at the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital and a health inspector from Melamathur. Inter-district travellers from Tiruchi and a man from Dubai also tested positive. Four patients from Ariyalur tested positive for the viral infection. The total number of cases in the district is 896, of which 734 are active cases. A total of six new villages were added to the containment zones. Meanwhile, 182 new throat swabs were lifted for primary contacts, those in containment zones and others suffering from COVID-19 symptoms.
30 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Organisations’ plea to intensify measures to check Coronavirus||The Federation of Consumer and Service Organisations has urged the State government to take intensive measures to check the spread of the COVID 19 pandemic in interior districts such as Tiruchi. In a representation addressed to the Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami, M.Sekaran, president of the federation, called for intensive measures on the lines of those taken in Chennai to control the spread of COVID 19 in other districts where the number of positive cases were increasing. “While the virus spread has been brought under control in Chennai, the infection was spreading fast in other districts. The same degree of importance given to control the spread of virus in Chennai should be extended to other districts such as Tiruchi,” he said. Mr.Sekaran maintained that the medical facilities in places such as Tiruchi were inadequate. “Besides the government medical college hospital, a few private hospitals have been recognised to provide treatment for COVID 19. But they were overflowing with patients and there was shortage of beds,” he alleged. Since many asymptomatic patients have been accommodated in the recognised hospitals, those who require urgent medical treatment were being denied beds. Many hospitals were admitting asymptomatic patients too, he claimed and suggested that the asymptomatic patients be accommodated in lodges so that special attention could be paid to those who have been severely affected by the virus. All hospitals in the district should be brought under the operational control of the District Collector and beds should be allotted based on the need and severity of the disease among the patients. He also expressed concern over the poor medical attention being given to non-COVID 19 patients. Hospitals, other than those approved for COVID 19 treatment, should extend treatment to non-COVID 19 patients. Mr.Sekaran demanded the lifting of restriction on inter-district movement of private vehicles as many patients have to travel to hospitals from one district to other in the region. Getting e-passes was also proving to be difficult. Patients in places in Pudukottai, Karur or Thanjavur districts, which were closer to Tiruchi, could not come to the city for treatment due to the restriction. He, however, suggested that the restriction on the functioning of schools, colleges, theatres and places of worship should continue.
30 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Training programme on fish feed preparation||The Dr.M.G.R Fisheries College and Research Institute, a constituent of the Tamil Nadu Dr.J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University, will offer an online training programme on ‘Farm made fish feed preparation,’ from 10 a.m. to noon on August 6. The programme will cover various aspects of fish feed preparation such as importance of feeds in aquaculture, types of feeds, feed formulation methods, feed preparation methods, selection of fish feed ingredients, grinding and mixing of ingredients, drying, packing, quality control of fish feeds and economic aspects will be taught to the trainees. The fee for the training programme will be Rs. 300 per person. Certificates will be issued to all participants, a varsity press release said. Interested candidates should register their names on or before 5 p.m. on August 5 with the Professor & Head, Department of Aquaculture, Dr.M.G.R Fisheries College & Research Institute, Oradiyambulam, Thalainayeru - 614 712. Nagapattinam District, Tamil Nadu. For more details, dial 09442288850 or email to:athithan@tnfu.ac.in
30 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Eight youth detained, weapons seized in Tirunelveli district||The police have detained eight youth with deadly weapons when they were sleeping in the house of a history-sheeter at Thatchanallur near here on Wednesday. Sources said Thalavai, 29, of Azhagiyapandiapuram near Maanur, who was coming to Tirunelveli on his bike on Monday via Ramaiyanpatti, saw a police team checking vehicles ahead of Santhimariththamman Temple. To avert the check, Thalavai took the street opposite Thatchanallur police station to reach Madurai Main Road via the alternative route. As Thalavai had stuck the sticker ‘Pasumpon’ on his bike in red and yellow colour and was wearing a wrist band in the same colour, used by a particular caste, a group belonging to another caste, who were standing on that street forcibly stopped the two-wheeler. When the youth thrashed Thalavai, he abandoned the bike and escaped from the spot. After Thalavai informed the police about the attack, the Thatchanallur police registered a case. Since the police suspected that those who attacked Thalavai were the supporters of Kannapiraan, founder of Devendrakula Velaalar Makkal Ezhuchchi Iyakkam, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli, Sathish, and Inspector of Police, Thatchanallur, Vanasundar, entered the house of Kannapiraan. As eight youths, including Kannapiraan, were sleeping in the house, the police overpowered them and seized 10 aruvaals, a petrol bomb and a few more weapons before they could use it against the police. They were identified as Ammu, 23, Bhaskar, 32, Arunkumar, 23, Rameswaran, 23, Chinnathambi, 24, Kombaiah, 23, Manikandan, 31 and Abhinesh, 22, all from Pakkapatti, Ottapidaaram, Sethurayanpudhur and Reddiyarpatti. “Most of them are wanted in connection with some criminal cases registered in various police stations,” the police said. Kannapiraan said a few youths assaulted a person as he was moving around on his bike a few times in a suspicious manner “in his area” and “handed over his bike” to the police. “If the police really wanted to arrest those who assaulted the stranger, I would have handed them over to the police. However, the police, who have joined hands with oppressive forces, are targeting us,” he charged. The staff at the Intelligence Section of Tirunelveli City Police maintained that they were yet to get the details from the Thatchanallur station.
30 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-MLA held||A special police team nabbed former Nagercoil MLA ‘Nanjil’ A. Murugesan, 53, who was wanted in connection with a case pertaining to the sexual assault of a 12-year-old girl, with the connivance of her mother, from a farm near Thisaiyanvilai in the district on Wednesday. The police arrested the former AIADMK MLA, who represented the Nagercoil Assembly segment between 2011 and 2016, from a farm where he was staying along with three others. He has been booked under Sections 3(a) (penetrative sexual assault with sexual organ), 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault), 7 (sexual assault by touching vital organs but not penetrative), 8 (punishment for sexual assault), 11(3) (shows any object to a child in any form or media for pornographic purposes), 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) and 17 (punishment for abetment) of POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act for allegedly sexually assaulting the girl in 2017. With the arrest of Murugesan, the police have so far detained five persons in connection with this sensational case, as four others including the girl’s mother, Paul, 66, and Ashok Kumar, 43 of Idalakudi and Karthik, 28, of Kottar were arrested on Tuesday. The three men have also raped the girl with the connivance of her mother, it has come to light in the probe, police said. Police sources said the victim from the district, now 15-years-old, was rescued by the law-enforcers a few days ago after she eloped with a 20-year-old boy from Nagercoil. Police subsequently registered a case of kidnap against the youth since the girl is a minor. When she recorded her statement even as she was produced before the court, the girl reportedly accused Murugesan, who had an illicit affair with her mother, of having raped her in 2017. Shocking revelations As the shocking revelations by the girl were taken-up with the District Child Welfare Committee, the District Child Protection Unit subsequently lodged a complaint with the Nagercoil All Women Police, who registered a case against Murugesan under various sections of the POCSO Act. As Murugesan went underground after the case was registered, five special police teams were on the lookout for him. After arresting the girl’s mother and three others named by the victim, the special teams searched for Murugesan and finally nabbed him from the farm near Thisaiyanvilai. Removed from party Without giving any specific reason for his expulsion from the party, AIADMK Coordinator and O. Panneerselvam and Co-Coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who are the Dy. Chief Minister and Chief Minister respectively, had on Monday stated that Murugesan had been removed from primary membership of the AIADMK for bringing disrepute to the party and tarnishing its image.
30 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Child workers rescued||Forty child workers, including 37 girls, who were forced to work at a private spinning mill at Alathur near Avinashi in Tiruppur district, were rescued on Tuesday. Officials from the Department of Social Welfare, Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health, Tiruppur District Police and Child Welfare Committee (CWC) rescued them on a tip-off from Childline. Preliminary investigations revealed they were brought from Tiruvannamalai, Tirupattur, Vellore and Krishnagiri districts earlier this month without e-passes. CWC Chairperson for Tiruppur district M. Premalatha said efforts were on to send them to their hometowns.
30 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Accused in sub-jail tests positive for COVID-19||A man remanded in judicial custody at Avinashi sub-jail tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. Police sources said that Coimbatore District Police arrested a 44-year-old man on charges of illegally selling lottery tickets in Sulur on Monday. The police booked him under provisions of Lotteries Regulation Act and seized 1,073 lottery tickets along with cash worth Rs. 60,530. Prior to being remanded, the swab sample of the accused was lifted at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Monday. The results returned on Wednesday, which confirmed that he was COVID-19 positive. He was released on bail on Wednesday, according to the police sources. Health Department sources said the swab samples of 28 persons – 19 accused and nine jail staff members – were lifted at Avinashi sub-jail and the jail premises were disinfected on Wednesday.
30 July 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Municipal office closed||The Mannargudi municipal office has been temporarily closed after two staff tested positive. Since they suffered from symptoms during the past week, swab and blood samples were taken from them on July 27. The results that came out the next day indicated that they had contracted the virus. They were rushed to Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital. All staff who visited the office in the recent past have been directed to undergo tests.
30 July 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Municipal office temporarily closed||The Mannargudi municipal office has been temporarily closed after two civic body staff tested positive for COVID-19. They reportedly suffered from symptoms during the past week and hence swab and blood samples were taken from them on July 27 for testing. The test results which came out on July 28 night indicated that both of them have contracted the virus. They were rushed to the Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital. All the civic body staff who had visited the office in the recent past have been directed to undergo COVID 19 tests, sources said.
30 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||With 103 tigers, Mudumalai tops reserves in TN||The conservation efforts undertaken at Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) have led to the reserve being recognised as home to the highest population of tigers in Tamil Nadu. With a population of 103 adult tigers, MTR is among the tiger reserves having the highest tiger population in the entire country too. Among the four tiger reserves in the State, MTR has a population of 103 adult tigers, far higher than second-place Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve, which is home to 83 individuals, according to the report - Status of Tigers, Co-predators, Prey and their habitat in India - 2018 released by the government on Tuesday. As per the report, the MTR has the sixth highest population of resident tigers in India. Officials said that since 2014, the tiger population has increased by 10 % in the core area of the reserve. The buffer zone was brought under the control of the tiger reserve in 2018, officials said. Moreover, the report itself notes that the contiguous network of tiger reserves and protected areas - Nagarhole-Bandipur-Wayanad-Mudumalai-Sathyamangalam-BRT complex has an estimated population of 724 tigers using the landscape. This landscape, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun note, supports the highest number of wild tigers in India. With such a large population of tigers, forest department officials said that they were concerned that the landscape might have reached its carrying capacity with regard to the tiger population. “Though there is a concern about problematic human-animal interactions in the future, this landscape is extremely vast, meaning predators, including tigers, could still move between different habitats due to the contiguity of the landscapes and protected areas in the Western Ghats,” said Deputy Director of MTR, S. Senbagapriya. Field Director of MTR, K.K.Kaushal concurs, stating that due to the extent of habitat available for tigers to move into and populate, tiger numbers could increase further and still not lead to an increase in problematic human-animal interactions. As per the report, there could be anywhere between 40-50 tigers living outside the tiger reserve as well, meaning the Nilgiris district when taken as a complete unit could be home to somewhere around 150-160 individual tigers, officials said. According to top forest department officials, there is a proposal to also deem the Mukurthi National Park, currently home to 13 tigers, as a tiger reserve. “The proposal has been sent to the government, who will take the final decision on the proposal,” said the official who spoke to The Hindu on condition of anonymity. As detailed in the report, increasing plantations of coffee, tea, rubber, as well as existing eucalyptus and wattle plantations have displaced forest cover over the decades, with encroachments also an area of concern. “The major threat to contiguous natural landscapes in the Western Ghats Landscape are mining, hydroelectric projects and infrastructure development,” the report notes.
30 July 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Concern over death of 68 persons in 29 days||COVID-19 death of 68 persons in 29 days this month in this district has been a matter of concern though officials claim that the fatality rate has remained at 1% which is lower than the State rate of 1.60%. The district has recorded 74 deaths till date with 6,884 positive cases. It has recorded more than 6,750 cases in July alone. “This is because we have increased the number of tests that remained at 200 to 300 in the past to around 2,000 these days,” Collector R. Kannan said. Besides increasing the testing capacity, officials have roped in private labs for testing more samples. All southern districts except Dindigul, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar and Tenkasi have better medical facilities with government medical college hospitals. Lack of advanced facilities of medical college hospitals was weighing down efforts in testing and treating, a senior official said. Virudhunagar was more dependent on Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai and other medical college hospitals in the south. At least four fever camps in each 11 blocks are being conducted every day in recent weeks and swab tests are taken for all suspected cases. “Thereby, we try to reach positive patients at the earliest for early isolation and treatment,” Joint Director of Medical Services R. Manoharan said. Stating that only 24 out of the 74 deaths had been reported in hospitals within the district, he said other fatalities had been in government and private private hospitals in other districts. Doctors attribute many of the deaths to admitting patients to government hospitals after the health conditions worsened. People have fear about getting isolated and admitted in hospitals. “Self medication led to health conditions worsening,” he added. “Many deaths occurred within hours after admission. Doctors never get an opportunity to respond to their health conditions,” a senior official said. No ventilation Doctors in Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital said that since it was not a designated COVID-19 treatment centre, they could not take risk of using the ventilators. Despite lung infection or severe acute respiratory problem causing most of the deaths, they were not put in ventilation here. “We should provide best medical treatment to save the lives, and send them to GRH,” a doctor said. Dr. Manoharan said a pulmonologist had joined VGMCH and it would improve the situation. Both Virudhunagar and Sivakasi GHs have high flow oxygen delivery systems. “High flow oxygen is very important to treat SARI cases,” he added. All the 40 ICU beds in VGMCH will get high flow oxygen facility. With all the 50 medical officers, who had been diverted to Chennai, having returned to the district, the manpower is strengthened. Officials are shifting the bedside X-ray machines to the COVID-19 wards for preliminary screening of COVID-19 patients for chest congestion. “Those found with more congestion would undergo CT-scan for confirmation and treatment protocol will change accordingly,” Dr. Manoharan said. Besides, the government has promised to provide a mobile X-ray unit for increasing screening. A health official said that waiting time for ambulances has increased after five ambulances were diverted to Chennai. “We need more ambulances,” he added. The Collector has ordered use of non-ambulance vehicles available with Health Department for transfer of asymptomatic and patients with mild symptoms to COVID Care Centres. Ambulances could be spared for SARI cases, the official said.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Traders at Gani Market await buyers||A month after the E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market (Gani Market) was reopened, traders said that restrictions on inter-district vehicle movement and poor cash flow among the people have hit their business hard. There are 1000-odd weekly and daily shops selling all types of garments, both in wholesale and retail, and merchants from other districts and States place bulk orders before festival season. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, the market was closed on March 16 and was reopened on May 22. Traders said that due to lockdown, their orders for Onam, Ugadi, Ramzan and for school uniforms were lost and they were unable to pay their borrowed loans. They were seeking interest-free credit facilities, reduction in GST rate for all textile products from 5% to 2% and other government support during the crisis. However, things did not change in the past one month after their business operations resumed, as traders from other districts could not travel to the market. “Traders from other districts complain that their request for e-Pass was rejected many times”, said S. Sakthivel, secretary, Erode Gani Market Weekly Textile Trader’s Association. He said that small traders in the district purchase products, but seek credit facilities which they are unable to provide now. “Since markets in North India are yet to recover, we receive less than 50% orders and dispatch products through parcel service”, he said and wanted norms to be relaxed for traders to travel. Traders also said that poor cash flow among the people is also affecting business as Aadi sale is yet to gain momentum. “The situation may not improve completely for Deepavali as the COVID-19 affect is expected to continue for another six months”, said another trader.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 289 more cases||Coimbatore district on Wednesday added 289 more COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of positive cases reported, so far, to 4,344. On Wednesday, new cases were reported from Vedapatti (8), Pollachi (7), Selvapuram (5), Karupparayan Kovil Street at Sanganoor (4), Sulur (4), Tagore Street at Ondipudur (4), Alandurai (3), Rathinapuri (3) and Kovaipudur (3). One case reported from the BSNL quarters at Kalveerampalayam. The quarters was fumigated. A total of 184 persons including 49 persons from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital recovered from the disease and got discharged. So far, 2,611 persons have recovered from the disease in the district. Salem saw 123 new cases taking the district’s tally to 3,428. While 2,312 persons were discharged, 1,088 continue to be under treatment. So far, 27 deaths were reported. Krishnagiri district recorded the highest count of 104 infections for a single day. This has increased the total number of infections to 924. Of these, 394 people were discharged. As of date, 14 persons have died of COVID triggered complications. In Bargur, 22 cases were recorded in a single locality forcing limited containment in the neighbourhood. A total of 22 persons tested positive in Chinnakottur village here in Bargur. In its wake, the entire area was cordoned off as containment zone. Tiruppur district reported 37 fresh cases, taking the overall district tally to 795. They included four frontline workers – an 24-year-old man who was working as Armed Reserve constable at the office of Tiruppur Commissioner of Police, a 26-year-old woman working as a staff nurse and 45-year-old man who was a nursing assistant at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital and a 23-year-old woman from Perumanallur near Avinashi who was a pharmacist at an urban primary health centre in Tiruppur Corporation limits. Among the new cases was also a one-year-old boy from Dharapuram Block, according to Health Department sources. Out of the 795 total COVID-19 cases in Tiruppur district, 472 have recovered and 315 are active cases. Namakkal district reported 25 cases taking the district’s tally to 604. As many as 305 persons were discharged while 294 continue to be under treatment. Five deaths were reported, so far, in the district. Twenty-three new cases were reported in Erode district taking the total tally to 680. While 471 persons were discharged, 200 persons continue to be under treatment at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. In Dharmapuri, 17 persons tested positive. This has taken the total count to 750 persons. Eleven persons tested positive in the Nilgiris. The district administration stated that 581 people have recovered and 152 are undergoing treatment. Nine of the 11 who tested positive are believed to have contracted the infection from either visiting other districts or coming into contact with those who visited other districts.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mask manufacturers pin hopes on exports||Mask and coverall manufacturers in the region are hopeful of tapping export orders as the government has permitted export of surgical masks. Raja Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, said manufacturers had invested in machinery to make coveralls and masks. Though the government issued notifications earlier, permitting export of non-surgical masks and coveralls (with export quota), the manufacturers were unable to do so. There was no clarity and the exporters were unable to get quotas. Now, there is no ambiguity. “We hope to tap the export market now,” he said. International buyers were sourcing from China, Indonesia, Bangla Desh, Vietnam and Turkey. Indian exporters can approach the buyers now. Enquiries from overseas buyers for these products have been encouraging, he said. The fabric masks are accessories and hence the exporters have to abide by the standards that are applicable for other garments. A. Sakthivel, chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council, said garment manufacturers who have taken to manufacture of masks will stand to benefit with the government permitting export of surgical masks. According to K.S. Sundararaman, chairman of Indian Technical Textile Association, India has all the raw materials for production of surgical masks. Now that the government has permitted export of two-ply and three-ply masks with quota restrictions, “We can become mask suppliers to the world.” The government should permit export of N 95 masks too gradually. There are international standards to be met for export of surgical masks but the manufacturers will be able to meet the standards, he said.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Migrant children turn alms seekers as lockdown hits parents’ livelihood||With COVID-19 lockdown crippling the income of 22 families from Rajasthan, their 20-odd children have turned alms seekers, whose income now provides bread and butter for the families. A total of 75 members, including 19 children less than 18 years, are residing for over two years on the land located on the way to Vendipalayam, near Solar Roundabout. Each family has their own hut that is covered with a tarpaulin sheet and accommodates only a belt cot. A few dress materials, water storage containers and utensils are their belongings. While men used to go for construction works, women used to sell fancy items in railway station and in public places and their meagre earnings assure food for the family. Things have changed for the worse after the lockdown in March kept them idle at home and children turning alms seekers in providing income to the family. “There is no income for us from March and eating a meal a day is a hard task”, said a family member, who earlier earned Rs. 80 to Rs. 100 a day by selling fancy items. The family now depends on the money brought by their two children, who are aged less than 10 to buy food. “There is no job for our men and children bring some food, eatables or money everyday”, they added. In May, the corporation had asked them to consume food at Amma Canteen at Marapalam. But, families wanted only wheat flour and other essentials and refused to take the food. Four children were found seeking money from residents in Railway Colony who alerted Erode Railway Childline 1098, which is run by an NGO, Rights Education and Development Centre. It’s coordinator D. Jeyaraj told The Hindu that field inspection revealed the pathetic condition of the families and steps were taken to supply dry rations. He said that discussion is on to find a permanent solution, including providing skill training to the families, so that children get rehabilitated and attend the school.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two Hindu Munnani workers booked for murder attempt||Ramanathapuram police arrested two Hindu Munnani workers on charges of attempting to murder a pawn shop owner on Tuesday. The police said that the accused assaulted the pawn shop owner allegedly after the latter refused to accept silver jewellery for pledging. D. Deepak aka Vivek (23) from Ramanathapuram and S. Sabarigireesan (33) from Veerakeralam were arrested on charges of attempting to murder C. Rajamanickam (31), a resident of 80 Feet Road, Ramanathapuram. Ramanathapuram inspector S. Murugesan said that Deepak and Sabarigireesan went to the pawn shop of Rajamanickam on 80 Feet Road on Tuesday evening to pledge silver jewellery. The officer said that the accused assaulted Rajamanickam with a sickle allegedly after he refused to accept the silver jewellery the duo gave for pledging. Judicial custody The accused were arrested and produced before the sixth judicial magistrate K.R. Kannan. They were remanded in judicial custody late on Tuesday. Mr. Murugesan added that Deepak was earlier booked in three cases in Coimbatore.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nine deaths, 225 fresh cases in Madurai||A total of 225 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai district on Wednesday taking the total tally to 10,618. Seventy-two patients who tested positive had influenza-like illness or symptoms of acute respiratory infection. A total of 107 people were contacts of positive patients. Of the 225, 20 were frontline workers and one was an antenatal patient, according to Collector T. G. Vinay. A total of 113 patients were discharged from treatment centres, taking the total number to 7,995. Nine patients succumbed to the viral infection on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 231. There were a total of 2,392 active cases till date. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district on Wednesday recorded 370 positive cases, taking total tally to 7,256. However, after 333 patients got discharged (total 4,664), there were 2,518 active cases in different hospitals and care centres. Meanwhile, five more patients from the district died as per the State medical bulletin. Among them was a 35-year-old patient with chronic kidney disease. The total number of deaths in the district stood at 74. Theni, Dindigul Theni recorded 131 fresh cases, which took the tally to 4,468. There were 215 discharges. Dindigul reported 56 fresh cases, taking the total number to 2,622. The number of discharged patients stood at 149, taking the total number to 1,892. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram had 37 new cases, which took the total tally to 3,169. There were 118 discharges. Sivaganga Sivaganga district reported 44 fresh cases and the total tally stood at 2,226. Sixty-nine people were discharged, taking the total to 1,726. Thoothukudi Thoothukudi district continued to be the worst-hit with 316 more fresh cases, taking the took the total number of patients to 6,591 and active cases to 2,429. As many as 377 patients were discharged from various hospitals including Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital.  Tirunelveli Tirunelveli reported 382 cases, which took the district’s tally to 4,729 and the number of active cases to 1,957 after 158 patients were discharged. Kanniyakumari, Tenkasi Kanniyakumari recorded 202 new cases, taking the total to 4,275 and active cases to 1,943 after 335 patients were discharged. Tenkasi’s tally moved up to 1,911 after the district had only 64 cases. There were 951 active cases after seven patients were discharged. While two people died in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts, Tenkasi reported one death in the past 24 hours.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||University forcing us to report for work on all days, allege faculty||Faculty at the Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education have alleged that the deemed university has been forcing them to report for work on all days during the COVID-19 pandemic. A few faculty, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said many of the faculty members, particularly who are 50-plus years of age, were worried reporting for work as a faculty had recently tested positive for COVID-19. The university management forcing them to report for work on all days was against the University Grants Commission’s and Ministry of Human Resource Development’s guidelines, which have said that universities should ask their faculty and non-teaching staff to work from home till July 31. That the management threatening them to report for work or go on leave had affected the morale of the faculty, who could very well sit at home to prepare lesson plan on online content, as suggested by the Commission and Ministry. A representative of the university management, on condition of anonymity, said the Institute followed the Commission’s and Ministry’s guidelines in toto. There was no question of any violation or deviation from the instruction and the allegation that was levelled was being done with the intention to tarnish the institution’s reputation. The institution had in its July 2 communication said it would function with 50% staff on turn basis. Heads of departments, the Vice-Chancellor, registrar, controller of examination and other heads would carry out important academic and administrative function. At present, the institute was in the process of granting provisional admission to those candidates who had applied online and to carry out the task only the admission committee members were present in the campus. As for a faculty reporting COVID-19 positive, the institution had closed the floor housing the positive faculty’s department and carried out disinfection measures. The representative further said that institution had, as per the Commission’s and Ministry’s guideline, awarded attendance to those faculty who had established that they were unable to report for work because they were either quarantined or went into self-quarantine. Therefore there was no question of the institution violating any guideline to force faculty to report for work, the representative added.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Eight deaths in region||Tiruppur district reported five COVID-19 deaths on Wednesday, while two deaths were reported in Coimbatore and one in Erode. Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan announced on Twitter that four out of five deaths were from Corporation limits. A 67-year-old man from Big Bazaar Street and another 67-year-old man from Velan Nagar died at a private hospital in Coimbatore. A 57-year-old man from Samundipuram and a 45-year-old woman from Thirumoorthi Nagar died at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said. The fifth death was that of a 58-year-old woman from Dharapuram who died at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore. According to the Health Department, two more persons from Coimbatore district died of COVID-19 and the death toll increased to 46. A 70-year-old woman and an 81-year-old man who were admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital died of the disease on Monday. A 75-year-old man of Karungalpalayam in Erode corporation limits, who tested positive for COVID-19 and was under treatment at the isolation ward of Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai, died on Tuesday night. Officials said that he was admitted to the hospital on July 25. His body was packed in a polythene bag and all protocols mandated for the burial of COVID-19 patients were followed and buried. With this, the total number of deaths reported in the district is nine.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister to decide on lockdown today||As for the agricultural sector, he said the kuruvai crop had been cultivated on 3.54 lakh acres — much higher than the targeted coverage of 3.5 lakh acres. The crop would be cultivated on another 15,000 acres, he added. He pointed out that water supply for agriculture, especially in the Cauvery delta areas, had been ensured. Works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) were in full swing, and about 85% of the kudimaramathu works across the State had been completed, the Chief Minister said. In the Greater Chennai Corporation limits, 25,532 fever clinics had been organised, benefiting over 14.5 lakh persons. Over 20,000 workers and volunteers in Chennai were involved in house-to-house check-ups, he said. A total of 54,091 beds in COVID-19 hospitals, 64,903 beds in COVID-19 special hospitals, 25,538 beds with oxygen supply, 3,962 beds in ICUs and 2,882 ventilators were available in the State, the CM said, adding that over 15,000 additional medical staff, including 2,751 doctors and 6,893 nurses had been recruited. “The public should extend their cooperation to the government,” he said. A total of 51,211 non-resident Tamils had returned to Tamil Nadu through the Vande Bharat and Samudra Setu missions. As many as 4,18,903 guest workers had been sent to their native States, the CM added.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Micro units seek relaxations||The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations, representing micro units across sectors, has appealed to the State government to resume bus and rail services so that workers who returned to their home towns within the State or in other States can return. In a memorandum to the Chief Minister, the Federation said if the government will continue to implement the e-pass system for travel to other districts, industries should be able to get the pass without delays or hindrances. The government should impose restrictions only in areas where there are more COVID-19 cases and not across the State. In the case of COVID positive case in an industry, the unit should not be closed. Similarly, bank services should continue so that MSMEs are not affected, the Federation said in the memorandum.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three sandalwood smugglers held||Three persons were arrested by the forest department for attempting to smuggle sandalwood trees from Masinagudi in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve on Wednesday. Forest officials said that the staff found four people trying to cut down and smuggle a sandalwood tree from inside the tiger reserve. Two of the men, identified as M. Kariyan, 30, from Gundlupet in Karnataka, and M. Mahesh Kumar, from Mavanallah in Masinagudi were arrested. Later another person identified as B. Kethan alias Basuvan, 48, from Kurumbarpadi in Masinagudi, was also arrested.
30 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||BLDE varsity gives help to COVID-19 patients||Vijayapura-based BLDE University has taken a series of steps to test and treat COVID-19 patients. The university has staffed its fever clinics with qualified doctors. They will screen patients and categorise them based on the treatment they require. An open-air fever clinic set up on the premises of B.M. Patil Hospital is headed by college principal Arvind Patil. BLDE has obtained Union and State government permission to conduct three types of tests to detect corona infections — RT-PCR, antigen and anti-body tests. “People in Vijayapura and surrounding areas need not go anywhere for COVID-19 test now. We are fully equipped to conduct all such necessary test,” said Dr. Arvind Patil and medical superintendent Rajesh Honnutagi.
30 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress does major rehaul of its cells||With an aim to make Karnataka Congress a “cadre-based party”, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar has commenced the process of revamping various cells of the party and strengthening ties with various professional bodies, including doctors and lawyers. With the mantra of collective leadership, Mr. Shivakumar has decided to accommodate both young and experienced leaders by assigning them responsibilities of different departments/cells based on their interest and strength, sources in the party said. New heads In a first move, the AICC, in consultation with Mr. Shivakumar, has appointed new chairman to six major departments, including media and communication, information technology and data cell. While former Legislative Council Chairman B.L. Shankar is the new chairman and former council chairman, V.R. Sudarshan is co-chairman of the media and communication department. Former Minister Priyank Kharge is in charge of IT and data cell. Former MP V.S. Ugrappa is the chairman of the legal reforms department. The leaders have been holding consultations on a regular basis with legal cell on various matters, sources said. While former Minister K.J. George has been given charge of the party’s properties and assets across the State, former Minister Ramalinga Reddy has been told to look after the party’s properties and assets in Bengaluru. Ponnanna has been asked to head the legal human rights and RTI department. Besides four organisations — Youth Congress, Mahila Congress, NSUI and Congress Sevadal — the party has 18 cells/departments. The cells include INTUC, Minority, Backward Class, SC and ST, Kisan and Khet Mazdur, labour, professional, graduates and teachers, handicap, policy research and training, fisheries. In order to bring more energy to these cells, the party has been identifying new faces to lead the cadre from the front, sources said. Heads of all cells have been told to work in tandem with the KPCC and not with their heads in Delhi. ‘Arogya hasta’ To develop strong ties with doctors, particularly during this COVID-19 pandemic, the party has launched an “Arogya Hasta” programme and this would undertake activities under the party’s doctor’s cell. Under this programme, one or two doctors in each constituency would implement the programme with the support of local party workers. After experimenting the “Arogya Hasta” in BTM and Jayanagar constituencies, the party has decided to extend this programme across the State. Mr. Shivakumar has already extended support to ASHA workers and wrote to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to increase their monthly salary from Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 12,000. To contain dissidence, Mr. Shivakuamar constituted a 13-member disciplinary committee headed by former Union Minister K. Rehman Khan.
30 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||At least 40 students with COVID-19 to write CET||At least 40 students, who have tested positive for COVID-19, are expected to appear for Common Entrance Test (CET) 2020, slated for Thursday and Friday. Speaking at a press conference on Wednesday evening, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said that they will write the examination at COVID Care Centres (CCC) and transport arrangements will be made. He said that the invigilators will be wearing PPE kits and they will supervise in two shifts and follow the norms laid out in the Standard Operating Procedure. Arrangements for food will be made for all students who have tested positive. Keeping in mind the High Court direction, the Minister said that none of the students will be required to submit any documents if they carry hall tickets. He added that those students who are waiting for their COVID-19 test results can write the examination at their originally allotted examination centres in separate rooms. As many as 1.94 lakh students have registered for the CET, which is the gateway to admissions for professional courses including engineering and agriculture among others. Dr. Ashwath Narayan said that a high-level committee, under the chairmanship of Additional Chief Secretary, has been formed to ensure that the examination is conducted without any hurdles. Those students with symptoms or those coming from containment zones will have to appear for the examination in separate rooms. Students will have to undergo thermal screening, use sanitisers, and wear a mask while writing the examination. The Deputy Chief Minister said that arrangements have been made for the students and one parent to come to the examination centre if they are in containment zones. Mr. Ashwath Narayan said that students in distress can call the helpline [080-23460460, 080-23564583] to get their grievances addressed. However, many students complained that helplines were constantly engaged and they could not reach officials.  Students in distress can call the helpline [080-23460460, 080-23564583] to get their grievances addressed
30 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 cases cross 50,000 mark in Bengaluru Urban||With Bengaluru Urban recording 2,270 of the total 5,503 new cases reported on Wednesday, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases in the tech capital touched 51,091. With a total of 13,879 patients discharged so far, the district now has 36,224 active cases. This makes Bengaluru Urban second highest in number of active cases in the country after Pune in Maharashtra. Bengaluru Urban clocked its first 500 cases on June 9, three months after the first case was reported on March 9. However, the cases started spiralling since then, after the State Health Department and BBMP took up random testing in the containment zones. The spike was further fuelled after the government eased lockdown restrictions and opened up interstate travel. On June 27, for the first time, the number of cases reported per day crossed 500. Subsequently from July first week, the district started reporting over a 1,000 cases per day and then increased to over 2,000 a day. Of the total 51,091 cases, 46,536 cases were added in July alone. As many as 892 of the total 987 deaths, including 30 reported on Wednesday, in Bengaluru Urban have been recorded in July. Overall, Karnataka recorded 5,303 cases and 92 deaths on Wednesday. With this, the total number of cases touched 1,12,504 and the toll rose to 2,147. This is apart from eight non-COVID-19 deaths.
30 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ministerial expansion acid test for Yediyurappa||Are the side effects of ‘Operation Kamala’ haunting Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa like they did in his earlier stint about nine years ago? This has become a subject of discussion in the political circles ever since speculation on leadership change in the BJP government has gained ground. Though it is no secret that several leaders were waiting in the wings to occupy the top post if the 77-year-old Mr. Yediyurappa is made to step down, the timing of speculation surfacing when the State is gripped by a health crisis due to COVID-19 is curious. Especially since the party high command is in no mood to pay attention to the demand amidst the raging pandemic. “All the speculation is mainly linked to the ministerial expansion being planned by the Chief Minister. The proposed ministerial expansion is going to be not just tricky, but an acid test for the Chief Minister as a large number of senior legislators from the party cadre are bound to miss out on ministerial opportunity. This is due to the obligation to accommodate the defectors with ministerial berths,” observed a BJP State leader. He argued that some of the chief ministerial aspirants are trying to cozy up to these disgruntled MLAs with an eye on the future. “This has made the proposed ministerial expansion a complicated thing for the Chief Minister,” he observed. A rough picture about the nature of the expansion is already emerging as Mr. Yediyurappa tried to placate those who are unlikely to get ministerial berths by providing posts of chairpersons of boards and corporations. “Even those who are aspiring to succeed Mr. Yediyurappa are well aware that leadership change is unlikely at the time of the pandemic. But the occasion of ministerial expansion is an opportune time to strengthen their position,” he observed. Though none of the leaders have openly declared themselves as aspirants for the chief ministerial post, the names of several leaders, including Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, Deputy Chief Ministers Govind Karjol and Laxman Savadi, are being heard as probables. On his part, Mr. Yediyurappa is said to be keen on expanding his ministry by August 15 as he has to fulfil the promise of ministerial berths being made to defectors who helped the BJP to form the government. “Mr. Yediyurappa is in an unenviable position. He has to take up ministerial expansion to keep his promise, though it is dicey,” said a leader close to him.
30 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NEP revives debate on Kannada||With the new National Education Policy (NEP) being approved by the Union Cabinet, the debate around the medium of instruction in primary classes has once again cropped up in Karnataka. The NEP recommends medium of instruction to be in the home language/mother tongue/local language or regional language in primary classes. The NEP states: “Wherever possible, the medium of instruction till grade 5, and preferably till grade eight and beyond, will be the home language/mother tongue/local language or regional language.” This has left officials of the Department of Primary and Secondary Education in a spot as the State government has started English-medium sections in government schools from the 2019-20 academic year, which has received a good response. School managements point out that the NEP goes against the apex court’s verdict stating that imposition of the mother tongue as the medium of instruction in primary classes was “unconstitutional”. In 2014, after a two-decade-old legal battle, the Supreme Court held that imposition of the mother tongue as the medium of instruction in primary classes in government-recognised, aided or unaided private schools was unconstitutional. It quashed the Karnataka government’s order that the medium of instruction should be either the mother tongue or Kannada for classes I to IV from the academic year 1994-95. Following this court order, private schools were granted permission to start English-medium classes in primary schools. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Karnataka Associated Management of English Medium Schools, said, “The Supreme Court has quashed the order on mother tongue or a regional language as medium of instruction. The court has said in its ruling that choosing a language should be left to the parents.”
30 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pubs in the dock||The police suspect that pubs, DJs and narcotics in the city were part of a supply chain that was long talked about in whispers. The case is expected to bring pubs under scrutiny. “There were often complaints of drugs being consumed and sold in pubs, but there were no specific cases. We now have solid evidence of DJs at these pubs running an organised narcotics ring. We will conduct a special drive to check the menace of drugs in the city’s pubs,” said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner (Crime), Bengaluru. Once the pubs reopen, police will carry out a special drive and increase surveillance, including background checks on their employees. Owners to be questioned In the present case, the owners and management of the two pubs, where the kingpins of the racket worked, will be questioned by the CCB in the coming days. “How could drugs be sold freely on their premises by DJs working there without it coming to their notice? We will investigate to see if they were involved,” a senior official said. However, police refused to disclose the names of the two pubs, as no case was registered against them yet, only describing them as “prominent pubs in the CBD”.
30 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||852 schools have not got a single RTE application||The demand for seats under Right to Education (RTE) quota in the State is not proportional to the number of seats during the 2020-21 academic year. A total of 852 schools across the State have not received a single application. First round According to details provided by the Department of Public Instruction, the first round of seats through online mode was done on Wednesday. A total of 11,026 applications were received, while17,453 seats are available. The number of seats available this year is lesser compared to previous year. During 2019-20, the number of seats available were 17,720 of which only 4,698 were filled. The amendment to the RTE Act restricts admissions at government and aided institutions. Only if these schools are not available, then priority will be given to private unaided schools.
30 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six-hourly update on beds||Directing hospitals to compulsorily update bed availability data every six hours on BBMP and SAST portals on real-time basis, the Health Department has warned defaulters of administrative and legal action under KPME and Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act.
30 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Released||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday virtually released Sivapada Ratna Kosha published by J.S.S. Mahavidya Peeta. The compendium provides glossary for terms related to Veerashaiva/Lingayat faith. Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol who presided over the book launch programme said that Sivapada Ratna Kosha was a guide for research students.
30 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drastic jump in State’s TPR||With a huge spurt in the number of cases since the beginning of July, Karnataka’s cumulative COVID-19 Test Positivity Rate (TPR) has seen a huge jump from 5.56% to 8.61% in the last 14 days. While this is marginally lower than the cumulative national average of 8.63%, at 16.21%, as on Wednesday morning, Karnataka’s daily TPR is much higher than the national average of 11.2%. TPR, which is a vital marker in assessing the spread of an outbreak, is the percentage of people who are found to be infected by the virus from among those who are being tested. While cumulative positivity rate takes into account all people tested so far, the daily rate is for those tested on a particular day. According to epidemiologists, a high positivity rate indicates that testing is relatively limited to people with high suspicion of COVID-19 and may miss new chains of transmission in the community. The World Health Organisation recommends that the daily positivity rate be below 5% for at least two weeks before relaxing public health measures. As on Wednesday, the country’s highest positivity rate remained to be Maharashtra at 19.62%. This was followed by Puducherry at 17.72%, Bihar at 17.09%, Karnataka at 16.21%, and West Bengal at 14.51%. The lowest positivity rate was recorded in Arunachal Pradesh at 1.80% followed by followed by Tripura at 3.16%. Karnataka climbed to the fourth spot in the last 24 hours. Giridhar R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said an increasing TPR indicates that the overall prevalence is on an upward trajectory. “It means the outbreak is expanding further and the State’s testing is not in pace with the spread,” he said. The need of the hour is to conduct periodical ILI and SARI surveys and test those identified, the doctor said, at least once in 10 days. He said isolating all those identified will help in cutting down the transmission level. “That is how Delhi did it and their TPR has dropped drastically and now stands at 5.72%,” Dr. Babu said. V. Ravi, senior professor and Head of Neurovirology at NIMHANS, who is part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said it is important to keep positivity rate under 5%. “The State had managed to keep its TPR under 5% while the lockdown was in force. Once the lockdown was relaxed, cases surged and the rate of testing fell thereby increasing the TPR,” added Dr. Ravi.
30 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Financial aid sought||Minister for Tourism, Kannada and Culture and Youth Empowerment C.T. Ravi on Wednesday said that he would consult with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and seek financial assistance for theatre artistes and film artistes who have been hit by the pandemic. This followed an appeal by several senior film artistes, in a representation to Mr. Ravi, to look into the financial crisis of theatre and cinema artistes. They sought a one-time financial assistance of Rs. 5,000. Similarly, financial assistance has been sought for gym and fitness centres and one-year tax holiday for hotel industry.
30 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Show work in two months or go, says DKS||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Wednesday chaired a meeting with some of the heads of party cells and asked them to show their performance by doing work assigned to them in two months. He reportedly asked some of the heads of cells to quit their positions if they find it difficult to deliver work assigned to them, sources in the party said.
30 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rapid Antigen Testing for pourakarmikas (filler/briefy)||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has instructed officials to administer rapid antigen tests to pourakarmikas above the age of 50 and those with co-morbidities. “Other pourakarmikas will also be tested at the workplace in a phased manner,” said the civic body in a circular dated July 28. The Department of Health and Family Welfare also issued a circular on the safety and health of pourakarmikas.
30 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. is taking State on the path of progress’||The B.S. Yediyurappa-led BJP government is taking the State on the path of progress, despite the many challenges in the last one year, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies K. Gopalaiah has said. In a press conference after taking part in a ceremony organised by the district administration to mark the first anniversary of the government here recently, Mr. Gopalaiah said that the government had faced many challenges, including drought, floods and COVID-19, in the last one year. Yet, the government had given due attention to the development of the State.
30 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||No mass prayers at idgah maidans; take precautions in mosques, says officer||In view of Bakrid being celebrated on August 1, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has appealed to the community members to follow the COVID-19 advisory mandatorily and observe the festival. Chairing a meeting on COVID-19 precautionary measures to be taken during the festival, Mr. Nitesh Patil said that it was mandatory that all covered their faces with masks during prayers at mosques. “Those aged above 60 and also those less than 10 should offer their prayers at home. There should be thermal scanning at the entrance of mosques. Social distancing of six feet should be maintained, apart from washing hands with soap or applying sanitisers before entering mosques. People should not shake hands or embrace each other,” he said. Mr. Patil said that it was necessary to ensure the safety and health of family members along with observing the festival. The district administration and the Police Department had already initiated various precautionary measures. Through public announcement systems and through members of the jamat and religious heads, steps had been taken to convey the message on COVID-19 advisory to households, he said. Hubballi-Dharwad Police Commissioner R. Dileep emphasised that it was mandatory to follow the guidelines and ensure that there was no crowding outside mosques. He said that the festival should be observed only at permitted places. He clarified that any incident of moral policing would be dealt with strictly and only authorised abattoirs should be used. Superintendent of Police Vartika Katiyar and Deputy Commissioner of Police Krishnakanth further clarified on the guidelines. Anjuman-e-Islam president Yousuf Savanur, secretary Altaf Kittur, administrator of Dharwad Anjuman-e-Islam and Assistant Commissioner Mohammed Zuber and various religious heads and leaders spoke. No prayers Earlier, after chairing a peace committee meeting, Ms. Katiyar announced that there would be a ban on holding mass prayers at Idgah Maidans in the district. “However, people can offer prayers at mosques by wearing masks, using sanitisers and maintaining social distancing. But the community leaders should ensure that social distancing norms were compulsorily maintained at mosques,” she said. Ms. Katiyar said that as per the advisory issued, only 50 persons should be present inside mosques during prayers and community leaders had the biggest responsibility of ensuring social distancing, among other precautionary measures. She said that at this crucial time when the pandemic had created a havoc in the country, the community leaders should take all necessary steps and cooperate with the administration in celebrating the festival in a peaceful manner. Maintaining social distancing of six feet inside mosques was mandatory and the community leaders should ensure it by communicating it to all. During the course of the meeting, Ms. Katiyar said that strict action would be taken against those who send provocative messages on social networking sites. She also warned of strict action against illegal transportation of cattle to slaughterhouses.
30 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fishermen decide to resume deep sea fishing tentatively on Sept. 1||Fishermen in Mangaluru will resume deep sea fishing tentatively on September 1. If the COVID-19 situation did not come under control by then, it might be further delayed. A meeting of fishermen representatives here on Wednesday decided not to resume deep sea fishing on August 1 after the 47-day fishing holiday comes to an end this month. It is in view of issues relating to COVID-19. Mangaluru Trawl Boat Owners Association president Nitin Kumar said that Mangaluru had about 1,200 boats involved in deep sea fishing. About 75 % of their workers are mainly from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal and Jharkhand. In the absence of train and inter-State bus facilities they are not in a position to return. Even if they return, workers will have to undergo 14 days home quarantine. Mr. Kumar, who is a former chairman of Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation (KFDC), said that issues relating to transporting marine catch are yet to be addressed. Transporters have said that factories and exporters have not yet assured the association of resuming processing. Unless the chain from fishing to processing is re-established, it would be difficult to resume fishing. He said that fishermen in Mangaluru will meet again next month to take up certain issues with the district administration before resuming fishing on September 1. The issues relate particularly to addressing home quarantining of workers from outside the State and maintaining social distancing at fisheries harbour. Mr. Kumar said that of the about 1,200 boats, a majority of them, 900, are trawl boats each one of which have eight-10 fishermen. These boats spend 10-11 days in deep sea fishing. Representatives of Karnataka Purse Seine Boat Owners Association, Raw and Dry Fish Merchants Associations and Fish Buyers Association took part in Wednesday’s meeting. This year, the State government reduced the deep sea fishing ban period from the earlier 61 days to 47, from June 15. It was in view of the hardship faced by fishermen due to the lockdown and the COVID-19 situation. Usually, fishing ban is scheduled from June 1 to July 31. The main objective of banning deep sea fishing is to protect fish wealth as commercially important species breed during this period.
30 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Helping students become adepts in Spoken English||From August 1, students of Classes 1 to 7 in 31 government schools in Karkala taluk of Udupi will attend English-speaking classes by their 32 teachers using Google Meet. Teachers will make available videos of teaching sessions on YouTube. In addition, teachers will meet their students at designated places near the latter’s residences twice every week. These are the ways and means in which the 32 teachers will resume teaching Spoken English in the second year of Gubbachhi Spoken English Programme. This programme of the Education Department is among those being taken up since last year as part of the “Swarna Karkala Swachcha Karkala” initiative by Karkala MLA Sunil Kumar to mark the centenary year of the formation of Karkala taluk. Karkala Block Education Officer G.S. Shashidhar, who conducted a similar Spoken English programme during his stint earlier in Puttur in Dakshina Kannada, designed the programme for Karkala students in consultation with English teachers and linguistic experts. “It was designed to blend local dialect with English and make students confident in speaking English,” Mr. Shashidhar said. As many as 32 graduates were trained in May and their classes started in 31 schools of the taluk from June last year. Each class had one Spoken English session of 40 minutes every day. Donors came forward to provide training material and salary for the 32 teachers. Mr. Sunil Kumar inaugurated the programme at the Government School in Hosmar village recently. On July 27, Mr. Sunil Kumar participated in a function to honour the 32 teachers of the Gubbachhi programme at the auditorium of Bhuvanendra Secondary School in Karkala.
30 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||7,656 students to write CET in Dakshina Kannada||As many as 7,656 students, including 456 from Kerala, will write the Common Entrance Test for admission to professional courses at 17 centres in Dakshina Kannada on Thursday and Friday. There are 360 Gadinadu Kannadiga students from Kasaragod in Kerala who will write the Kannada paper on Saturday. While nine examination centres are in Mangaluru, three are in Moodbidri. Two examination centres each are in Puttur and Belthangady, and there is one in Sullia. A student, who has tested positive for COVID-19, will write the examination at the special examination centre set up at the National Institute of Technology-Karnataka (NIT-K), Surathkal. A Pre University College principal will be posted at the centre in NIT-K to help doctors who will act as invigilators. There are 400 students from Kerala coming through the Talapady check-post. As many as 17 buses will bring these students to the examination centres in the city, while 45 students entering through the Saradka check-post will be brought in two buses to two examination centres in Puttur. As many as 11 students entering through the Panjikallu check-post will be brought in a bus to the centre in Sullia. Each bus will carry 30 students who will be given hall tickets after being checked for temperature. The district administration has posted 17 officials to coordinate this exercise. Kannada examination for Gadinadu Kannadigas will be held at the Ramakrishna School in the city on August 1, officials said.
30 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Police invoke Cr.PC provisions to prevent untoward incidents||To prevent untoward incidents during Bakrid and other festivals in the forthcoming days, the police in Dakshina Kannada have invoked the provisions of Section 107 and Section 110 of the Criminal Procedure Code against those involved in cattle theft. They are collecting an undertaking of good conduct from such people. These provisions have been invoked by the Mangaluru City Police and the Dakshina Kannada Police. “The provision under Section 110 is against those involved in cattle theft (cases registered in police stations in the city limits),” Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash said. Legal action will be taken against those acting contrary to their undertaking, he said. This is being done to ensure law and order during Bakrid and other festivals, he added. Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad said that the Dakshina Kannada Police have invoked the provisions under Section 107 of the Cr.PC. While the provision under Section 110 is invoked against habitual offenders, the one under Section 107 is invoked against all those who are likely to disturb peace. Till Tuesday, Dakshina Kannada Police have invoked these provisions against 102 people, he said.
30 July 2020||Mangaluru/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rama Sene activist held for threatening Sindhu Rupesh||The Moodbidri police on Wednesday arrested a youth who is an activist of Rama Sene on the charge of threatening outgoing Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada Sindhu B. Rupesh on social media. The police on Tuesday registered a suo motu case. Ms. Rupesh, who is under orders of transfer, did not file any complaint. The police gave the name of the accused as Ranjith (20) from Bajpe. He is a welder and worked for a private company, a senior police official said. The police said the accused had called to “eliminate” the Deputy Commissioner for her call to take action against persons taking law into their hands against illegal cattle transporters/slaughterers. The Deputy Commissioner at an official meeting in her office on Monday said that stringent action would be initiated against illegal cattle transporters/slaughterers. She had also warned people against taking law into their hands. ‘Punishing honest’ Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah has criticised Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa for transferring Ms. Rupesh who “received death threats for honest work.” Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, the Deputy Commissioner was transferred on Wednesday and posted as the Director, Electronic Delivery of Citizen Services (DPAR) in Bengaluru. In a tweet on Wednesday, Mr. Siddaramaiah said that Mr. Yediyurappa was on the one hand “showering flowers on Corona warriors” but on the other transferring people like the Ms. Rupesh who had allegedly received death threats for honest work. “Is this your way to respect Corona warriors?” he asked. The transfer of Deputy Commissioners and officials on a regular basis in the recent past has not gone well with the Opposition Congress, which has argued that frequent transfers would disrupt handling of the pandemic and cause inconvenience to the public. Kota, Khader spar Meanwhile, Kota Srinivas Poojary, Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada and Minister for Ports, Fisheries, Inland Water Transport and Muzrai, and U.T. Khader, MLA, Mangaluru and former district in-charge Minister took to Twitter on Wednesday to criticise each other over the transfer of Ms. Rupesh. Mr. Khader tweeted that “miscreants threatened to the life of Deputy Commissioner for warning action against those who took law into their hands (in cases of illegal cattle transportation/slaughter). The government instead of punishing those who issued the life threat punished the Deputy Commissioner.” Replying to this, Mr. Poojary said that Mr. Khader has politicised the transfer done by the government on administrative grounds. “It is not the era of Mr. Khader to protect the accused,” he said.
30 July 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||App launched to save zoos hit by COVID-19||The Zoo Authority of Karnataka, Mysuru, has taken the app-route to deal with the crisis faced by the zoos following steep fall in revenue. The mobile application was launched on Wednesday. People can contribute any amount starting from Rs. 50 to the zoo of their choice. The ZAK said it will acknowledge any contribution from the public. Minister for Forests and Environment B.S. Anand Singh launched the app on the virtual platform on the occasion of World Tiger Day. Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, the scion of erstwhile Mysuru royal family, who was the guest of honour, ZAK member secretary B.P. Ravi, and Mysuru zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni were present. The zoos under ZAK used to attract about 6.5 million visitors annually, said Mr. Ravi. Due to dip in footfall during the current financial year on account of the pandemic, only Rs. 50 lakh was realised though the animal maintenance charges and salaries of staff remained the same, he said.
30 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘BSY will remain in saddle for next 3 years’||Ruling out a change of guard in the State, former Minister Murugesh Nirani on Wednesday said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will remain in the saddle for the next three years. Fielding reporters’ queries in Mysuru, Mr. Nirani said he had no information about the purpose behind Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi’s recent visit to the national capital. “But, I can clearly tell you that Mr. Yediyurappa will remain the Chief Minister for the next three years,” he said.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Seizure of narcotics turns spotlight on DJs||The police have busted an organised narcotics ring where Disc Jockeys (DJs) at two prominent pubs in the Central Business District allegedly procured drugs through the Dark Web and peddled them not only in the city but in other metros of the country as well. The kingpin of the racket, Dhiraj, is in his mid-30s. He is from Kerala and works as a DJ in Bengaluru. He is absconding, but four of his associates were caught, said the police. This is the first time a nexus of pubs, DJs and narcotics has been exposed in the city. Addressing mediapersons, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said, “Our government not only has zero tolerance to narcotics, but it is our priority to free the city of the menace. We will pursue it pro-actively. Unlike in previous governments, there will be no interference.” He announced a Rs. 1 lakh cash reward to be split among the five police personnel who uncovered the racket. The Anti Narcotics Wing (ANW) of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) tracked down members of the ring over two weeks before searching a house in Chikkabanavara. They arrested four men and seized Rs. 1.25 crore worth of narcotics, including 2,000 LSD strips, 110 grams of MDMA crystals, 10 Ecstasy tablets and five kilograms of ganja. The arrested persons are Shahad Mohammed, 24, Azmal K., 22, Nitin Mohan, 29, and Ajin Varghese, 21, all hailing from Kerala. Interrogation revealed that Dhiraj was allegedly the kingpin. A fellow DJ was his associate. Use of post offices Dhiraj allegedly procured the narcotics from abroad through the Dark Net. “They had devised a modus operandi where the parcel with a contact number was delivered to a post office. When the postmen called them, Dhiraj’s agents would pick up the parcels. We have recovered envelopes from the Netherlands and Germany from the house. The role of the postmen will also be looked into,” a senior officer said. “Only ganja was probably procured locally. Dhiraj was not only the main procurer, but also its main distributor,” a source said. The drugs were sold to customers at prominent pubs in Bengaluru, Goa and Mumbai. “The DJs seem to have been the main peddlers. The cost of the drug went up as the party progressed,” said a senior official. The police suspect that once Dhiraj and his associate are arrested, it will lead them to other DJs actively peddling drugs. “The ring is also known to have supplied drugs to certain parties at farm houses in the city and in Goa,” the officer added. “Dhiraj used to take money through online payment gateways from students and other customers,” said a police official, adding that the four arrested men were sub-peddlers who delivered the drugs to customers. “We have enough leads on Dhiraj. We will nab him soon,” said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner (Crime).
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Collapse of buildings: Work on complex stops||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Tuesday cancelled the plan sanction for the construction of a commercial complex on Subedar Chatram (SC) Road, where the iconic Kapali theatre once stood, after two buildings collapsed on Tuesday night. The BBMP has filed a criminal case against the owner of the site. An FIR has been registered at Upparpet police station. The owners of the collapsed buildings have also registered a case. According to civic officials, the site where the commercial complex was slated to come up had been dug up for construction of the basement, which damaged the adjacent buildings. The two buildings started developing cracks three days ago after which residents were asked to vacate. Mayor M. Goutham Kumar, who visited the spot on Wednesday, directed Special Commissioner (projects) to submit a report on the issue and said that strict action against will be taken based on the findings. He directed officials to identify other buildings in the vicinity that could be vulnerable and get them vacated. “Approval for the plan was given in 2018, which has now been cancelled,” Mr. Kumar said. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said that since the site was dug up, the contractor should have built retention walls on all the four sides. “Only three such walls were built. This is the main reason why the adjacent buildings first tilted and then collapsed,” he said, adding that the owner of the site will be made to compensate the owners of the buildings that collapsed. A senior BBMP official said that the incident took place due to sheer negligence. “They did not have strong retention walls on all four sides. They are also claiming that rain and labour issues delayed the work,” the official said.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BMRCL can cut, translocate trees for metro line||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) can now go ahead with felling and translocation of trees at certain locations as per the recommendations of a committee of experts from the Department of Forestry, University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Bengaluru. The BMRCL got the green signal after giving an undertaking to the Karnataka High Court on Wednesday that it will accept in its entirety the recommendation of the committee to retain three trees without felling or translocating them as they are out of the metro line alignment. A division bench comprising Justice Aravind Kumar and Justice M.I. Arun accepted the undertaking given by the BMRCL. Also, the counsel for the petitioners made it clear that they have no objection to the BMRCL felling and translocating trees identified in the report of the committee. As the petition involves issues over felling of trees for road widening project undertaken by the Karnataka Road Development Corporation Ltd., the bench adjourned further hearing till August 20.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mounting loans and lack of jobs make migrant workers vulnerable to human traffickers||Noor Mohammed, in his late 30s, worked in the construction sector in Bengaluru before the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. He returned to his home in Uttar Pradesh on a Shramik Special, but with no jobs in his village and having to feed a large family, he migrated to Punjab in search of a job. “I came to Punjab a few weeks ago, but work is hard to come by. I have had to take loans to survive the last few months. With the loan I had taken earlier, my debts amount to nearly Rs. 2 lakh. I don't know when will I be able to repay that,” he told The Hindu during a telephone conversation. Lakhs of migrant workers, who returned home during the pandemic, find themselves in a Catch-22 situation of sorts: joblessness at home, which prompted their migration to big cities in the first place, and now, the fear of contracting COVID-19 if they return to the very cities they left. This has left them more vulnerable to human trafficking networks that poach people for bonded labour and prostitution. While Noor Mohammed has not fallen prey to such networks, others may not escape. Desperation may push them to these networks, activists fear. Often, people under distress take loans, which is termed as ‘advance’, and families are pushed into bonded labour as a mode of repayment. Karnataka being one of the largest destination States for migrant labourers, has a high prevalence of bonded labour. No access to loans “The dearth of jobs in their home State, lack of savings and access to more legitimate means to apply for loans leaves migrant workers in a very precarious situation, especially during a large-scale crisis like we are seeing today. Furthermore, in several cases, migrants who left the State were not even paid their salaries for several months. Others had to survive in the city for many months without a job or wages exhausting what little savings they had. This leaves them with no means to take care of their families,” said Prathima M., Associate Director, International Justice Mission, an NGO that has been working with those rescued from bonded labour. MHA guidelines The Ministry of Home Affairs released guidelines for State governments to increase surveillance to prevent human trafficking, especially as a fallout of the pandemic. The guidelines dated July 7, direct States to set up anti-trafficking units in all districts and call for a coordination mechanism at the highest level between various related departments to check trafficking. The guidelines say: “Panchayats may be asked to maintain a register of every individual in the village, including migrant labourers, and monitor their movement.” Dr. Parashiva Murthy, additional director general of police and nodal officer, Anti Trafficking Unit, Karnataka, said they were working on the new guidelines. While no fresh cases of trafficking for forced labour have come to light recently, surveillance and rescue of workers from bonded labour is a continuous process, he said.  (World Day Against Trafficking in Persons is observed on July 30)
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tunnel work||Tunnel work under Phase II of Namma Metro will begin on Thursday. Two machines will dig towards Shivajinagar and other two towards Vellara junction.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Strike continues||
30 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Contact cases a concern in Alappuzha||The district reported 35 new cases and an equal number of recoveries on Wednesday.  Of the fresh cases, 32 people contracted the disease through local transmission and one each came from Bahrain and Hyderabad. The source of infection of a 52-year-old patient from Palamel is unknown. The contact cases include nine people from Pallippuram and seven from Panavally. Four patients from Kuthiathode were on the contact list of COVID-19 patients associated with Chellanam harbour. Two Kattoor natives diagnosed with the disease were related to the Chettikkad cluster. Rest of the contact cases were reported from Pattanakkad (three), Thuravoor (two) and one each from Mannancherry, Ezhupunna, Ambalappuzha, Punnapra and Kuthiathode. Three persons died of COVID-19 in Alappuzha on Wednesday. The deaths include a 62-year-old woman from Mararikulam, a 51-year-old man from Tirunelveli who was residing at Chengannur and an 80-year-old woman from Pallithode, Cherthala. With these, the death toll in the district has gone up to eight. (The three deaths have not been included in the State’s official figures.) Ban on fishing and sale of fish along the coast in the district has been extended till August 5. Ward 9 in Veeyappuram, wards 1, 12 and 13 and the western side of scooter factory road in ward 11 and 17 in Punnapra North and ward 8 in Cheriyanad grama panchayat were declared as containment zones. Wards 45 (sea view) and 13 (Palace ward) in Alappuzha municipality, ward 6 in Panavally and ward 6 and 7 in Perumbalam were also declared as containment zones.
30 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Life hit in Alappuzha||Heavy rain wreaked havoc in several parts of the district on Wednesday. According to district administration officials, at least one house was destroyed and two houses damaged in Cherthala. The torrential downpour affected normal life and inundated low-lying areas. A meeting chaired by A. Alexander on Wednesday decided to set up relief camps. Mr. Alexander directed local body authorities to break small pozhis in coastal areas to drain excess water, if necessary. Panchayats have also been asked to collect details of people in quarantine, bedridden patients and the elderly.  Officials said that a total of 412 buildings were identified in six taluks for using as relief camps. However, no relief camps were opened in the district as on Wednesday evening. “All departments concerned have been put on high alert. All arrangements are in place to meet any emergency situation. Relief camps will be opened, if necessary. Both the Irrigation Department and the Kerala State Electricity Board have been asked to monitor the water level in rivers in the district,” said an official.
30 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki’s crop glut finds no market||Palraj, a farmer from Vattavada in Idukki, would have faced a criminal case had not the Idukki MP intervened on his behalf. All Palraj did was to harvest carrot in his farm in the hope of procurement by Horticorp and when the agency refused to accept his produce, in desperation, he staged a protest in front of a Horticorp vehicle . The agency filed a complaint with the police and a case was charged against him. Palraj says he had harvested seven sacks of carrot (each 50 kg). With the agency backing off, he was forced to sell the crop at Rs. 5 a kg. Other farmers at Vattavada and Kanthallur too are facing a problem of plenty. Their crops are not being procured in view of the pandemic-induced restrictions. The first harvesting season has started and farmers have no avenues to sell their carrot, beetroot, potato, beans, garlic, and cabbage. Raja, a farmer, says poor rainfall has delayed harvesting and now, vegetables have started arriving in bulk in the market. Because of lockdown, traders from Tamil Nadu too are not procuring vegetables. It is not a case of “poor demand,” but one of “no demand,” he says. Farmers at Vattavada and Kanthallur used to sell their produce to Horticorp, Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam, and traders from Tamil Nadu. The Vattavada Cool-Season Vegetable Producers Marketing Society and the Kanthallur Cool-Season Vegetable Producers Marketing Society procure vegetables from hundreds of farmers and supply to Horticorp, which gives a remunerative price. Jayaprakash, president of the Vattavada society, says farmers have no option but to abandon the harvested crops. The government should intervene to save them, he says.
30 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||34 new cases in Idukki||The district reported 34 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, with 25 of them contracting the infection through local transmission. Those who were infected through local transmission included residents of Kattappana, Marayur, Kanthallur, Karinkunnam, Upputhara, Kumily, Vannapuram, Kodikulam, Rajakkad, and Kulamavu. Two of those who tested positive returned from abroad and seven, from other States. Twenty persons recovered from the virus on Wednesday.
30 July 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Accreditation for botanical garden||The MS Swaminathan Botanical Garden (MSSBG) here has been awarded A - level 1 accreditation by the ArbNet Arboretum Accreditation Program for achieving high standards of professional practices deemed important for arboreta and botanic gardens. The accreditation programme, being organised by Morton Arboretum in Lisle, Illinois, United States, is the only global initiative to officially recognise arboreta based on a set of professional standards such as various levels of development, capacity, and professionalism. Ecosystem restoration has received increased attention worldwide at present as there is a counter-movement to mitigate destructive impacts on ecosystems, says N. Anilkumar, senior director, M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF). The MSSRF started an ecosystem restoration programme in 1997 by studying and locating ‘rare endemic and threatened’ (RET) trees and degraded open sites, including forests and sacred groves. Since 2002, the foundation has been engaged in tree planting across the State and Tamil Nadu and so far planted over a million saplings of RET species, Dr. Anilkumar added.
30 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Flood management claims go down the drain in Kochi||Heavy overnight showers proved on Wednesday that if it rained heavily, water would not break through clogged canals and blocked drains. Rainwater held most parts of the city, including West Kochi, hostage, disproving claims of having done adequate flood planning work to save Kochi from waterlogging. Thickly-populated residential colonies in low-lying areas like Udaya Colony, P&T Colony, and Mattancherry were among the worst affected, with water from drains and sewers entering houses. Several households had to shift to the first floor in many areas, including in the eastern parts of the Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass, which are generally less impacted by flooding during rainy weather. As always, agencies blamed one another. A senior Kochi Corporation official said the civic body had done a proper pre-monsoon clean-up of drains and canals, albeit belatedly, despite the lockdown. “Slush and silt that accumulated in the mouth of many waterbodies following the 2018 floods have not been cleared so far by the departments concerned. Funds available under the Centre’s AMRUT scheme must be spared to improve the situation. Even Operation Breakthrough, spearheaded by the district administration and the Irrigation Department following the 2019 floods, did not yield the desired results. Officials of the corporation were not taken into confidence in carrying out several works, said P.M. Harris, chairman of the works standing committee.  Mullassery canal caused flooding  Poornima Narayan, councillor representing Gandhinagar, said the flooding in the area around Kammattipadam was mostly due to botched work taken up on the Mullassery canal under the AMRUT scheme. “The canal is connected to the Perandoor canal through a culvert near the railway lines. From the area where the canal starts behind the KSRTC bus stand, the depth of the Mullassery canal has been reduced from around 4 feet to 1.5 feet, and the base has been cemented. Consequently, the water that is collected in the Mullassery canal from the entire city rushes into the Kamattipadam area, instead of flowing into the backwaters,” she said. Baji Chandran, Executive Engineer, Minor Irrigation Department, concurred. The bed level of around 400 metres of the 994-metre-long canal has been raised with concrete, he said. “This work will have to be undone under Operation Breakthrough, at a cost of around Rs. 2 crore. With COVID-related restrictions and the monsoon setting in, it had been delayed,” said Mr. Chandran, who heads the execution of Phase-II of Operation Breakthrough. If work on the Mullassery canal had been completed, waterlogging around the KSRTC bus stand, Chittoor Road, and M.G. Road, to some extent, could have been resolved. AMRUT officials, however, denied that any project had been taken up on the Mullassery canal. “To facilitate the smooth flow of water from the nearby Vivekananda thodu into the Mullassery canal, the side walls of the canal near the KSRTC bus stand had been raised, only for about a 10-metre stretch of the canal. The base of the canal has not been concreted,” the officials said. Meanwhile, the District Collector S. Suhas inspected the premises of the KSEB sub-station at Kaloor on Wednesday to take stock of waterlogging in the wake of the incessant rain that lashed Kochi.
30 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||55 families rehabilitated in relief camps||A total of 55 families from Elamkulam and Ernakulam villages were rehabilitated in two relief camps, following waterlogging. Ten families were moved to Mother Teresa Community Hall, Elamkulam, and three to Government Vocational HSS, Kadavanthra, by employees of the respective village offices and health inspectors. A few houses in North Paravur and Mulamthuruthy were damaged in the incessant rainfall. Flooding occurred in P&T Colony, Udaya Colony, and Perumanoor Colony in the city. Three cars parked on the roadside at Vattekkunnam near Edappally were thrown into the courtyard of a house some 15 feet below when a portion of the road caved in. A family at Mulamthuruthy was evacuated to safety after soil erosion partially destroyed their rented dwelling. In Paravur, two houses were damaged in mudslip. Attempts by the Kochi Corporation and the district administration to resolve waterlogging had not been successful, and the matter should be examined jointly, said T.J. Vinod, MLA. Jayamohan P.G., district committee member of the Ernakulam District Residents Associations Apex Council (EDRAAC), lamented that most projects undertaken to declog drains and canals in the city had been abandoned halfway. The one-upmanship among officials of various agencies is one reason for flooding witnessed every monsoon, he said.
30 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Corpn., dist. administration lock horns over Op Breakthrough||On Wednesday, waterlogging did not occur in areas where Operation Breakthrough was implemented, and the project was a success, according to Baji Chandran, who heads Phase-II execution of the project. In Phase-II, obstructions to the flow of water were cleared from Changadampokku, Karanakkodam, Chilavannoor and Koyithara canals, and the Thevara and Perandoor lakefronts. Only work on the Mullassery canal remains pending, he claimed. An official who chose to defend the project said Kochi received 15.10 cm of rainfall from 1 a.m. up to 9 a.m. on Wednesday. The high tide worsened the situation, he said, adding that flooding was severe on the banks of the Thevara-Perandoor canal and the Mullassery canal, which were to be desilted by the corporation. “The Rs. 19-crore Operation Breakthrough had not covered Panampilly Nagar, Ravipuram, and other severely-hit areas like parts of Thripunithura, Maradu, and Pettah. We cleaned or rebuilt drains in Phase-I, followed by canal cleaning in Phase-II to increase their carrying capacity. In this, we removed 4,000 lorry loads of silt and slush, most of which was transported to Brahmapuram,” the official added. District Collector S. Suhas said despite continuous rain in the areas where the project was implemented, there was smooth flow of water. “There was no waterlogging in the vicinity of canals that were desilted as part of Operation Breakthrough, despite heavy rainfall. Waterlogging in the vicinity of the international stadium can be prevented if the pipe culvert laid beneath the road is substituted with a box culvert, for which a part of Banerjee Road might have to be closed down,” he added. “The situation is bad at Chellanam and Thoppumpady. The Kochi Corporation must shed its laid-back attitude and work hand-in-hand with other departments in preventing flooding,” said Hibi Eden, MP. Mayor Soumini Jain, however, said the fruitfulness of Operation Breakthrough was not evident in the main areas where waterlogging was experienced. Efforts would be made by the corporation in coordination with other departments to resolve the issue, particularly at Kaloor near the KSEB substation. Thevara-Perandoor canal An AMRUT official said a project worth Rs. 16.5 crore had been planned for the 10.5-km-long Thevara-Perandoor canal under the AMRUT scheme. Of this, around Rs. 5 crore had already been spent on fencing and cleaning the entire stretch of the canal once in 2019, and some stretches a second time this year. Mr. Chandran, however, said obstructions to the smooth flow of water in the Thevara-Perandoor canal was what caused Wednesday’s waterlogging in Panampilly Nagar, Vaduthala and Kamattipadam areas. Since an existing AMRUT project is being implemented there, no work was taken up under Operation Breakthrough on the Thevara-Perandoor canal, he said.  There was no waterlogging in the vicinity of canals that were desilted as part of Operation Breakthrough, despite heavy rainfall S. Suhas District Collector
30 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Chellanam cluster shares a chunk of 58 local transmissions||In a resurgence from the area, 16 persons, including two health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 from the Chellanam cluster on Wednesday. They were among the 58 people who tested positive through local transmission of the virus. A total of 17 persons who arrived from outside the State have also tested positive, taking the district tally for the day to 83. The Aluva cluster and the nearby panchayats continue to register new positive cases — two persons from Aluva, five from Kadungaloor, and seven from Edathala have tested positive. Four health workers at a private hospital in Aluva have also been infected. Five positive cases were reported from Fort Kochi. Three persons from Cheranalloor and two from Kalamassery have also tested positive. District Collector S. Suhas had earlier flagged the Kalamassery and Cheranalloor regions as emerging areas of concern, where a number of cases were being reported, but scattered over a larger area. Fifty-eight people recovered from the disease, and 827 are being treated. As many as 886 samples were sent for testing on Wednesday, and the results of 968 tests remain pending. West Kochi Several areas of West Kochi have been reeling from the disease. So far, 18 persons have tested positive just from Kalvathy, said councillor Zeenath Rashid. Some of them are fish workers, she added. Around 150 samples for testing were collected from the area on Wednesday. After an autorickshaw driver tested positive in the West Kochi area on Tuesday, nearly 60 autorickshaw drivers were tested. Mayor Soumini Jain said first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) in the area, one in Mattancherry and the other at Palluruthy, would be inspected by the Health Department on Thursday before they could begin functioning. The FLTCs are also awaiting staff appointments, she added. Another FLTC is also likely to come up at the community hall at Kalvathy. In a meeting with Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar on Wednesday, suggestions were made to shift primary contacts of COVID-positive patients in West Kochi to institutional or paid quarantine facilities to prevent the infection from spreading further among those who live in close proximity, the Mayor said. Waterlogging in some areas had exacerbated the troubles of living in containment zones, said Jayanthi Premnath, councillor representing Panayappilly.
30 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||LKG admissions||Registration for admission to LKG at various Bhavan’s Bala Mandirs, Kochi Kendra, for the academic year 2021-2022 will begin from July 30. Online applications may be submitted till August 2. For details, visitwww.bhavanskochikendra. comor contact 0484-2903500 or 2903551.
30 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||GST evasion using benamis unearthed||The State government has informed the Kerala High Court that the tax intelligence has detected huge GST evasions through fraudulent bills and transactions using benamis. In statement filed before the court, the GST Department said that a new modus operandi was evolved by a racket engaged in tax evasion called, the bill trading. It referred to a situation when the bill was issued in the name of a stranger to the business, but in whose names the GST registration was taken for transaction of goods. The bill trading by way of raising fraudulent bills and effecting transactions through benami was the latest technique used for tax evasion. The statement was filed in a petition by a businessman challenging the notice issued by the GST Department.
30 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Naval Communication Network training lab opened||Vice Admiral Anil Kumar Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command, inaugurated a Naval Communication Network (NCN) Training Lab at Signal School on Wednesday. The NCN is a state-of-the-art captive network envisioned to provide digital supremacy to the Navy through smart network infrastructure, enhanced throughout, high quality secure services and ease of network management. The NCN Training Lab is an advanced Communications and Networking Lab designed to provide comprehensive and realistic training to naval personnel in the operation and management of the NCN, said a communication.
30 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||84 new cases in Kollam||While the district reported 84 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, the number of recoveries touched 146, recording a sharp spike compared to the 70 on Tuesday. Among the recovered patients is Asma Beevi, a 105-year-old Anchal resident, who was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam on July 20 with symptoms including fever and cough. The hospital had deployed a special medical team for the oldest patient in the State and she left the COVID-19 ward spreading hope amidst all the gloom. The persons who tested positive for SARS-C0V-2 on Wednesday include 77 contact cases, 6 NoRKs and a doctor working at Kottarakara Taluk Hospital. The district currently has 8,697 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 27,965. While 584 persons completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department has traced 6,131 primary and 1,768 secondary contacts of the fresh cases.  More facilities at hospital Meanwhile, the Health Department has scaled up containment measures and introduced additional facilities worth Rs. 2 crore at Government Medical College, Kollam. A new RT-PCR lab for COVID-19 testing , renovated ICU for positive patients and the plasmapheresis machine for plasma therapy were inaugurated on Wednesday by Health Minister K.K.Shylaja through video conferencing. At present GMC Hospital, district’s first COVID-19 hospital has 500 beds and 42 ventilators for COVID-19 patients. The renovated ICU has 18 beds with ventilators, multipara monitors, RO plants for dialysis and external monitor facility. The services of a critical care unit that includes a nephrologist, cardiologist, neurologist, anaesthesiologist, pulmonologist and physician will be available 24x7.
30 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||29 new cases in Kottayam||A day after reporting its biggest single day spike in new COVID-19 cases , the disease tally in Kottayam on Wednesday recorded a sharp decline with only 29 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the fresh cases, 27 contracted the virus through local transmission while the remaining two cases came from outside. Meanwhile, 28 persons recovered from the disease. Clusters According to officials, the COVID -19 clusters in the district have been on a declining path with Changanassery and Parathodu together reporting just three cases. At the same time, Athirampuzha and Vazhappally panchayats reported six cases each. Of the 666 tests conducted in the Prathodu cluster, 39 persons tested positive so far. In Changanassery, 69 persons tested positive after 1,519 were subjected to examination while 36 from Paippad tested positive when 264 were subjected to tests. Meanwhile, the Pallickathodu-Chirackadavu cluster have almost subsided with no new cases being reported for the past few days. The Ettumanur cluster, which had recorded a rapid increase in positive cases a couple of days ago, witnessed just six cases on Wednesday after testing 200 persons. Of the 45 positive cases detected on the first day, 32 were migrant workers, while the remaining 13 persons were from the municipality and other four adjacent local bodies.  Containment zones Meanwhile, District Collector M. Anjana declared 12 more containment zones in the district. With this, the number the district has 57 containment zones across 23 local bodies. Of the 561 COVID patients in the district, as many as 493 are accommodated in seven COVID first-line treatemnt centres.
30 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||14 staff at Kozhikode MCH test positive||Eighty-eight healthcare workers attached to the Government Medical College Hospital have so far been asked to go into quarantine after 14 of their colleagues tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in recent days. According to sources at the hospital, those tested positive for the virus include an assistant professor, three junior residents, two house surgeons, four staff nurses, one nursing assistant, one pharmacist and other staff. Wards, 3, 4, 36, cardiology and nephrology have been closed now. Unconfirmed reports said that the staff at the District Medical Office had been asked to go into quarantine after one of their colleagues tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 during an antigen test held for the staff at the Civil Station. A large chunk of fresh COVID-19 cases reported from the district continues to be through local transmission of the infection as 67 people declared tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. Two deaths were reported from the Government Medical College Hospital. According to a medical bulletin from the hospital, one of them is a 49-year-old man from Thaliyattuparamba in Kozhikode city. The second patient is a 72-year-old man from Kondotti in Malappuram district. A release by the District Medical Officer said that 59 of the new COVID-19 cases are through local transmission and the source of infection of three others is not known. Thirteen persons belong to the Kozhikode corporation, nine of them are staff in two private hospitals. The other infected persons are from Nadapuram, Velam, Chorod, Payyoli, Koyilandy, Mukkom, Onchiyam, Feroke, Kuttiadi, Villiappally, Thiruvalloor, Puthuppady, Kunnamangalam, Olavanna, Vanimel, Ramanattukara, Chelannur and Vadakara. In Kasaragod The spread of COVID-19 continues to increase through contact in Kasaragod. Of the 49 cases reported on Wednesday, 30 contracted the disease through local transmission. Fifteen persons returned from abroad. The source of infection of four persons could not be identified. There are now 3,800 persons under observation in the district. In Wayanad All the 43 new COVID-19 patients in Wayanad district contracted the disease through local transmission. According to District Medical Officer R. Renuka, 39 of the new 43 cases were reported from Valad area in Thavinhal grama panchayat. Two cases were reported from Varambetta and one case each from Periya and Payyampally areas. District Collector Adeela Abdulla has declared complete lockdown in four places in the district — Mananthavady Municipality, Thodarnadu, Edavaka and Thavinhal grama panchayat — from 12 a.m. on Thursday to 6 a.m. on August 5 to contain the spread of the pandemic . Special control rooms will be set up in these areas to supply essential provisions and medicines to people. The Collector also banned all vehicle movements, except public carriers and medical emergency vehicles, through the Periya, Palchuram and Pakramthalam (Kuttyadi) ghat roads. In Thrissur In a relief for Thrissur district, there was a dip in the number of COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Only 31 cases were reported from the district. Of them, 25 were infected through local contact. So far, 1,312 cases have been reported from the district. Of them, 866 persons recovered from the disease. In Malappuram Two more persons died of COVID-19 in Malappuram on Wednesday. The deaths of a 67-year-old man from Pallikkal near Tenhipalam and a 72-year-old man from Kondotty raised the district’s COVID-19 toll to 11. While the Pallikkal man died at Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, the man from Kondotty died at Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. Both suffered heart attacks. Eighty-seven persons tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. Among the new cases, 51 got the infection through local spread. The source of infection could not be identified for 15 of them. In Kannur The situation at Kannur Medical College Hospital continues to be grim as more COVID-19 cases emerged here on Wednesday. Among the 42 new patients, 10 were health workers and 17 were those who assisted patients at the medical college. Those in the medical college cluster include three doctors, who are natives of Kottayam, Kozhikode and Alathur in Palakkad. In Palakkad Forty-nine persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Wednesday. Of them, 18 were infected through local contacts, including 11 from Pattambi. In the rapid antigen tests conducted on 163 persons in and around Pattambi on Tuesday, 11 were found positive. Nine of them were from Pattambi and one each from Muthuthala and Kayiliyad. Four from Kalladikkode and one each from Shoranur, Ongalloor, and Mepparamb also contracted the disease through contact.  (With inputs from Kasaragod, Thrissur, Wayanad, Kannur, Malappuram, and Palakkad bureaus)
30 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Worry over ‘delay’ in info sharing||The data on health-care workers in private hospitals who test positive for SARS-CoV-2 are not promptly made available in the public domain despite frequent instances of them getting infected with the virus, it is alleged. Health Department sources claim that even though these institutions are supposed to intimate the surveillance cell about any suspected COVID-19 cases among their staff, at least some of them are delaying it. A large number of people depend on private hospitals for their medical needs and any delays in divulging information about them could be risky, it has been pointed out. Scene in Kozhikode As many as 18 staff in an orthopaedic hospital in Kozhikode tested positive for the virus last week. There was confusion among the people about who among the visitors to the hospital should go in home quarantine as the cut-off date mentioned by the District Collector and the Health Department was apparently different. Eleven staff in a heart hospital in the city tested positive recently. It has been alleged that the hospital kept the information under wraps for some time. The staff in another private medical college hospital in Kozhikode too were infected. Testing in own labs A Health Department official said that some private hospitals were conducting tests on the body fluid samples of their staff at their own labs. Those labs may or may not have been recognised by the government for COVID-19 tests. Those who test positive are sent in quarantine and the information might not be communicated to the department for the fear of losing the institution’s reputation. Hospitals’ stance Hussain Koya Thangal, general secretary, Kerala Private Hospitals’ Association, said the details of staff testing positive for the virus and those who go in quarantine are being conveyed to the Health Department on time.
30 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Health-care workers among 54 positive cases in Pathanamthitta||Seven police personnel and three health workers were among the 54 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Wednesday, a release said. Of the new patients, 38 contracted the disease through contact while16 were those who came from other States and abroad. Four of the seven police personnel are from the Armed Reserve Camp in Pathanamthitta. A civil police officer at the Malayalappuzha police station, a driver attached to the office of the DySP (Crime Branch), and an officer posted at the COVID control cell at the office of the District Police Chief also tested positive on Wednesday. The Station House Officer at the Malayalappuzha police station had tested positive the other day and the entire staff there went in quarantine. A staff nurse at the General Hospital, Pathanamthitta, a health worker from Pannivizha, near Adoor, posted at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, and another person employed at a clinical laboratory here are the health workers who tested positive. The overall tally of COVID-19 cases in the district went up to 1,260 on Wednesday. There are 342 active cases, of which 331 are undergoing treatment at hospitals in the district and the rest outside the district. As many as 81 people recovered from the disease on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 916.
30 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Charity begins at ‘home for the needy’||Mukaluvilayil Samuel Sunil, aka M.S. Sunil, is a favoured name in the social service sphere of central Travancore. Her altruistic contributions to the poor and needy have earned her many prizes and the academic-turned-social worker has utilised all the prize money for building homes for the homeless. A student in MSc (Zoology) class who lived in a tent pitched by the wayside at Kodumon was what made Dr. Sunil construct a small house for the student with the help of the National Service Scheme (NSS) on three cents of land provided by the Kodumon grama panchayat in 2002. The house was completed at Rs. 1.17 lakh. Teachers and well-wishers contributed Rs. 98,000 and Dr. Sunil spent the remaining sum. And that was the beginning of the popular charity home project of Dr. Sunil who has provided safe shelter to more than 175 homeless families so far. 1,000 homes This 59-year-old retired head of the department of zoology at the Catholicate College here told The Hindu: “Constructing at least 1,000 houses for the homeless poor is my dream.” Construction of the 180th house on 600 sq ft of land is progressing at Kalanjoor, near Konni. Farm worker couple Shyni and Suresh, their three children, and elderly mother living in a makeshift tent are the beneficiaries. Supporting 25 orphaned children in the district and supplying rice and grocery kits every month to 200 poor families under her new project, Karuthal, are her other charity schemes. “Community service is my passion,” she says. Recipient of the Naree Sahkti Puraskar, the country’s highest civilian honour for women instituted by the Union Ministry of Woman and Child Development, in 2018, Dr. Sunil utilised the award money worth Rs. 1,00,000, the Rs. 25,000 cash award she received from The Hindu Group, the prize money of Rs. 65,000 received from the Syro-Malankara Society in Bahrain, and her own contribution for constructing the 100th house at Mannadissala in Pathanamthitta. The 150th house was constructed with the fund provided by her son, Prince Sunil Thomas, who is currently engaged in a project at Dublin University. Dr. Sunil said she accepts well-accounted contributions from people who are genuinely interested in her charity home project. Each house on 600 sq ft costs Rs. 3.5 lakh. Her latest endeavour is Jeevamrithom, for providing drinking water to poor households.
30 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pampa river sand removal nearing end||The sand removal from the river course of the Pampa that began a month ago is nearing completion. The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) chaired by District Collector P.B. Noohu started clearing the sand deposit left by the 2018 deluge at Pampa on June 4. The DDMA initiated the work to check any future flood fury at Pampa, invoking Section 34(d) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The DDMA also decided to utilise the State Disaster Response Fund for the sand removal project. According to the Collector, the proposal was to remove 1,28,000 cubic metres of sand and waste from the Pampa. However, the DDMA came to the conclusion later that only 75,000 sq metres of sand need to be removed and hence the scooping of sand from the river course would come to a close after removing another 2,000 cubic metres of sand. Mr. Noohu, accompanied by Vinay Goyal, Thiruvalla Subcollector, and John Thomas, Ranni tahsildar, inspected Pampa to take stock of the situation. Mr. Goyal said sand and waste accumulated along a 2.2-km stretch of the Valiyanavattom and Pampa-Triveni stretch of the river had been completed. He said sand removed from the river course had been dumped in the forestland near the KSRTC depot at Pampa. The DDMA decision came against the backdrop of the heavy monsoon forecast made by the Meteorology Department of India, the Collector said.
30 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||CCF to probe death of farm owner in Chittar||A special team headed by Chief Conservator of Forests Sanjayankumar will inquire into the circumstances that led to the death of a 39-year-old farm owner who was taken into custody by the Forest officials at Chittar Forest Station on Tuesday, according to an official statement released by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests on Wednesday. The deceased, Mathai alias Ponnu of Areeckackavu Padinjarecharuvil house, was taken into custody by the Forest personnel on Tuesday reportedly in connection with the dumping of farm waste in the forest. However, Mathai’s body was found in the well of a house later in the night. K.N. Shyam Mohanlal, Konni Divisional Forest Officer; Baiju Krishnan, are the other two inquiry team members. The team has been asked to submit the inquiry report within two days.
30 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Grim situation in capital with 213 cases||The daily COVID-19 caseload in the district continues to remain high with 213 new cases being added on Wednesday. The situation in Thumba — where more than 80 employees of companies in the Kinfra International Apparel Park at Kazhakuttam had tested positive — remains grim. Fourteen more people, including a 10-year-old child, tested positive when the relatives of the employees underwent medical tests on Wednesday. The day’s caseload for the district included 10 health workers and five cases where the source remained uncertain. Contact transmission accounted for 198 of the cases, according to the district administration. Seventeen more cases were reported in thickly populated Adimalathura. Poonthura, another coastal area in the critical containment zone, reported nine new cases on Wednesday. Two police officers Two more police officers tested positive. This included an officer attached to the Cantonment police station and a civil police officer at the Museum station. In all, 1,368 people were placed under COVID-19 surveillance in the district on Wednesday, while 1,952 others completed the observation period. As on Wednesday, 18,156 people are under surveillance in the district. With the increase in contact transmission, the City police have strengthened surveillance in the coastal areas that fall in the critical containment zone and the containment zones in other parts of the city. Roads leading to these areas have been shut, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. One entry and one exit point have been allotted for these areas. In the city, the police have registered cases against 75 for violation of lockdown restrictions and 63 others for not wearing masks. The offenders were fined a total Rs. 38,500 on Wednesday. Cooperation Minister Kadakampally Surendran tested negative for COVID-19. The Minister will remain under surveillance for a week.
30 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State registers 903 new cases, one death||Kerala reported 903 new cases of COVID-19 and 641 recoveries on Wednesday. With 739 of the new cases being locally acquired infections, there seems to be no let-up in disease transmission in the community. In 35 of these cases, authorities have not been able to find an epidemiological link. One more death in Malappuram was added to the State’s toll, which now stands at 68. The number of health-care workers who tested positive on Wednesday was 30. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 21,797, of whom 11,365 have recovered. The number of patients currently in various hospitals in the State is 10,350. Thiruvananthapuram has been consistently reporting the maximum number of new cases daily. Of the 213 cases reported on Wednesday, 208 were locally acquired infections, including 10 health-care workers. Highest in capital The number of active cases in Thiruvananthapuram or patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals in the district has reached 3,023, which is over three times the number of patients in the district at the second spot. The rest of the districts have a case load less than 100 on Wednesday. Malappuram has 87 cases, 52 of which are cases of local transmission. Kollam has 84 cases, Ernakulam 83, Kozhikode 67, Pathanamthitta 54, Palakkad 49, Kasaragod 49, Wayanad 43, Kannur 42, Alappuzha 38, Idukki 34, Thrissur 31 and Kottayam 29. Samples tested Over 1.47 lakh people are in quarantine in the State, with 10,057 of them with mild COVID-19-like symptoms isolated in hospitals. The number of samples sent for testing in the State in the last 24 hours has gone up to 23,924. So far, the State has tested 7,33,413 samples under various diagnostic modalities. This is apart from the 1,19,019 samples from the community tested as part of sentinel surveillance. Nineteen new areas entered the hotspots list, while 13 others were dropped from the list. The total number of hotspots in the State now is 492.
30 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Attingal keeps virus at bay||Over the past few weeks, COVID-19 cases have been reported in fairly large numbers from Anchuthengu, Chirayinkeezhu, Venjaramoodu, Kadakkavoor and Kizhuvilam. Yet, the 31 wards of the Attingal municipality, which shares its borders with these places, remained somewhat insulated from the virus. Until the reporting of the first case in the municipality on Wednesday of a police officer working in Thiruvananthapuram, Attingal had remained one of the few municipalities in the State with zero COVID-19 cases. What worked for the municipality was some of the stringent measures taken early on by the authorities to prevent crowding and reduce chances of virus spread. With its close proximity to Thiruvananthapuram, where the number of cases have been shooting up especially in the coastal areas, the municipality stopped all kinds of fish trade as soon as cases began rising in Poonthura. Preventive measures “We began the preventive measures early in March, first by regulating the crowd in the markets and later completely closing it. Then we noticed that a lot of cases are being reported from the coastal regions of Poonthura and Anchuthengu. Most of the fish vendors in Attingal come from Anchuthengu. So, we decided to close down the wholesale fish market here as soon as cases were reported in Anchuthengu and other areas. Our health wing has also seized fish being brought illegally from other places. Even after lifting of restrictions in other places, only parcels were allowed from restaurants in the municipality,” says M. Pradeep, chairman of the Attingal municipality. Luck did play its part too in Attingal remaining COVID-free, as none of the persons who returned from foreign countries or other States tested positive for the viral infection here. In most other places, positive cases were reported among people who came from outside before contact cases began surfacing. Contacts quarantined On Wednesday, as soon as a communication was received from the taluk hospital regarding the first SARS-CoV-2 positive case, the municipal authorities and health officials swung into action, identifying and quarantining all contacts. “The police officer who tested positive works at the Cantonment station in Thiruvananthapuram. Since his residence is here, we found that he had also visited a workshop in the locality. We have identified and quarantined all the primary contacts from there, while the list of his secondary contacts is being prepared,” says Mr. Pradeep.  Until Wednesday, Attingal was one of the few municipalities in the State with zero COVID-19 cases.
30 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Landslip halts rail traffic via Kottayam||Train services via Kottayam were disrupted since Wednesday morning after rain caused a landslip near the approach of the second tunnel at Chingavanam in the Chingavanam-Kottayam corridor. Loose earth and boulders fell on a 15-metre stretch of the electrified single lane railway track after a cave-in from a 15-metre-high cutting on the approach to the second tunnel at Chingavanam on the Ernakulam side. Boulders also crashed into two overhead electric (OHE) posts near the landslip spot. However, the posts and railway line were not damaged. Train services in the Kayamkulam-Kottayam-Ernakulam section were suspended following the landslip. Efforts are on to restore the line and removal of debris is on in full swing.  The limited working space and inclement weather are hampering the work. As it is a single lane track and the landslip occurred near the approach of the tunnel, the debris are being removed using a wagon, which is time-consuming. The restoration of traffic via Kottayam is likely only by Thursday afternoon, an official said. Thiruvanathapuram Central-Ernakulam Venad Special (06302) was short-terminated at Changanassery. As it is a connecting train for Ernakulam-Hazrat Nizamuddin Special (02617), passengers were transported by road to the Ernakulam Junction railway station. Ernakulam-Nizamuddin (02617) that was to leave at 10.50 a.m. to Nizamuddin was rescheduled due to late running of Venad Special. Thiruvanathapuram-Kannur Janshatabdi Special (02082) via Kottayam was also diverted via Alappuzha. Today’s schedule Venad Special (06302) and Kannur-Thiruvanathapuram Central Janshatabdi Special (02081) of July 30 have been diverted via Alappuzha, according to a spokesman of Railways.
30 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Concerns unanswered in NEP, says Jaleel||The State has struck a discordant note on the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020, “which has failed to answer several concerns raised in the draft document.” Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel said here on Wednesday that the State’s concerns had been conveyed to the Centre, but to no avail. While welcoming the target set to increase Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) to 50% by 2035, Dr. Jaleel said there was no mention of the financial burden entailed for achieving the goal. Shift to autonomy The move to shift from the affiliation system to autonomy within 15 years would impact colleges in rural areas. Besides, the policy had erred in assessing public and private institutions using the same yardstick. An unchecked emergence of corporate entities in the field could result. Echoing the view, Kerala State Higher Education Council member secretary Rajan Varughese said the policy was marked by a disdain for democratic principles, federal governance, and public trust. “It ignores the balance of power in the Constitution and vests all decision-making powers in the Executive, while leaving nothing for Parliament and State legislatures,” he said. Withdrawing support for public-funded institutions would adversely affect equity, accessibility, and social justice.
30 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New move on home isolation||The State government, in accepting the recommendation of the State Medical Board that asymptomatic COVID-19 patients may be allowed to isolate themselves at home rather than in hospital, has decided to start with health-care workers who test positive for SARS-CoV-2 and are asymptomatic. It is the swelling case numbers and asymptomatic cases clogging the health system logistics that have forced the government to re-think its strategy. It is easier to begin with the home isolation of health workers who test positive as they can do self-monitoring in a responsible manner. The advisory issued by the Health Department on Wednesday directs the health workers who test positive for SARS-CoV-2 to submit a request to the COVID nodal officer of his/her institution that he/she be allowed to go in home isolation. They will also have to submit a self-declaration that they will strictly follow room quarantine guidelines and that there are no elderly or vulnerable persons at home. They have to undergo viral antigen test on the tenth day and if the test is negative, they have to rest at home for seven days.  Asymptomatic health-care staff who test positive can stay at home
30 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Silver Line land acquisition hit||The acquisition of 1,383 hectares of land for Silver Line, the semi-high-speed rail (SHRS) corridor from Kochuveli to Kasaragod, will get delayed with the Revenue Department sticking to the conventional mode of land acquisition. The Revenue Department’s notification and administrative sanction for setting up land acquisition cells are mandatory for acquiring land for the 529.45-km railway lines and construction of 10 stations. With Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan making his stance clear, the move to commence the groundwork for land acquisition within the period the Centre and the Railway Board process the detailed project report is unlikely unless Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan intervenes. The Transport Department, the administrative department for the Silver Line, has proposed partial outsourcing of the land acquisition process instead of the conventional mode to save time. But the Revenue Department has opposed the move. Mr. Chandrasekharan is already upset over the Public Works Department’s (PWD) ‘move’ to hand over the remaining land acquired for National Highway development for creating wayside amenities. Incidentally, the NH development and Silver Line projects are handled by Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran. Final call The Revenue Department is of the view that the final call wrests with it and that it will not permit outsourcing. The Minister has made it clear that the land acquisition, compensation and rehabilitation proceedings should be under the provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. The row over land acquisition came up when the Administrative Department approached for sanction to set up acquisition cells in 10 districts. A high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in February had decided to issue notification for acquiring land for 10 stations for the third and fourth railway lines that will traverse through 11 districts, except Alappuzha, Idukki and Wayanad. For creating acquisition cells under District Collectors, 143 posts had to be created and this was ruled out by the Finance Department due to financial crunch and citing that the acquisition proceedings are of temporary nature. The Finance Department has also sought opinion of the Revenue Department on partial outsourcing of the rail project and NH six-laning. This is done by posting two to three key persons such as deputy collector, tahsildar and surveyor from the Revenue Department in the acquisition cells under the District Collector. The remaining works are handled by the outsourced agency.
30 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Adhere to safety protocol: Collector||District Collector Navjot Khosa has appealed to the public to adhere to safety protocols and avoid unnecessary travel, given the COVID-19 scenario. Although lockdown restrictions have been relaxed in Corporation areas other than the critical containment zones and containment zones, responsible behaviour on the part of people was essential to control the situation, she said in a Facebook message on Wednesday. While shops have been allowed to remain open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., it is advisable to restrict the number of shop visits to once a week or when absolutely necessary. It would be advisable to avoid congested market places. Take care of the elderly The Collector urged restaurant staff and food-delivery personnel to adhere to the protocols. She underlined the need to protect the vulnerable elderly population from exposure to the virus. Meanwhile, only a few restaurants functioned on Wednesday, although the district administration allowed them to open for parcel services. “Only about 10% of the restaurants opened on Wednesday. This may have been due to the fact that the orders came late on Tuesday night. We expect most restaurants to be in full swing only after Bakrid on July 31,” B. Vijayakumar, secretary, Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association, Thiruvananthapuram, said.
30 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fish farms in reservoirs||As many as 28 reservoirs in the State could soon be teeming with edible fish. The Fisheries Department is rolling out a fish-ranching project to restock the waterbodies for enhancing inland fish production by 3,000 tonnes. The project seeks to release 430 lakh fishlings of carp, milk fish (poomeen), river prawn, and shrimp in the reservoirs, to be harvested as adults.Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma said that it would provide a steady income for fisherfolk.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is scheduled to launch the project over videoconferencing on Thursday.
30 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Technopark bags high CRISIL rating||The Electronics Technology Parks Kerala (Technopark) has been granted CRISIL A/Stable ranking for the second consecutive year on the strength of its financial stability and track record. In its review dated July 24, rating agency CRISIL said the key factors that led to the high rating of the institution included steady cash flow with full occupancy in Phases I and III, diversified clientèle and long-term lease agreements. The achievement had come at a time when COVID-19 had cast a gloom across the world, resulting in a major shift to work-from-home mode.
30 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Containment zones||All wards of Karode grama panchayat have been declared containment zones. District Collector Navjot Khosa also declared Pottanchira, Valiyakalunku, Parandode, and Puruthipara in Aryanad; Vemkadambu, Cherunalpazhinji, Perumpazhunji, Kotta kkakam, and Mavilakadavu in Kulathur; and Arikathavar, Kurakadam Mudapuram, and Vaidyantemukku in Kizhuvilam; as containment zones. The list includes K.K. Konam, Palikkal Town, Onnamkallu, Kattuputhusseri, Palikkal, and Kottiyamukku in Pallikkal panchayat; Kandala and Kilikottukonam in Maranalloor; Undapara in Poovachal; Thokkad in Chemmaruthi; Chamavila and Manali in Balaramapuram; and Puzhanad in Ottasekharamangalam.
30 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Orange alert for five districts today||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued orange alerts, signalling the need to remain prepared for rain-related emergencies, for Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod for Thursday. These districts can expect isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall (11.5 cm to 20.4 cm in a 24-hour period). Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad can expect isolated heavy rainfall. The IMD has issued yellow alerts for these districts. Avoid night-time travel The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has asked the public to avoid night-time travel in hill areas. People in coastal areas have been asked to exercise caution. The KSDMA has also asked the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) to ensure prompt repairs in the event of rain-related damage to electrical installations. Meanwhile, fishermen have been advised not to venture out to sea due to squally weather. The Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) has warned that the Kerala coast can expect 2.5 to 3.3 metre-high waves till Thursday night.
30 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Low-lying areas of Thrissur under water||Low-lying areas of Thrissur are under water following torrential rain, which lashed the district from Tuesday night. Even a brief spell of rain is flooding many areas in the district as lockdown restrictions had affected the pre-monsoon cleaning drive. Ikkanda Warrier Road near Sakthan Nagar was flooded on Wednesday. Though canals in Puzhakkal area had been cleared, there was no respite from flooding in that area too. Waterlogging was severe at the District Hospital junction at Swaraj Round. Traffic through Swaraj Round was blocked as a jackfruit tree in the Thekkinkadu Maidan near Manikandanal fell onto the round. Traffic was resumed after police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel removed the tree.
30 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||18 projects dedicated at Thrissur medical college||Health Minister K.K. Shailaja on Wednesday dedicated 18 projects to the people completed at a cost of Rs. 65 crore at the Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital through a videoconference. The linear accelerator installed in the radiotherapy wing for cancer patients was a long-awaited project, the Minister said. Another project that was inaugurated on Wednesday was a virology lab. IVF (In Vitro Fertilization) at an affordable price was another dream project. There would be an IVF lab, teenage clinic and menopause clinic at the Maternity Annexe, which was built at a cost of Rs. 1.43 crore.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||The novelty of it||
30 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur registers spike as sample testing goes up||The number of positive cases recorded till 9 a.m. on Wednesday in Anantapur district stood at 1,371, the highest sing-day spike since March 12 when the first case was reported. Sample testing in the district received a fillip with the arrival of Rapid Antigen Kits as 9,853 persons were tested in a single day. With eight persons succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours, the death toll has gone up to 97 in the district. Five deaths in Kurnool Kurnool district, meanwhile, recorded 1,091 new positive cases (14,471 now) and five deaths (179 now). The number of discharges (7,177) in Kurnool district has overtaken the number of active cases (7,115) as on date. In Anantapur district, while there are 6,877 active cases, the number of persons discharged is 5,384, according to District Collector Gandham Chandrudu. Number of samples collected at various Area Hospitals and PHCs, in addition to the Sanjeevini and IMASQ vehicles, went up to 10,283 on Wednesday, he said. Ward volunteers and secretariat staff got down to raising awareness among people in their respective localities asking them to get tested if they developed any symptoms. The Collector visited the JNTU Anantapur campus, where a COVID Care Centre has been set up and boosted the morale of the inmates by interacting with them while some of them were playing badminton. He underscored the need to put an end to stigmatisation against coronavirus patients and added that the administration would work towards achieving this goal. While 7,444 tests were done on Rapid Antigen kits, 182 were done on TrueNAT machine at Anantapur, 54 in Kadiri, 147 in RDT Bathalapalli and in the VDRL Laboratory 1,913 tests were done in the Rt-PCR machines.
30 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helpdesks at COVID hospitals in Anantapur||The Anantapur district administration has set up helpdesks at seven designated COVID-19 hospitals — both public and private — to ensure information flow and coordination. The helpdesk at KIMS Saveera (08554-234234) will work from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Following are the helpdesk numbers of each hospital: GGH Anantapur - 08554275034; Hindupur Government Hospital - 08556224255, 8328566367, 9866356033, 9959248323, 9703821857, 9642154532 and 9885200446; RDT Bathalapalli Hospital - 08559-244210, 8179404416, 9542393984, 9573888860, 6303344682, 9014071824 and 9740154108; Divya Sri Hospital (Anantapur) - 08554274322; Amaravathi Hospital (Anantapur) - 08554-231567; Care and Cure Hospital (Anantapur) - 08554220555.
30 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tiger protection measures have my full support: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday released posters and brochures brought out by the Forest Department on the conservation of tiger to mark Global Tiger Day. He appreciated the efforts of the department in conserving the tiger habitat and promised all support to the initiatives of the department. Special Chief Secretary, (Forests and Environment), Neerabh Kumar Prasad, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, N. Prateep Kumar, and Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) Rahul Pandey were among those present.  Focus area Mr. Prateep Kumar said that the conservation of tiger has been one of major activities of the department in the State. The Nagarjuna Sagar Srisailam Tiger Reserve is the largest in the country spread over 3,727.82 square km. The number of tigers in the NSTR has gone up to 60, according to latest camera trap images. The department has been taking measures such as enlisting the support of members of the Chenchu tribe and patrolling of the forest reserve and the adjoining sanctuaries to protect the big cat.
30 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Community-centric approach key to tiger conservation, say experts||Tiger conservation is at the heart of ecological balance and a community-centric approach to tiger conservation is the key to unlock an unlimited potential, tiger conservationists and wildlife experts across the country observed at a webinar on Global Tiger Day on Wednesday. Principal Chief Conservator of Forest N. Prateep Kumar said: “Tiger is at the top of the food pyramid and is key to protect the rich biodiversity of the forest. In Andhra Pradesh, the tiger population has shown a remarkable increase and over the years, there has been a significant increase in the number of tigers. In the last tiger census done in the year 2018, AP recorded 48 tigers and the number now reached 60. The Nagarjuna Sagar Srisailam Tiger Reserve (NSTR) is the largest in the country with an area spanning 3,727.82 square km spreading across Prakasam, Kurnool, Kadapa, and Chittoor districts.” Habitat expands Sharing his exciting experience with tiger conservation in NSTR, Chief Conservator of Forest, Wildlife, Rahul Pandey said he started working in NSTR in the year 2012 and initiated several new methods of tracking the tiger, such as face-based monitoring. Training programmes were given to the personnel in grid making and thanks to concerted effort, the tiger habitat was expanding and covers a significant area of Nallamalla and Seshachalam hill ranges. Surendra Mehra, DIG, National Tiger Conservation Authority, spoke of challenges in tiger conservation and efforts to involve local communities, while Bittu Sahgal, environmental activist, spoke of ‘cocoon conservancy’ as key to community participation. Imran Siddique, Assistant Director, Conservation Sciences, spoke of expanding core tiger habitats across the country and the need to increase the buffer zone to minimise man-animal conflict. Actor and UNEP goodwill ambassador Dia Mirza and animal protection activist Amala Akkineni also spoke.
30 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP leader questioned in Viveka murder case||As part of the ongoing investigation into the murder of former MP Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy, the special team of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned YSRCP State secretary D. Sankar Reddy on Wednesday. The CBI team sought various details from him during the inquiry that lasted more than six hours. Mr. Sankar Reddy was known to have close association with Vivekananda Reddy’s family. It was only on Tuesday that the CBI officials met the slain leader’s daughter Sunitha at their ancestral house. The CBI team recently arrived in Pulivendula.
30 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 COVID facilities to be set up in E. Godavari||Reiterating the government’s resolve to provide critical healthcare services to the coronavirus patients, Heath Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas on Wednesday announced that arrangements were being be made to increase the bed capacity of the hospitals in East Godavari district to 1,000. “Five new COVID Care Centres with the 5,000 bed capacity will be set up in the district in the wake of an unprecedented rise in the COVID-19 cases. Critical healthcare services will be available at the Government General Hospital within a week as it has been designated as the State COVID hospital,” the Minister told the media here. Recruitment of doctors and supporting staff will be done by the district authorities to ensure availability of adequate number of doctors, he said. Mr. Krishna Srinivas further said that two COVID Care Centres were being set up to cater to the needs of the patients in Rampa and Chintoor agencies, adding that dedicated teams of doctors would be deployed.  The Minister attributed the sharp spike in cases in the district to intensified testing. Mr. Krishna Srinivas, Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu, Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy also discussed the strategies to check the spread of the virus in the the major hotspots.
30 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Time to show humanity, says Health Minister||Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas has appealed to the family members of the next of kin of those who succumb to COVID-19 to claim the dead bodies to perform the last rites as per the existing COVID protocol. Addressing newsmen here on Wednesday, Mr. Srinivas said, “Show some humanity. There are certain legal hurdles for the government to perform the last rites of those who succumb to the virus without the knowledge of the family.” Referring to the piling up of dead bodies in some hospitals and delay in performing the last rites, Mr. Srinivas said, “The government is working out a solution to address the problem.” Mr. Srinivas further said that the government was able to perform the last rites of a few through the ‘Mahaprasthanam’ vehicles. On the allegations that the government was hiding the actual number of cases and death toll, the Health Minister said that the government had no reason to hide the data.
30 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,676 cases, 14 deaths reported||The highest single-day spike of 1,676 cases and 14 deaths were reported within 24 hours ending by Wednesday morning in East Godavari district. The tally in the district rose to 17, 739. According to the health bulletin issued by District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, nearly 50% of the total cases was from the four hotspots - Kakinada urban (360 cases), Kakinada rural (110), Rajamahendravaram Urban (240) and rural (111).
30 July 2020||KUCHIPUDI (KRISHNA),ANDHRA PRADESH||Vempati China Satyam hailed||Kuchipudi dance gurus, their disciples, and locals of Kuchipudi village on Wednesday remembered Padma Bhushan Vempati China Satyam marking his eighth death anniversary at his residence here. Sangeet Natak Academy awardees Pasumarthy Rattayya Sarma and Vedantam Radhe Shyam, Bismillah Khan Yuva Puraskar awardee Chinta Ravi Bala Krishna and other dancers offered floral tributes at the statue of Guru Vempati. Akhila Bharat Kuchipudi Natya Kala Mandali secretary Pasumarthy Kesava Prasad and academicians of Krishna University conducted a day-long session, recalling the contribution of Guru Vempati. “Kuchipudi village missed a prominent guru who promoted the classical dance across the globe, apart from grooming several disciples as gurus,” said Mr. Rattayya Sarma, remembering his performance in a dance drama choreographed by Guru Vempati in 1960s. Contributions recalled Guru Radhe Shyam, who was groomed by Guru Vempati for some years in Chennai, recollected the journey of Guru Vempati in promoting the dance drama and revival of the Kuchipudi dance. “Guru Vempati had put the tiny village of Kuchipudi on the global map with his contribution to the Indian classical dance, mostly post-independence,” Mr. Kesava Prasad observed: Young dancers — Rajeswari, Tejaswi, and Bhuvaneswari — offered a dance tribute to Guru Vempati.
30 July 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank employee burnt alive||A differently-abled bank employee, identified as Siva Kumar, 33, was burnt alive on the outskirts of Nandyal town in the early hours of Wednesday when the car he was travelling in rammed a container lorry. According to the police, Siva Kumar, a resident of Nandyal, could not wriggle out of the mangled vehicle that caught fire. Three other co-passengers, K. Kasaiah, G.S. Kumar and C. Surendra, were injured and shifted to Nandyal government hospital. While the driver and two others jumped out to safety, Siva Kumar was sleeping in the back seat and could not immediately get down. All of them were relatives and had gone to Kurnool to console a relative getting treated in Kurnool GGH. A fire tender was sent immediately and flames were controlled, but it was too late.
30 July 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online Varalakshmi Vratam at Srisailam||The Sri Bhramarambika Mallikarjuna Devasthanam will conduct Varalakshmi Vratam Arjitha Seva in online mode on Friday, and interested devotees can book a seva by paying Rs. 1,116 on its portal www.srisailamonline.com. The online seva will begin at 9 a.m. and those paying the fee can log on to the temple’s YouTube channel to watch the live proceedings. Further details can be had on the temple website and over the helpline — 833-901-351, with six extensions up to 356.
30 July 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PD Act invoked against three gutkha peddlers||Krishna District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz on Wednesday issued orders invoking the Preventive Detention (PD) Act against three gutkha peddlers, who were allegedly wanted in several smuggling cases. This is the first time that the PD Act has been invoked against gutkha peddlers in the district, police said. The three suspects, identified as K.V.N. Rajeswara Rao, K. Chakradhar and Dasa Shekhar, were taken into custody and are facing trial in similar cases, said Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. The accused were earlier taken into custody by the Kanchikacherla, Nandigama, Penuganchiprolu and Chandarlapadu police in the past, and were warned against smuggling and selling banned gutkha products. However, the accused continued to sell tobacco, causing health problems to the public, the SP said. Rajeswara Rao, a resident of Kanchikacherla mandal in Krishna district, was facing 12 cases. Chakradhar is wanted in 11 cases in the district, while 13 cases are pending against Shekhar at Kanchikacherla police station. “The suspects will be formally arrested and produced in court. Stern action will be taken against gutkha and ganja peddlers in the district,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu said. “This is for the first time in Krishna district that the PD Act has been invoked against gutkha peddlers. The modus operandi of the accused is to import different brands of gutkha products from Odisha and other States and sell them to retailers in the district,” the SP said.
30 July 2020||Nellore,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four injured in blaze at pharma unit in Nellore||Four persons were injured when a fire broke out in a chemical unit at Chandrapadia village, near Vinjamur, in SPSR Nellore district in the early hours of Wednesday. The fire extinguishing system in the pharma unit manufacturing pharmaceutical ingredients was immediately activated. The fire, which triggered a blast, was brought under control in about 30 minutes, said District Fire Officer K. Srikanth Reddy, who rushed to the spot. The sudden increase in pressure while methanol was being loaded into the reactor caused the fire. “'The reactor has not suffered any damage,” the DFO said. The injured were rushed to a private hospital here. Later three of them in a serious condition were shifted to a hospital in Chennai for better treatment. District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhara Babu, who visited the Venkata Narayana Active Ingredients Private Limited, along with Superintendent of Police Bhaskar Bhushan, ordered for its temporary closure. A probe was also ordered into the accident, Joint Collector V. Vinod Kumar said. A financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 was released to the injured by the government. The company manufactures niche APIs for the global market.
30 July 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Caseload soars past 6,000 in Nellore||There was no relief for people from COVID-19 as nine more patients- five in SPSR Nellore district and four in Prakasam --succumbed to the pandemic in the last 24 hours. Nellore’s caseload increased to 6,096 with 608 new cases, while 33 were discharged on Wednesday. As many as 2,884 patients were in the age group of 21 to 40 and another batch of 2,437 in the age group of 41 to 60. The toll mounted to 53 in Prakasam where 335 new cases were reported and 133 were discharged. The cumulative tally in the district stood at 4,331. As many as 329 patients awaited admission into COVID-19 hospitals in the district that had 1,695 patients from the 26 very active and 160 active clusters. The health staff swung into action and isolated 2,830 primary and secondary contacts of the newly-infected persons. Of the fresh cases, Ongole accounted for 55 taking its count to 884 followed by Markapur where 31 new cases pushed the tally to 560. Giddalur witnessed a spurt in cases as 24 more tested positive. Cases were also reported from across the district including Kanigiri(19), Podili(15), Gudlur(9), Tangutur(8), Thallur(8), Pullacheruvu(6), Chimakurthy(5) and Martur(4). ‘Allot beds for corona warriors’ Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh Government Employees Association Prakasam district unit president Vinukonda Raja Rao urged the district administration to allot beds exclusively to treat COVID-19 warriors who contracted the disease.
30 July 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||State plans low-key I-Day fete this year||The State government is preparing to celebrate the Independence Day celebrations in a low-key manner as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in wake of COVID-19. Officials are planning to invite frontline warriors such as doctors, paramedical staff, health and sanitation workers and employees of various departments, and the persons who have recovered from COVID, for the celebrations on August 15. As per the guidelines, large congregations will be avoided and all measures would be taken to prevent the spread of the disease. Wearing mask, maintaining social distance, using sanitisers and protective gear are a must at the function, the officials said. Unfurling of the national flag by the Chief Minister, presentation of the guard of honour by police, military forces and NCC cadets and scouts and playing of national anthem will be arranged and recorded. The celebrations will be displayed on digital screens and on various social media sites. Officials should follow the same protocol in all districts, mandals and villages. Atmanirbhar theme The theme of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a self-reliant India should be promoted through various programmes and on the social media platforms during the Independence Day celebrations. Meanwhile, Krishna district Collector A.Md. Imtiaz told The Hindu that arrangements would be made in accordance with the guidelines issued by the government.
30 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||YV promises all help to stranded Russians||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Wednesday promised all help to a Russian woman who got stuck at Tirupati since the imposition of the lockdown almost four months ago in March. A representative of Mr. Reddy, who met the woman — Esther — assured her of darshan of Lord Venkateswara. The representative also told her that arrangements would be made to bring her mother Olivia from Brindavan in Uttar Pradesh. Till such time, the TTD would provide food and accommodation to Esther, he said. Efforts are on to contact the Russian Embassy and send them back safely to Russia.
30 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SVU contract staff in dire straits||Nearly 250 workers employed on an outsourced basis with the Sri Venkateswara University are now staring at a bleak future after the varsity decided to terminate its contract with the manpower supplying firm. The contract staff were working for the last six to eight years as sanitation workers, security guards, technical assistants, attenders and canteen workers. Though the government’s decision to scrap the individual manpower vendors and launch the A.P. Outsourcing Corporation was apparently to bring in uniformity in recruitment of services, the guidelines lacked clarity on whether universities come under the ambit of the new corporation. In spite of confusion reigning over the issue, the government communicated to the varsity to do away with the vendor organisations, rendering the workers jobless. “We have scrapped the vendor system and are migrating to a new system, hence this temporary hassle. Once the existing workers apply through the corporation, they will be retained in the same jobs,” SVU Registrar Sridhar Reddy clarified to The Hindu . However, the varsity is waiting for guidelines from the Collectorate and the department of higher education on whether universities come under the new outsourcing policy, before utilising the services of the workers. Meanwhile, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) came down heavily over the decision and demanded that status quo be maintained. TDP State vice-president G. Narasimha Yadav alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised to regularise the services of outsourced staff, but is now showing them the door after winning the elections. “The YSRCP had promised to create new jobs, but the government is instead culling existing jobs,” he charged.
30 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Academicians hail new education policy||Academicians in the educational hub of Tirupati are all praise for the new National Education Policy (NEP), formulated by the committee headed by K. Kasturirangan, which has since been approved by the Union Cabinet. SRM University Pro Vice-Chancellor D. Narayana Rao, who is camping in Tirupati, hailed the new policy for aiming at creating vibrant multi-disciplinary institutions of high quality that increase capacity of higher education and ensure equitable access. “The NEP advocates all higher educational institutions will either be universities or degree granting autonomous colleges. There will be no affiliating universities or colleges. The policy enables a paradigm shift towards a more imaginative and broad- based liberal education as a foundation for holistic development of all students with rigorous specialisation in chosen disciplines,” Prof. Rao said. Meanwhile, Akhila Bharatiya Rashtriya Shaikshik Mahasangh (ABRSM), the higher education teachers’ wing of RSS, appreciated the decision to rename the Department of HRD as the Department of Education. Suggestions “The committee took note of 1.75 lakh suggestions from the public, students, parents, educationalists and teachers’ unions before finalising the draft policy,” said its State convener Y.V. Rami Reddy.
30 July 2020||TIRUVURU (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Police station building inaugurated||Kokkiligadda Rakshana Nidhi, MLA, and Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu inaugurated the renovated Tiruvuru police station building on Wednesday. The new police station, renovated at a cost of Rs. 7 lakh, will have restrooms for women staff, reception and other facilities, the SP said. Special Branch Deputy Superintendent of Police Dharmendra, Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu, Nuzvid Government Hospital Superintendent Wazeeda Begum, MRO Narasimha Rao, MPDO Bala Venkateswara Rao, CI Shekar Babu and other officers attended the programme.
30 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijayawada airport flies high||The Vijayawada International Airport has reached a new milestone by handling over 10,000 international passengers in a short span despite several shortcomings. Until May this year, the airport handled only one international service to Singapore for about seven months witnessing over 10,000 passengers at the old airport terminal which has been converted into the makeshift international terminal. However, the Central government's Vande Bharat Mission (VMB) to bring back Indians stuck in various nations during the pandemic has necessitated the city airport to rise to the occasion even with meager staff and facilities. Between May 20 and July 29, the airport handled 73 international flights and 10,244 passengers from various countries on 46 operational days. The international airlines that made direct landings in the airport include Jazeera Airways, Kuwait Airways, FlyDubai, Air Arabia, Salam Air and a few others besides Indian airlines Air India Express, Indigo, Air India, and SpiceJet. "When compared to all established airports, the city airport has limited infrastructure to handle international passengers. Currently, we are operating in the terminal spreading over 3,600 square meters. Handling two services a week had been challenging then and now we are handling three to four flights a day by incorporating COVID screening facilities and other additional services in the same space," airport director G. Madhusudhan Rao told The Hindu.  Smooth operations “The resumption of services was with the VBM scheme and now we are receiving more chartered flights arranged by the State government, employers of the returnees or NGOs. We are ensuring smooth operations though we have only one team each for customs, immigration, medical and airport staff. It has been a team effort of all the wings,” he added. Besides international terminal staff, nearly 120 personnel of various wings work at the airport. The airport has witnessed international passengers from Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Oman, Bahrain, United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Qatar, Kazakhstan, USA, Germany and France. A majority of the passengers were from gulf countries and from Kuwait alone 5,324 persons returned to the State via city airport. Few passengers, who came from Kuwait in the initial days, tested positive for COVID. Mr. Rao said that none of the staff members handling the returnees directly or indirectly tested positive so far as they took utmost care and foolproof measures at the airport premises. Meanwhile, the airport has been handling four to five domestic flights a day.
30 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SLBC decides to step up farm lending||The State-Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) meeting held on Wednesday under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy resolved to increase the quantum of farm loans by 11.90% and overall lending by 9.78% when compared to that of the previous year. The target for agriculture loans for 2020-21 was fixed at Rs. 1,28,660 crore, which is more than half of the total loan outlay of Rs. 2,51,600 crore, according to an official release. Addressing the meeting, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the government was determined to implement the zero interest loan scheme for farmers as per schedule and asked the bankers to submit details. He also sought their support for the construction of warehouses and establishment of food processing units. In August and September, the YSR Cheyutha and YSR Asara schemes would be launched for the benefit of one crore women, he said. The way forward Various targets arrived at the SLBC meeting include Rs. 39,600 crore for MSMEs, Rs. 1,900 crore for education loans, Rs. 9,710 crore for housing, Rs. 410 crore for social infrastructure, Rs. 454 crore for renewable energy and Rs. 3,400 crore for farm mechanisation. The Chief Minister said the priority sector would get Rs. 1.88 lakh crore, which is a hike of 10.88% over the corresponding figure in the previous year. The bankers informed Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy that they have reached 99.42% target for 2019-20 by providing loans amounting to Rs. 2,27,882 crore and in agriculture, 99.13% of target was achieved (Rs. 1,13,997 crore disbursed against the targeted Rs. 1,15,000 crore). Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishna Das, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, SLBC Convenor and Bank of India general manager V. Brahmananda Reddy and NABARD CGM Sudhir Kumar were among those present. RBI Regional Director Subrato Das participated through a video-conference from Hyderabad along with Union Bank of India Executive Director Dinesh Kumar Garg.  The priority sector will get Rs. 1.88 lakh crore, 10.88% more than the allocation made in the previous year. Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Chief Minister
30 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two senior ISW officers ‘come to blows’ at office||The reported incident of two high-ranking officers— a woman Superintendent of Police (Administration) and a DSP of the Intelligence Security Wing (ISW) — coming to blows at their office located at Gollapudi in the city on July 22 has created a flutter in police circles. Following a complaint lodged by Sk. Shareen Begum that DSP Ramakrishna had abused and threatened her, the Bhavanipuram police registered a case against and took up investigation. Taking a serious note of the unsavoury incident, the Police Department has ordered a departmental inquiry and reportedly placed the DSP under suspension. Action is likely to be taken against the woman officer also. The ISW monitors the security of VVIPs, including Chief Minister, Home Minister, Leader of the Opposition, Ministers, public representatives and bureaucrats of various departments. Case booked Ms. Begum reportedly asked Mr. Ramakrishna to arrange her name plate outside her chamber to which the latter took objection. This led to heated arguments between the duo and culminated in fisticuffs. Both the officers took the matter to the notice of their superiors. “We have registered a case and apprised the higher-ups of the sequence of events. The matter is being investigated from all angles,” a police officer told The Hindu on Wednesday. However, the ISW officers in question were not available for comment.
30 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna tops in COVID-19 tests in State: Minister||Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivasa Rao has stated that Krishna district topped in the State with regard to conduct of COVID tests. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, the Minister said that 2.08 lakh tests were conducted. Of this, 6,000 cases were positive. As many as 4,290 patients got cured and discharged from hospitals, while 1,557 patients were undergoing treatment. While there were 790 beds at Covid Government General Hospital, 400 were undergoing treatment. At Pinnamaneni Hospital, 370 were getting treatment, while the bed strength was 625. Similarly, 300 patients were being treated at Nimra where 650 beds were available, he said. Apart from increasing the number of beds, the government was extending Aarogyasri to covid treatment in private hospitals. The government was according priority to home quarantine, he added.
30 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 793 cr. sanctioned for central power generating stations||The State government has sanctioned nearly Rs. 793 crore towards the Payment Security Mechanism (PSM), notified by the Government of India, to the Central Generating Stations (CGS) for April 2020, according to G.O. RT No.49 issued by Secretary (energy) N. Srikant. It was mentioned in the G.O. that the Ministry of Power had issued instructions for opening Letters of Credit (LCs) as a PSM under the Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs), and that the State government had made an allocation of approximately Rs. 2,006 crore for it in the 2020-21 budget for April - June period . The AP-Transco and the A.P. Power Coordination Committee have requested for an arrangement of Rs. 793 crore for April to ensure uninterrupted power supply in the State. Subsidies The payments are made against the subsidies payable to the DISCOMs as follows: SPDCL Rs. 496 crore, EPDCL Rs. 210 crore and CPDCL Rs. 87 crore. It may be noted that the PPAs have a provision for DISCOMs to create an adequate PSM in the form of LCs. The national and regional load dispatch centres will supply electricity to the DISCOMs only up to the quantity equivalent to the value of LCs opened by them for specified periods. Power supply will be stopped once the quantum of electricity is dispatched under the LCs, which can be encashed by the CGS after grace periods. Division of employees Meanwhile, the State government issued an order reconstituting the committee for supervising the division of employees between the SPDCL and the newly-created Central DISCOM, and the issues arising out of the reporting of employees to Andhra Pradesh from Telangana. The committee will have AP-Transco Joint Managing Director (Vigilance) K. Venkateswara Rao as the Chairman and CMDs of the EPDCL, SPDCL and CPDCL as members.
30 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Mismatch’ in financial aid disbursed to construction workers through DBT||The State government claims to have extended a cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 per head to the poor during the lockdown imposed to check the spread of COVID-19. But the moot question is — Are the building and construction workers among the 30 lakh families that have been reportedly extended the benefit? The mismatch between the data available and the reports sent to the Union Ministry of Labour and Employment raises many doubts. The Central government, in its advisory, had reportedly asked the States to launch a scheme under Section 22 (1) (h) of the Building and Other Construction Workers’ Act 1996. The aim was to transfer adequate funds to the bank accounts of the construction workers through the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode. Under the initiative, more than 19.67 lakh building and construction workers in the State reportedly received the assistance through the DBT. Quoting a report submitted by the Andhra Pradesh Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board, the Union Labour Ministry, in a report on cash assistance during the lockdown, said that Andhra Pradesh had spent more than Rs. 197 crore for “ensuring timely cash transfer” to the workers. The trade unions, however, stoutly dispute this claim. “The government has neither released funds nor extended assistance to the construction workers,” alleges CITU leader Ch. Babu Rao. The Labour Department had gathered information and received applications a month ago, he said. “So far, not a penny has been paid to the workers,” Mr. Rao alleges. The data available on the building and other construction workers substantiates the allegation. Seeding of Aadhaar number with the bank account is mandatory for transfer of funds under the DBT. The criterion was fulfilled only in respect of 4,15,753 workers in the 13 districts of the State as on July 28. But the number of beneficiaries who reportedly received the cash assistance stood at 19,67,484. “The workers’ welfare board hasn’t spent any money from the welfare fund. The Labour Department has hurriedly begun the process to link the workers’ bank accounts with Aadhaar,” sources in the know say. The welfare fund comprises a cess of 1% of construction cost levied and collected by the State government and remitted to the A.P. Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board. ‘Seeding under way’ “The State government has extended a financial assistance of Rs. 1,000, irrespective of the employment of the beneficiary. They included workers as well. The Aadhaar seeding is going on. The Cente has given three months time, and 56% of the accounts have been seeded so far,” Special Commissioner (Labour) G. Rekha Rani said. It is pertinent to mention that the government had disbursed a cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 and free ration per family by spending Rs. 1,300 crore. The assistance was disbursed to all the ration card holders in April through the village/ward volunteers.
30 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State will procure 90,000 doses of Remdesivir by August-end: official||I&PR Commissioner, ex officio secretary to State government and COVID-19 Task Force member T. Vijay Kumar Reddy has said the government will procure 90,000 doses of the anti-viral drug, Remdesivir, by August-end as a precautionary measure to treat critical patients. He said that 5,000 doses of the drug had already been sent to various hospitals, Mr. Kumar said in a press release. Mr. Kumar said the government had been going all out in its response to COVID-19 pandemic. He said the primary focus was on equipping hospitals with required safety and treatment facilities for the staff as well as the patients. He said there were 4,300 ICU beds in 138 COVID-19 hospitals. These apart, there were 17,382 non-ICU beds with oxygen supply lines. “Also, there are 17, 370 non-ICU beds without oxygen supply lines,” he said. He said 8.60 lakh PPE kits and 7.02 masks were made available at all the hospitals in the State. Mr. Kumar said the State was in the forefront in testing and had a ratio of 32,761 tests per million against 12,498 in the country. “The State’s positivity rate is also low at 6.30% despite high testing figures,” he added. Recruitments He further said that the government was going to recruit 9,712 personnel by August. “The government is going to incur Rs. 900 crore expenditure on the new recruitments,” he added.
30 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s education reforms in line with national policy: Sajjala||Senior YSR Congress Party leader and Government Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that the new National Education Policy announced by the Centre on Wednesday reflects the reforms initiated by the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the school education sector last year. Through his Twitter handle, the YSRCP leader said the Centre’s focus was on employment generation, akin to what the State had been doing. He tagged some of the key points of the major reforms by the Centre which speak about Universalisation of Early Childhood Care Education, National Mission on Foundational Literacy and Numeracy, 5+3+4 curriculum and pedagogical structure and curriculum to integrate 21st century skills, mathematical thinking and scientific temper, among other aspects, and said the State policy had similar features. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said the State had identified skill development from pre-primary and school-level besides the need to induce analytical and scientific approach as thrust areas to enable students withstand competition. These components too were essential features of the new policy designed by the Centre.
30 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four held, ganja seized||The Krishna district police arrested four persons, including two engineering students, and seized 10 kg ganja from them. Nandigama Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) G.V. Ramana Murthy said the police during vehicle check at Donabanda check-post intercepted the accused and seized the contraband, four cellphones and two bikes from their possession. Two youth, who were natives of Bengaluru and Hyderabad, were allegedly supplying ganja to engineering students, which they were selling it to the customers, the DSP said. Efforts were on to nab the main accused in the case, Mr. Ramana Murthy added.
30 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam sees a constitutional crisis in State||TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has accused the YSRCP of running a “feudalistic regime” in the State, in violation of the nation’s federal-cum-unitary framework. In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. Ramakrishnudu wondered why the Governor was not sending the “unlawful” decentralisation and the CRDA repeal Bills to the Centre as per Article 200 of the Constitution. SEC issue He also sought to know why the government was not reinstating N. Ramesh Kumar as the State Election Commissioner (SEC) despite orders to this effect by High Court and the Supreme Court. “As these violations have created a constitutional crisis, the Centre should interfere ,” he said. The courts had said that Article 243 (k) was violated in the State, Mr. Ramakrishnudu claimed, and added that a “dire necessity has arisen for the Central government to invoke Articles 355, 256 and 257 to ensure the government functions in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.” “The TDP, as of now, is not demanding the invoking for President’s Rule . But the Centre’s intervention is needed as the government’s capitals Bills are grossly violating the A.P. State Reorganisation Act.” he said. The Governor should not endorse the Bills without taking prior approval of the President as per Articles 200 and 201 of the Constitution, he asserted.
30 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Military college admissions||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has invited applications from boys in the State for entrance examination to get admission in the class VIII in the Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC), Dehradun, for the term commencing in July, 2021. In a statement on Wednesday, APPSC Secretary P.S.R. Anjaneyulu said the entrance examination would be held on December 1 and 2, 2020 (Tuesday and Wednesday) in Vijayawada. The last date for receiving the applications is September 30. Detailed information is available on the commission’s websitewww.psc.ap.gov.in.
30 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Despite spike in cases, people ignore safety norms in city||Ever since recording the first case of COVID-19 in the city in the last week of March, it has seen the highest spike in this month. The district has recorded over 6,000 cases in this month, which includes over 5,000 in the city itself. The death toll also crossed the 70-mark in this month alone. But despite the spike all around, many in the district and in the city are yet to follow the basic protocols, as prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Wolrd Health Organisation (WHO). “Many appear to believe in the adage ‘ignorance is bliss’ and that is why knowing everything they still tend not to follow the basic protocol of wearing masks. In the last 48 hours, we have booked over 300 cases and so far since the order was on June 24, the number of cases booked has crossed the 9,000-mark,” said Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena. “Though it is known fact that in the district, especially in the GVMC limits, the pandemic has entered entered the community spread phase and is fast spreading, still people tend not to follow the basic protocol such as wearing a mask, sanitising the hand with soap and water or alcohol-based sanitiser and maintaining the social distancing protocol of three-feet,” said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. The main reason for spike in some of the hotspots such as Dandu Bazaar, Anakapalle, Appughar, Jodugullapalem, Kobbarithota and Peda Jalaripeta, is people not following the basic protocol, he said. In these areas, people already live in close proximity and it is more necessary that they follow the protocols, he said.  ‘Stay indoors’ According to District Collector V. Vinay Chand, while efforts are on to contain the spread, the best way to break the chain of spread of the virus is to follow the three basic protocols. Staying indoors is the safest option, but now with the lockdown lifted and most of the offices functioning, one has to come out but if he or she maintains the three protocols, then the virus can be kept at bay. And most importantly move out only when required and to places where it is required to go, he said. But according to the Police Commissioner, many educated people and youth, who have been fined were seen moving out without any particular reason and most importantly without following the norms. “Such ignorance, is not accepted, at least during this period,” said Mr. Meena.
30 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||841 new coronavirus cases take district tally to 8,971||After a brief lull, the district has reported as many as 841 new COVID-19 positive cases here on Wednesday. With the new cases, the COVID-19 district tally stands at 8,971. Four more persons succumbed to COVID-19 taking the death toll to 79. On a bright side, as many as 253 persons who were undergoing treatment have been discharged from COVID-19 hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. As per the district COVID-19 bulletin, as on Wednesday, the total number of active cases and discharged persons 5,834 and 3,058 respectively. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 & Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, the total number of clusters in the district is 674. Among them, very active clusters are 112. The number of active and dormant clusters is 240 and 322 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said.
30 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Siblings meet watery grave while immersing father’s ashes||Two brothers reportedly drowned at the Kalyanapulova reservoir in Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as S. Murthy (38) and S. Gopi (36), both residents of Butchayyapeta. Kothakota police station Inspector S. Lakshmana Murthy said that both Murthy and Gopi had gone to the Kalyanapulova reservoir along with their families to perform the final rites of their deceased father on Wednesday morning. “Murthy first went into the water to immerse the urn containing the ashes of his father. He then slipped and went into the water. Noticing his cries for help, his brother Gopi jumped into the water to rescue him, but unfortunately both brothers drowned within minutes,” Mr. Lakshmana Murthy said. “Their family members who were at the spot stood there helplessly as none of them knew how to swim. After receiving information, we rushed to the spot taking local fishermen along with us. The bodies were later fished out,” police said, adding that the deceased were unaware of the depth of the water in the reservoir. Family members were left distraught at the tragic turn of events, police said. Both the bodies have been sent to the Narsipatnam area hospital for a post-mortem. A case has been registered.
30 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two NIO scientists bag awards||Two scientists of CSIR-NIO, Visakhapatnam, bagged the prestigious national awards, announced by MoES/CSIR for the year 2020 in recognition of their significant contributions in the field of oceanography. V.V.S.S. Sarma, Senior Principal Scientist, has been selected for the prestigious ‘MoES National Award of Excellence’ for his outstanding contributions in understanding the biogeochemistry of Indian Ocean, particularly the biogeochemical fluxes of climate significance. He explained for the first-time on how the deposition of atmospheric pollutants influences coastal primary production and ocean acidification. The award carries a prize money of Rs. 1 lakh and a citation. Jagadeesan Laganthan, scientist, got selected for the ‘CSIR Young Scientist Award’in recognition of his contributions to the plankton ecology in the context of the marine ecosystem functioning in the eastern Bay of Bengal, the Gulf of Mannar and in the mud bank phenomenon occurring along the southwest coast of India. The award consists of a citation, a cash prize of Rs. 50,000 and a plaque. G.P.S. Murthy, Chief Scientist and Scientist-in-Charge of NIO, Visakhapatnam, congratulated the two scientists on their achievement.
30 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre releases Rs. 53 cr. for development of Simhachalam temple under PRASAD scheme||The temple of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy at Simhachalam here has been chosen for development of pilgrimage infrastructure under the Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation Drive (PRASAD) scheme of the Union government. Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that the Centre has released Rs. 53 crore for the development of Simhachalam temple as part of the temple tourism. The proposed components, include development works at Simhachalam foothill costing Rs. 27.86 crore, Simhachalam uphill –Rs. 18.21 crore and pan area components Rs. 3.87 crore. The remaining amount has been allocated to meet contingencies with Rs. 2.49 crore and consultancy fees with Rs. 1.24 crore. Meanwhile, Chairperson of the temple trust Sanchaita Gajapati Raju expressed her gratitude to Mr. Prahlad Singh Patel for inclusion of Simhachalam temple from among the five temples selected from all over the country. She spoke of her efforts in getting the temple included under the PRASAD scheme, soon after assuming office as Chairperson of the temple on March 4, 2020. Ms. Sanchaita said that she was shocked to find that the previous Chairman of Simhachalam temple Ashok Gajapati Raju, despite being the Union Minister of Civil Aviation from 2014, made no efforts to get the temple included under the PRASAD scheme, which was started in 2015 and three other temples of the State had become beneficiaries. She alleged that this shows the lack of commitment of the previous Chairman and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu for the temple.
30 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Railway Division completes safety works||The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (ECoR) has carried out insertions of Reinforced Cement Concrete (RCC) segmental boxes to form Limited Height Subways(LHS) at eight locations in the Visakhapatnam-Palasa mainline, i.e., five in Visakhapatnam city limits and the remaining at Kottavalsa, Kantakapalli and Alamanda sections in a record time. Another four Road Under Bridges/ Limited Height Subways were constructed in Bobbili-Salur line in a record time. The COVID-19 lockdown period and stoppage of passenger trains, gave sufficient time to focus on pending works and was utilised by Waltair Division to carry out the safety works and improve the speed of trains in key sections of the Division, according to G. Suneel Kumar, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager. Similarly, rebuilding of five arch bridges were completed by replacement with RCC Boxes in Visakhapatnam- Vizianagaram main line, apart from bridge rehabilitation/rebuilding works carried out at six locations between Garudubilli-Gotlam, Bobbili-Donkinavalasa and Parvatipuram-Sithanagaram sections. Further, 16,300 square metres of area of bridge painting has been done for eight bridges.
30 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child trafficking case: police examine records in hospital||The city police on Wednesday conducted searches in the Universal Srushti Hospital near Zilla Parishad where alleged child trafficking case was detected involving its Managing Director and a couple of staff, on July 26. The police teams, in the presence of the husband of the accused MD of the hospital, doctors and visitors, conducted searches. Sources said that the hospital in Visakhapatnam was opened in January 2019 and so far 56 deliveries were performed. The police reportedly found six cases where newborn children were allegedly sold illegally and further investigation is on. The police sent a letter to the DMHO to conduct a search and seal the hospital. The Commissioner of Child Rights has also ordered an inquiry. On June 26, the police have arrested six persons including P. Namratha, MD of of the hospital, two ASHA workers and some agents in the case. The police suspect that she could be involved in more cases.
30 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor girl ‘sexually assaulted’||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by her father over a period of time under the IV Town police station limits here. The incident came to light on Tuesday night after doctors reportedly found her pregnant. According to the police, the accused works in a private company. The girl’s mother died in 2016 and since then her father has been taking care of her. Recently, the girl suffered from severe stomach pain and was shifted to a hospital. The doctors confirmed that she was pregnant and informed the IV Town police since it was a Medico Legal Case. “We have booked cases under various Sections of rape and POCSO Act”, said Inspector of IV Town police station Ch. Prem Kumar. The case has been transferred to the Disha Police Station for further action.
30 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VFS mourns death of Raavi Kondala Rao||The Vizag Film Society (VFS), affiliated to the Federation of Film Societies of India (FFSI), condoled the death of veteran actor Raavi Kondala Rao, in Hyderabad on Tuesday.
30 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auto driver returns bag with gold ornaments to passenger||An auto-rickshaw driver returned a bag of a passenger which contained gold ornaments worth more than Rs. 5 lakh, in Visakhapatnam on Wednesday. A resident of Narsannapeta, Srikakulam district, Abdul Ruksana, came to Visakhapatnam in a bus on Wednesday. She boarded the auto-rickshaw near RTC Complex area and got down near Old Post Office. Then she realised that she forgot the bag in the three-wheeler. Auto-rickshaw driver Botta Satyanarana informed police that a woman had left her bag in his vehicle. Police appreciated him on the occasion.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waiting for buyers||
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not caring a hoot||
30 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||SCCL unions demand more COVID tests, insurance cover||As the coronavirus threat persists in the coal belt region of the State, the trade unions operating in the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL)’s coal fields have stepped up their demand for conducting COVID-19 tests at the coal mines and introduction of insurance cover against the COVID-19 for the SCCL’s workforce. The renewed demands come against the backdrop of the COVID-19 spreading in the SCCL’s coal mining areas spread across seven districts including Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Khammam. The SCCL management on Tuesday announced a slew of measures to ramp up COVID-19 treatment facilities and set up dedicated quarantine centres in the area hospitals across the 11 coal mining areas of the company. The trade unions of the coal belt have stepped up their demands for scaling up the COVID-19 preventive measures in the coal fields as well as the residential colonies of the SCLL staff. The COVID-19 situation in some of the coal mines in the RG-I and a few other coal mining areas turned grim as an overwhelming majority of the workers stopped coming to the coal mines, which recorded a couple of coronavirus positive cases in recent weeks, said Singareni Collieries Employees Union (SCEU) General Secretary Manda Narasimha Rao. ‘Welfare is priority’ The coal workers working in underground mines are more susceptible to the highly contagious virus due to the closed working arena, he pointed out, emphasising on the urgent need for providing COVID-19 screening facilities at all coal mines. The coal workers including the contract/outsourcing workers should be protected from the potential health hazard and their welfare should be given top priority in these turbulent times, he said. The SCCL management should provide a life insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh for the SCCL staff of the coal mines and various other departments against the COVID-19, Mr Rao demanded.
30 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Bhatti slams Pinapaka MLA||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka slammed the ruling TRS leaders of Pinapaka constituency, accusing them of encroaching upon the Congress party’s local office, Indira Bhavan, in Manuguru town. He was speaking to mediapersons after expressing solidarity with the local Congress cadres at a relay hunger stir camp in the coal town on Wednesday. Amid tense atmosphere and heavy police deployment, a delegation of party leaders comprising Mr Bhatti, Bhadrachalam MLA Podem Veeraiah, former Union Minister Balram Naik, and former Khammam ZP chairperson Chanda Lingiah and others met the municipal authorities seeking action against the alleged encroachers of Indira Bhavan. Mr Bhatti alleged that Pinapaka MLA R Kantha Rao, who won on the Congress party ticket in the 2019 Assembly elections, subsequently joined the ruling TRS by “betraying the trust of people.” The ruling party local leaders have occupied the Congress party’s office in Manuguru by misusing power, he charged, alleging that the police tried to obstruct them from reaching Manuguru town to represent the matter to the Manuguru municipal authorities. The local Congress leaders alleged that the municipal officials expressed their helplessness citing non-availability of office records.
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Labs on wheels for COVID testing in containment zones||To test people living in containment zones for COVID-19, mobile testing laboratories were rolled out by Health Minister Eatala Rajender at the State Health Campus in Koti on Wednesday evening. These labs on wheels, tailed by ambulances, will have 10 to 12 counters to collect samples for testing. Around 20 mobile labs will be made available in a few days. The labs, which have four oxygen beds too, are titled Intelligent Monitoring Analysis Service Quarantine (iMASQ). Speaking on the occasion, Mr Rajender said since it is difficult to move scores of people to sample collection centre, the mobile labs are expected to be of great help. If anyone tests positive and has symptoms, they will be shifted to hospitals, he said, adding that this is another step towards early detection of COVID-19. He showered praise on all doctors, nurses, Class IV staff and patient care providers for their relentless services during this health crisis. Bed availability info The mobile labs have been provided by VERA Smart Healthcare, along with 20 ambulances. VERA Smart Healthcare representatives said the facility can provide real-time status of bed availability in hospitals. This will help shift a patient to the nearest hospital where beds are available. Till July 7, only RT-PCR tests were conducted in government and private laboratories. A maximum of 6,500 tests a day were conducted at all labs. The results used to take anywhere between two and five days, resulting in anxiety for those who were tested. Rapid antigen tests were introduced on July 8 to detect coronavirus. Those who test positive are declared to have COVID-19. The number of tests in the State shot up. However, there is always a chance for false negative (person will have coronavirus but result will be negative). Officials said that those who test negative and have symptoms are followed up with RT-PCR tests. Apart from major laboratories, the rapid antigen tests are performed at primary health centres, Area Hospitals and District Hospitals across the State. Altogether, there are around 1,100 testing centres. In a day, between 10,000 and 19,000 tests are conducted in a day. The mobile labs will further help in early detection of the virus. Early treatment helps in better recovery. Besides, isolating patients during early stages helps prevent further spread of the virus. Mr Rajender said 81% of the people who test positive for coronavirus are asymptomatic. They are either isolated at home or at government institutions. Though the Health Minister said the condition of people in home isolation is monitored through ‘104’ call centre. COVID-19 patients have, however, complained that they neither received calls nor anyone visited to know if other members of their family or close contacts are symptomatic.  If anyone tests positive and has symptoms, they will be shifted to hospitals. This is another step towards early detection of COVID-19. Eatala Rajender, Health Minister
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tough action awaits encroachers of endowment lands in State||The State government has resolved to take stringent action against those encroaching endowment lands. The government has decided to identify the endowment properties lying unused in different parts of the State and take steps to use them effectively for generating more revenue to the department. Endowments Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy directed the officials concerned to focus on steps that will ensure more revenue to the department. Reviewing the status of endowments’ lands in the GHMC limits with senior officials, the Minister accompanied by his Cabinet colleague T. Srinivas Yadav, directed the officials to explore ways through which the revenue of the department could be significantly enhanced. The emphasis should be on the properties that were leased out at nominal rates, and the officials should identify properties that were given on sub-leases, he said. Effort should be made to revisit the decades-old leasing process as well as the rent that is being paid to the department. Officials informed the Ministers that plans have been prepared for constructing shopping complexes and function halls on the endowment lands in and around the twin cities at an estimated cost of Rs. 55 crore. The department had conducted a special drive through which 1,300 acres of lands belonging to the department were identified and reclaimed. Protective fencing had been put up around another 21,000 acres of land in different parts of the State. The Ministers directed the officials to take steps to effectively present the department’s case pertaining to lands in litigation, and the department could appoint legal officers if need be in this direction. The Minister wanted the department to constitute special task force in coordination with the police to vacate encroachers on temple lands.
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No axing of trees for urban infra||Translocation will be the way to go for GHMC and other urban local bodies henceforth whenever fully grown trees are found to be in the way of urban infrastructural projects. Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) K. T. Rama Rao was learnt to have given standing instructions to urban development and municipal authorities to ensure that all trees, irrespective of the species, would have to be translocated whenever felling them was the only alternative left. Earlier, GHMC axed fully grown trees in the way of infrastructural projects when translocation was not an option as recommended by the Tree Protection Committee. Allegations were rife about how even the trees recommended for protection had been felled, and the contractor would get away by paying the requisite penalty. The flyover being constructed near Botanical Gardens of Kothaguda will be the first project under GHMC’s purview in which the corporation will translocate several species of forest trees as a matter of policy. As per information shared by officials, a total of 212 fully grown trees from the Botanical Gardens would be translocated to facilitate construction of the flyover and road-widening. Close to one acre of forest land would be diverted for the purpose. The trees would be re-established in a forest block, close to Pala Pitta Cycling Park — one of the urban forest parks developed by the Forest Department, Vice-Chairman of the Telangana State Forest Development Corporation P. Raghuveer said. “Already, GHMC had translocated about 25 trees of Terminalia species into the Botanical Gardens. They requested us to maintain them and we agreed. Fortunately, all the 25 survived,” Mr. Raghuveer said. However, the latest lot of trees would have to be looked after by the GHMC for two to three years, before they were firmly established at the new location, he said. The trees to be relocated belong to species such as ficus, neem and even bamboo. Species such as ficus promise high rate of survival provided the process is carried out scientifically, while the same cannot be said about other species. However, Mr. Raghuveer said, it was decided, based on experience, to retain the canopies, as the translocation would be done close by. The same was experimented with and yielded good results near Kamareddy, he said.
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2 youths held for diverting NGO fund||Two persons, who were running an NGO by the name Hyderabad Youth Courage, were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly seeking donations to help the family of a chronically-ill person but diverting the funds to their personal bank accounts. The Chandrayangutta police and sleuths of the South Zone Task Force, who apprehended the accused, identified them as Salman Khan (29), a resident of Humayun Nagar, and Syed Ayub (31), a resident of Borabanda. The duo run the Facebook page Hyderabad Youth Courage. Police said that they posted videos of families who were in dire circumstances and appealed to the public for funds. The duo allegedly posted a video of a chronically-ill person by the name Yasmeen Sultana, who later died, and sought funds to help her family. The video displayed the account details of Asra Begum. After receiving funds, Asra Begum allegedly transferred Rs. 15 lakh into Salman’s account, and another Rs. 15 lakh into the account of Rashed, who, police said, was Salman’s relative. The remaining amount allegedly was retained in her own account. A few days ago, Salman posted a video on the Hyderabad Youth Courage Facebook page maintaining innocence and said that he had raised the funds to financially secure the family of the deceased. Last month, Salman and Ayub were arrested by the Panjagutta police for allegedly creating a ruckus at a private hospital in Banjara Hills demanding that a COVID-19 positive patient be treated there.
30 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A dignified farewell to COVID victims||The stigma attached to COVID-19 patients is robbing the dead of their dignity. “We were told that the person died due to a fall in Golconda area. But when we reached the hospital, the death was due to COVID. We ferried the body to Balapur burial ground but the family refused to attend the last rites,” says Mujtaba Askari of Helping Hands Foundation. He has now started a hearse service to safely transport bodies from hospitals and homes to graveyards for burial. Sai Katragadda, who runs Last Ride Service, understood the challenges in ensuring human dignity when a friend’s mother passed away due to COVID at a private hospital in HiTec City area on June 26. “My friend was in quarantine. The hospital refused to deploy the ambulance for transporting the body. Finally, we managed to get an ambulance for Rs. 20,000 to cover a distance of 10 km to Erragadda. The people at the crematorium demanded Rs. 25,000 for the funeral pyre,” says Mr. Katragadda who has now teamed up with 10 other techies and is offering the last ride services in Cyberabad and Hyderabad areas. As the COVID death toll keeps going up, storage and transport of dead bodies and the funerals are proving to be a challenge. Families are being forced to deal with shock, grief, loneliness and the callousness of those around them. “We had a patient who died in an apartment complex in Vijayanagar Colony at midnight. The residents’ welfare association did not let the body be brought out of the home or allow any medical personnel inside. Finally, officials from the Asifnagar Police Station had to be roped in to bring out the body and transport it to the graveyard. We could do the rites only around noon,” informs Mr. Askari as he narrates one shocking anecdote after the other about the challenges their service is facing. Other organisations have also stepped in to offer the final journey services. Another challenge for offering this humanitarian service has been the fear among the hearse drivers and staff handling the dead bodies. “Hospitals are taking a lot of precautions and handing over sealed bodies. We put them in multi-layer body bags and the driver is completely sealed off from the rear part of the vehicle. In addition, we have counselled them with safety measures and are offering additional perks for the service,” says Mr. Katragadda. The hearse services are available only between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. due to COVID-19 guidelines. Services of Helping Hands Foundation can be availed by calling 9603354086/ 8977898706; Last Ride Service at 8499843545/ 7995404040 and Amoomat Society at 9030819775/ 7680037677.
30 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NTPC Simhadri plant develops rail cycle||The NTPC Simhadri plant, near Visakhapatnam, has developed a ‘rail cycle’ aimed at reaching emergency locations with ease. The rail cycle is a light weight structure that is very helpful in reaching locations at tracks like bridge approaches, bank slips and rain cuts, which cannot be approached by road especially during the rainy season. It will be useful for patrolling of tracks in closed sections or those with low traffic due to COVID. The rail cycle will help in increasing the beat of patrol men thereby helping in saving manpower. The fuel transportation team of NTPC Simhadri prepared the rail cycle in-house taking inspiration from the innovative model developed by the North Western Railways. This first-of-its-kind model was inaugurated by NTPC Simhadri ED Sudarshan Babu on Wednesday.
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSMDC to ramp up limestone mining activity||Telangana State Mineral Development Corporation (TSMDC), which is already carrying mining operations for limestone at Venkatramapuram village (Kodad mandal, Suryapet district) over an extent of 9.9 acres, has also got government permission for mining lease in Karimnagar and Mahabubabad districts for 28.63 hectares. Two applications in forest areas - one in Talapusalapalli of Mahabubabad district and other in Nemaillikonda of Jagityal district are pending approval from various departments. Reconnaissance stage exploration in 10 limestone clusters, including eight in Telangana, one each in Jharkhand and Odisha at cost of Rs. 30.89 crore has been completed with the National Mineral Exploration Trust Fund (NMET) for delineating more potential blocks for carrying out detailed exploration. In Telangana clusters, the Ministry of Mines has been approached for carrying out exploration for identifying cement grade limestone and for putting the blocks for auction, said TSMDC Managing Director G. Malsur. The government had also issued orders reserving manganese mineralised area for mining over 120.61 acres at Pimperkunt village (Bheempur mandal, Adilabad district) and general exploration stage to be taken up with NMET funds. Manganese steel has 13% manganese which is very strong and is used for railway tracks, rifle barrels, etc. The metal is used to produce a variety of important alloys and to deoxidise steel and desulfurize. It is used in dry cell batteries too, explained the MD. Approval from NMET was obtained for carrying exploration for identifying molybdenum mineralisation in parts of Karimnagar and Siddipet districts. It is an important metal for making stainless steel, alloy steels, electronic devices and to make heating elements used in high temperature electric furnaces. TSMDC has applied for permissions to carry out quarrying for Quartz and Feldspar over 2,392 hectares area for which survey work with forest and mining officials has been completed with applications at various stages of approval. The corporation got a revenue of Rs. 7.92 crore for limestone and granite mining. Environmental clearances are awaited for road metal mining in and around Hyderabad in two different locations, he added.
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR suggests changes in Secretariat design||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao suggested some changes to the design of the new Secretariat when he discussed it at an official meeting attended by Chennai-based architects Oscar Concessao and Ponni Concessao who made them. He instructed that the new complex be inbuilt with all facilities and ensure smooth functioning of administration. A release said Mr. Rao wanted officials to see that the chambers of Ministers, Chief Secretary, Secretaries and Advisors to government are equipped with all facilities. There should be dining halls, meeting halls and waiting halls for visitors in every floor. Parking lots should be provided for all vehicles. The meeting was attended by Roads and Buildings Minister V. Prashant Reddy, Transport Minister P. Ajay Kumar, Chief Adviser to Government Rajeev Sharma, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Principal Secretary to Chief Minister S. Narasing Rao, CMO officials Smita Sabharwal and Bhoopal Reddy and Engineers-in-Chief of Roads and Buildings Ganapati Reddy and Ravinder Rao.
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vinod Kumar welcomes central government’s education policy||The Telangana government is already contemplating integration of Intermediate and school education to make it compatible with sixteen years of school education. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao discussed the issue with officials and, in the latest scenario, he will most likely announce the State government policy on education, taking cognizance of Centre's decision, said State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar. Mr, Vinod Kumar reminded that the State government had already undertaken revamp of Intermediate education introducing classes eleven and twelve in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas and model schools. He welcomed the Centre's education policy, coming as it does with sweeping changes in the system after a gap of 35 years. The decision to allow foreign universities in India is particularly helpful to Hyderabad which boasts of a huge land bank and presence of reputed pharma companies. The city will emerge as a front runner in hosting foreign universities. The move of Centre to work with State governments in implementing 5 + 3 + 3 + 4 model of education is laudable, he said.
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Myanmarese arrested on fraud charge||A Myanmarese national was apprehended for allegedly obtaining Indian identity papers fraudulently. Based on a tip-off, South Zone Task Force on Tuesday apprehended the accused who was identified as Mohd Farooq (29), a Rohingya and native of Kossang, Mandu, in Buthidaung, Myanmar. Another accused, who was identified as Syed Qadeeruddin (39), who runs a MeeSeva centre and allegedly helped Farooq obtain an Aadhaar card and EPIC card, was also arrested. Police said Farooq had a UN High Commissioner for Refugees card. He had come to India in 2009. He lived in Jammu and Kashmir for approximately three years and then moved to Hyderabad. Explaining their modus operandi, police said the accused would first obtain a voter ID card by submitting an electricity bill. Once a voter ID card was obtained, they would apply for other proofs of identity. “Owing to the turbulent political atmosphere and ethnic and religious persecution in Myanmar, Rohingya are forced to leave their country in search of livelihood,” police said. They would trek through forests to evade Myanmarese security forces and reach Bangladesh. From Bangladesh, they would travel into India with the help of middlemen. “The most preferred places for such illegal immigrants are Bihar, J & K, and Hyderabad,” police said.
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Task force on IPRs mooted||A senior official of Telangana government has mooted a task force to promote and enforce Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) in the State. Industries and IT secretary Jayesh Ranjan made this suggestion at a virtual IP Summit organised on Wednesday by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). CII and other stakeholders should be part of the task force, he said. Mr. Ranjan said this while highlighting how the State government was keen on encouraging researchers, innovators and IP creators. It had also launched the TS Intellectual Property Awards. However, in the wake of COVID, the award could not be finalised.
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PIL plea for cab drivers’ assistance dismissed||Telangana High Court on Wednesday, hearing a PIL plea seeking a cap on charges for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals, said the government had assured to respond on the matter within a week. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said the Chief Secretary, who appeared for the hearing of 16 PIL pleas on matters relating to coronavirus, said that action would be initiated against erring private hospitals. In another PIL plea seeking deployment of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) teams to check cow-slaughtering, the bench issued notices to the Central and State governments on Tuesday. The petitioner, K. Shiva Kumar, who is a member of Tirumala Tirupathi Devasthanam board, said several orders issued earlier on cow slaughtering were not being enforced by the governments. The bench, hearing a separate PIL petition on Wednesday, sought to know from the State government about the quantum of funds allotted to the welfare of physically challenged persons in the backdrop of lockdown and COVID-19 pandemic. The bench dismissed a PIL filed by lawyer Rapolu Bhaskar seeking a direction to government to provide financial assistance of Rs. 15,000 to each cab driver working for Uber and Ola.
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Foundation laid for RuB, flyover||Municipal Administration Minister K. T. Rama Rao and Animal Husbandry Minister T.Srinivas Yadav on Wednesday laid foundation stone for construction of a road-under-bridge (RuB)and a flyover in Fatehnagar. The four-lane road-under-bridge would be constructed connecting Sanathnagar and Balanagar industrial areas at an estimated cost of Rs. 68.3 crore while the parallel two-lane flyover costing Rs. 45 crore would come up near Fateh Nagar road overbridge (RoB).
30 July 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Six apprehended for selling PDS rice||Six persons, allegedly involved in illegally procuring and transporting rice meant for the Public Distribution System, were apprehended and 115 quintals of PDS rice was seized. Based on a tip-off, Central Zone Task Force and Civil Supplies officials on Tuesday raided a godown in Bhoiguda and seized the illegally stored rice, police said.
30 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rotary Club distributes PPE kits||The Rotary Club of Hyderabad East has donated personal protection equipment (PPE), sanitisers, masks, gloves and soaps to volunteers of an NGO, Amoomat Society, in old city engaged in providing free ambulance service to transport bodies of COVID victims. The club also distributed masks, sanitisers, gloves and other COVID essentials to Sakhi One Stop centre in Rangareddy district which worked for women in distress and victims of domestic violence.
30 July 2020||Khammam,TELANGANA||15 mosques, dargahs to be sanitised||The Khammam civic body has decided to sanitise the premises of 15 mosques and dargahs in the Khammam Municipal Corporation limits on Thursday, ahead of the Bakrid festival slated for August 1.
30 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Hospital staff not paid salaries for two months stage protest||Medical contract workers at the Nalgonda Government General Hospital sat in protest on Wednesday demanding immediate payment of their pending salaries. According to the sanitation, security guards and patient care workers —about 35 of them who raised slogans — they had not received their salaries for May and June. As assured by the government, Rs. 300 per day allowance for those working in COVID wards was not released. And the contractors on the other, had also been paying only Rs. 5,000 per month, less than the mandated salary as per Minimum Wages legislation, they said. Earlier this week, the workers had submitted a 14-day strike notice to the hospital superintendent over underpayments and other concerns.
30 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Walk-in-interviews for civil assistant surgeons||District Collector Prashant J. Patil on Tuesday released a notification for recruitment of 20 civil assistant surgeons on contract basis for undivided Nalgonda district. Interested candidates, who have completed their Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) degree, are required to attend walk-in interviews at the Collectorate here between 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. on July 31, with all the original certificates and their photocopies. Candidates will be recruited initially for a period of one year to work at various primary health centres and hospitals in Nalgonda, Suryapet or Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri. Salary of a selected candidate will be Rs. 40, 270 along with applicable incentives. Similarly, Sangareddy district administration is also recruiting civil assistant surgeons to work at different primary health centres and hospitals in the erstwhile Medak district — Medak, Siddipet and Sangareddy districts, with the same vacancies and remuneration. Interested candidates can attend walk-in interview on July 31 at Integrated Collectorate office at Sangareddy, according to Collector M. Hanumantha Rao on Tuesday. Depending on the requirement, the services of doctors will be continued. Those who attended walk-in interview at Hyderabad on July 27 need not attend.
30 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Monitors appointed for Rythu Vedika works||Collector Prashant J Patil on Wednesday appointed nodal officers, Assembly constituency-wise, for monitoring progress of Rythu Vedikas construction. Each Rythu Vedika, platform for farmer groups in identified agriculture clusters, is being built at an estimated cost of Rs. 22 lakh as per approved design. And all the works are to be completed within four months. Mr. Patil said the six nodal officers will visit the under-construction Rythu Vedikas on a weekly basis, coordinate with departments and the contractors, and submit progress reports every Monday and Friday.
30 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Jagga Reddy arrested||Congress legislator T. Jayaprakash Reddy was arrested by the police at the district headquarters hospital on Wednesday evening, and was shifted Budhera police station. Mr. Reddy was protesting over sending of a corona positive patient to Gandhi Hospital, Hyderabad, where he succumbed. Mr. Reddy was unhappy with government doctors for sending the patient to Hyderabad despite inaugurating a 100-bed corona special wing at MNR Medical College Hospital.
30 July 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Neighbouring villages out of bounds for Dubbak residents||The mandal and constituency headquarters town of Dubbak is slowly earning the notoriety of a COVID-19 hotspot and the increasing cases are creating fear among people. Sources said at least 15 cases have been reported in the town in the past one month. At one point, a top municipal representative tested positive, though later it turned up negative. Those infected include officials from police, medical and other departments as well. Four members from a family tested positive and two of them died — that a 70-year-old woman was positive came out only after her demise. Her son also died but tests were not conducted. However, his body was cremated as a precautionary measure. Atmosphere of fear People not coming out of their homes even three days after the day of death of a person reflects the fear psychology of residents. The same is seen in the neighbouring villages of Dubbak. Three mandals — Bibipet of Kamareddy, Gambhiraopet and Mustabad of Sircilla district — are close to Dubbak mandal. Sources claimed that the residents of several villages are informing their relatives in Dubbak not to visit their houses till the situation becomes normal. In at least one village, the sarpanch has warned the public not to entertain people from Dubbak, even saying that a fine would be imposed on violators. It was stated that even small businesspersons moving on motorcycles were not being allowed into villages, being curtly told that they are not welcome. “People are really scared about the virus spread. As the number of cases has suddenly increased here, we are not welcome at many places,” said Shiva Kumar, a resident of Dubbak.  As the number of cases has suddenly increased here, we are not welcome at many places. Shiva Kumar, Resident of Dubbak
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Serial killer’ involved in over 50 murder cases held in Delhi||An alleged ‘serial killer’ involved in over 50 murder cases has been arrested in Delhi, six months after he jumped parole in Jaipur. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime Branch) Rakesh Paweriya said Devender Kumar Sharma, an ayurvedic doctor, is convicted in several murder cases. He had jumped parole in January while serving a sentence in Jaipur. He had been living in Delhi’s Baprola after marrying a widow. He was apprehended on a tip-off, said the police. Cheating cases During interrogation, he allegedly shared chilling details of his criminal past and said he had been running a kidney racket and is involved in multiple cheating cases, apart from tens of murders of taxi and truck drivers. Devender earned his Bachelors of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery in 1984 from Bihar, and ran a clinic in Jaipur for 11 years. In 1994, he invested in a fuel company and was cheated of Rs. 11 lakh after which he started running a fake gas agency in Aligarh and came in contact with Raj, Udaiveer and Vedveer who allegedly committed thefts. “These people started lifting LPG cylinders after killing truck drivers. They unloaded the cylinders in Devender’s fake agency,” Mr. Paweriya said. In a parallel development, Devender also got involved in an inter-State kidney racket running through Jaipur, Ballabhgarh, Gurugram and a few other places. In 2004, he was arrested in Gurugram in connection with the kidney racket. “Devender claimed that from 1994 to 2004, he got more than 125 kidneys. He got around Rs. 5 lakh-Rs. 7 Lakh per case,” said the police. During the same period, Devender and his accomplices hired taxis from Jaipur to Aligarh. They killed the drivers after which they sold the vehicle in Kashganj or got it dismantled in Meerut. Devender used to get Rs. 20,000-Rs. 25,000 for each vehicle. “They used to dump bodies in Hazara Canal, Kashganj, which has crocodiles hence, there was no chance of retrieval of any body,” Mr. Paweriya added. The police said that Devender has confessed to being involved in over 50 murders, however, media reports of that time show he was involved in 100-odd cases across Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan. He has been convicted in only 6-7 cases so far. In Jaipur, he had been serving a life sentence in a murder case. He got parole after spending 16 years behind bars.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Medical representative arrested for robbery||An armed robber was arrested in south Delhi’s Defence Colony area, said a senior police officer on Wednesday.  On Sunday around 2.30 p.m., one autorickshaw driver, Amar Singh, was going towards AIIMS. A person signalled him to stop near Andrews Ganj bus stop, the police officer said. “He asked the auto driver to go to Defence Colony. When they reached a roundabout, the person took out a countrymade pistol and threatened Singh. The auto driver gave the man Rs. 85,” DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. Victim raised alarm The accused asked the auto driver to drop him back at Andrews Ganj bus stop. Singh alerted police personnel who were near the spot, Mr. Thakur said. On seeing the police, he took his pistol and aimed at them. Later, Arora threatened to shoot himself. Meanwhile, head constable Dharmender, constable Manish and constable Giriraj engaged him in a conversation and sub-inspector Krishan Pal caught hold of the accused from behind, the DCP said. The video of the incident went viral on social media. A case was registered at Defence Colony police station. Preliminary probe revealed that Arora works as a medical representative. He procured the gun from one Tahir, a resident of Jamia Nagar, whom he met in a shop at Kotla, the police added.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||Unsuccessful students of Classes 9 and 11 to get another chance||Students of Classes 9 and 11 who did not secure minimum qualifying marks in one or more subjects in the Common Annual School Examination (CASE) 2019-20, will be reassessed on the basis of assignments or projects for promotion to the next class, the Education Department has decided. These project or assignments will be allotted to eligible students by August 7. It needs to be submitted by August 18 and their results will be declared online on August 28. Lack of options According to a senior government official, the decision was taken given a lack of options for re-examinations due to the continuing closure of schools across the country due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and the anxiety being faced by students who could not clear one or more exams. While all students up to, and including, Class 8 were promoted to the next class following the no-detention policy, some students of Classes 9 and 11 who could not secure minimum qualifying marks in one or more subjects have not been promoted. “Being confined to their houses, the students who have not been promoted so far would be anxious to get clarity on the opportunities they will get now to improve their performance and if eligible, be promoted to the next class,” a circular issued by the Examination Cell of the Directorate of Education stated. “To clear the status of all such students and relieve them of any further stress or anxiety, the competent authority has decided to give one last opportunity to all such students to be assessed through assignments/projects/school based test instead of conducting re-exam,” it stated. For this reassessment, the subject teacher will allot projects or assignments to the students digitally and talk to each student individually about how to attempt it. These assignments or projects will be evaluated out of a maximum of 40 marks. Following the submission of the project by students through WhatsApp, email or hard copy, if necessary, the teacher will talk to each student again regarding how they attempted it. Private schools which have not conducted re-examinations so far as per the guidelines of the CBSE, the circular also stated, can also follow the same procedure to assess their students. “This will be a one-time opportunity for students who did not clear their respective exams which is being extended only in the current year due to the unprecedented conditions,” the official said.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘DU Prof.’s arrest a bid to criminalise dissent’||Teachers and students’ groups on Wednesday condemned the arrest of Delhi University Professor Hany Babu in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case. The Federation of Central Universities Teachers’ Association (FEDUCTA), Jamia Teachers’ Solidarity Association, Jawaharlal Nehru University Students Union as well as several other groups under the banner of Campaign Against State Repression (CASR) such as ASIA, SFI, Bhim Army, United Against Hate and others hit out against the latest arrest in Mumbai. “It is evident that this is yet another attempt to muzzle academic freedom, freedom of speech and dissent and incarcerate critics and intellectuals by the ruling government,” said FEDCUTA in a statement, where it described Mr. Babu as a “brilliant academic and organic intellectual committed to the Ambedkarite cause of anti-caste struggle and social justice”. The union took exception to the arrest by the NIA despite Mr. Babu’s cooperation with the investigation agencies. Comparing his arrest to that of other academics in the same case, the group said that his arrest is part of an attempt to criminalise dissent, “as was seen in the arrests of students who participated in the anti-CAA protests.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||Individual DU colleges to verify ECA certificates||Extra-curricular activities certificates submitted by students for admissions under this quota at Delhi University will be verified by a committee set up by individual colleges before admissions, it was announced on Wednesday. This year, students will be granted admissions under this quota only on the basis of certificates and no trials will be held. Candidates will be assessed out of 100 marks in four categories, of which participation and prizes hold the highest weight, followed by training an exams, workshops and finally published works. Students can apply to up to 14 categories of ECAs, however, admission under this category will depend on availability of seat at the course and college they apply to. After applying, a ECA committee to be set up by colleges, will verify the certificates uploaded by students before confirming their admission. Any grievances with regard to award of marks will be taken up by an ECA grievance committee, set up by the university. Highest marks are awarded for winning first prize in an international competition while no marks are awarded for participation in intra school or inter-school competitions. In the case of workshops, the highest score is given for workshops of more than 30 days while no marks will be awarded for workshops of under a week.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘File response to petition on giving meals at shelter homes’||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday expressed displeasure at the Centre for not filing its response to a petition, which has claimed that shelter homes in the city deny three quality meals a day to its occupants. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan gave one more opportunity to the Ministry of Housing to file its affidavit saying failure to do so would lead to imposition of costs of Rs. 10,000 on Secretary, Housing Ministry. The court had asked the Ministry to indicate on affidavit how much funds it has given to the Delhi government for providing three meals everyday to the homeless. The Delhi government’s counsel told the court that three meals would be provided in the shelters only till July 31. The court was hearing a petition by a woman residing at a shelter home in Sarai Kale Khan, contending that the Central government on March 28 issued a notification directing all the States and Union Territories to provide three meals a day in the shelter homes. However, in complete violation of the above mentioned notification, the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) was providing only two meals of Rs. 20 each for lunch and dinner to the people at the shelter homes, the petition has alleged.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC refuses to entertain plea against illegal slaughter on Bakri Eid||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday refused to entertain a petition seeking action against persons carrying out alleged illegal animal slaughter on Bakri Eid. The HC Bench said the order cannot be issued as it has not pointed out the persons who are violating the law.
30 July 2020||Ahmedabad,||Rs. 4.76 crore in demonetised notes seized in Gujarat||Demonetised notes worth Rs. 4.76 crore were recovered in raids conducted by the Godhra police on Tuesday. The State Anti Terrorist Squad said Zuber Hayat and Farookh Chhota were nabbed, while Idrish Hayat managed to escape. The police raided a place near Med Circle and seized five bundles of notes of Rs. 1,000 denomination from Mr. Chhota. After quizzing him, the team raided Dhantya Plot and found bundles of demonetised notes in Mr. Hayat’s car and house. Collectively, the police have recovered 9,312 notes of Rs. 1,000 denomination, and 76,739 notes of Rs. 500.
30 July 2020||Bhopal,||Children form study groups in Panna as schools remain shut||For 14-year-old Nandni Gond, the biggest worry during the lockdown is that younger children in her village might forget what they have learnt at schools over the years. Sitting on a chair in the shade of a tree outside her house in Panna district, Nandni watches over a handful of children diligently bent over their notebooks, revising tables and reciting the Hindi alphabet. “They used to run around the streets and played the entire day. They were beginning to forget whatever they had learnt,” says Nandni, daughter of a farmer, as she took classes for children up to Class 6 at Brijpur village on Wednesday afternoon. Since March, when COVID-19 first struck Madhya Pradesh, the learning of lakhs of children has been disrupted as schools were closed. Yet, in an effort to help them with their education, the State government introduced the ‘ Hamara Ghar, Hamara Vidyalaya ’ programme that offers home-based online modules for Classes 1 to 8. However, children from the 35-40 families in the Bhatia Tola hamlet of the village, where Ms. Nandni resides, depend on just two smartphones with internet connection to take down assignments in turns, said Anand Kumar Gond, of non-government organisation Vikas Samvad. He owns one of the two phones. “Those who don’t have access to phones don’t get to study,” said Nandni, a Class 8 student. “Therefore, we had to come together and form a group to continue learning.” She has been teaching Hindi and mathematics from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. for a month now. Deepa Gond, 11, finds studying in the open exciting. “Earlier I played with pebbles the entire day. Now, I go to play only in the evening,” she says. Her uncle owns the other smartphone, which he shares with two-three children. Digital divide The digital divide is widening during the pandemic, believes Bhopal-based Rakesh Kumar Malviya of the child rights NGO. “Even if the electronic media reaches more families, people may not know how to operate the gadget. Without being overdependent on the government, communities should come forward and develop such learning models wherever possible,” he said. According to the daily monitoring report for July 28, just 29.7% of elementary school students in Panna district received assignments through WhatsApp. Modules from the State-level reach district-level officials, who forward them to the block-level, from where jan shikshaks send them to groups having guardians responsible for showing the content to the students. Claiming that Panna district was among the best performers in the State, District Education Officer R.P. Bhatnagar said, “Even reaching 30% of the students is huge. Even if guardians have mobile phones, they may not have data. And sometimes, they may take their phones with them to work.” ‘On TV, radio also’ Mr. Bhatnagar says students who don’t have access to smartphones with internet connection need not be disheartened. They could watch lessons telecast on TV or relayed through radio. Mr. Malviya says online learning cannot be an alternative to conventional classes, and it lacked proper monitoring of the outcomes. But Mr. Bhatnagar says teaching is monitored daily. “Five students are picked randomly every day to take a feedback, which is sent to the State-level,” he says.
30 July 2020||Mumbai,||Elgaar Parishad case: Hany Babu remanded in 7-day NIA custody||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Mumbai on Wednesday remanded professor Hany Babu (54) in NIA custody for seven days till August 4 in the Elgaar Parishad case. Mr. Babu, an associate professor at Delhi University’s English Department, was arrested on Tuesday in connection with the case. Judge A.T. Wankhede said, “The allegations made against the accused are of serious nature. It is alleged that the accused is having connections/links with the banned outfit CPI (Maoist).” Special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty, representing the NIA, said Mr. Babu has to be confronted with various facts established/revealed by the other accused during the investigation. The NIA remand application stated, “The accused has association/links with the CPI (Maoist) party. During investigation, various letters were recovered from the seized electronic articles, wherein the role of the accused transpired.” Mr. Shetty argued that Mr. Babu needs to be interrogated about the material obtained from the co-accused in the case and sought his custody for 10 days. Advocate R. Sathyanarayanan, representing Mr. Babu, said the NIA had been interrogating the professor for the last four to five days and further custodial interrogation is not required. ‘Demand well-founded’ The court said, “The investigating officer wants to confront him with the various facts established from the other accused in the case. Looking at the nature of the offence and allegations levelled against the accused, the demand for custody is well-founded. However, instead of 10 days, the accused will be remanded in police custody for seven days, i.e. up to August 4.”  ‘Provide only clothes’ An application was made on behalf of Mr. Babu seeking permission to provide him with basic necessities such as clothing, home-cooked food, and medicines. However, Judge Wankhede said, “Only clothes are permitted to be provided to the accused.” Mr. Babu was summoned by the NIA in Delhi on July 12 and directed to appear before it in Mumbai on July 15. In September 2019, the Maharashtra Police raided his house and seized electronic devices and books from his possession. The NIA took over the investigation from the Pune Police on January 24 this year and arrested Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha, who are in their custody. The other accused in the Elgaar Parishad case include professor Shoma Sen and advocate Sudha Bharadwaj, who are lodged in Byculla jail; activists Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves, Surendra Gadling, Rona Wilson, Arun Ferreira, Sudhir Dhawale, who are in Taloja Central Jail; and poet Varavara Rao, who is receiving treatment at Nanavati Hospital. The 12 accused have been booked for allegedly delivering inflammatory speeches at the Elgaar Parishad held at Shaniwar Wada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which allegedly triggered the violence at the Bhima-Koregaon war memorial the next day.
30 July 2020||Mumbai,||Minister takes a dig at BJP’s WhatsApp campaign plan||With the BJP’s Maharashtra unit planning to launch a campaign to connect with one-and-half crore voters by forming WhatsApp groups, State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday hoped it will not turn into a “WhatsApp university”.  Taking to Twitter, Mr. Deshmukh asked the Maharashtra Police’s cyber cell to keep tabs on groups on the social networking platform to prevent rumour-mongering and spread of misinformation in the State. “There is no harm in connecting with citizens over #WhatsApp & I am hopeful that this #campaign will not result in #WhatsAppUniversity,” Mr. Deshmukh said in his tweet.
30 July 2020||Mumbai,||Ban on 65+ artistes from sets temporary, State tells HC||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Wednesday that the ban on artistes above 65 years of age from film and TV sets is not permanent, and some changes in the lockdown restrictions may come up by August 1. Government pleader Poornima Kantharia informed a Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla that “some changes may come up by August 1, and as of today, it would not be an arbitrary decision as it is of temporary nature and taken in the interest of those below 10 and above 65 years.” The court was hearing a bunch of petitions filed by actor Pramod Pandey, the Indian Motion Pictures Producers Association (IMPPA), the Practising Valuers Association (India) (PVA), and others. The petitions challenged the government resolution (GR) issued on May 30, prohibiting any cast or crew member below 10 and above 65 years on the sets. Mr. Pandey said he had been performing small roles in films and TV serials for four decades and did not have any other source of livelihood. IMPPA, along with PVA, urged the court to quash the State’s order.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pay Rs. 64 lakh to family for student’s death: NGT||Five years after the death of a Presidency University student due to gas leak, the National Green Tribunal on Wednesday directed the Greater Calcutta Gas Supply Corporation Limited to compensate the family by paying Rs. 64 lakh. A Bench headed by NGT judicial member S.P. Wangdi held that the facts and evidence produced pointed to the company “being culpable for causing the death” of the student. “The preponderance of evidence unerringly leads to a reasonable conclusion that the death of the deceased, Sumantika Banerjee, took place on account of severe pollution caused by the leakage in the old pipeline of the [GCGSCL], through which coal gas was being supplied to consumers,” the Tribunal observed. The Bench, also comprising expert member S.S. Garbyal, added, “The crack from where the gas had leaked, as per the investigation conducted by the police, was on account of wear and tear signifying negligence on the part of the respondent [GCGSCL] in maintaining the pipeline in good order.” The green panel was hearing a plea moved by Debasish Banerjee, resident of the Jalpaiguri district, who alleged that his daughter, an M.Sc first year student at Presidency University, was found dead in her paying guest accommodation.
30 July 2020||Pune,||95.3% students clear Maharashtra SSC exam||After a dismal showing by students in last year’s Class X results, Maharashtra’s cumulative pass percentage in the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examination this year showed a dramatic improvement, rising to 95.30%. The results, which were announced by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Wednesday, showed that the State’s overall pass percentage improved by 18.20 percentage points as compared with last year’s overall SSC pass figure of 77.10% — the lowest in a decade. This year’s pass percentage was also higher than 2018’s figure of 89.41 as well as that of 2017, in which 88.47% students had passed. As with the Class XII results declared earlier this month, girls outclassed boys yet again, notching an impressive pass percentage of 96.91%. The boys also performed creditably, posting a cumulative pass percentage of 93.90%. In wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown in the State, educational authorities had been compelled to scrap the geography paper this year, with students being awarded average marks. Wishing all successful students, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray tweeted, “Congratulations to all students as you cross an important milestone of SSC exams and embark on the next stage of life’s journey. Even if the results haven’t been up to your expectation, don’t be disheartened as life is full of opportunities. My best wishes are with all of you.” The total number of students appearing for the exam this year was, however, lower as compared to the previous three years. Last year, 16,18,602 students had given the exam. A total of 15,75,103 students — 7,89,309 boys and 7,11,796 girls — had appeared for the three-week-long exam this year, which commenced on March 3 and ended on March 23. Shakuntala Kale, chairperson, MSBSHSE, said, “This year’s SSC performance has seen a marked improvement with the overall pass percentage rising by more than 18 percentage points. As many as 8,360 schools have declared 100% results, while 20 of the total 60 subjects in the curriculum have seen 100% results. Despite the raging pandemic and the lockdown, we have managed to come out with the results after a delay of only a month-and-a-half.”  Apart from this, the division-wise results generally followed a remarkably similar pattern to the Higher Secondary Certificate results, with the Konkan division — where the lowest number of students appeared — recording the highest pass percentage among the nine divisions, registering 98.77%. Mumbai, Pune score high The two most populous divisions — Mumbai and Pune — recorded robust pass percentages, with Mumbai reporting 96.72% and Pune registering an impressive pass percentage of 97.34%. Given the high overall pass percentage, even Aurangabad, which registered the lowest pass percentage among the nine divisions, clocked a healthy 92%.  As many as 8,360 schools have declared 100% results, while 20 of the total 60 subjects in the curriculum have seen 100% results Shakuntala Kale Chairperson, MSBSHSE
30 July 2020||Washington,||Deaths surge in U.S.; China cases jump||COVID-19 deaths in the U.S. surged to their highest level in months on Wednesday as Muslim pilgrims began a pandemic-curtailed version of their sacred Haj. The human toll of the disease in the U.S. hit a magnitude not seen since mid-May with nearly 1,600 deaths recorded in 24 hours for the world’s hardest-hit country, Johns Hopkins University reported on Tuesday. Meanwhile China, where the deadly pathogen was first detected late last year, reported its highest single-day case total in three months. Residents in the semi-autonomous city of Hong Kong were adjusting to their strictest social-distancing measures yet over fears a “large-scale” outbreak could overwhelm hospitals. COVID-19 has claimed 6,60,000 lives and infected more than 16.7 million people across the globe, according to an AFP tally, although experts believe the true infection rate could be wildly higher. Clusters and lockdowns Case numbers have been rising across the U.S. for weeks, leaving health authorities and leaders to watch nervously for a feared spike in fatalities. President Donald Trump’s push for re-election in November has been dogged by the virus crisis that has already killed nearly 1,50,000 Americans and wrought havoc on the world’s biggest economy. In a fresh blow to the President, Twitter removed a video that Mr. Trump retweeted in which doctors made allegedly false claims about the pandemic, saying it broke its “COVID-19 misinformation policy”. China reported a three-month high of 101 new virus cases on Wednesday as sporadic regional outbreaks illustrated the mammoth task of keeping contagion at bay. Authorities have concentrated their attention on a cluster that emerged last week in the northeastern port city of Dalian, where officials said workers handled contaminated packaging of imported seafood. More than three million people have been tested there and enclosed public venues including libraries, gyms and restaurants will be closed. Hong Kong’s leader Carrie Lam warned the financial hub was “on the verge of a large-scale community outbreak, which may lead to a collapse of our hospital system and cost lives, especially of the elderly”. 10,000 pilgrims The annual Haj pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia’s Mecca drew 2.5 million Muslims last year, but in 2020 just 10,000 already living in the kingdom will be allowed in. The chosen ones were subject to electronic tagging, temperature checks and quarantine as they began trickling into Mecca over the weekend.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Pressure put by China on India will change their dynamics’||Calling the disengagement of Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) “a good thing”, a senior Trump administration official said the pressure China had put on India would have a long-term impact on their dynamics. “This [troop disengagement] is a good thing and we hope this continues. But I think that the pressure that China put on India on the LAC will have a long-term impact on how India views the relationship. It will change the dynamics between the two,” said Lisa Curtis, Deputy Assistant to President Donald Trump and Director of the U.S. National Security Council’s South and Central Asia Bureau. Ms. Curtis was responding to a question on the evolution of China’s involvement in South Asia at a seminar organised by Brookings, a think tank. “India demonstrated that it has the will and the capabilities to stand up to China. Of course, it played the economic card by banning the Chinese apps and putting a hold on Chinese investment contracts. And I think the rest of the Indo-Pacific region is watching this very carefully,” Ms. Curtis said, saying the region would be “encouraged by India’s resolve.” In her keynote address at the virtual event, Ms. Curtis called the India-U.S. relationship a “success story” and said “few countries in the world are more familiar with Chinese malign influence than India”. “But our partnership with India is about much more than economics and security. It's also about the democratic traditions that have made both of our countries more prosperous and secure,” Ms. Curtis said.  On China’s influence in India’s neighbourhood, Ms. Curtis said the country had been getting involved not just economically in Sri Lanka and Nepal, but also in their internal politics. Bangladesh, as per Ms. Curtis, was showing “more resiliency” and seeking “ to balance its foreign relationships”. ‘Crown jewel’ in BRI The China-Pakistan relationship, Ms. Curtis said, had grown from a very close security partnership to Pakistan increasingly depending on China through loans and through the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), which Ms. Curtis had earlier referred to as the “crown jewel” in China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). “Chinese pledges for CPEC now exceed $60 billion, but CPEC is not foreign aid, nor is it the equity investment that drove China’s own development,” she said. “CPEC is financed by sovereign debt and needs to be paid back. The risk is borne by the Pakistani people. Yet the benefits accrued primarily to the Chinese Communist Party,” she said, presenting the U.S. as a preferable alternative to China as an investor. The U.S. does not want to “contain China’s development” and will work with it when interests align, Ms Curtis said. “Even as the U.S. competes with China in South and central Asia, we welcome cooperation where interest align. In Afghanistan, for example, China has supported calls for reduction in violence in order to create an environment conducive to inter-Afghan negotiations.” More risks In response to a question on how likely it was that a “cold war” situation with China would become a “hot war” situation, Ms. Curtis said both sides would want to prevent tensions from escalating, but the U.S. is willing to accept more risks in the relationship. “Clearly tensions are rising. But I think that each side would want to control those tensions from escalating,” Ms. Curtis said. “ …The U.S. is willing to accept more risks in the relationship. I think each side will have to get used to, sort of, these new guidelines that will be directing U.S. policy in the region as we move forward.” Ms. Curtis said there would be a deepening of the U.S.-India partnership based on a commitment both countries have to an open and transparent region in the Indo Pacific. “ You will see more of a focus on building up that relationship...”
30 July 2020||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong democracy activist vows to appeal sacking by university||A prominent Hong Kong democracy activist on Wednesday vowed to appeal his sacking by a top university as city leaders and education chiefs were accused of failing to defend academic freedoms under Beijing’s tightening grip. Law professor Benny Tai, 56, said he was fired on Tuesday by a disciplinary committee at the University of Hong Kong (HKU) after he was jailed last year for taking part in pro-democracy protests. In a Facebook post on Wednesday, Mr. Tai said he would appeal the university’s decision and consider launching a judicial review. Appeal to Lam He also made a personal appeal to city leader Carrie Lam, a pro-Beijing appointee. “Though I know this is a futile process, Carrie Lam cannot evade... her responsibility of infringing Hong Kong’s academic freedom,” wrote Mr. Tai, accusing Beijing of influencing the university’s decision. Mr. Tai is a leading figure within Hong Kong’s pro-democracy movement. The Liaison Office, which represents Beijing’s government in the semi-autonomous city, released a statement late on Tuesday calling Mr. Tai “evil” and welcoming his removal. The sacking has sent a new chill through the semi-autonomous city’s campuses already rattled by Beijing imposition of a sweeping national security law last month that has begun to criminalise certain political views. ‘A martyr’ “Benny Tai has become a martyr to civil disobedience,” Joseph Chan, a political science professor at HKU, wrote on his Facebook page. Sophie Richardson, a China expert with Human Rights Watch, said international universities should now reassess their relationship with HKU. Joshua Wong, a prominent student activist who has also served jail time for leading protests wrote: “#Beijing now extends its reach to academic freedoms in #HK.” The university has yet to issue a statement outlining why Mr. Tai was sacked and how it came to the decision.
30 July 2020||Melbourne,||Indians the biggest group getting Australia citizenship||More than 38,000 Indians became Australian citizens in 2019-2020, a 60% increase from the previous year and the largest diaspora group to be granted the country’s citizenship. Out of the over 2,00,000 people who became Australian citizens in 2019-2020, 38,209 were Indians, the highest number on record, followed by 25,011 Britishers, 14,764 Chinese and 8,821 Pakistanis. Australia’s Acting Minister for Immigration, Citizenship, Migrant Services and Multicultural Affairs Alan Tudge said citizenship was an important part of Australia’s success as a socially cohesive, multicultural nation. “Becoming an Australian citizen means more than just living and working here — it’s a pledge of allegiance to our nation, our people and our values...,” Mr. Tudge said. During the ongoing COVID-19 health crisis, the Australian government has started online ceremonies which have seen over 60,000 people being conferred the citizenship. The Department of Home Affairs is resuming citizenship interviews and testing in line with COVID-19 health advice. As per the Australian Bureau of Statistics’s 2016 census, 6,19,164 people in Australia declared that they were of ethnic Indian ancestry. This comprises 2.8% of the Australian population. Among those, 5,92,000 were born in India.
30 July 2020||Geneva,||Protesting is a fundamental right: UN||As authorities worldwide grapple with swelling demonstrations over issues like political rights and racial justice, a UN committee reaffirmed on Wednesday that protesting peacefully, online or in person, is a fundamental human right. The independent experts on the Human Rights Committee published a fresh interpretation of the right of peaceful assembly, offering comprehensive legal guidance about where and how it applies and also outlining governments’ obligations. The committee, made up of 18 independent experts, is tasked with monitoring how countries implement the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), which under Article 21 guarantees the right to peaceful assembly.
30 July 2020||Tehran,||Iran fires missiles from under ground||Iran’s Revolutionary Guards said they launched ballistic missiles from “the depths of the Earth” on Wednesday during the last day of military exercises near sensitive Gulf waters. The launches came a day after the Guards struck a mock-up of a U.S. aircraft carrier with volleys of missiles near the Strait of Hormuz, a vital shipping lane for a fifth of world oil output.
30 July 2020||Peshawar,||Blasphemy suspect shot dead in court||A Pakistani man facing charges of blasphemy was shot dead in court on Wednesday as he awaited the start of his hearing, police said. Tahir Ahmad Nasim, 47, was a member of the persecuted Ahmadiyya Muslim community. He had been escorted into court by police in the northern city of Peshawar when a man opened fire with a pistol. The victim died on the spot while his 24-year-old attacker was arrested.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Long shot||
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 and a country club India must leave||As a billion Indians watch with horror as the pandemic sweeps the land, many look with envy to countries to the east of us where the virus originated, and to the west of us in Europe which were devastated just a few months ago but appear to have beaten the bug and are starting to repair their societies. We can only draw some consolation from the fact that, thankfully, we are not alone in our spectacular failure to contain the pandemic: we have Trump’s U.S. and Bolsonaro’s Brazil to give us company. The poison of inequalities Others have also noticed the curious composition of this country club, perhaps the only one in the world which no one wants to be a member of, and have begun to wonder what features these three countries might have in common, apart from the fact that they are all populous, federal, diverse and democratic. No prizes for guessing which is the most common theory which crops up in the fertile imaginations of perceptive observers. But that is not the theory which I believe tells the whole story. My proposal is that what these three countries share is the toxic levels of historic inequalities which affect every structure of society including, most importantly, the health-care system. The value of investing in a just public health-care system has never been as starkly obvious, for never before have entire countries been brought to their knees by one disease. To be sure, there have been far deadlier epidemics which continue to kill many more people than COVID-19 but they, like HIV, diarrhoeal diseases and tuberculosis, have mostly killed the poor and the marginalised, outside the conscious radar of those in power. More to the point, no previous epidemic brought the engines of the economy to a standstill. If some poor chaps died of a horrible disease in some godforsaken slum, C-grade town or village in the back of beyond, the stock market could not care less. However, on this occasion, for the first time, the wealthy and the powerful in their urban palaces have found themselves marooned. And their high-tech doctors and “super-specialist” hospitals can do little to rescue them. On universal coverage What differentiates countries which have been able to pick themselves up and start walking within a few months after their first case was detected from those, like ours, which remain mired in the muck, is the commitment by both the state and civil society to the principles of universal health coverage. To be fair, if universal health coverage was conflated with the simple existence of a publicly financed health-care system, then India, like the United States and Brazil, can already boast to have met this goal. However, this is not what universal health coverage means in spirit: only a system which all people, rich and poor, those in power and those who are powerless, can rely on to be given care with the same quality regardless of their station in society, can be truly considered “universal”. A question of quality Such a universal health coverage system does not exist in India, or the U.S. or Brazil, where more than half the population, concentrated in the upper income groups, seeks health care in the fee-for-service private sector. The private sector in India provides almost 80% of outpatient and 60% of inpatient care, as a result of which falling ill is one of the most important contributors to indebtedness in the country. While the government’s much heralded insurance scheme does buffer a segment of our population, the very poor, from impoverishment due to hospital admissions, outpatient care which comprises the bulk of health-care expenditure remains untouched. Whereas universal health coverage is recognised by many countries as a strategy to empower people to lift themselves out of poverty and as a foundation of sustainable development, health care in India has become a leading cause of poverty. The fact that, despite this knowledge, the majority of our people prefer private care, is a damning testimonial to their experiences of the public health-care system. I have often heard the titans of corporate medicine in India justify their costs by arguing that these are much cheaper than in the U.S. or Europe; such comparisons are ridiculous as they are oblivious of the fact that India’s per capita income places us as one of the poorest countries in the world. But beyond the clearly visible ills of the wholesale commercialisation of health care, there are a host of other challenges to realising universal health coverage, from the standards of our infrastructure to the honesty and competency of health-care workers which contribute to the abysmal quality of care, in both the private and public sectors. The pandemic has brought the scandalous quality of our health-care system into sharper relief as our daily diet of front-page headlines alternates between the numbers of dead on the one hand with stories of pigs roaming freely and the absence of doctors in public hospitals to shameless profiteering and refusal to care by private hospitals on the other. The proclivity of doctors to irrational medical procedures and drug prescriptions, the lack of dignity with which the poor are cared for, and the legendary levels of corrupt practices across the health-care system are well documented. At the heart of this pathetic state of affairs is the complete lack of accountability of either the private or public sector, and the absence of the stewardship role of the state in ensuring justice and quality of health care for all its citizens. It comes as no surprise that there is a fundamental breakdown of trust between civil society and the health-care system, exemplified at its most extreme by violence against health-care providers. Fixing the rot will need structural reforms far beyond the top-down “missions” and knee-jerk punitive actions which have dominated our policy-making for over 70 years. But for this to happen, we will need a broad coalition across the political establishment and civil society, in particular the wealthy and ruling classes, to demand change. A historic opportunity For the first time, I see the possibility of this happening, as economists, business leaders and politicians who were wont to view the public health-care system as a charitable cause to address disease and death of the poor, to be attended to as a footnote to the task of building our economy, can finally witness as clear as daylight how a dysfunctional, fragmented and unaccountable health-care system will ultimately destroy the economy itself. Even if the pandemic has hit the poor the hardest, it has also crippled the nation. But we need more than just new money for while health care is the wisest investment for the economy, such an investment must be accompanied by a social compact that the same system caters to all. This philosophy of universal health coverage is already practised in diverse ways, including engagement of the private sector, by scores of countries. I cannot imagine a more historic opportunity for India to join that illustrious club. Vikram Patel is the Pershing Square Professor of Global Health at Harvard Medical School
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The limits of Rahul as Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi’s fitful detours into politics continue to excite his opponents and supporters, followed by predictable reappearances of old obituaries of the dynasty. Mr. Gandhi has met the meltdown in the Congress party in Rajasthan, close on the heels of the collapse of its government in Madhya Pradesh, with cameo digital performances on unrelated topics. Meanwhile, a new chorus for his return as the party president is being orchestrated. An aspiring rebel trapped in the body and privilege of a preordained dynast, Mr. Gandhi’s infectious confusions have disoriented his opponents, supporters and observers alike. Dynasties are everywhere The dynasty’s rivals and ringmasters make points that are excusable, but an expert argument that the Gandhis are the sole reason for the absence of a viable non-BJP politics is obtuse. If the dynasty is so bereft of ideas and following, as it is said to be, how can it muffle anyone? What are those who cannot walk over a withered dynasty worth in taking on the BJP and its formidable leader Narendra Modi? The Nehru-Gandhi dynasty could not stop the emergence of an Arvind Kejriwal right under its nose, when it was in power. The Gandhis can be criticised for their inadequacies, but they are not by any long shot responsible for the failure of those who are independently impotent in meeting the Modi challenge. That the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty is blighted is evident, but the reasons for it are not. The notion of a widespread antipathy towards elites is overstated in the Indian context. From Kashmir to Kanyakumari, dynasties do not merely continue to survive, but flourish in all fields, including politics and cinema where direct public approval is essential for success. In the BJP, the Scindia dynasty, across two generations, hold the veto power in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. One reasonable explanation cites Arab scholar Ibn Khaldun who said dynasties flounder by the fourth generation. Mr. Gandhi is fourth generation — or may be fifth — and hence detestable, while all others — the Scindias, Naveen Patnaik, Jagan Mohan Reddy, the Gowda family, the Karunanidhi family — all become acceptable. It is indeed true that Mr. Gandhi has lost the original qualities of his forebears, but that is only one, perhaps a minor, factor in his inability to take off. Modi versus Rahul Gandhi Mr. Gandhi’s unpopularity is understood better in comparison with Mr. Modi’s popularity, both uneven across the country. Where Mr. Modi is more popular, Mr. Gandhi is more unpopular. Mr. Gandhi is most derided in the north and the west and among upper castes and new middle classes. His residual popularity comes from the south and among the poorer sections in the BJP strongholds, and religious minorities. One explanation in 2014 for Mr. Modi’s popularity was that he represented aspiration and hard work and had proven abilities of governance, while Mr. Gandhi represented entitlement and inexperience. That does not explain the regional and class variations. But this theory still held some water, though then too, Mr. Modi’s promise of development, employment, national honour and security came wrapped in Hindutva. The current situation does not merely offer an alternative understanding but demands one. By 2020, the Modi package has been unravelled layer by layer, and all that remains of it is the wrapper — i.e., Hindutva. If Mr. Gandhi is unreliable because he is untested, has Mr. Modi passed the test of governance? If Mr. Modi remains as or more popular than he was in 2014, the only explanation could be the strident cultural agenda that he has delivered on. All frills shorn, the distinguishing feature between the two is Hindutva — while Mr. Modi is its proponent, Mr. Gandhi is its antagonist. If Hindutva can reinforce the popularity of Mr. Modi despite his governance record, is it possible that Mr. Gandhi is the target of a cancel campaign because of his opposition to it, and irrespective of his other attributes, including being a dynast? Mr. Gandhi is being attacked even by Congress leaders for his positions on Jammu and Kashmir, sedition, and the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, among other things. Mr. Gandhi is constrained by environmental factors, primarily the mass appeal of religious majoritarianism, but his inherent deficiencies aggravate them. He believes that the power of his convictions is so strong that he does not need to do anything else, even as he continues to pay the price for those anachronistic beliefs. He bears the cross for all the sins of his forebears but gets no laurels for their contributions. The change has to be in him first, which will in turn enhance his capacity to alter the environment. Assuming that he does not want to become a substitute player of majoritarianism as Mr. Kejriwal has turned himself into, what can Mr. Gandhi do? Mr. Gandhi has wasted half his life in silly experiments to democratise the Congress, when he should have earned some experience as a Union Minister. He can get his way in the Congress if and only if there are a few thousand Rahul voters in each Assembly constituency. The challenge to his authority within the party can be tackled only through attaining that strength, not by whining about the old guard. Ahmad Patel is responsible for the fall of the Congress only as much as the Gandhis are responsible for the emaciation of opposition politics in India — both equally unreasonable and self-defeating arguments. Mr. Gandhi wants to be the moral force of the party — perhaps like M. K. Gandhi or what his mother Sonia Gandhi used to be at one point. But the moral perch of Indian politics is occupied by his primary opponent, Mr. Modi, who is worshipped as a demigod by a considerable section of the Congress’s erstwhile voters. The only avenue before Mr. Gandhi therefore is one of drudgery. What Rahul needs to do His self-perception of being a grand visionary and moral force has meant outsourcing of HR management and knowledge processing — allowing others to act and think on his behalf. If he wants to be in politics, Mr. Gandhi needs to pay attention to who gets the ticket and who is appointed. Assuming that he is as altruistic as he would like the world to believe, he must learn to deal and live with the pelf and perfidy of politics, starting with his own party. He needs to know what the average Congress worker in U.P. and Bihar thinks; he needs to pay attention to details of policy and not merely headlines. He cannot be an ordinary Congress MP as he tries to make it appear. He cannot stand at the door with one leg in and let people walk out of it. Either he leads or he quits. For a dynast there is no midway. A dynast has a baggage to carry; he also has advantages. For instance, the only political family in India that is not identified with a particular religion, caste, region, or sect is the Gandhis. Who knows when that might be fashionable again, after the current sectarian turmoil! Mr. Gandhi could find his moment. But he has no choice of being the home quarantined moralist; he has an outside chance of making it as a workhorse. varghese.g@thehindu.co.in
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A quest for order amid cyber insecurity||In cyberspace, it is the best of times for some and the worst of times for others. Between them, Apple, Amazon and Microsoft have added more than a trillion dollars in market value, since the start of 2020. On the other hand, cyberattacks have grown. In one week in April 2020, reportedly, there were over 18 million daily malware and phishing emails related to COVID-19 monitored by a single email provider, in addition to more than 240 million COVID-19-related daily spam messages. Twitter hackers collected $120,000 in full public gaze, while a “ransomware” target in California quietly paid 116.4 bitcoins or $1.14 million. There is also concern about the role of states. Australia mentioned of attacks by a state actor. China has been accused of hacking health-care institutions in the United States working on novel coronavirus treatment. The United Kingdom has warned of hackers backed by the Russian state targeting pharmaceutical companies conducting COVID-19 vaccine research. The ban on specified Chinese Apps, on grounds that they are “engaged in activities prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India” adds another layer of complexity to the contestation in cyberspace. Cyberinsecurity of individuals, organisations and states is expanding amidst COVID-19. While we are embracing new ways of digital interaction and more of our critical infrastructure is going digital, the parameters of the transformation under way are not understood by most of us. Like global public health, cybersecurity is a niche area, left to experts. COVID-19 made us realise the role of the global public health infrastructure and need to abide by agreed rules. Similarly, a better understanding of the global cyberspace architecture is required.  No global commons Borderless cyberspace, as a part of the “global commons” does not exist. It is an illusion that connectivity across national boundaries nurtured. The Internet depends on physical infrastructure that is under national control, and hence is subject to border controls too. Each state applies its laws to national networks, consistent with its international commitments. States are responsible for cybersecurity, enforcement of laws and protection of public good. States are responsible for their actions, as well as for actions taken from within their sovereign territory. This is easier said than done. The infrastructure on which the Internet rests falls within jurisdictions of many states with differing approaches. Cyberspace has multiple stakeholders, not all of which are states. Non-state actors play key roles — some benign, some malignant. Many networks are private, with objectives differing from those of states. Finally cybertools are dual use, cheap and make attribution and verification of actions quite a task. Nevertheless, states alone have the rights of oversight. There is no equivalent of a World Health Organization which can monitor, assess, advise and inform about fulfilment of state commitments, in however limited or unsatisfactory a manner. In short, the search for cyber “rules of the road“ is still on. We are at an incipient stage of looking for “cyber norms” that can balance the competing demands of national sovereignty and transnational connectivity. Gaps in current processes It was in 1998 that Russia inscribed the issue of information and communications technologies (ICTs) in international security on the UN agenda. Since then six Group of Governmental Experts (GGE) with two-year terms and limited membership have functioned — the most on any issue at the United Nations. In addition, an Open-Ended Working Group (OEWG) began last year with a broadly similar mandate, but open to all. More than 100 states evinced interest. However, it is meandering along, with a report likely next year. The discussions are narrowly focused in line with the mandate of the forum that set it up. Issues such as Internet governance, development, espionage, and digital privacy are kept out. While terrorism and crime are acknowledged as important, discussion on these has not been focused on, as ostensibly best done in other UN bodies. The net result of the UN exercise has been an acceptance that international law and the UN Charter are applicable in cyberspace; a set of voluntary norms of responsible state behaviour was agreed to in 2015. What aspects of international law and in what circumstances will be applicable remains to be addressed. UN Secretary General António Guterres’s recent report, “Roadmap for Digital Cooperation”, gently calls for action. A few confidence building measures may follow. However, short of a cataclysmic event, these processes do not hold much hope in the current geopolitical circumstances. More engagement needed Generally the growth of technology is way ahead of the development of associated norms and institutions. Cyberspace is experiencing this too. It provides countries such as ours some time and space to evolve our approach, in tune with the relevance of cyberspace to India’s future economic, social and political objectives. Despite the digital divide, the next billion smart phone users will include a significant number from India. As India’s cyber footprint expands, so will space for conflicts and crimes (both of a private and inter-state nature). Shared “rules of the road” become imperative. We have a very active nodal agency for cybersecurity in the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. India has had representatives on five of the six GGEs. We participate actively at the OEWG. The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, of which we are a member, voiced support for a code of conduct. India joined the Christchurch Call which brought together countries and companies in an effort to stop the use of social media for promoting terrorism and violent extremism. The next phase in an increasingly contested and fragmenting domain requires better arrangements and more intense partnerships, but with more safeguards. Domestically, we need the clarity that adoption of a data protection legislation will bring. Globally, we need to partake in shaping cybernorms. Acceding to the Budapest Convention, or Convention on Cybercrime of the Council of Europe (CETS No.185), which started as a European initiative but has attracted others, is an option that we should examine. We need to encourage our private sector to get involved more in industry-focused processes such as the Microsoft-initiated Cybersecurity Tech Accord and the Siemens-led Charter of Trust. Engagement in multi-stakeholder orientations such as the Paris Call (for trust and security in cyberspace) can help. In preparation for the larger role that cyberspace will inevitably play in Indian lives, we need a deeper public understanding of its various dimensions. Cyberspace is too important to be left only to the experts. Syed Akbaruddin has served as India’s Permanent Representative at the United Nations
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Shaping the digital world||On June 29, the Indian government banned 59 Chinese apps, including TikTok, ostensibly to protect security, sovereignty and privacy. There was no public review of these apps and no assessment of the implications of this ban for the right to free speech of many people, particularly in non-urban spaces. Like India, the U.S. is considering banning TikTok citing national security concerns. American allies and partners including India are now wondering whether they should allow Chinese companies like Huawei and ZTE to build their 5G networks. Linkages between countries, particularly in the tech sector, are being exploited and manipulated to achieve security or strategic interests. Indian decoupling with Chinese tech comes in the wake of border tensions, while the U.S. continues its trade war with China. Long-term strategic thinking While banning Chinese apps could have been a strategic necessity in the short run, the hastiness of this move should propel long-term strategic thinking on how digital issues constrain India’s foreign policy. Reactive and ad hoc tech squabbles cannot be a replacement for a robust foreign policy that marries India’s constitutional ethos with the twin needs of national security and economic growth. The realisation of this vision requires India to engage more confidently in global technology governance debates and shape incumbent rules and norms. The problems caused by various technologies and technology firms have generated demand for international negotiations, to create viable rules and norms. For instance, social media companies are facing a backlash after years of ignoring abuse on their platforms that stoke social and ethnic tensions. Cyberattacks are rising from state and non-state actors. Conflicts over national laws concerning data use and storage are common. Issues like data, 5G, AI, social media and cybersecurity have domestic and global effects — who controls these technologies and how they are developed and used matters greatly as it defines how nations trade, behave and fight with each other. These interactions hinge on drafting rules and norms that provide clarity and deter subversive behaviour. For India, the costs of not actively shaping technology rules are high. India’s economic, political and security future rests on deploying technologies and having robust rules that accelerate the empowerment of its vast demographics while deterring the use of such technologies against strategic objectives. Global governance is imperative for restraining, if not halting, the disruptive effects of cyberspace as the number of nefarious actors online proliferate. India has been a member of five of the six Group of Governmental Experts processes set up by the UN to foster norms for responsible state behaviour in cyberspace. Yet, it has not sufficiently exercised its diplomatic clout to weigh in on critical fissures. This passivity must end. Apart from protecting security interests through these debates, India must function as a rule-shaper to preserve the civil, political and economic rights of its citizens. New Delhi must ensure that export control regimes like the Wassenaar Arrangement and the Missile Technology Control Regime regulate the use and impacts of dual-use surveillance technology that have been used to target Indian journalists, lawyers and activists. Officials must extend the ethos of fundamental rights guarantees to global debates on Internet shutdowns and facial recognition technology while ensuring domestic policy fulfils constitutional responsibilities. Economic assertiveness India has been assertive when technology debates affect the economy. As campaigns like Make in India and Digital India get ramped up, policy enthusiasm on e-commerce and data flows has risen. Until recently, India’s cautious approach on 5G, involving Huawei in its plans, was influenced by a desire to have space to allow multiple vendors who can meet India’s telecom needs. New Delhi’s disinclination to support unfettered data flows across borders is propelled by ‘data sovereignty’. This pronounced emphasis to nationalise data, however, could pose problems for entrepreneurs and start-ups who prefer relaxed data-sharing rules to foster innovation and product development. The sheer volume of data generated by citizens at home makes India an essential destination for foreign technology firms enabling India to exercise its authority in shaping global trade rules, but this should occur balancing the interests of all Indian stakeholders in mind, not privileging the large and powerful. India’s distinct economic and demographic position allows it to shape, influence and constrain global technology rules that serve its strategic interests. It can and must significantly shape the making of the digital world. Karthik Nachiappan is a Research Fellow at the National University of Singapore; Arindrajit Basu is Research Manager at the Centre for Internet and Society
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Fewer species, more disease||The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted human life and the economy in an unprecedented way. Across countries, lockdowns have kept people indoors and provided opportunities for wild animals to roam around spaces they otherwise don’t venture into. Scientists believe that the loss of biodiversity, and wildlife trade, have strong linkages with the emergence of epidemics. The pandemic is an opportunity for the global community to explore the consequences of its unscientific actions on nature and prepare for behavioural change. Loss of biodiversity Dangerous infectious diseases (Ebola, Bird flu, MERS, SARS, Nipah, etc.) have been transferred from wild animals to humans. In order to clear land for agriculture and development, forests and habitats have been destroyed. In the process, we have lost several species. Human-induced environmental changes reduce biodiversity resulting in new conditions that host vectors and/or pathogens. It is not yet fully understood which species have contributed to the transmission of COVID-19 and how. However, according to experts, there is strong evidence that it spread from a wildlife market in Wuhan, China. Two hypothesis have been discussed: (a) the virus jumped from bats directly to humans; and (b) from bats to pangolins and then to humans. Apart from wildlife markets, illegal trade of wildlife is part of the growing problem. Trafficking in wild plants and animals and wildlife products has become one of the largest and most lucrative forms of organised crime. By deliberately pursuing and hunting certain species or by establishing monocultures, habitats and ecosystems are being damaged, fragmented or destroyed. Illegal wildlife smuggling is an emerging threat to India’s unique wildlife heritage. According to an NGO based in Guwahati, which works for the protection of Eastern Himalayan biodiversity, India shelters a number of vulnerable and threatened species. Body parts of animals including pangolins, Asiatic black bears and rhinos are being traded illegally to countries such as China, Vietnam, and Laos. Another study has found that there was a significant increase in the poaching of wild animals in India even during the lockdown. Species are being wiped out by organised trade networks, with new poaching techniques, for manufacturing traditional Chinese medicines. The IPBES Global Assessment Report on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services shows that people extensively encroach natural habitats; hence biodiversity is declining significantly. By disturbing the delicate balance of nature, we have created ideal conditions for the spread of viruses from animals to humans. We should realise that we live in a world where biodiversity is our common heritage and natural capital. The way forward We need to revisit our relationship with nature and rebuild an environmentally responsible world. Nations should work towards realising the 2050 vision for biodiversity, ‘Living in Harmony with Nature’. We must follow a ‘one health’ approach which considers the health of people, wild and domesticated animals, and the environment. We need to strictly regulate high-risk wildlife markets, promote green jobs and work towards achieving carbon-neutral economies. In order to ensure that another crisis such as this does not occur again, India should strictly enforce the Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972, which prohibits the trade of 1,800 species of wild animals/plants and their derivatives; the Biological Diversity Act of 2002; strategies and action plans including the National Biodiversity Targets; and the National Biodiversity Mission. The mainstreaming of biodiversity is needed in our post-COVID-19 development programme. The over 2 lakh biodiversity management committees (local-level statutory bodies formed under the Act) can play a significant role in this regard. Mass biodiversity literacy should be our mission. Ecosystem integrity will regulate diseases and restrict the transmission of pathogens from one species to another. Prakash Nelliyat is a Chennai-based researcher
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Fall from grace||For over four decades, Najib Razak was one of the most powerful voices of Malaysian politics. The son of a former Prime Minister, a legislator for decades and an all-powerful Prime Minister for nine years, he suffered the biggest setback in his eventful career on Tuesday when a trial court found him guilty on seven corruption charges in connection with the 1Malaysia Development Bhd (1MDB) financial fraud. He was sentenced to 12 years in prison and fined $50 million. Billions of dollars were allegedly stolen from the 1MDB — an investment fund he launched in 2009 when Prime Minister — by employees of the fund or of the government. The money was traced by prosecutors to a mega-yacht, a Picasso painting and the Hollywood film, ‘The Wolf of Wall Street’. His bank accounts received about $1 billion. The allegations cost him dearly, leading to the first election defeat of Mr. Najib’s party, the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO), in 2018. But infighting within the ruling coalition led by nonagenarian Mahathir Mohamad led to the fall of the new government, returning Mr. Najib’s party to power earlier this year. The country’s prosecution and judiciary went ahead with the trial despite the change in government and held one of the most powerful men accountable for his actions. The trial court has stayed the sentences until a higher court gives a final verdict on his planned appeal. The verdict comes at a time when the Southeast Asian country continues to grapple with political instability. The new government of Muhyiddin Yassin has a razor-thin majority in Parliament. The Opposition, led by the charismatic Anwar Ibrahim, accused the government of trying to help Mr. Najib. In May, prosecutors had cut a deal with Mr. Najib’s stepson Riza Aziz and dropped 1MDB-related charges against him, which triggered a political backlash. With Mr. Najib’s conviction, the Opposition is likely to revive its calls for a vote of confidence, which Prime Minister Muhyiddin has resisted so far. He would also face pressure from the UMNO, whose 39 MPs are supporting his government. UMNO leaders have already come out in support for Mr. Najib, calling the case politically motivated. If Mr. Muhyiddin disowns Mr. Najib, who, besides the appeals, also faces a host of other corruption charges, the Prime Minister could face a revolt from the UMNO, leading to his government’s collapse. If he interferes in the investigation and trial, it could politically strengthen the Opposition narrative and prove risky for him, especially when Malaysia is going through a volatile phase. Ideally, Mr. Muhyiddin should uphold the law, respect the independence of the prosecution and distance his government from Mr. Najib. But that would also mean putting his government at risk.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Trouble in Nepal||The storm raging in Nepal’s ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) is again rocking the Khadga Prasad Oli government, and putting Kathmandu’s polity in suspense over what might follow. A crucial meet meant to announce an end to the differences between the party’s two leaders, Mr. Oli, and his rival, Pushpa Kamal Dahal (Prachanda), was postponed on Tuesday. Last week too, the two rival factions decided to put off a meeting of the Standing Committee after Prime Minister Oli failed to attend. While the bone of contention, which has roiled party members, is that Mr. Oli continues to hold two posts — that of NCP Chairperson and Prime Minister — it is clear that there is a more complex power game going on. Party members leading the move against Mr. Oli point to growing discomfort over his autocratic style. The Dahal faction, which had merged with the Oli-led United Marxist Leninist (UML) in 2018 when their combine won a massive mandate in the general election, is also impatient for a chance to rule. Mr. Dahal is already unhappy over past power sharing agreements that he believes Mr. Oli reneged on, and Mr. Oli still has residual bitterness over Mr. Dahal’s decision to pull out of his previous government in 2016. There is also concern over Mr. Oli’s head-on collision with India over the past few weeks, beginning with the constitutional amendment to adopt a disputed map as well as his rather rash language against India, including a recent controversy over the birthplace of the Hindu god, Lord Ram. Mr. Oli has said that he believes there is a conspiracy against him, and alluded to alleged machinations by the Indian Embassy in Kathmandu. Finally, there is considerable disquiet in the party and in the press over the public role played by the Chinese Ambassador to Nepal in bringing together the warring factions, especially after Mr. Oli’s threat to split the NCP and revive the UML earlier this month. Many in South Block will take heart, and may even rejoice over Mr. Oli’s troubles, given his recent petulant behaviour with the Modi government. India-Nepal ties have hit new lows, with neither side willing to schedule the much promised meeting of Foreign Secretaries to begin to sort out their problems. Yet, it is important for the Modi government and the Indian mission to take a mature stand and play a more constructive role in the current political crisis. The larger struggle for the continuance of Nepal as a parliamentary democracy rather than as a politburo-style polity dominated by the party elite also depends on the outcome of this tussle. While Mr. Oli is outnumbered in the ruling party structure, he has won a mandate, and there is little doubt that he remains popular in Nepal. In power or out of it, New Delhi will still need to contend with Mr. Oli, whose polarising politics could impact the country’s fragile ethnic mosaic, if not channelled deftly, and with some delicacy.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||11 Years of Castro||Cuba was bleeding under the cruel dictatorship of Fulgencio Batista when, on July 26, 1953, a band of 200 rebels led by a fiery 27- year-old lawyer, called Fidel Castro, tried to stage a Bastille by attacking Fort Moncada, the second strongest military fortress in the country. The rebellion was crushed but the Cuban revolution had begun. Castro was captured at Moncada and sentenced to 15 years imprisonment, but in one of those turning points of history, the man whom he was out to destroy, Batista himself released Castro 18 months later as part of a general amnesty for political prisoners he declared to celebrate his “re-election” as President. Castro went to Mexico where he organised a small invasion force of 82 men. They landed in Cuba on December 2, 1956, only to walk into a trap set by Batista’s army. Only 12 of the invaders, including Castro, his brother, Raul, and Che Guevara, managed to escape. They took to the mountains, from where they organised the revolution. It needed them just two years to throw Batista out and assume power. Castro brought hope to the oppressed and poor Cubans who rallied to him enthusiastically. After being 11 years in power, he is still to deliver the goods to his people in terms of a better life.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Is it peace? (From an editorial)||The appeal made by Lord Sinha from his place in the House of Lords that the Amritsar controversy should be dropped has found but faint echo in this country among Indians of any political creed. But there is noticeable a certain amount of anxiety amongst the Anglo-Indian Press that the whole matter should be wiped clean off the slate. So far as we know the only organ of Indian opinion which has echoed the ignominious suggestion is the Bengalee, who is apparently prepared to preserve its peculiar ideals of co-operation even at the cost of self-respect. Mr. Pickford, the Sheriff of Calcutta, has also suggested that his community should drop a controversy of such dangerous potentialities. It is beyond doubt however that so far as the vast majority of the controversialists are concerned there is no inclination to listen to an appeal which is so ridiculously premature. It may suit the Bengalee’s books to cry peace when there is no peace. We are glad, and we hope that pleasurable feeling will have cause to last.
30 July 2020||MANCHESTER,||Holder calls for reciprocity||West Indies captain Jason Holder hopes England will tour the Caribbean before the end of the year in response to his side braving the coronavirus pandemic by coming to Britain.  The West Indies team, accepting a 50% pay cut from Cricket West Indies, left its relatively less affected region to travel to the UK — the European country among the worst-hit by the COVID-19 outbreak — and relaunch international cricket after lockdown with a Test campaign against England. Teams such as the West Indies and Pakistan — which begins a three-Test series here next week — have long been among cricket’s financially poorest nations, with the likes of England, Australia and India the wealthiest. Tough times But amid fixture uncertainty caused by the pandemic, Holder said: “We don’t know what’s going to happen after this series with the international calendar but if there is an opportunity for England to come over to the Caribbean before the end of the year that would help significantly. “It’s been a tough last few years for us financially.” Meanwhile, England captain Joe Root said he had no qualms about having bowling “headaches” leading up to next week’s first Test against Pakistan. The host had rotated its fast bowlers throughout the three-match campaign against West Indies.   England squad for Tests against Pakistan: Joe Root (Capt.), James Anderson, Jofra Archer, Dominic Bess, Stuart Broad, Rory Burns, Jos Buttler, Zak Crawley, Sam Curran, Ollie Pope, Dom Sibley, Ben Stokes, Chris Woakes, and Mark Wood. Reserves: James Bracey, Ben Foakes, Jack Leach, and Dan Lawrence .
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||England not taking Ireland lightly||An entirely different England team from the one that beat West Indies 2-1 in the recent Test series will take on Ireland on Thursday in its first home ODI since the World Cup triumph last July. The three-match series in Southampton kick-starts the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup Super League, which will serve as the qualification process for the 2023 World Cup. Speaking ahead of the match, England captain Eoin Morgan refused to take Ireland, his former team, lightly. “It is the start of a new journey for us with some new players,” he said. “I think you can never take any team lightly and Ireland showed what they could do against West Indies where they posed a lot of questions though the results did not reflect the potential of the team.” Ireland skipper Andy Balbirnie said the series offers his team’s youngsters the opportunity to show what they can do in the quest to qualify for the World Cup. “For us, the 2023 World Cup is the goal and there is no better way to show what we are capable of than taking on the world champions,” said Balbirnie. “If we can qualify in the top seven in the Super League, that will be this team’s greatest achievement.”   (Sony Six channels will telecast the England-Ireland first ODI live from 6.30 p.m.).
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Back hooping: NBA finds life in the ‘Bubble’||Nearly four and a half months after the season was suspended because of the COVID-19 outbreak, the NBA is set to restart in a new format and a protected environment called the ‘Bubble’ on Friday. The NBA and its players association decided to limit the number of teams to 22 — these include the 16 teams (eight per conference) in the playoff positions at the time of suspension and the six sides that are six wins or fewer behind the eighth seed in their conferences. The league negotiated strict medical and access protocols for players, coaches and officials, who have been closeted in an isolation zone in the Walt Disney World complex near Orlando, Florida. No spectators will be allowed in the arenas — a loss in gate money — but the telecast of the seeding and playoff games is expected to shore up television revenue. On Friday, after three weeks of training camps and scrimmages (practice), the seeding games will begin. The 22 teams will play eight games each to determine the playoff seedings. If the ninth-placed team in each conference is within four wins of the eighth seed, there will be a knockout ‘play-in’ between these two on August 15 and 16 where the No. 9 seed will have to win two head-to-head match-ups to take over the No. 8 spot. The playoffs will then commence in the regular format (seven-game series) on August 17, with the finals set to begin on September 30. Main contenders As things stand, the Eastern Conference’s Milwaukee Bucks, led by repeat-MVP candidate Giannis Antetokounmpo, and two Los Angeles teams (Lakers, highlighted by LeBron James and Anthony Davis, and Clippers, headed by reigning Finals MVP Kawhi Leonard) look like the main contenders. The Miami Heat, Toronto Raptors, Boston Celtics and Philadelphia 76ers from the East and the Denver Nuggets, Utah Jazz, Houston Rockets and Dallas Mavericks from the West will certainly make a lot of noise in the playoffs. The East’s standings seem a foregone conclusion with the Washington Wizards well behind eighth-ranked Orlando Magic. The Memphis Grizzlies occupy eighth place in the West, but the New Orleans Pelicans (boosted by rookie Zion Williamson’s return) and the Portland Trail Blazers (led by the diminutive guard Damian Lillard) have more than a puncher’s chance of getting the last slot. The Sacramento Kings, San Antonio Spurs and Phoenix Suns can, in theory, make it to the post-season in the West, but the ‘Bubble’ for them is more an opportunity to develop players.
30 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anand holds Ivanchuk||Viswanathan Anand and Vassily Ivanchuk drew in 57 moves in the first round of their much-awaited clash in the ninth and final round of chess24 Legends of Chess on Wednesday. Playing with black pieces, Anand was never in any trouble with both players in a materially equal-position. Ivanchuk did try hard to break Anand’s defence, but without success.  Meanwhile, leader Magnus Carlsen let Vladimir Kramnik off the hook and later, sensing danger, forced a draw by repetition of moves. Second-placed Ian Nepomniachtchi defeated Boris Gelfand and Ding Liren nailed Peter Leko in the two decisive games.  The results (ninth round): Game One: Vassily Ivanchuk (Ukr) drew with Viswanathan Anand; Magnus Carlsen (Nor) drew with Vladimir Kramnik (Rus); Boris Gelfand (Isr) lost to Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus); Peter Svidler (Rus) drew with Anish Giri (Ned); Ding Liren (Chn) bt Peter Leko (Hun).   Eighth round: Liren bt Anand 2.5-0.5; Carlsen bt Nepomniachtchi 3-2; Svidler bt Kramnik 2.5-1.5; Gelfand bt Leko 3-2; Ivanchuk bt Svidler 3-2.
30 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Re-opening of stadia, academies: will there be re-think?||Will the Telangana State Government have a re-think on the re-opening of stadia and academies after the lockdown ends? This is the big question on the minds of many athletes even as sports administrators are wary of any resumption of training in the wake of the increasing number of COVID-19 positive cases, mostly being asymptomatic. This even as some of the leading athletes from different disciplines strongly feel that some training activity can be resumed with all safety measures in place given the fact that 2021 happens to be the Olympics year. “It is getting too far now. It is better to have some training,” shuttler B. Sai Praneeth said. Similar sentiments were echoed from other shuttlers and athletes from other disciplines. Scared On their part, the officials are scared. “It is a fact that we are not in a hurry,” said a senior administrator in a chat with The Hindu on Wednesday, pointing out to the 45-page dossier of Standard of Procedure to resume any training. “It is a long and time-consuming process to be meticulously implemented. Importantly, one of the guidelines for any resumption is to take an undertaking, along with consent forms by the coaches, that they will be responsible if anything untoward happens even as we implement all the COVID-19 safety guidelines including the formation of Task Force teams,” the official said. “Honestly, many of the athletes and parents are worried about safety issues.” “Obviously, we are not in a hurry to re-open the centres in the current situation. The biggest issue being who will keep a 24x7 watch on the athletes with most of them travelling distances for training. Blame game “Why should we be the focus of probable blame-game if someone gets affected,” questioned the official. “Given a choice, we will prefer to wait for some more time before re-opening the training centres, if the situation eases considerably by then.”  It is getting too far now. It is better to have some training — B. Sai Praneeth
30 July 2020||Kolkata,||Bagan features on NASDAQ billboards||Mohun Bagan went global on Wednesday as it became the country’s first-ever football club to feature on NASDAQ billboards in New York’s Times Square. The image was a big hit and produced an appreciative tweet from FIFA.com saying, “When you make a billboard of skyscraping prestige & dazzling beauty @Time SquareNYC, you know you have become more than just a club. Happy #MohunBaganDay2020 to one of the most passionately supported clubs on the planet.” The billboard announcing “131 years of unmatched legacy” of the club also reminded fans about the, “time to start believing, again,” in an obvious reference to Mohun Bagan’s recent amalgamation with the ISL champion ATK. July 29 is celebrated every year as Mohun Bagan day to commemorate the team’s famous IFA Shield triumph in 1911 when it defeated East Yorkshire Regiment 2-1 to become the first Indian club to end British stranglehold on the tournament. A handful of senior club officials, while maintaining social distancing norms, started the day hoisting the club flag and paying tributes to its legend Gostha Paul early in the day. Commemorating the event, the club organised a host of webinars involving players of different generations and a musical performance by noted artists of the city to complete the celebration.
30 July 2020||LONDON,||Community Shield on August 29||The Football Association announced on Wednesday that the Community Shield, the traditional curtainraiser for the new English season, will take place at Wembley on August 29. The match between Premier League champion Liverpool and the winner of Saturday's FA Cup final between Arsenal and Chelsea will be played two weeks before the start of the top-flight season.
30 July 2020||Kochi,||Blasters extend Hakku’s contract||Kerala Blasters FC has given its defender Abdul Hakku Nediyodath a three-year contract extension. The 25-year-old from Vaniyannur in Malappuram had joined the Kochi-based club in 2018. “Being a local boy, Blasters is my family, my own, always. I am really happy that the club has shown faith in me and I will make sure that I work harder going forward,” said the centre-back.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||Rajat Bhatia calls it a day||Seasoned allrounder Rajat Bhatia announced his retirement from all forms of cricket on Wednesday. The 40-year-old Bhatia, who started his First Class career with Tamil Nadu 21 seasons ago, turned out for Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand in domestic cricket. In the Indian Premier League, he was part of the title-winning Kolkata Knight Riders in 2012, besides playing for Rajasthan Royals and Rising Pune Supergiants. For the record, Bhatia played 112 First Class games, aggregated 6,482 runs (average 49.10) and scalped 137 wickets. In List-A matches, Bhatia scored 3,038 runs at 41.05 and took 93 wickets. T20 record For someone who played in the IPL for a decade, Bhatia’s record in T20 was 146 matches, 1,251 runs and 111 wickets. Part of the Delhi squad which won the Ranji Trophy in the 2007-2008 season, when he hit 139 in the final against Uttar Pradesh, Bhatia was tipped as ‘India prospect’ by legendary left-arm spinner Bishan Singh Bedi even before he moved to Delhi from Tamil Nadu, nearly two decades ago. Well respected However, even after the retirement of Robin Singh, Bhatia could not break into the big league. His immense contribution to Delhi cricket made him one of the most-respected names in domestic cricket. With Mithun Manhas, another experienced teammate, Bhatia stitched many late-order partnerships and helped Delhi come out stronger. Bhatia’s medium-pace bowling often proved a partnership-breaker. In the IPL, his variety made him a difficult bowler to hit. Announcing his retirement, Bhatia said in a statement, “I will continue to play tournaments for my company, Air India, from where I learned so much and secured my future. I look forward to the next phase of my journey, as a trainer, and I am committed to giving back to cricket, which has given me so much, in the best possible way.” Bhatia, armed with a certificate in biomechanics and pain management from the US, is expected to don a new role soon.
30 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Harikrishna tops classical||P. Harikrishna won the classical format of the Biel chess festival in Switzerland on Wednesday and finished second overall. The World No. 26 missed out on the top spot by half-a-point. Harikrishna scored 36.5 points from 28 games of classical, blitz and rapid combined. Poland’s Radoslaw Wotjaszek came first with 37 points. Harikrishna, who lives in Prague, was clearly the best performer in the classical format, scoring 20.5 points. England’s Michael Adams was second with 16.5 points and Wotjaszek third with 14. Harikrishna finished strongly, recording four successive wins. He had made a sedate start, drawing the first three games. In the final round, Harikrishna defeated Spain’s David Anton Guijaro, but Wotjaszek’s victory against local lad Noel Studer dashed the Indian’s hopes of clinching the overall honours.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 07:49 IST,||Sudoku - July 30, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Birdwatchers and bug trackers, unite||“You would think that most people in Chennai are aware of the Madras Bird Race, but not many people really know about it, or about the Madras Naturalists Society, especially in our age group,” says 17-year-old Mahathi Narayanaswamy, a student from Chennai. And yet, she adds, there are many in the age group of 13 to 25 who are interested in all things Nature, and are actively documenting species and gaining and spreading knowledge in their own ways. But most of them are working out of their own prerogative, without the guidance, public platform or even confidence boost that established naturalists societies can provide. Mahathi’s solution for this disconnect is Young Naturalists Network. Set up in June, this is an initiative that connects Nature enthusiasts to like-minded people, and to bigger initiatives in the city. “Students who are a part of this know how to reach out to their friends better than others (seasoned experts) who have never met these children earlier,” explains Mahathi, adding that only after founding the network did she realise that many of her friends shared these interests. As of now, Young Naturalists Network is 30-member strong. “Vikas Madhav is the Chennai coordinator for butterfly-related events. He is also a reviewer for eBird (a leading birding portal) and Butterflies Of India. Vikas Madhav and Rohith Srinivasan amongst few others have recorded nearly 90 identified species in Adyar Poonga. Melvin Jaison has documented birds from Mittanamalli Wetland in 2016-2018 and has documented nearly 110 species. Many have volunteered for several outreach, awareness and education programs. Many have been part of several surveys, censuses and studies. Some have interned with several organisations like the Wildlife Conservation Society — India, Ashoka Trust For Research In Ecology And The Environment and Sálim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History, for instance to study smooth-coated otters and leopards,” reels off Mahathi, who herself has documented over 160 species of moths at IIT-Madras, and is confident of doing at least 100 more. So far, the society has been active with Instagram quizzes, sharing of their members’ observations about different species on Instagram, celebration of things like National Moth Week, and even a full-fledged e-magazine put together by members, most of whom are still in school or college. Mission Career The magazine is rich with creature profiles, backyard observations and even scientific papers (reproduced with permission), but a key segment is an interview of a field expert. The maiden edition, released this week, featured chiropterologist Rohit Chakravarti, followed with a detailed profile of a leading institution that offers a course in the study of bats. Editor Vikas Madhav says this is a deliberate pairing, “We want to talk to someone who has made a career out of studying Nature, and also give our readers an idea of how they can pursue it.” Mahathi’s original plans for the network included plenty of treks and explorations, but for now the young naturalists have to be content with reading and studying backyard creatures. Judging by the content they are putting out, this limitation is hardly a limitation at all.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||When Guntur chillies met pizza||Last year, this time, Vijay Charan was working in the high-tech kitchen of Michelin-starred Gaa by Garima Arora in Bangkok. Now, he’s in his mom’s kitchen in Chennai, baking pizzas in a small OTG. “Actually, my approach is inspired by the Japanese idea of ikigai ,” he says contently. “If you do something too easy you get bored. If it is too complicated you get anxiety. I wanted something to engage me. So I started making pizzas.” Over the two-and-a-half years at Gaa, Vijay developed a fascination for fermented foods, which explains the fiery jars of Guntur chillies lining his kitchen. Inspired by The Pizza Bible by Tony Gemignani, Vijay has been working incessantly on his technique in a quest for the perfect crust. And he insists on using only local ingredients. “Cooking should be intuitive,” he says, explaining that he believes in creating a product that expresses and evolves with its location, and the times. Working with local flour is challenging, so he uses a non-conventional method of making dough using a pre-ferment called biga , which is combination of flour, water, yeast — and time. Left to ferment overnight, it results in a satisfyingly chewy pizza base with billowing edges. His sauce, inspired by his mom’s curries, uses fresh tomatoes and Guntur chillies, fermented to highlight flavour and mellow the heat. Right now there are just three pizzas on the menu, a classic Margarita (Rs. 270) with Kodai cheese, lamb pepperoni (Rs. 300) and the house special (Rs. 270) with his hot sauce, fresh mozarella, chicken sausage and local chillies. He plans to add a vegetable pizza with charred bell peppers, sun dried tomatoes and feta cheese next. The pizzas are satisfying and unapologetically desi , with a generous amount of sauce and small dollops of cheese. These do not aspire to be Italian: instead Vijay says he wants to prove that anyone can make a good pizza at home, with basic ingredients, some imagination and patience. For those of us lacking two out of the three, fortunately, he delivers (via Dunzo).  Order your pizzas a day in advance. Call Vijay on 9790959997 or 9840788862    It may be a while before you can hop on a plane to Malaysia for a restorative week of mall hopping, teh tarik and kaya toast. Fortunately, Dasha Sendhil is bringing a dollop of vacation cheer to Chennai with her homemade kaya, a slow-cooked, coconutty spread popular is South East Asia. Dasha’s version is a patient and thoughtful blend of local ingredients, and comes in two versions. Traditional kaya, with coconut milk, jaggery and egg. And a vegan version, made with pumpkin. (Both are Rs. 250). Yes, I know what you are thinking. Suspicious of vegetables sneaking into my jam, I avoided the vegan version as well. But when I finally tried it, it was an eye-opener — creamy, subtle and not too sweet. A heartening breakfast: especially if you do it the traditional way and eat your kaya on toast, topped with generous slices of chilled butter. The original kaya is sweeter, but also comfortingly mellow and familiar. And unlike commercial jams, this is straight from Dasha’s kitchen, using just a handful of ingredients, and preservatives. “It is a long process. I slowly cook it in small batches, to ensure taste and consistency. For the first week I was in the kitchen for 10 hours a day,” Dasha laughs, adding “I am more efficient now, thankfully.”  Orders need to be given a day in advance. Call Truly Kaya on 6379901750    Although Aswini Srinivasan did a diploma in baking and patisserie at the Chennai-based Food Consulate a year ago, it was only during lockdown that she started baking in earnest. A partner in 80 Degrees East, a vegetarian 24-seater café, like many others she found herself facing a indefinite time out because of COVID. “We can’t restart the café, since our staff have gone back to their hometowns, and financially we took a hit,” she says, explaining how she turned a hobby into a business. “I have a four-year-old nephew who loves cookies, so I started to freeze cookie dough so he didn’t eat too many everyday.” Realising that the frozen dough made it much simpler to quickly bake cookies, she began sending out bags to friends and family. “Although anybody can bake, baking is an art. If I make the perfect dough, everyone can get the experience of making the perfect cookie,” she says. There are two versions, classic chocolate chip (Rs. 300) and the darker, double chocolate chip (Rs. 350). They arrive frozen: you just need to place the cookies on parchment paper (which she thoughtfully includes in the package), and bake them in an oven or a pressure cooker. (The pack explains how.) The result is crisp on the edges and satisfyingly chewy with soft hearts. If you’re already a pro at baking cookies, this isn’t for you. But it is an ideal way to gain confidence for a beginner. Besides, given how this year has been going, an emergency stash of cookies is always reassuring.  Call Aswini on 9962555294 to order frozen cookie dough.    This weekly column tracks the city’s shifting culinary landscape. Heard of a new food venture? Tell me: shonali.m@thehindu.co.in
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Real racing||The 2012 F1 Indian Grand Prix kindled a fascination for racing cars in Amith Kutty. He was only eight when he accompanied his father to the track in Greater Noida to witness fast cars whizz past. It didn’t take long for this fascination to turn into obsession; when he returned home to Chennai, on a friend’s insistence, Amith took to playing Codemasters’ F1 2012 video game. Whilst he started with humble joysticks and keyboards, Amith soon transitioned to using a racing wheel to enhance his gaming experience. In under a year, the boy from Chennai was besting some of the world’s fastest virtual racers and winning a handful of e-racing tournaments. In May, Amith won the third season of Indian Sim Racing League (ISRL), a virtual racing series that began in April. He started season four of the league (now renamed Indian eRacing Championship), which began on July 28, with a win. He also participated in Ultimate E’s all-star race that featured former F1 racer Narain Karthikeyan and Le Mans Series driver Arjun Maini. In Class XII this year, Amith says, “I race (virtually) for about two hours every day. The lockdown has allowed me this time.” His short yet successful e-racing career has fetched him cash prizes, a trip to Sri Lanka and, more importantly, created a gateway to the world of track racing. Says Amith, who received the opportunity to enter a karting programme at Karthikeyan’s racing academy in Coimbatore, besides a training stint and test with Volkswagen Motorsport India, “I had planned to transition from virtual to track racing this year.” Amith dreams of racing in Formula One. His first track experience was in Coimbatore this March, when he drove the Formula LGB 1300. “It was more challenging to drive a real car. In virtual racing, you feel the force only on your hands. In a real car, you feel the force on your entire body, and there is a risk of crashing,” he says, adding that virtual racing has, however, “equipped him with the basics of driving” to quickly adjust to the car. Amith’s progression has been temporarily halted due to the pandemic. While he hopes for it to end soon so he can get back out on track, excitement around e-racing is on the up. According to the BBC, the 2019 F1 Esports Series attracted 58 lakh viewers online. Virtual racing is catching up in India too. Sirish Vissa, the head of Volkswagen Motorsport India, says, “With the continuous development of this platform, it intends to offer a near realistic experience along with reaching out to a wider audience of potential race drivers.”
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Come see me. I’m trapezing from a tree||Earlier in March, Nadia, the four-year-old Malayan tiger at the Bronx Zoo in New York City tested positive for COVID-19. Zoos across India, which had already shut their gates following the nationwide lockdown, were on high alert. The Central Zoo Authority of India, the apex body for all zoos in India, issued an advisory asking zookeepers not to go close to the animals without safety gear, preferably PPE (personal protective equipment), and have minimal contact while feeding them. While all this was happening, the 56,800 captive animals in 160 recognised zoos across India were slowly getting used to a new normal — living in a human-free environment sans the cacophony of visitors. So how are the animals managing? In zoos some species depend on humans for sensory stimulus. For instance, the chimpanzees, elephants and other primates, clearly seem a little bored these days. “Their day is less interesting without humans,” says Rahul Pandey, Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife), Andhra Pradesh. “These are social animals, who enjoy interacting with visitors. One of the ways to ensure their well-being is to keep them in groups,” he adds.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The robin and the village: A love story||A Karuppu Raja stopped in his tracks. He had an arm extended towards the Electricity Board control box in front of his home at Pothakudi village in Sivaganga district, when he saw it: a fluffy nest. The beady eyes of a female Oriental magpie robin met him fearfully; she was stressed. The 25-year-old walked home without turning on the control that powered the 35 street lights of the village. “I didn’t have the heart to,” he says over phone. Karuppu then took some photos of the nest on his phone and shared them on the villagers’ WhatsApp group. “I told them that I hoped we can refrain from using street lamps for as long as the bird took shelter in our EB box,” he explains. “I later saw three eggs and felt that the mother should be left alone to hatch them.” Karuppu’s home is a stone’s throw away from the box and he volunteers to turn on the main switch every day as soon as dusk falls. The robin had woven its nest deep inside the box, and reaching for the controls meant that it would be startled every time. “It had chosen our village and I felt we owed it to its family to see that they were safe,” adds Karuppu. Pothakudi consists of 120 families, a majority of whom are into agriculture. Karuppu convinced all of them to agree to keep the street lights turned off for 35 nights. “It was not easy,” he recounts. “The WhatsApp message was successful to a certain extent, but I went door to door, explaining the situation.” Some older inhabitants of the village, Karuppu says, were against the idea. “They asked me why they should remain in the dark for the sake of a bird,” he says. But Karuppu was ready with an answer. He countered their argument with, “Today, do you see all the birds you grew up seeing? Where are they? What has human intervention done to them?” Finally, they too agreed. The 35 street lights are Pothakudi’s lifeline at night; without them, the entire village will be nothing but an unending pitch-dark stretch, dotted with a few lights from windows of houses here and there. “Our women didn’t step out after sunset,” says Karuppu. Meanwhile, the mother robin was at work. “Her eggs were beautiful…light blue with brown dots,” recalls Karuppu. “In fact, I had noticed the male and female scrounging for material to build a nest a few days back,” he says, adding that he had no idea they had the EB box in mind. “Sparrows are our regular guests; they often build nests inside homes in our village, and I regularly feed pigeons and peacocks at home.” Karuppu was thrilled to hear a series of tiny chatter one morning: the chicks had arrived. “The mother was busy looking for food for the hatchlings. The moment she neared the nest with food, the three of them would go cheep cheep non-stop,” he laughs. All this was a valuable lesson for children in the village. “The birds taught them what no online class can,” says Karuppu. “Little boys would ask me every time they saw me, ‘ Annae , are the young ones bigger now’?” By the time the hatchlings grew, the village became a social media sensation. Just before our conversation, an MLA had called Karuppu, saying that he was visiting them to show his appreciation. The birds flew away earlier this week, but the excitement has not died down in Pothakudi.  Every one has learned something new. Karuppu, for instance, learned that “The kuruvi don’t like to get wet in the rain. So they build their nests in a protected space, or beneath huge leaves like that of a banana tree.”
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrating The Boy Who Lived||Standing by the pavement of a busy road in Edinburgh, we wait for the pedestrian walk signal to turn green. It doesn’t. So we lift our wands and channelling our inner Hermione Granger, say, “Rossio Lumos”. Don’t mind us, we are just a group of excited Potterheads on a walking tour. Leading us is Richard Duffy of The Potter Trail that specialises in introducing muggles to locations that inspired JK Rowling in crafting her popular Harry Potter series. But this was just before COVID-19 wrecked havoc on our lives and the economy. After a brief lull, the spirited team at The Potter Trail, however, continued its tours from mid-April, this time virtually. So, no matter which part of the world you are in, there is always a way to access a little bit of magic to brighten your day. “Things have almost returned to normal in Scotland and we are continuing our virtual tours along with the real life ones,” says Richard over phone. They have received around 200 bookings for online tours with a majority happening in May. The Potter Trail started in 2012 and has 11 members, each a passionate fan of the said literary work. “Although, it is difficult to compete with some of the Potterheads we get on the tour,” laughs Richard. Garbed in a black robe and a pair of dark-rimmed glasses, he wields an umbrella in one hand and a wand in the other, and thanks to COVID-19, has acquired a new accessory — a full face visor. Edinburgh’s secrets There are nine different spots that Richard takes his clients to. The tour starts at the Greyfriars Kirk where he stops at the graves of William McGonagall and Thomas Riddell, followed by George Heriot’s School, Edinburgh Castle, and Potterrow among others. There are interesting narratives attached to all the stops, punctuated by impromptu quizzes, poetry and peals of laughter. “Our biggest audience is probably adults who grew up as the books came out. We are very popular with families and school groups though,” he adds.  The tours run every day of the year, except from December 24 to 26. There is a burgeoning demand. “We were the first (and the only, till 2017) Harry Potter tour company in Edinburgh. There are now at least 10 other tours although new ones are popping up all the time and I lose count,” he says. Lasting appeal Despite it being almost a decade since the last film of the Harry Potter franchise was released, what is it that still draws people to these thematic tours? “There is constantly a new generation of people reading and watching the films,” says Lewis Swan who started Brit Movie Tours in London, in late 2009. “The story appeals to people because this incredibly crafted magical world has aspects of the real world. It is easy to escape into,” he adds. Their first few tours were to filming locations of James Bond and Harry Potter. “There has been an increase in the sales of Harry Potter tours in the last few years,” says Lewis. Spin-off films like Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them and Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald have kept the interest alive. Brit Movie Tours has 60 different offerings, right from Doc Martin to Notting Hill . While the popularity varies from time to time, Harry Potter has remained one of the top tours and the other current favourites are Peaky Blinders and Downtown Abbey . Harry Potter walking and bus tours contribute to 20% of the sales. Given the current situation in London, Brit Movie Tours hopped on the virtual tour bandwagon too. “You have to sell what people are looking for,” says Alasidair de Voil who started Visit Oxford Tour in 2011 in Oxford. Even though the company started out doing other tours, Harry Potter which was inducted four years ago, is his bread and butter. “Easily three-quarters of our sales are from Harry Potter,” he says.  Visit Oxford Tour offers two Harry Potter tours: to New College and Christ Church. Of the two, Alasdair’s pick is easily the trip to New College. The building dates back to 1379. The scenes shot here include the one at the cloister, where Draco Malfoy bullies Harry but is turned into a ferret by Mad Eye Moody. Alasdair’s tours are interactive, and peppered with history and facts. For example, did you know Emma Watson lived in Oxford and studied at the Dragon School there? The other excitement is spotting celebrities, like Ben Kingsley and band members of Radiohead. And with these additional perks thrown in, together with the crew of Visit Oxford Tour, wannabe witches and wizards walk together in robes, rediscovering moments from the series that remains one of the most loved work of fiction, of our times.  Virtual tours  360virtualtour.co takes viewers through Diagon Alley Orlando’s Universal Studios Wizarding World of Harry Potter Viator offers The Magic of Film tour Google Arts and Culture gives you a peek into A History of Magic TourHQ   Sites to visit George Heriot’s School: This sprawling building inspired JK Rowling to come up with the idea of Hogwarts Christ Church, Oxford: The iconic staircase here is where Professor McGonagall awaits new students at Hogwarts The Divinity School, Oxford: The infirmary where Harry ends up at the end of The Philosopher’s Stone (also where Ron awkwardly dances with Professor McGonagall in The Goblet of Fire)
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||It’s homecoming for Aparna||Aparna Balamurali has been making big strides in tinseltown. After a fine performance in Rajiv Menon’s musical Sarvam Thaala Mayam , the actor returns to Tamil cinema with the upcoming Suriya-starrer Soorarai Pottru , based on the life of Captain G R Gopinath, founder of Air Deccan. “ Soorarai Pottru is a golden opportunity and it has been a delight to be part of it. It’s a big step up in my career,” says Aparna over phone from Thrissur. At home in both Malayalam and Tamil, the young actor has come a long way since her endearing role as Jimsy in the acclaimed Fahadh Faasil-starrer Maheshinte Prathikaaram (2016). However, despite the considerable experience she has gained by now, Aparna says she rather felt like “a newcomer” with Soorarai Pottru because of the preparations involved. She plays Bommi, a Madurai girl modelled after Gopinath’s real wife. “Through my role, we get to see how big an influence his wife played in his success story,” she says, describing Bommi “a strong character with a bubbly nature”. Aparna says she had to be “both mentally and physically” prepared for Bommi. “It has been about two years, starting with the audition in Chennai. Mentally, it was more like I had to let myself into it (role). For that, I took a rigorous workshop with veteran actor and theatre person Kalairani who helped me get into the skin of the character,” says the 24-year-old. Aparna is all praise for director Sudha Kongara’s attention to detail and for making her feel comfortable, “For instance, Sudha ma’am gave meticulous attention to my costumes. The hand-worked saris I wear were tailor-made for each of the scenes. I’m grateful to her for having bettered my skills,” says Aparna, calling Soorarai Pottru “a motivational story”. The film  was shot chiefly in Madurai and Chennai. Though familiar with the language, this time, however, Aparna had to put in extra effort to get the dialogues right, having dubbed for Bommi herself. “I speak Tamil quite well. My mom and dad sing a lot of Tamil songs and I picked up the language while growing up. But perfecting the Madurai slang was a bit tricky,” she says with a laugh. Juggling Malayalam and Tamil, Aparna feels that the demands are different in each. “I’m more comfortable in Malayalam, perhaps because it’s my mother tongue. Whereas in Tamil, even though I can speak the language, I’ve to first learn and understand my dialogues clearly. Only then will I get the modulation right. Hence, I’ve to be more systematic there,” she explains. The actor has not yet signed any new projects and is “first waiting for the response to Soorarai Pottru ”. She will be next seen in Malayalam in Thankam , in which she teams up with Fahadh Faasil yet again.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||‘None has the guts to stand up to predators’||Dispelling stereotypes is nothing new for actor Varalaxmi Sarathkumar who has managed to carve a niche for herself in a male-dominated and controlled Tamil film industry. Suffice to say, her gradual shift into a lead actor in ‘female-centric’ films (the buzz word) was not an overnight process. “My father is an actor but I had no help from him. Those who really know me, know that I was depressed after being rejected many times. There were days when I contemplated existence because I had passion for cinema but people refused to see my talent,” Varalaxmi says, adding, “And then... along came (director) Bala sir.” Bala cast her as Sooravali in Tharai Thappattai (2016). Sooravali ranks at the top of Varalaxmi’s best outings on screen but no immediate superstardom followed the film’s release. It would take playing the antagonist to top tier heroes for her to break into the mainstream. Varalaxmi, however, had opportunities much earlier in life even as far back as Boys (2003), but none materialised. “Had I come in then, I would have been a girl who did two films and disappeared. The time I entered was a good time for cinema, and I’m proud of the actor I have become,” she says. When mainstream reckoning seemed to elude her, the actor went down a different route; a path that is less travelled because opportunities down this route are not necessarily that of a female lead. “My biggest strength is that audiences don’t see Varalaxmi in the characters I play. To them, I’m Sooravali or Pechi ( Sandakozhi 2 ) or Pappa ( Sarkar ),” she adds. Influencing change Her upcoming film, Danny , has her play the role of a policewoman. Last month, when the alleged custodial torture and death of a father-son duo in Sathankulam blew up on social media, Varalaxmi was among the celebrities to demand action against the accused cops. The incident’s aftermath raised a debate around the ‘normalisation’ of police violence in films. Filmmaker Hari even released a statement expressing shame at having directed five films glorifying cops. “I found the statement silly because it was like saying all men are rapists. You cannot condemn an entire community because a few psychotic men decided to do what they did. That is stereotyping,” she says. However, Varalaxmi discerns that inclusion or deletion of a particular scene is something the lead actor can influence given our film industries are inherently hero-driven. The lead actor (or hero) also wields similar influence when it comes to deciding whether or not to work with someone accused of abusive sexual conduct in the MeToo movement. However, seldom is the survivor’s voice heard. “The entire system is lost [cause]. Unfortunately, the film industry does not have people who have the guts to stand up,” she says, adding, “When I found out that a person I was to work with in a film was accused by another girl, I told the producer that I didn’t want him in my film. That is a choice I made. It is a personal responsibility. The question is, if anyone else is willing to take the risk?” she says. She, however, remains an optimist. What did not change yesterday, and what is unlikely to change today will change with the influx of new generation talents, so that there are no more “clans, groupism and male chauvinistic people” left in the film industry and the lack of pay equity stops being an issue. Ageism is another thing that she hopes the industry wouldn’t practice anymore. “Ageism also has sexism in it. When men age, it is fine but it is unacceptable only with women. You know half the women active in Tamil cinema are actually touching 40, but nobody would want to say it out loud because they are scared of the number,” she says, adding, “But it shouldn’t matter because you can still look however you want for the part. If people who are aged above 50 and 60 can romance 20-year-olds, how does it matter if a woman is 40 or 75, when she plays the role well?”  Floof love Varalaxmi Sarathkumar plays a cop in Danny , which streams on Zee5 from August 1. A pet parent, Varalaxmi says that the primary reason she signed on to appear in the film was for the opportunity to work with a labrador dog named Pinky that plays the titular character. “I have an Indie dog, who is an accident survivor. There is also an American Bully that we adopted. I don’t remember a time when I have not had a dog at our house,” she says.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Golden dragon, at home||Missing the fine dining experience during lockdown? Here is a happy update. From galouti kebabs to Peking soy steamed fish, four of the city’s Taj properties have created take-out menus for their signature restaurants to reach customers despite the pandemic. However, instead of using a third party aggregator, the hotel is launching its own delivery service, Qmin, on July 31. Already operational in Mumbai, Bengaluru and Delhi, its Chennai launch will be marked by the unveiling of a digital menu, to be followed later by an app. With four Chennai properties on board, the number of Taj hotels to be a part of Qmin goes up to 17. Taj Coromandel, Taj Connemara, Taj Fisherman’s Cove and Vivanta Chennai will each have dishes from their restaurants. Southern Spice, Golden Dragon, Anise, Raintree, The Verandah, Bay View, Upper Deck and Mynt all have limited menus of their own, as segments within the overall digital menu. Expect favourites such as gilli biryani from Anise, kung pao chicken from Golden Dragon; asparagus paruppu usli from Southern Spice, prawn ghee roast from Bay View, and ragi masala kuzhi paniyaram from Raintree. Prices match existing prices at each restaurant. The minimum order value is Rs. 1,500. There is no delivery charge. While the menu is online, orders need to be placed via a toll-free number. Each hotel delivers within an eight-kilometre radius of its location, and timings vary from restaurant to restaurant: from 12 pm to 11 pm for the coffee shops (Anise, The Verandah, Mynt and Seagull); and 12 noon to 3 pm and 7 pm to 11 pm for the speciality restaurants (Southern Spice, Golden Dragon, Bay View). The service boasts of bio-degradable packaging and claims to follow FSSAI and WHO guidelines. Delivery is done in Qmin’s own vehicles.  The menu will be available from July 31 at https://www.qmin.co.in. To order, call toll-free number 1800 266 7646.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||International beat||This week is a busy one for Siddharth Nagarajan, or ‘Drums Siddharth’ as he is popularly known in Chennai’s music circles, since his dream project, Layaatraa , will be showcased to the world. This musical series of singles feature his collaboration with multiple musicians. “Every song features an artist, and thanks to technology and Internet, I have been able to record with musicians across the world,” says Siddharth. The first single is ‘Run’, a track that has Siddharth take on international drummer Jamie Borden — lead drummer of classic rock band Phoenix — in a drum battle. “He’s my idol. I grew up watching his drumming on video cassettes and CDs,” says Siddharth. He is also readying other songs in the collective, which are likely to release by the end of July. Does he see audiences taking to instrumental singles over those backed-up by vocals? “A song with lyrics vocalises the intentions and the music powers it. In an instrumental, intentions are emoted through its vibe and feel,” says the 22-year-old, who already holds several records in his kitty, including the Guinness World Record for maximum number of drumbeats in a minute (2109).
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The robin and the village: A love story||A Karuppu Raja stopped in his tracks. He had an arm extended towards the Electricity Board control box in front of his home at Pothakudi village in Sivaganga district, when he saw it: a fluffy nest. The beady eyes of a female Oriental magpie robin met him fearfully; she was stressed. The 25-year-old walked home without turning on the control that powered the 35 street lights of the village. “I didn’t have the heart to,” he says over phone. Karuppu then took some photos of the nest on his phone and shared them on the villagers’ WhatsApp group. “I told them that I hoped we can refrain from using street lamps for as long as the bird took shelter in our EB box,” he explains. “I later saw three eggs and felt that the mother should be left alone to hatch them.” Karuppu’s home is a stone’s throw away from the box and he volunteers to turn on the main switch every day as soon as dusk falls. The robin had woven its nest deep inside the box, and reaching for the controls meant that it would be startled every time. “It had chosen our village and I felt we owed it to its family to see that they were safe,” adds Karuppu. Pothakudi consists of 120 families, a majority of whom are into agriculture. Karuppu convinced all of them to agree to keep the street lights turned off for 35 nights. “It was not easy,” he recounts. “The WhatsApp message was successful to a certain extent, but I went door to door, explaining the situation.” Some older inhabitants of the village, Karuppu says, were against the idea. “They asked me why they should remain in the dark for the sake of a bird,” he says. But Karuppu was ready with an answer. He countered their argument with, “Today, do you see all the birds you grew up seeing? Where are they? What has human intervention done to them?” Finally, they too agreed. The 35 street lights are Pothakudi’s lifeline at night; without them, the entire village will be nothing but an unending pitch-dark stretch, dotted with a few lights from windows of houses here and there. “Our women didn’t step out after sunset,” says Karuppu. Meanwhile, the mother robin was at work. “Her eggs were beautiful…light blue with brown dots,” recalls Karuppu. “In fact, I had noticed the male and female scrounging for material to build a nest a few days back,” he says, adding that he had no idea they had the EB box in mind. “Sparrows are our regular guests; they often build nests inside homes in our village, and I regularly feed pigeons and peacocks at home.” Karuppu was thrilled to hear a series of tiny chatter one morning: the chicks had arrived. “The mother was busy looking for food for the hatchlings. The moment she neared the nest with food, the three of them would go cheep cheep non-stop,” he laughs. All this was a valuable lesson for children in the village. “The birds taught them what no online class can,” says Karuppu. “Little boys would ask me every time they saw me, ‘ Annae , are the young ones bigger now’?” By the time the hatchlings grew, the village became a social media sensation. Just before our conversation, an MLA had called Karuppu, saying that he was visiting them to show his appreciation. The birds flew away earlier this week, but the excitement has not died down in Pothakudi.  Every one has learned something new. Karuppu, for instance, learned that “The kuruvi don’t like to get wet in the rain. So they build their nests in a protected space, or beneath huge leaves like that of a banana tree.”
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrating The Boy Who Lived||Standing by the pavement of a busy road in Edinburgh, we wait for the pedestrian walk signal to turn green. It doesn’t. So we lift our wands and channelling our inner Hermione Granger, say, “Rossio Lumos”. Don’t mind us, we are just a group of excited Potterheads on a walking tour. Leading us is Richard Duffy of The Potter Trail that specialises in introducing muggles to locations that inspired JK Rowling in crafting her popular Harry Potter series. But this was just before COVID-19 wrecked havoc on our lives and the economy. After a brief lull, the spirited team at The Potter Trail, however, continued its tours from mid-April, this time virtually. So, no matter which part of the world you are in, there is always a way to access a little bit of magic to brighten your day. “Things have almost returned to normal in Scotland and we are continuing our virtual tours along with the real life ones,” says Richard over phone. They have received around 200 bookings for online tours with a majority happening in May. The Potter Trail started in 2012 and has 11 members, each a passionate fan of the said literary work. “Although, it is difficult to compete with some of the Potterheads we get on the tour,” laughs Richard. Garbed in a black robe and a pair of dark-rimmed glasses, he wields an umbrella in one hand and a wand in the other, and thanks to COVID-19, has acquired a new accessory — a full face visor. Edinburgh’s secrets There are nine different spots that Richard takes his clients to. The tour starts at the Greyfriars Kirk where he stops at the graves of William McGonagall and Thomas Riddell, followed by George Heriot’s School, Edinburgh Castle, and Potterrow among others. There are interesting narratives attached to all the stops, punctuated by impromptu quizzes, poetry and peals of laughter. “Our biggest audience is probably adults who grew up as the books came out. We are very popular with families and school groups though,” he adds.  The tours run every day of the year, except from December 24 to 26. There is a burgeoning demand. “We were the first (and the only, till 2017) Harry Potter tour company in Edinburgh. There are now at least 10 other tours although new ones are popping up all the time and I lose count,” he says. Lasting appeal Despite it being almost a decade since the last film of the Harry Potter franchise was released, what is it that still draws people to these thematic tours? “There is constantly a new generation of people reading and watching the films,” says Lewis Swan who started Brit Movie Tours in London, in late 2009. “The story appeals to people because this incredibly crafted magical world has aspects of the real world. It is easy to escape into,” he adds. Their first few tours were to filming locations of James Bond and Harry Potter. “There has been an increase in the sales of Harry Potter tours in the last few years,” says Lewis. Spin-off films like Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them and Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald have kept the interest alive. Brit Movie Tours has 60 different offerings, right from Doc Martin to Notting Hill . While the popularity varies from time to time, Harry Potter has remained one of the top tours and the other current favourites are Peaky Blinders and Downtown Abbey . Harry Potter walking and bus tours contribute to 20% of the sales. Given the current situation in London, Brit Movie Tours hopped on the virtual tour bandwagon too. “You have to sell what people are looking for,” says Alasidair de Voil who started Visit Oxford Tour in 2011 in Oxford. Even though the company started out doing other tours, Harry Potter which was inducted four years ago, is his bread and butter. “Easily three-quarters of our sales are from Harry Potter,” he says.  Visit Oxford Tour offers two Harry Potter tours: to New College and Christ Church. Of the two, Alasdair’s pick is easily the trip to New College. The building dates back to 1379. The scenes shot here include the one at the cloister, where Draco Malfoy bullies Harry but is turned into a ferret by Mad Eye Moody. Alasdair’s tours are interactive, and peppered with history and facts. For example, did you know Emma Watson lived in Oxford and studied at the Dragon School there? The other excitement is spotting celebrities, like Ben Kingsley and band members of Radiohead. And with these additional perks thrown in, together with the crew of Visit Oxford Tour, wannabe witches and wizards walk together in robes, rediscovering moments from the series that remains one of the most loved work of fiction, of our times.  Virtual tours  360virtualtour.co takes viewers through Diagon Alley Orlando’s Universal Studios Wizarding World of Harry Potter Viator offers The Magic of Film tour Google Arts and Culture gives you a peek into A History of Magic TourHQ   Sites to visit George Heriot’s School: This sprawling building inspired JK Rowling to come up with the idea of Hogwarts Christ Church, Oxford: The iconic staircase here is where Professor McGonagall awaits new students at Hogwarts The Divinity School, Oxford: The infirmary where Harry ends up at the end of The Philosopher’s Stone (also where Ron awkwardly dances with Professor McGonagall in The Goblet of Fire)
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The well-behaved reptile||Throughout history, be it the legend of Jormungand, the Viking sea snake in Norse Mythology, or the Naga in Hindu mythology, the portrayal of snakes has always misled people into believing that they were terrifying evil creatures out to hurt us. On the contrary, they do us a huge service. Take the Indian Rat Snake, also called the farmer’s friend. It helps rid fields of rodents and does the same in urban settlements like ours. Most snakes in India are non-venomous, but like any other animal, they too have ways to defend themselves. The Indian Rat Snake ( Ptyas mucosa ), which can sometimes grow to over 6 feet in length, is one such. They are not very aggressive by nature, but if threatened by humans or animals bigger than them, their first response is to try and escape. If cornered though, they inflate their throat and release a growl, before striking vigorously. This behaviour or adaptation of inflating their throat and growling may be seen as mimicking a cobra to look more intimidating. It may also be one of the reasons for humans mistaking them for the venomous cobra. In fact the Indian Rat Snake is food for the Spectacled Cobra, along with a few other snakes like the Indian Rock Python, and some predatory birds. Popularly known as Dhaman, the Indian Rat Snake is widely distributed across South and Southeast Asia, where it adapts quickly to a variety of habits: arid land, open fields, farmland, coastal regions, freshwater or brackish water wetlands. You’ll also see them in rat holes and termite mounds. They come in a great range of colours: pale yellow, olive, brown, grey and even black. They have round pupils, heads larger than their necks, smooth scales, a keeled upper body, with an underside that has prominent dark bands. The snake’s diurnal (active during both night and day) nature, agility, speed, alertness, and the ability to climb trees and rough surfaces, makes them highly versatile predators. Their hunting prowess provides for a diverse palate: lizards, birds (and eggs), frogs, and other snakes as well. Most small prey is swallowed alive, whereas the bigger prey is held down by the snake’s bodyweight (they don’t use the constriction method like pythons) until they weaken and give up. One distinct behaviour is two individual snakes coiling their bodies around each other. The common misconception was that this was a mating ritual. It is actually a combat behaviour that resembles a dance between two males as they battle for dominance. Dominance is established with an attempt by one male to pin down the other for a few seconds, before letting go. The winner of this non-aggressive battle takes control of the territory, until another male encroaches and the process starts all over again. Some years ago, I used to volunteer with a wildlife rescue organisation in the city. During the rainy season, when snake homes are flooded, the increase in rescue calls would escalate. Snake rescue is about helping humans and saving the snake from being killed. It made me realise that we have been coexisting with them (unknowingly) longer than we can remember. Along with the Checkered Keelback and the Red Sand Boa, the Indian Rat Snake is one of the most common snakes that show up in areas like Vasant Kunj and Vasant Vihar. However, the Indian Rat Snake has also adapted well to concrete urban settlements, where it makes use of sewage lines, abandoned buildings, and uses the open area near archaeological ruins as shelter. I remember seeing one in a sewer near my house in Lajpat Nagar, where it had caught a huge rat. The struggle of the snarly rat and the commotion it caused is what gave it away. Do mind your step in rainy weather and avoid areas with dense undergrowth. If you do get bitten, bites from the Indian Rat Snake can be very painful, but are just punctures and harmless. Visit a hospital immediately. They may treat it like a regular wound. It’s advisable to take a picture of the snake for information. A bite by a venomous snake will induce acute discomfort in a couple of minutes. Whether it’s venomous or not, the doctor will generally advise you to get admitted for general observation. If you encounter a snake in Delhi-NCR, do call 9871963535 for Wildlife SOS. For other cities, get in touch with the local forest department or a credible wildlife rescue organisation. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||Less than 1,500 COVID-19 cases for 13th straight day||As many as 1,035 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,33,310, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Also, 26 more deaths were reported in a single day, taking the toll to 3,907. Of the total cases, 1,18,633 people have recovered and there are now 10,770 active cases. Meanwhile, the Revenue Department has issued an order asking departments to furnish all details when seeking compensation of Rs. 1 crore for family of people who have died due to COVID-19, and pointed out that there was pendency due to this. “It is observed that the administrative departments of the deceased send the case without enclosing requisite documents, which causes delay in processing,” read an order issued on Monday. The number of new cases has been less than 1,500 for the past 13 days. Active cases have also been decreasing, from 27,007 on July 1 to 10,770 — a drop of 60%. A total of 17,392 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours out of which 70.8% were rapid antigen tests, which have shown low positivity in the city compared to RT-PCR tests. The number of people admitted to COVID-19 hospitals has decreased from 5,892 on July 1 to 3,028 on Wednesday. In the same period, the number of COVID-19 patients in home isolation has decreased from 16,703 to 5,894. The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive for the virus, has dropped from 12.2% to 5.9%. The number of containment zones, meanwhile, increased to 704 on Wednesday; compared to 461 on June 22, when the government decided to redesign the zones.
30 July 2020||Chandigarh,||No question of falsely implicating anyone under UAPA: Punjab CM||Taking exception to the so-called ‘warning’ by Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on recent arrests under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said he will do everything under the law to protect the security and integrity of Punjab and of the nation, and the SAD president’s threats could not deter him from ensuring the safety of his people. “If there are any specific instances of wrongful arrest or registration of case by the Punjab police under the UAPA, as he has claimed, Mr. Badal should send me a list of the same instead of making unnecessary noise,” said the Chief Minister. There was no question of falsely implicating anyone, he said. Pointing out that UAPA had been in existence for long, the Chief Minister reminded Mr. Badal that under the SAD-BJP regime, more than 60 cases under UAPA had been registered in Punjab, of which 19 were in 2010 alone and 12 in 2017. Of the 225 individuals arrested in these cases, 120 were acquitted or discharged, indicating that indiscriminate application of UAPA had in fact been done by the Akalis during their tenure, he said. Hitting out at the SAD chief, the Chief Minister said Mr. Badal was trying to compromise the interests of Punjab with his politically motivated propaganda against the Punjab police. “It was shocking that Mr. Badal, who was leading a party that claimed to be the custodians of Sikhism, was in fact protesting against the Punjab police’s fight against separatist and terrorist activities designed to divide the Sikhs on communal lines,” he said. ISI’s infiltration bids Pointing to the increasing attempts by Pakistan’s ISI to infiltrate terrorist modules and smuggle weapons into Punjab from across the border, the Chief Minister said his government was committed to taking whatever steps necessary, as per the law, to protect not just the State but India from these elements. “There were forces bent on destabilising the nation by fomenting trouble and promoting the separatist ideology,” he said, citing the Sikhs for Justice’s Khalistani agenda.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal orders delinking of hotels attached to hospitals||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday ordered the delinking of hotels that had been attached to city hospitals to enhance the availability of beds for COVID-19 patients. The hotels are being released given the improving COVID-19 situation in Delhi, said Mr. Kejriwal. There are less than 11,000 active cases in the city. “Some hotels were attached to hospitals to increase the number of COVID beds. In view of the improving situation and all hotel beds lying vacant for the last many days, these hotels are now being released,” the CM tweeted. “It has been decided to discontinue the scheme of creation of health care facilities at hotels by private hospitals. All concerned private hospitals are directed to wind up the facilities operating in hotels with immediate effect,” an official order read. In early June, around 40 hotels were attached to city hospitals by the Delhi government. Official data show the move enhanced the capacity of COVID-19 beds by 4,600. The number of COVID-19 cases were increasing rapidly in June, which is why Covid Care Centres were established in about three dozen hotels, in addition to increasing capacity in government and private hospitals, the government stated. “Although some hotel owners initially went to court against the decision, the Delhi government won the case. During the surge in cases, many patients were kept in hotels,” a statement read. There are currently over 15,000 COVID-19 beds in the city out of which over 12,000 are not occupied. In another tweet, the Chief Minister said: “Existing guidelines say that if any patient’s antigen test is negative but has symptoms, RT-PCR test must be done. I directed the officers today to ensure strict compliance of these guidelines.”
30 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Petitioner in riot case against Yogi convicted of gang rape||A court in Gorakhpur has convicted and sentenced to life on charges of gang rape a local activist who had been a co-petitioner in the alleged hate speech case against Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath during the 2007 Gorakhpur communal violence. Mr. Adityanath was at the time the MP from the constituency. The Gorakhpur district sessions court convicted Parvez Parvaz and Mahmood alias Jumman Baba, and sentenced them to life imprisonment, said Mr. Parvaz’s lawyer Miftahul Islam. Parvaz had been arrested in September 2018 after a local woman in her thirties had accused him and Mahmood of gang rape after luring her to an isolated place near Pandeyhatta area late on June 3 under the pretext of helping her resolve some family problems. According to the FIR lodged at the Rajghat police station on June 4, 2018 the woman claimed she came in touch with Mahmood, who is a “baba” (ascetic), at a local shrine when she was looking for help to get her estranged husband under “control” through “jhaad-phoonkh”, a form of exorcism. After his arrest, Parvaz’s colleagues had alleged that he was being falsely implicated under political pressure as the FIR in the rape case had already been expunged earlier. The police, however, had said that the arrest was made after they found fresh evidence in the case. The verdict was pronounced on Tuesday.  Accused fined While convicting the two accused, the district judge in his order said that they took the “poor and hapless woman” to an isolated place and took turns to rape her. The court also fined the two accused Rs. 25,000 each which would be provided to the victim for her rehabilitation. The Gorakhpur communal violence case dates back to January 2007 when clashes broke out in the district and adjoining places after a Hindu youth was killed in a clash during a Muharram procession. According to an FIR registered, Mr. Adityanath had allegedly delivered a provocative speech calling for revenge against the minority community in retaliation for the death of the youth. The police initially refused to register an FIR and lodged it only after the High Court had intervened. After the BJP came to power in U.P. in 2017, the State government refused sanction to allow Mr. Adityanath to be prosecuted for inciting communal violence on the grounds that a CD, which was shown as prime evidence of the “hate speech”, had allegedly been tampered with. In February 2018, the HC upheld the State govt.’s decision and dismissed the writ petition seeking a probe in the case by an independent agency, following which the petitioners had approached the Supreme Court. The appeal is pending before the apex court, said advocate Asad Hayat, Parvaz’s co-petitioner in the case. Mr. Hayat said they would challenge his co-petitioner’s conviction in the Allahabad High Court.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||AAP leaders protest SDMC taxes, detained||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders who protested outside the BJP headquarters against introduction of taxes by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) were detained by the Delhi Police on Wednesday. “The volunteers, AAP leaders and councillors will continue opposing this decision at every level. The party will fight against this decision inside the SDMC house and also on the streets. The AAP has promised to the people of Delhi that it will force the BJP to withdraw this decision,” said AAP Political Affairs Committee member Durgesh Pathak, who was also detained by the police. The party said that the nation is facing a crisis due to COVID-19. “Amid such a crisis, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and the BJP-ruled SDMC Mayor have imposed the burden of extra tax on the citizens of Delhi. This decision is not only very dangerous but also inhuman and unacceptable,” AAP said in a statement. The party said that during the pandemic, the Delhi government has stood beside the citizens of Delhi and the government has distributed free ration, arranged food for the poor, provided financial assistance to them and worked round the clock for the development of Delhi. “However, the BJP and Congress have an intention to loot the poor,” Mr. Pathak said. He said that the party will continue to protest on the street and also on social media.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC tells govt. to release funds to North body||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday told the city government to release funds to the North Delhi Municipal Corporation so it can pay the stipends of the resident doctors in six hospitals run by the civic body. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked the Delhi government to release within 15 days an amount of Rs. 8 crore, as was done by it earlier, to the North body without waiting for completion of paperwork so that resident doctors can be paid. The court said the amount being released was only for the purpose of paying the stipends or emoluments to the resident doctors at the six hospitals. The High Court’s direction came while hearing a petition initiated by it based on news reports stating that doctors of Kasturba Gandhi Hospital have threatened to resign as they have not been paid salaries since March this year. The news reports also stated that recently, the doctors of North Corporation-run Hindu Rao hospital had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over non-payment of their salaries for March, April and May.
30 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||NCRTC commissions site office for Delhi-Gurugram-SNB RRTS corridor||National Capital Region Transport Corporation Limited has commissioned its site office here for the Delhi-Gurugram-SNB (Shahjahanpur-Neemrana-Behror) Regional Rapid Transit System corridor on Wednesday. The 107-km-long Delhi-Gurugram-SNB corridor will have 16 stations. Once operational, the corridor is expected to bring down the travel time between Delhi-SNB to about 70 minutes as compared to the current 3-4 hours of travel by road. Managing Director of NCRTC, Vinay Kumar Singh, inaugurated the site office in the presence of senior officials of the corporation. The site office is located on Leisure Valley Road near IFFCO Chowk. The pre-construction activities including geo-technical investigations, initial pile load tests, topographical surveys, shifting of electrical utilities etc. are being carried out at various locations. Earlier, these activities were managed by the NCRTC team from their temporary site office in Gurugram. The NCRTC team will now operate from the state-of-the-art site office located at IFFCO Chowk. The NCRTC has also finalised a site for establishing a casting yard in Gurugram for the corridor.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||Ensure no construction in Sanjay Van, HC tells DDA||The High Court on Wednesday ordered the police and the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to ensure that no construction is carried out in the Sanjay Van area of the Capital without their permission. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan gave the direction while hearing a petition initiated by the court on its own after taking cognisance of two social media videos showing alleged illegal encroachments in Sanjay Van, a forest area near Vasant Kunj and Mehrauli in south Delhi. The court on the last hearing had directed the police and DDA to submit a status report clearly stating as to how many mazars (tomb) are in existence and since when. The court had also asked DDA to conduct an aerial survey of the entire Sanjay Van with the use of drones. Delhi Police has said that there are 77 mazars in Sanjay Van, and that all of them are very old. The High Court has directed DDA to ensure that no encroachment takes place within the Sanjay Van by any person for any purpose. If any encroachment is existing or is made, the same should be removed without any delay. Delhi Police shall render all assistance and provide the necessary force for the said purpose, the High Court said.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||Defamation notice sent to AAP leaders Atishi, Chadha||The Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday said that North Delhi Municipal Corporation House leader and Bharatiya Janata Party councillor Yogesh Kumar Verma has sent a criminal and civil defamation notice of Rs. 1 crore to AAP leaders Atishi and Raghav Chadha. AAP said that the legal notice was in response to a press conference done by the AAP in which the party raised the issue of resident doctors at two North civic body-run hospitals allegedly not being paid salaries. “This criminal defamation notice is to suppress our voice against corruption. They want no one to raise voice against BJP’s corruption in civic bodies. They want to suppress the voice through criminal defamation,” Ms. Atishi said while addressing a press conference. ‘We will fight’ “The Aam Aadmi Party is not one that is scared of this four-page notice. We will fight this on the streets and also in the court. AAP will start a country-wide campaign to expose the corruption in civic bodies,” Mr. Chadha said. Mr. Chadha said that this was people’s voice and the BJP cannot suppress it with a legal notice. “You go to any part of Delhi and the people will tell you how much money you need to pay to the civic body to get any work done. A few days back, BJP MP Vijay Goel himself admitted that the civic body is corrupt. Former commissioner has also said that the same. Will the BJP file criminal defamation against them? The Statutory Auditor has disclosed that in North civic body there are financial irregularities of Rs. 3,000 crore and of more than Rs. 1,100 crore in SDMC. Will the BJP file criminal defamation against the Auditor too?” Ms. Atishi asked.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Tax hikes will make lives miserable’||The Delhi Congress on Wednesday said that the BJP-ruled civic bodies and AAP government in Delhi were hiking taxes during the pandemic to make people’s lives miserable. The party demanded that the increased taxes be withdrawn and warned of an agitation. Congress State unit chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that on one hand Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave a call to build an “ Atmanirbhar Bharat ” , but on the other hand, the BJP and the AAP governments have been trying to discourage people from starting any kind of new enterprise with their periodic tax hikes.
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||4 magistrates for court proceedings at Tihar||Three days after The Hindu reported on the problems faced by Delhi Police investigating officers at Tihar Court Complex as there is only one Metropolitan Magistrate (MM) to conduct proceedings, an order issued on Wednesday stated that four MMs would be on duty starting July 30. “From July 30, two MMs will undertake remand proceedings at Tihar jail, and two more will conduct Test Identification Parade proceedings. At Mandoli jail, one MM will undertake remand proceedings and another one will conduct TIP proceedings,” an official communicated read. A senior prison official confirmed the order.
30 July 2020||July 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Looming problem||
30 July 2020||New Delhi,||North civic body proposes fee hike for factory owners||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Standing Committee on Wednesday passed proposals for the hiking of fees for General Trade License and Factory License under its jurisdiction. The move will affect traders as well as factory owners in its jurisdiction, with rates being made comparable to those charged by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation. Rates have been hiked under all categories and sizes of properties. For instance, while properties under 10 sqm in the A & B category of properties was earlier charged an annual fee of Rs. 500, they will now be charged an annual fee of Rs. 3,450. Rates hikes have also been approved for special trade licenses meant for showrooms, retail outlets of multinational corporations, stores attached with cold stores and others. While earlier they would be charged a maximum of Rs. 15,000 annually, following approval from the civic body’s House, they will be charged between Rs. 34,500 to Rs. 57,500. Factory license rates have also been hiked under different categories. For one, the processing fee has been hiked from Rs. 550 to Rs. 1,000. Rates have also been increased in terms of annual fixed charges and other charges earlier not charged by the North Corporation.
30 July 2020||Guwahati,||16.55 lakh still affected by Assam floods||Three people drowned on Wednesday taking the death toll in the Assam floods since May 22 to 107. Another 26 were killed in landslips triggered by intermittent heavy rain during the period. Officials of the State Disaster Management Authority said 16.55 lakh people continue to be affected across 21 districts while the number of people in relief camps reduced marginally to 37,012 during the last 24 hours. Worst-affected district Goalpara continued to be the worst-affected district with 4.19 lakh people marooned followed by Morigaon (2.63 lakh), South Salmara (2.49 lakh), Dhubri (2.22 lakh) and Barpeta (1.86 lakh). Officials said the situation this time had aggravated due to the damage and breaching of 217 embankments. The floods have also damaged 187 bridges and culverts in 26 districts and 1,937 roads across 30 districts. The water level in the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve subsided substantially overnight. Officials said 65% is now under water.
