30 October 2020||NICE,||3 killed in French church attack||A knife-wielding attacker shouting “Allahu Akbar” beheaded a woman and killed two other people at a church in the French city of Nice on Thursday. Within hours of the Nice attack, the police killed a man who had threatened passersby with a handgun in Montfavet, near the southern French city of Avignon. He was also shouting “Allahu Akbar”, according to radio station Europe 1. Nice’s Mayor Christian Estrosi said the attack had happened in or near Notre Dame church and was similar to the beheading earlier this month near Paris of a teacher who had used cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed in a civics class. Thursday’s attacks, on the birthday of the Prophet Mohammed, came at a time of growing Muslim anger at France’s defence of the right to publish the cartoons. Protesters have denounced France in street rallies in several Muslim-majority countries. After the Nice attack, Prime Minister Jean Castex raised France’s security alert to its highest level and said the government’s response would be firm and implacable. One of the people killed inside the church was believed to be the church warden, Mr. Estrosi said, adding that one woman had escaped from inside the church into a bar opposite the 19th century neo-Gothic building. ‘Enough is enough’ “The suspected knife attacker was shot by police while being detained. He is on his way to hospital, he is alive,” Mr. Estrosi told reporters. “Enough is enough,” he added. “It’s time now for France to exonerate itself from the laws of peace in order to definitively wipe out Islamo-fascism from our territory”. Reuters journalists at the scene said police armed with automatic weapons had put up a security cordon around the church, which is on Nice’s Jean Medecin avenue, the French Riviera city's main shopping thoroughfare. Ambulances and fire service vehicles were also at the scene. The attack was also condemned by the European Commission, the Vatican, Britain, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and Turkey, whose President Tayyip Erdogan earlier this week slammed France over displays of the Prophet Mohammad.
30 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Sumitra Nayak elected Udupi CMC president||Sumitra Nayak and Lakshmi Mendon from the BJP were elected unopposed president and vice-president of the Udupi City Municipal Council in Udupi on Thursday. In the 35-member Council, the BJP has 31 members and the Congress four. The election to the council had been conducted about two years ago. Speaking after the election, Ms. Nayak said that she intends to make Udupi city plastic-free. She will consider her office not as a position but as a responsibility, the new council president said. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat said that the Udupi civic body enjoys the credit of banning the practice of carrying night soil on the head for the first time in the country. Senior elected leaders have led the council earlier. The new council president has the responsibility of leading the council by taking all members into confidence. Opposition Congress member Ramesh Kanchan said that Ms. Nayak has been elected to the council for the third time. Hence, she carries with her good experience. The Congress will support the good works of the council, led by the ruling BJP. The ruling party should not sideline the Congress which has only four members. If sidelined, the party will protest both inside and outside the council. Assistant Commissioner of Kundapur sub-division K. Raju, who was the Election Officer, conducted the election.
30 October 2020||Mumbai,||More delays to Dharavi redevelopment||In what could lead to further delays in the redevelopment of Dharavi, the Maharashtra Cabinet on Thursday cancelled the ongoing tender process of the renovation project of one of Asia’s largest slums, and announced that it would call for new tenders. An official statement said the State government has acted upon the recommendations of the Advocate General (AG). A committee of secretaries (CoS) led by Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar too had recommended scrapping of existing tenders and starting the process anew. The first tender of the redevelopment project was allotted to Dubai-based Seclink Technologies Corporation which was the highest bidder at Rs. 7,500 crore. The second bid was from the Adani group at Rs. 4,529 crore. The previous Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government had sought the AG’s opinion after a 45-acre plot at Matunga, which was earlier with the Railways, was included as part of the project. The AG had then recommended that the entire tender process be conducted again. This was also accepted by the CoS. The Cabinet on Thursday sanctioned the same. According to sources within the Housing Department, which will be executing the project, Seclink Technologies Corporation, has already expressed displeasure over seeking the AG’s opinion and the recommendation that followed. “We will have to see how they react,” said an official, when asked whether the company was taken into confidence before cancelling the tender process. The Dharavi Redevelopment Project is worth around Rs. 28,000 crore, said to be one of the biggest in the country. Situated in the heart of Mumbai, Dharavi is one of the biggest slums of Asia and its redevelopment is pending for the last 16 years. Following the novel coronavirus outbreak, which further exposed the inadequate sanitation and health facilities in the area, demands were made to fast forward the redevelopment. Thursday’s decision, however, is likely to delay the project further. Cessed buildings The Cabinet on Thursday also modified the rules for the redevelopment of around 14,500 cessed buildings in Mumbai. Cessed buildings are those for which the government collects tax for a repair fund. These buildings were mainly built before Independence, and the concept is limited to island city and not the suburbs. As per the new rules, the housing department will issue guidelines to fix the eligibility of the developer.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre sets up commission to tackle NCR pollution||Dissolving the 22-year-old Environmental Pollution (Pr-evention and Control) Autho-rity that has so far addressed air pollution in Delhi, the Centre has constituted a “permanent” body — Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas. Encompassing Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the all-powerful body assumes several powers to coordinate action among States, levy fines — ranging up to Rs. 1 crore or five years in prison — to address air pollution. Brought in via an ordinance on Thursday, the commission awaits a formal perusal by the Supreme Court before it can be brought into effect. The panel will have at least six permanent members and will be headed by a former or incumbent Secretary to the Central government, or a Chi-ef Secretary to a State government. It will have members from Ministries as well as representatives from States. The Central Pollution Control Board and its State branches have the powers to implement provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act for air, water and land pollution. In case of dispute or a clash of jurisdictions, the commission's writ will prevail specific to matters concerning air pollution. A major weakness, environmentalists and experts have said in tackling air pollution in Delhi-NCR, has been the inability of agencies such as the CPCB to consistently enforce rules on the ground. Rules enforcement A senior government official said the commission will be empowered to constitute special investigative groups for stricter implementation, but the letter of the ordinance has no such details. “EPCA had almost similar powers but failed miserably in cleaning the air even after being in force for more than 20 years. The question of whether it’s a positive move or just a wasteful exercise will be decided on the fact whether the ordinance changes the status quo when it comes to ground implementation,” said Sunil Dahiya, analyst, Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air. EPCA Chairman Bhure Lal and member Sunita Narain said in a letter to Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday that they “welcomed” the creation of the new commission. Describing the commission as a “bureaucratic vessel”, Navroz Dubash of the Centre for Policy Research said in a statement: “The fact that it was created practically overnight, with no discussion and input, does not inspire confidence that it will open the doors to a more fruitful conversation and action across all interests.”
30 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||Two State MPs sold in ‘public auction’, others see no takers||In a short notice “public auction” conducted at the landmark Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi on Thursday, Members of Parliament from the State were auctioned at prices as low as Rs. 1 to a maximum of Rs. 5. The “public action” was arranged by Kannada activist and founder of Kannada Chalavali Vatal Paksha Vatal Nagaraj in protest against the apathy of the Members of Parliament from the State towards the sufferings of the flood displaced and affected people of North Karnataka and also the development of the region. The “auction” call for Rajya Sabha member from Karnataka and Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman began at Rs. 1 and a person by name N.H. Patil made a successful bid at Rs. 5. Similarly, Member of Parliament from Koppal Karadi Sanganna was “auctioned” for a successful bid of Rs. 1 made by a boy. However, the others, including Union Ministers Pralhad Joshi and D.V. Sadananda Gowda, MPs G.M. Siddeshwar, Ananthkumar Hegde, Tejasvi Surya and B.Y. Raghavendra, remained “unsold” as no bidders came forward to buy them. Earlier, addressing presspersons before the “auction”, Mr. Vatal Nagaraj said that the protest was aimed at reminding the Members of Parliament about their duties which they had forgotten. Although the northern districts of the State had frequently experienced downpour and floods, the MPs from Karnataka had failed to impress upon the Union government to release the requisite funds for relief. “Such has been the apathy of the Union government and the Prime Minister towards the plight of the people of North Karnataka that none of the top leaders from the Centre thought it right to visit the flood-affected areas in the State,” he said.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. takes executive route to clear 7.5% horizontal quota||In a rare move, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday issued an executive order granting 7.5% horizontal reservation for NEET-qualified students of State government schools in undergraduate medical admissions, though a Bill on the quota is pending before Governor Banwarilal Purohit for assent. The Bill was passed in the Legislative Assembly on September 15. Recently, Mr. Purohit informed Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin that he would need three to four weeks time to decide on it and that he had conveyed the same to a group of Ministers who met him to press for his assent to the Bill. Faced with mounting political pressure from the Opposition and a race against time to ensure that undergraduate medical admissions take place, the State government noted that under Article 162, executive power is coextensive with legislative power, pending a decision of the Governor. Political parties in the State have also been publicly mounting pressure on the Governor on the issue. On Thursday, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court too said that it hoped that the Governor would come to a decision at the earliest. The Supreme Court has held in the past that reservation can be provided through executive order and that seems to have bolstered the State government’s case for issuing the G.O. Citing the Advocate General’s opinion, the State said in the G.O. that the Government quota was not violative of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution. “Since the NEET- under graduate results have now been declared and the admissions process has started, there is an urgency to decide on the issue,” the G.O. said. In fact, the State had informed the High Court earlier this month that the prospectus for admissions will not be issued till a decision is taken by the Governor on the Bill. Through the G.O., the Government has decided to set apart 7.5% on preferential basis to students who have studied from 6th to 12th standard in State government schools in admissions and have qualified in NEET to MBBS, BDS, BSMS, BAMS, BUMS and BHMS courses. This setting apart of seats will be done under the State quota seats in all Government medical, dental colleges and all courses for which NEET has been prescribed as an eligibility criteria. “The above horizontal reservation shall be provided in each category of vertical reservation followed in the State of Tamil Nadu within the 69% reservation from the academic year 2020-2021,” the G.O. said. An official in the Directorate of Medical Education said, “The government’s position is that it will implement the reservation for government school students from the current year itself." (With inputs from R Sujatha)
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Schools to reopen on Nov. 2||All educational institutions in Andhra Pradesh will reopen on November 2 in the fresh academic year amidst strict adherence to COVID-19 guidelines. Chief Secretary to the government Nilam Sawhney has announced the new schedule for conduct of staggered classes and the Department of School Education is making arrangements accordingly. In schools, classes will be conducted on alternate days in three phases. From November 2, students of classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 (Intermediate first and second year) will attend half-day classes on alternate days. Students of classes 6, 7 and 8 will attend half-day schools on alternate days from November 23, while classes for primary students (classes 1 to 5) will commence on December 14. Students will attend half-day school on alternate days. All colleges will start functioning from November 2 and students will attend classes on rotation basis. The schedule applies to both government and private educational institutions.
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,||BTC to resume races on Sunday, but without spectators||The races at the Bangalore Turf Club (BTC), which had been suspended because of the lockdown, will resume this Sunday. With this, the BTC will kickstart the 2020-21 winter season and hold five races in November, during the weekends. No spectators However, there will be no spectators, and bets will also not be taken for the first few races, a senior steward said. “We cannot allow crowds at the BTC to place bets. So, we are developing a mobile application for punters to place bets. It’s in the last stages of development and will hopefully be available for commercial deployment by November 14, after which we will take bets,” the steward said. For races with no bets, BTC will pay the winner stake money. “We have devised a formula where the winner will be paid 45% of the stake money that the corresponding race had garnered last year. This practice will be in place only till our app is deployed,” the steward added. The races will be streamed on the BTC website. A ticket for a race day will be priced at Rs. 500, and buyers will get a password to watch the race.
30 October 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal docs call for increased testing, caution||Doctors in West Bengal have called for increased COVID-19 testing and caution during this crucial period between the just-concluded Durga Puja and the festivals that are round the corner. “In West Bengal, the number of cases vis-a-vis the number of tests has remained almost static since the last few days. But the number of cases in five worst-affected districts [Kolkata, North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly] remains a matter of concern. We need to really increase tests all over the State. It is a pity that till now we could test about 44,000/day, and even less in the last couple of days,” Dr. Koushik Chaki of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum told The Hindu . “Awareness among people is sadly far less than expected. A section of people did not follow the restrictions imposed by the Calcutta High Court, and now a few more festivals are about to come,” he said. A clear picture about the impact of the Durga Puja celebrations on the COVID-19 situation is yet to emerge, considering only three days have passed since the festival ended. Even though the celebrations, by and large, remained muted, some of the popular pandals in Kolkata as well as neighbouring towns ended up drawing large crowds despite restrictions. Bursting of crackers And now doctors are concerned about Deepavali, when many end up bursting crackers despite strictures. “Deepavali is a festival of lights and firecrackers, and COVID-19 is a disease mostly involving airways, so situation will be terrible if strict rules are not enforced for avoidance of crackers. Another matter of concern is huge political rallies that are taking place. Organising them in the midst of a pandemic is not only an offence but also sends a very wrong signal to the common people. We condemn this and request all parties to show restraint,” Dr. Chaki said. “Also, with the winter season approaching, we need to be more vigilant. Countries in Europe have already started facing a fresh wave of infections more lethal than before. Trace, test, isolate — this remains the key. Social norms need to be strictly imposed and those not complying should be penalised. The medical fraternity is struggling against all odds and their patience and capacity are stretching too tar. We need to take visible, proactive steps — mere lip service won't suffice,” he said.
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||A.P. told to stop work on RLS||The southern zonal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan (judicial member) and Saibal Dasgupta (expert member), has restrained the Andhra Pradesh government from proceeding with the construction of Rayalaseema Lift Scheme (RLS) without obtaining environmental clearance (EC), by observing that the project has been found prima facie to have a component of irrigation envisaged it and a prior EC is required. The NGT bench also observed there was no need for it to go into the question whether the project required the approval of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) as the matter ought to be considered by the board after evaluating the DPR to be submitted by AP (in accordance with directions of Ministry of Jal Shakti) as that is covered by AP Reorganisation Act. The NGT passed that judgement while disposing of an application filed by G. Srinivas of Narayanpet district in Telangana, who challenged the validity of the RLS, which was launched by AP for tapping water from the Srisailam project. His argument was that Andhra Pradesh cannot proceed with the Rayalaseema Lift Scheme without getting prior EC and the permission of KRMB as it would impact the agreement entered by AP and Telangana on sharing water from the project. The tribunal stated that though the project was shown as intended to augment the drinking water supply to the drought- prone Rayalaseema, the purpose appeared to be to utilise water for irrigation as well.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lowest core sector shrinking since March||India’s eight core industry sectors shrank just 0.8% in September on a year-on-year basis, recording their lowest contraction since March 2020, with electricity and steel output clocking positive growth for the first time since March, and coal production rising for the second month in a row. Cement output improved in September, recording a 3.5% year-on-year drop — the lowest since March when production had collapsed 25.1%. Surprisingly, fertilizer production which had grown consistently from May to August, marginally contracted in September by 0.3%. The Office of the Economic Adviser in the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, which compiles the Index of Eight Core Industries, also revised its estimates for June and August.  Growth rate “The final growth rate of Index of Eight Core Industries for June 2020 is revised to (-) 12.4%,” said an official statement on Thursday. Earlier, output was estimated to have declined by 15% in June. Similarly, August had recorded a 8.5% dip in the index as per earlier estimates, which has been moderated to a 7.3% decline. Consequently, output contraction from the core sectors, which account for little over 40% of the Index of Industrial Production, stood at 14.9% in the first half of 2020-21, recovering slightly from the 17.8% decline recorded by August.
30 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Photographer assaulted in Farangipet||Four assailants made a futile attempt on the life of a professional photographer in his studio in Farangipet, Bantwal taluk, on Thursday evening as he is said to have extended his support to a victim of sexual abuse. The name of the photographer was given as Dinesh, who runs Trisha Studio in the town. He is now recovering in a hospital in Mangaluru, Dakshina Kannada District Police said. Bantwal Rural Police have arrested Mohammed Arshad (19), Abdul Rahman (22) and Mohammed Saifuddin (22), all residents of Ammemmar village, immediately after the incident. The police are now looking for the other accused, Savad. The police said that the accused were infuriated with Dinesh as he reportedly supported the relatives of the sexual abuse victim recently. Armed with sharp weapons, they entered his studio and inflicted injuries on his head, right arm and abdomen with the intention of killing him. In the melee, Shekhar Poojari, who was present, retaliated against the assailants with a chair and received injuries in the process. Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad told The Hindu that the victim was operated upon his abdomen and is now under observation. Photographers associations in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts have condemned the attack and urged the police to ensure safety of their peers.
30 October 2020||Belagavi,||Accused collapses in front of court building in Kushtagi, dies||Ganga Kulkarni, one of the accused in the cheating case filed by film lyricist K. Kalyan, was found dead in Kushtagi of Koppal district on Thursday. She was meeting some lawyers in the local court in relation to a case where she was accused of collecting money from unemployed youth in Koppal district and outside. The magistrate court in Kushtagi had issued an arrest warrant against Ganga Kulkarni, alias Jyoti, (50) on the charge of cheating unemployed youth and for not responding to several summons earlier. She was supposed to attend court in connection with this case on November 3. She had come to meet her lawyers to prepare for the hearing. But she collapsed in front of the court building and the police and lawyers rushed her to a hospital. Doctors tried to treat her, but she died in a few minutes. The police suspected that she had consumed poison before coming to court. The case in Kushtagi was one among the many that she was facing. Meanwhile, Kushtagi Police have registered a case of suicide. The woman, who hailed from Bagalkot, was wanted by the police in four districts. Mr. Kalyan, whose wife hails from Belagavi, had accused self-styled astrologer Shivanand Wali and his accomplice Ganga Kulkarni of swindling his family property after cheating his wife and in-laws. He said that Ganga Kulkarni had joined his house in Bengaluru as a cook and had gained the confidence of his family members. She had introduced Wali to them and told them that he could solve their problems. This led to Mr. Kalyan’s wife and her parents shifting back to Belagavi. Mr. Kalyan’s parents in-law transferred valuable property in Belagavi to the astrologer under undue influence and fraud, Mr. Kalyan said in his complaint to the police last month. The police then arrested Wali. They formed a team to arrest Ganga Kulkarni. Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan organised counselling for Ms. Kalyan at the city women’s helpline. The two families held a series of meetings to sort out their differences. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19: Recovery rate in Karnataka is 90.7%||Karnataka’s COVID-19 situation has witnessed a steady improvement in the last 28 days with a healthy recovery rate of 90.7% as on Thursday. With recoveries increasing from 4,92,412 on October 1 to 7,41,219 on October 29, the daily active cases also came down from 1,10,412 (on October 1) to 64,480 on Thursday, when 7,661 persons were discharged. Active cases that peaked up to 1,20,929 on October 10 subsequently started reducing. On October 22, the State saw a record 13,550 recoveries, the highest on a single day. Following that, the number of active cases reduced to 92,927 on that day and the trend has continued since. New cases Meanwhile, the State on Thursday reported 4,025 new cases taking the total number of cases to 8,16,809. With 45 new deaths, the toll rose to 11,091. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. While the positivity rate for the day reduced to 3.99%, Case Fatality Rate touched 1.11%. Bengaluru Urban reported 2,175 cases taking the tally to 3,33,037. With 19 of the 45 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 3,820. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 41,538. The number of tests that had reduced since Monday increased on Thursday to the daily average of above one lakh. As many as 1,00,683 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 75,681 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 77,01,031.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,||‘T.N.’s figure better than the national average’||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 case doubling time was 217 days, while that of India was about 131 days for the last three days. After a meeting to review the COVID-19 situation with Tamil Nadu Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar through video conference on Wednesday, the Union Minister tweeted that he complimented the State on robust surveillance, scale-up of diagnostic capacity and low case fatality rate. “It was heartening to make note of their at par or better performance than the national average on various indicators,” he said. “While the growth rate is 0.5% at the national level, the growth rate in Tamil Nadu is 0.4%. At the country level, we have the highest recovery rate in the world at 90.85%,” he said. The recovery rate in Tamil Nadu is even higher than the national average, and is about 94.5%,” he said at the review meeting. The Minister added that the fatality rate of India as well as Tamil Nadu remained 1.5%. At the national level, the sample positivity rate was 7.6%, while it was 7.3% in the State, he said. “I would like to congratulate you as Tamil Nadu is probably one State where the example is worth emulating...as you are doing only RT-PCR tests, which is a good indication,” he said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Managing Director P. Umanath, Joint Secretary (Health) A. Sivagnanam, Mission Director of National Health Mission-Tamil Nadu K. Senthil Raj and Directors T.S. Selvavinayagam (Public Health and Preventive Medicine), S. Gurunathan (Medical and Rural Health Services) and R. Narayana Babu (Medical Education) were present at the meeting.
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State to spend Rs. 17,300 crore on healthcare sector, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed officials of the Medical & Health Department to finalise by January the tenders for 16 new medical colleges proposed to be established in the districts at an estimated cost of Rs. 7,500 crore. He said the government would be spending Rs. 17,300 crore on revamping the existing government hospitals and setting up the new medical colleges under ‘Nadu-Nedu’ initiative. The possibility of setting up green buildings should be explored, he suggested. At a review meeting on ‘Nadu-Nedu’ in government hospitals on Thursday, Mr. Jagan sought details of the works taken up so far under the programme and insisted that the infrastructure should be of high quality. The hospital authorities should be aware of their responsibilities and be accountable for the manner in which patients were treated. Emphasis should be on sanitation and other basic facilities. The Chief Minister ordered that Rs. 5,472 crore be released immediately for strengthening the existing hospitals. Officials informed him that tenders for medical colleges at Paderu, Piduguralla, Machilipatnam and Pulivendula would be finalised by the end of November, and for Bapatla, Narsapuram, Eluru, Anakapalli, Markapuram, Madanapalle and Nandyal medical colleges, the tendering process would be completed by December itself. Tenders for the medical colleges at Vizianagaram, Rajahmundry, Penukonda, Amalapuram and Adoni were likely to be finalised by January. Mr. Jagan said village and ward secretariats would be acting as referral centres under the Aarogyasri programme till the establishment of YSR Health Clinics. The list of empanelled hospitals should be displayed at the secretariats and health assistants / ANMs have to guide patients, he said.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC stays HC nod for probe against Uttarakhand CM||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed a Uttarakhand High Court order directing a Central Bureau of Investiation (CBI) probe into corruption allegations against Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. A Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, said it was too “drastic” for the Uttarakhand High Court to have passed such an order without giving Mr. Rawat an opportunity of hearing. ‘Caught by surprise’ Attorney General K.K. Venugopal, appearing for Mr. Rawat, said the order “caught everyone by surprise” and was against the principles of natural justice. The case pertains to corruption allegations levelled by two journalists — Umesh Sharma and Shiv Prasad Semwal — pertaining to money transferred allegedly into the accounts of relatives of Mr. Rawat in 2016 to support appointment of a person as head of “Gau Seva Ayog” of Jharkhand when he was the in-charge of Jharkhand Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit. Justice Bhushan said even the State was not arraigned as a party before the court. Mr. Venugopal said the order could even unsettle the government. The top law officer said the Chief Minister was bound to be heard. The High Court was entirely wrong in law when it said that it could direct lodging of an First Information Report (FIR) without hearing the party. The High Court cannot be oblivious that it would result in the unsettling of the government, Mr. Venugopal argued. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the two journalists, said he was not opposing the stay order but there was ample evidence in support of corruption allegation against Mr. Rawat.
30 October 2020||KOCHI,||Enforcement Directorate gets custody of Sivasankar||M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who has been arraigned as fifth accused in a Prevention of Money Laundering Act case booked by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), was given to the custody of the agency for seven days on Thursday. Though the agency sought 14-day custody, Principal Sessions Judge Kauser Edappagath allowed only seven days considering the fact that the accused had been interrogated several times earlier. The court asked the ED to permit him to contact his lawyer while in custody. The accused should be allowed to rest after 6 p.m. The judge directed investigating officer P. Radhakrishnan, Assistant Director of the agency, to ensure all medical assistance to the accused and to provide him Ayurvedic treatment for his back pain during custody without disturbing the interrogation process. If necessary, the accused can be taken to a doctor after 6 p.m. The investigating officer was directed to allow the accused to interact with his wife, brother and nephew while in custody.
30 October 2020||GUNTUR,||Govt. slashes liquor prices||The State government has rationalised the rates levied on Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and foreign liquor, while tightening rules preventing smuggling of liquor across the borders. According to the new rates, the prices of liquor in the category of Rs. 200 and up to Rs. 350 for 180 ml, the prices have been reduced by Rs. 50 per 90 ml, Rs. 100 for 180/200 ml, Rs. 200 for 360/375 ml, Rs. 400 for 700/750 ml and Rs. 540 for 1000 ml and above. For liquor in the category of more than Rs. 350 and up to Rs. 370 for 180 ml, the prices have been decreased by Rs. 60 (50/60/90 ml), Rs. 100 (200/180 ml), Rs. 200 (360/375 ml), Rs. 400 (700/750 ml) and Rs. 590 (1,000 ml and above). Rates have been decreased by Rs. 100 (50/60/90 ml), Rs. 190 (200/180 ml), Rs. 380 (360/375 ml), Rs. 760 (700/750 ml) and Rs. 1,020 (1,000 ml and above) for liquor in the category of Rs. 370 up to Rs. 460 for 180 ml. The rates for beer have been unchanged. The government said there were several instances of people dying due to consumption of sanitisers. Under these circuithe government felt the need for rationalisation of rates.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon blues||
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad blues||
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon blues||
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Embassy guard attacked||A Saudi citizen wounded a guard in a knife attack on Thursday at the French consulate in Jeddah. “The assailant was apprehended by Saudi security forces immediately after the attack. The guard was taken to hospital and his life is not in danger,” the French Embassy said in a statement. Police in the western province of Mecca, where Jeddah is situated, said the attacker was a Saudi, but it did not give the nationality of the guard.page 11
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Speed catch||
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||PLA upgrading troops’ quarters ahead of winter||China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Thursday outlined plans to upgrade the living conditions along the border of its troops in high-altitude areas through the winter, suggesting that it was preparing for the long haul amid continuing tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). PLA Senior Colonel Wu Qian, a spokesperson for the Ministry of Defence, outlined the plans for what he called “improvement of border defence troops’ training and living conditions on [the Tibetan plateau] by high-tech applications”.  This included, he said, new accommodation with “a self-energised insulated cabin” that would in areas “where the outdoor temperature is -40°C with an elevation of above 5,000 m [keep] the indoor temperature at higher than 15°C”. The new cabins, he said, would also have installed “new thermal insulation devices for food storage”. Talks between the Corps Commanders discussing disengagement on the LAC made little progress after seven rounds, with an agreement to not add troops but a continuing stalemate on any consensus to disengage.
30 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||Mayawati suspends 7 MLAs for ‘rebelling’||Accusing the Samajwadi Party of trying to break away her MLAs, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Thursday vowed to ensure the defeat of the SP candidate in the MLC polls in Uttar Pradesh. She suspended seven of her MLAs for their alleged rebellion.
30 October 2020||Patna,||EC orders removal of Munger DM and SP||The Election Commission on Thursday ordered the immediate removal of the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police of Munger over the death of one person and injuries sustained by several others in police firing over the immersion of an idol on October 26.
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Mask rule for motorists may be put on hold||The BBMP’s rule making a mask mandatory for solo motorists – in four-wheelers and two-wheelers – is likely to be put on hold for a week.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi reports highest single-day spike in cases||Delhi recorded 5,739 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the highest in the city so far. A total of 60,124 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 9.55%, in the past 24 hours. The Capital also saw 27 virus-related deaths and 4,138 recoveries.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Act against BJP leaders for hate speeches’||The Delhi Assembly’s Minority Welfare Committee has directed government officials concerned to pursue criminal action against BJP leaders — Parvesh Verma and Kapil Mishra — for giving “provocative speeches” before the riots in north-east Delhi earlier this year.
30 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Residents left in the lurch||Government agencies concerned appear to have remained mute to the woes of about 20 households in Batapady-Uchchila that have been cut off from the mainland since July this year.
30 October 2020||YADGIR,||BJP wins two top posts in Yadgir CMC||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has won the top posts in the Yadgir City Municipal Council in the elections held on Thursday. Assistant Commissioner of Yadgir Sub Division Shankargowda Somanal declared the results. Vilas Patil and Prabhavathi M. Kalal of the party have been elected as president and vice-president, respectively.
30 October 2020||BELAGAVI,||19 file nomination papers for DCC Bank polls||As many as 19 candidates filed their nomination papers for the 16 posts of directors of the District Central Cooperative Bank in Belagavi on Thursday, sending out a message that the elections will not be unanimous. Thursday was the last date for filing nomination papers. Friday will see scrutiny of nomination papers and Saturday is the last date for withdrawal of nomination papers. Polling is scheduled for November 6.
30 October 2020||Kolkata,||WB adds 3989 new COVID-19 infections 61 deaths||West Bengal on Thursday recorded 3,989 new COVID-19 cases taking the tally in the State to 3,65,692. The State recorded 61 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the fatalities to 6,725. With more discharges than the number of infections, the active cases in the State declined to 37,094 and the discharge rate rose marginally to 88.02 %. The figures released on Thursday do not indicate any big spike, as was feared, after the Durga Puja festival. Experts however said it was too early to gauge the impact. The State tested about 43,265 samples in the past 24 hours which is same as the number of samples tested before the pujas. The Union Ministry of Health has urged West Bengal and a few other States to ramp up COVID-19 testing. Of the 61 deaths, Kolkata accounted for 15 taking the fatalities in the city to 2,172. North 24 Parganas registered 14 deaths taking the toll in the district to 1,541. The deceased included Syed Ahmed, Block Development Officer of Madirbazar block, and Anindya Basu, inspector in-charge of Nodakhali police station.
30 October 2020||Pune,||First nearby||Maharashtra reported 5,902 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday as opposed to 7,883 recoveries, taking the total tally to 16,66,668 while its number of active cases dipped further to 1,27,603. With 156 deaths, the fatality toll reached 43,710. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 14,94,809 with the State’s recovery rate climbing further to 89.69%. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the case fatality rate stood at 2.62%.
30 October 2020||Mumbai,||Second nearby||A city civil and sessions court on Thursday granted bail to Shirish Pattanshetty, owner of Fakt Marathi channel, in the Television Rating Point (TRP) manipulation case. Mr. Pattanshetty (44) was arrested on October 8. He was granted bail by additional sessions judge P.R. Sitre on a bond of Rs. 50,000 after it was rejected by the Esplanade magistrate court. An FIR was registered against him under Sections 409, 420, 120 B, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code.
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. to ban employees from acting in films||The State government has decided to ban its employees from acting in films and television serials, publishing books, and voicing criticism against the State and Union government policies. A draft of the Karnataka State Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 2020, said that they cannot act in films and television serials without permission from the competent authority.
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Citing harassment, IPS officer resigns||IPS officer P. Ravindranath, who holds the post of Additional Director General of Police in the Forest Cell, tendered his resignation to the Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar through Karnataka DGP Praveen Sood citing harassment. This comes following the promotion of senior IPS officers who were junior to him. Sources said that senior officers are trying to convince Mr. Ravindranath to withdraw his resignation.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Number of active cases falls below 25,000||The number of active COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu dropped below 25,000 on Thursday even as the State recorded 2,652 new cases. The overall tally stood at 7,19,403, while 35 more fatalities pushed the toll to 11,053.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,||State govt. has signed 120 MoUs, says CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday said the State government has signed 120 MoUs in the past 21 months. “Of the 98 MoUs signed during the first edition of the GIM [in 2015], 72 are in various stages of implementation,” he said while giving the scorecard of the two GIMs. Mr. Palaniswami said 304 MoUs were inked during the second edition of the GIM held in 2019. “Of this, 81 MoUs have commenced production and 191 projects are in various stages,” he added.
30 October 2020||COIMBATORE/ERODE/NAMAKKAL,||I.T. Dept. unearths Rs. 150-cr. investments||Searches conducted by the I-T Department at 22 locations in Chennai, Coimbatore, Erode and Namakkal have led to the identification of investments and on-money payments to the extent of around 150 crore.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Number of active cases falls below 25,000||Kerala reported 7,020 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday when 54,339 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 4,18,484. The test positivity rate remained at 12.9%, and has been remaining more or less stable between 12% and 14 % most of last week as well.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Plasma therapy effective, Tamil Nadu tells Centre||Tamil Nadu has urged the Union Health Ministry to consider the views of its doctors on the benefits of plasma therapy before framing guidelines, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said.
30 October 2020||Kozhikode,||Cong. in a Catch-22 situation||The Congress appears to have been caught in a political quandary over the proposed 10% reservation proposed by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government for economically weaker sections (EWS) in the general category and who are not eligible for any other reservations in government jobs. Senior party leaders are struggling to take a concrete stance on the issue which, many believe, is a googly thrown by the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left government during the fag end of its term. The predicament of the party is visible when leaders have been airing multiple views on different occasions. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran says his party favoured an amendment to provide quota to the deprived sections of the forward communities, but wanted the State government to wait till the Supreme Court gave a verdict on it. Blames govt. Even while blaming the government for trying to drive a wedge between different communities, the Congress leadership has left the matter to be decided by its political affairs committee. At the same time, it has been trying to placate its main ally, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), which has been opposing the new quota policy. Trapped by two contradictory conditions, the leadership fears losing traditional votes of the Hindu Nair community and Syrian Christians which have been rooting for reservations for the EWS categories. The Syro-Malabar Church and the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church have flayed the ambiguous stand of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). An analysis of the previous polls showed that the Congress has been losing a section of voters, especially the Nair community, even when the State has been witnessing a trend of alternating governments. One of the reasons is the emergence of the BJP in the State's polity. The shift in the social base of parties was witnessed in the previous Assembly polls of 2016 with the LDF garnering more votes of the Nair and Ezhava communities. Likewise, the Christian and Muslim communities, the traditional vote base of the UDF, have been shifting their voting preferences to the LDF. However, these trends were completely reversed in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 when the UDF won 19 out of the 20 seats. Ezhava voting Nevertheless it remains to be seen how the voting pattern of the Ezhava community turns out, which more often backed the LDF in the Assembly or Lok Sabha polls, in the wake of the proposed EWS reservation. The Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam has termed the proposal as politically motivated.
30 October 2020||KOCHI,||Sivasankar guilty of offence of money laundering, says ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) believes that “former Principal Secretary to Kerala Chief Minister, M. Sivasankar, has knowingly assisted Swapna Suresh in layering and usage of proceeds of crime on the pretext of untainted money,” considering the materials it has gathered in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. The agency made these revelations in a statement filed on Thursday before the Principal Sessions Court here, which is also the Special Court for trying offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The ED suspects that the proceeds of the crime, seized by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from safe lockers of Swapna, the second accused in the case, could belong to Mr. Sivasankar, who had an interest in the finances of Swapna. The NIA had seized around Rs. 1 crore from Swapna’s bank locker. The proceeds of the crime were generated by Swapna with the active support of Mr. Sivasankar. The accused remained evasive and non-cooperative when confronted with these facts, the ED said. The agency said that during the investigation, it was revealed that Mr. Sivasankar was involved in the commission of the offence. WhatsApp chats between the two revealed that she had requested him to intervene with the terminal manager/ airport authorities/ Customs for some work at the airport/clearance of diplomatic baggage without Customs examination. Chartered accountant P. Venugopal had admitted that Mr. Sivasankar wanted to manage the finances of Swapna and Mr. Venugopal had submitted the WhatsApp chats to that effect, it said. The agency submitted that Mr. Sivasankar had accepted that he had spoken/sent messages to some officer in April 2019 for the clearance of some diplomatic baggage which was to be examined by the Customs. He made the call following a desperate request made by her. An analysis of the evidence gathered and statements of various persons clearly established that he was guilty of offence of money laundering as defined under Section 3 of the Act, the ED submitted. M. Sivasankar, who has been arraigned as fifth accused, was given to the custody of the agency for seven days. ‘CM should resign’ Meanwhile, the Opposition’s demand for the resignation of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan got shriller on Thursday with a court in Kochi remanding Mr. Sivasankar in the custody of the ED. The Congress and the BJP unleashed a wave of protests across the State accusing Mr. Vijayan of allowing economic offenders to harness the heft of his office to facilitate the smuggling of gold in air freight addressed to foreign officials at the diplomatic mission. The police used water cannons to disperse Youth Congress workers who attempted to storm the Chief Minister’s official residence at Cliff House here. Congress workers held torchlight processions in panchayats and municipal wards.
30 October 2020||Patna,||EC orders removal of Munger DM and SP||The Election Commission (EC) on Thursday ordered the immediate removal of the District Magistrate (DM) and the Superintendent of Police (SP) of Munger over the death of one person and the injuries sustained by several others in a police firing in the town over the immersion of an idol of Goddess Durga on October 26. The EC has also ordered an investigation by Divisional Commissioner, Magadh, Asangba Chuba Ao in the next seven days, and asked the State government to appoint a DM and an SP. “The EC has ordered removal of Munger DM Rajesh Meena and SP Lipi Singh over violence and police firing in the town…it has also ordered probe into the incident which is to be completed in next seven days,” an EC official, Sanjay Kumar Singh, said. The order came amid violent protests by people against the police firing, which had led to the death of Anurag Poddar, 22. The protesters indulged in arson at the office of district officials on Thursday, setting some vehicles on fire. The Opposition Congress and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) have condemned the incident and demanded that the Prime Minister immediately dismiss the Nitish Kumar government. Sharing a video that has gone viral on social media, Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala asked, “Will the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party)-JD(U) (Janata Dal-United) government thrash Goddess Durga worshippers like animals? ... The Munger police firing has reminded us about General Dyer of the Jallianwala Bagh incident of 1919.” Ms. Lipi Singh, a 2016-batch IPS officer, is the daughter of senior JD(U) leader R.C.P. Singh. “During Durga Puja immersion, some anti-social elements resorted to stone throwing, which injured 20 policemen, and after this, someone from the crowd fired shots, leading to one death and others injured,” Ms. Singh told mediapersons after the incident.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||Maharashtra still has highest death toll||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday said there had been 517 COVID-19 fatalities in the past 24 hours, and of these, nearly 81% was concentrated in 10 States and Union Territories (UTs). Maharashtra reported 91 deaths, followed by West Bengal (60), Karnataka (55), Chhattisgarh (55) and Delhi (40). Maharashtra also contributed the highest number of recoveries. It had more than 8,000 single-day recoveries, followed by Kerala with over 7,000 recoveries. The Ministry said that 49,881 new confirmed cases were recorded in the past 24 hours. 79% of them was from 10 States and UTs. Kerala continued to report a very high number of new cases with more than 8,000 patients, followed by Maharashtra with over 6,000 cases. Recovery figures According to the data, 56,480 patients had recovered and discharged in the last 24 hours and 79% of the new recovered cases was observed to be concentrated in 10 States/UTs. A large number of tests were being conducted every day with one crore tests conducted in the last nine days, the Ministry stated. The country had demonstrated a consistent increase in the testing infrastructure since January, resulting in an exponential increase in the testing numbers. Its testing capacities have been ramped up multiple times, it noted. With 10,75,760 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the cumulative tests have crossed 10.65 crore (10,65,63,440). “Nearly 11 lakh tests have been conducted daily on an average during the past six weeks,’’ it pointed out. Widespread testing “Evidence has revealed that comprehensive and widespread testing on a sustained basis has resulted in bringing down the positivity rate. The sharp decline in national cumulative positivity rate has demonstrated that the rate of spread of infection is being effectively contained. The cumulative positivity rate has been falling progressively and has touched 7.54% today,” the Ministry added. India had an active caseload of 6,03,687 on Thursday.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Yashvardhan likely to be next CIC||Former diplomat and Central Information Commissioner Yashvardhan Kumar Sinha is tipped to be appointed the next Chief Information Commissioner (CIC), two months after the position fell vacant, sources said on Thursday. The decision was taken after an October 24 meeting of the high-powered selection panel headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. However, Congress Leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who is a member of the panel, is learnt to have submitted a dissent note. The Opposition leader objected to the manner in which the short-listing process was carried out, alleging a failure to follow the Supreme Court’s transparency guidelines, issued in a February 2019 case brought by Right to Information (RTI) activist Anjali Bhardwaj. Mr. Chowdhury also objected to the fact that journalist Uday Mahurkar had been short-listed for a commissioner position, though he had not been on the list of applicants. Mr. Sinha is a retired Indian Foreign Service officer and had served as India’s High Commissioner to the U.K. and Sri Lanka. He was appointed a member of the Central Information Commission in January 2019. The commission consists of a chief and up to 10 commissioners. It has been headless twice this year, due to a two-month delay in appointing the last chief, Bimal Julka, and another two-month period since he retired in August-end. It has not functioned at full strength for almost four years, and currently has only five commissioners, leading to a backlog of 37,000 pending cases. When the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) issued advertisements for vacancies in July, it received 139 applications for the CIC position and 355 applications for the Information Commissioner posts. The three-member selection committee, including the Prime Minister, Mr. Chowdhury and Home Minister Amit Shah, met twice, on October 7 and 24. Minister of State Jitendra Singh was also present, according to sources. They considered Mr. Sinha and his fellow commissioner and former Secretary to the Finance Ministry, Neeraj Kumar Gupta, for the CIC position. They considered seven candidates for the remaining vacancies, including Mr. Mahurkar, who authored a book on Mr. Modi’s governance model in 2017. According to sources, he was not on the list of 355 applicants, and was short-listed to satisfy the Supreme Court’s directive to consider a broad field of expertise. Sources said the other shor-tlisted candidates are all from a bureaucratic background, including former Defence Production Secretary Subhash Chandra, former Labour Secretary Heeralal Samariya, former MSME (Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises) Secretary Arun Kumar Panda, retired All India Radio News Director-General Ira Joshi, Deputy Comptroller and Auditor-General (DCAG) Meenakshi Gupta and former DCAG Saroj Punhani. It is not known how many vacancies are being filled. In a February 2019 order, the top court ruled that long delays in clearing appeals frustrated citizens’ rights, and directed that appointments be made in a “transparent and timely” manner. The government was directed to put up “all necessary information” on its website, including particulars of the applicants and the composition of the search committee which shortlists candidates. However, the DoPT hasnot made this information public.
30 October 2020||Purnia/Kishanganj,||Licking the wounds of lockdown||Seven months after lakhs of migrant workers returned to their homes — many on foot — following the announcement of a sudden and extended nationwide lockdown, the narrative on the ground in Bihar is divided. There are no official figures on how many people migrate out of Bihar in search of work each year. But as per reports, 25-30 lakh migrant workers returned home during the lockdown. The anger against the Nitish Kumar government on lack of jobs, leaving no option but to migrate, is all pervasive. The voter is clear that ‘bijli-paani-sadak’ (electricity-water-road) is not the only parameter of development. However, the view about the Narendra Modi government’s culpability varies. In Simalbari village, in Kishanganj, Khurshid Alam is livid. His four brothers worked at a garment factory in Ludhiana. They had been living there for four years. Due to the extended lockdown, their family had to send them money, which they borrowed on interest, to bring the four back home. “They set us back by five years. It will take us a long time to pay back the loan. How come coronavirus was only for the common man. There is no coronavirus now that Modi ji is doing election rallies,” Mr. Alam said. As soon as the travel restrictions were lifted, his brothers were back in Ludhiana. Strong support A few kilometres away in Mahesh Batna village, Lalchand Singh, who belongs to the Dalit community of Rajvanshis, recalls how his brother, who worked in Bengaluru, waited many days hoping that the lockdown would be lifted. When he and others with him realised that the lockdown might not be lifted anytime soon, they pooled in their money and hired a bus to return. The lockdown also meant that the villagers, who usually leave for Punjab during the harvest and sowing season, could not go due to the travel restrictions and lost one part of their key annual income. But asked if they blame Mr. Modi for this hasty decision, Mr. Singh says, “What is Modi’s fault in it? Modi is only trying to save the country. This is a foreign disease. If he had not imposed lockdown in time, then we all would have contracted it.” In Katihar, Fayaz Alam, 19, who was working as an electrician in Mumbai, took five days to return after spending Rs. 8,000, and since then he has not able to garner the courage to return. “Why do our children have to go outside Bihar. Nitish says he brought roads and water. Will these roads feed our stomachs ... And then we have Modi ji to top it, he has only been taking decisions that hurt us, from demonetisation to lockdown,” Mohmmad Salim said. Some 70 km away, in Damdaha constituency, a group of Dalits from the Godi community effusively praise Mr. Modi, the free grains and Rs. 500 a month for a period of three months given to women Jan Dhan account holders. Suman Kumar, who worked at a steel plant in Hyderabad, took 10 days to return after spending Rs. 5,000. But standing next to him, Shambhu Singh, a farm worker, finds no fault with Mr. Modi’s announcement. “No government has given us a single paisa till now and he gave us Rs. 500 for three months to feed our children dal and sabzi ,” he says.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||LAC situation critical: former MP||Chinese troops have further transgressed into Indian territory and occupied positions in Finger 2 and 3 of the north bank of Pangong Tso (lake), Thupstan Chhewang, former BJP MP from Ladakh, has said. Mr. Chhewang said he had received information from local people living in forward areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh that Indian soldiers were living in tents and it was not adequate for them in sub-zero conditions. Mr. Chhewang told The Hindu , “The border situation is critical. The Chinese troops have not only further transgressed into our areas but they have also occupied prominent positions in Finger 2 and 3 areas of Pangong Tso, even Hot Springs area they have not fully vacated... this is what we have come to know from locals.” “The soldiers are put up in tents; this is not acceptable. If despite several negotiations, the government is not able to convince the Chinese to withdraw, then adequate shelter should be provided to the soldiers,” he said. Mr. Chhewang led a delegation to Delhi in September when he met Home Minister Amit Shah to demand the Union Territory’s inclusion in the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution. He said the Centre assured them that any changes in land laws in Ladakh would be held in consultation with leaders. The Home Ministry notified land laws for Jammu and Kashmir allowing anyone from other parts of the country to purchase land there. Confusion prevails Mr. Chhewang said, “The gazette notification with regard to land in Jammu and Kashmir has created lot of confusion here in Ladakh. But we hope that the Home Ministry will not issue such a notification for the Ladakh UT, as Amit Shah ji has categorically given an assurance to the Ladakh delegation headed by veteran leaders to provide all necessary constitutional safeguard during the course of our discussion in Delhi. We are confident that the Home Ministry will accept our demand for including UT of Ladakh under Sixth Schedule.” The Sixth Schedule protects tribal populations and provides autonomy to the communities through the creation of autonomous development councils that can frame laws on land, public health, agriculture etc. As of now, 10 autonomous councils exist in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram. Two months ago, People’s Movement, a group comprising all political parties and the influential Buddhist association, was formed in Ladakh to strongly demand the inclusion in the Sixth Schedule and seek protection from outsiders. The group had decided to call off a boycott of the recently concluded autonomous council elections in Leh after the delegation was assured that “all issues related to language, demography, ethnicity, land and jobs will be considered positively/ taken care of.” Mr. Chhewang said, “The BJP was able to get only a simple majority in the elections, we have a strong Opposition now. They should empower the nationalist forces. We are yet to get a call from the Centre for the proposed meeting”. The Ministry said in a statement on September 27 that a dialogue would commence after 15 days of the culmination of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council, Leh elections. The election results were announced on October 26 and the BJP bagged 15 seats, down from 17 in 2015.
30 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Bengaluru reports over half of Karnataka’s new cases||Kerala’s incidence of COVID-19 cases stood at 7,020 on Thursday, with a testing level of 54,339 samples. The test positivity rate remained at 12.9%, more or less stable at between 12% and 14 % most of last week. The authorities added 26 new deaths to the official list from the October 17-26 period. Nine deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, five from Malappuram, four from Kannur, three from Alapuzha, two from Thrissur and one each from Wayanad, Idukki and Ernakulam. Among districts, Thrissur reported 983 cases, Ernakulam 802, Thiruvananthapuram 789, Alapuzha 788, Kozhikode 692, Malappuram 589, Kollam 482, Kannur 419, Kottayam 389, Palakkad 369, Pathanamthitta 270, Kasaragod 187, Idukki 168 and Wayanad 93. Telangana’s positive cases hovered at around 1,500 as the number of tests rose. On Wednesday, 41,962 people were tested and 1,504 were positive. Five more COVID-19 patients died. The case number dropped to 582 on Sunday when only 14,729 samples were tested, and 837 on Monday when 21,099 samples were taken. The new cases on Wednesday included 288 from Greater Hyderabad, 118 from Medchal Malkajgiri,115 from Rangareddy, 93 from Nalgonda, 83 from Bhadradri Kothagudem and 84 from Khammam. Two cases were recorded in Narayanpet and three in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district. Andhra Pradesh reported 2,905 cases and 16 deaths on Thursday with a daily test positivity rate at 3.27%, the lowest in nearly four months, from 88,778 samples. So far, 78,62,459 samples were tested and test positivity rate stood at 10.40%. Meanwhile, three districts reported no deaths and Krishna reported three new deaths, the highest. Five districts of West Godavari, Guntur, Visakhpatnam, Nellore and Vizianagaram reported one death each. Similarly, East Godavari, Chittoor, Anantapur and Kadapa reported two deaths each. No district reported more than 500 new cases and West Godavari saw 494. While there was a marginal rise in new cases in Tamil Nadu as 2,652 persons tested positive, the number of active cases dropped to below 25,000 on Thursday. With this, the State accounted for a total of 7,19,403 cases of COVID-19. Another 4,087 persons were discharged after treatment and 35 persons died. Till date, 6,83,464 persons were discharged and 11,053 persons have died. Presently, 24,886 persons were under treatment. This included 7,628 in Chennai, 2,739 in Coimbatore, 1,707 in Salem, 1,136 in Chengalpattu and 1,056 in Tiruvallur.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)
30 October 2020||K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj,||Old loyalties vs. old rivalries in R.R. Nagar||From what was expected to be a walkover for Munirathna, the R.R. Nagar byelection has now turned out to be a hot arena for the BJP candidate, who has represented it twice as a Congress leader. Continued dissidence within the BJP against his candidature and an attempt to consolidate Vokkaliga votes against him by the Congress are the key challenges Mr. Munirathna faces, according to sources close to him. The JD(S), which has a considerable base in the constituency, has also been running a high-pitched campaign, turning into an “X factor” in the bypoll. Old memories   Tulasi Muniraju Gowda, a two-time BJP candidate against Mr. Munirathna, has been fighting a pitched battle against him, even challenging his 2018 election victory over malpractice. From the RSS stable, he lobbied hard to prevent Mr. Munirathna’s entry into the BJP and later against giving him the party ticket, but failed. Mr. Gowda has not been active in the campaign, said sources. Mr. Munirathna also had a bitter feud with local councillors — three women from three parties — when he was a Congress MLA. Multiple BJP councillors are also not actively campaigning for him. “The party’s worker base has not forgotten those days,” said a former BJP councillor, though Mr. Munirathna himself has been insisting that the old differences were buried. He is banking on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s campaign in BJP strongholds to directly appeal to the party’s loyal vote base, bypassing the local leaders. He has also ushered in star power, with actor-turned-politician Khushboo campaigning for him and actor Darshan expected to join as well. Meanwhile, running his campaign aggressively are three former Congress councillors, who shifted to the BJP with him. One of them, G.K. Venkatesh, was accused of trying to disrupt Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah’s rally, and was arrested and later released on bail. Strong base in slums However, what Mr. Munirathna is banking on is his base in the constituency, especially in the slum pockets, which goes beyond party or caste loyalties. “In these pockets, he got insurmountable leads in the previous two elections. He has tremendous goodwill there. For instance, he called most of the households in these areas personally during the recent lockdown and supplied them ration for three months,” a Congress leader conceded. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar and his brother and local MP D.K. Suresh, spearheading the Congress campaign, are attempting a Vokkaliga vote consolidation, given that Mr. Munirathna has had run-ins with Vokkaligas in the constituency. As opposed to this, the Congress candidate and new entrant H. Kusuma, a Vokkaliga, comes with no baggage and is seen as polished and educated. However, BJP strategists are hopeful that the Congress’ “overt attempt at Vokkaliga consolidation” will push other communities, especially the OBCs, to the BJP. However, they fear that the attempt to disrupt a rally of Mr. Siddaramaiah, a prominent OBC leader, may cause some damage. JD(S) revs up campaign The Congress’ attempt at Vokkaliga consolidation has upset the JD(S), with former H.D. Kumaraswamy wary of Mr. Shivakumar’s attempt to project himself as the big leader of the community, party sources said. The JD(S), that initially did not seem serious in the constituency, has picked up and is running a pitched campaign with Mr. Kumaraswamy himself in the lead and making a focused attack on the Congress. The JD(S) has a considerable base in the constituency, winning 40,000 to 60,000 votes since 2008. While BJP and Congress leaders claim the election is fast turning into a two-horse race, the JD(S) is keen to make its presence felt, and this might hurt the Congress.
30 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Sabarimala pilgrims allowed with riders||COVID-19 negative certificate, health insurance card, and registeration on the virtual queue portal have been made mandatory for undertaking the pilgrimage during the two-month Mandalam-Makaravilakku pilgrimage season of the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala from November 16. The test should be taken by pilgrims 24 hours before reaching the base camp at Nilackal and arrangements will be made at Nilackal, Pampa, and en-route places for the devotees to undergo the test. The COVID-19 negative certificate will be mandatory for those coming for duties from various departments at Pampa and the temple,sources said. Curbs on numbers A maximum of 1,000 devotees will be allowed to have darshan during the first five days of the week, 2,000 on Saturdays and Sundays, and 5,000 on the days of Mandala puja and Makaravilakku, Travancore Devaswom Board president N. Vasu told a press conference here on Thursday. The pilgrims will have to follow the COVID-19 guidelines and wear gloves and masks and ensure social distancing. The base camp will be at Nilackal. Light motor vehicles will be allowed to drop pilgrims at Pampa and return to Nilackal. Bathing in the Pampa river will not be allowed. Instead, showers will be installed by the Irrigation Department and the Kerala Water Authority will supply water. Paper plates will be made available for Annadanam at Nilackal, Pampa, and the Sannidhanam adhering to the COVID-19 guidelines. Steel water bottles will be made available for Rs. 100, which will be refunded on the return of the bottle after use by the pilgrims. Trekking to the temple will be allowed only through the Swami Ayyappan road. Emergency medical centres and oxygen parlours will be set up en route.  Pilgrims will not be allowed to rest along with others (‘viri’) on the premises of the temple and stay at the guest houses and other dwelling units at the Sannidhanam. However, Mr. Vasu said viri would be allowed at Nilackal in a restricted way. Special counters The ghee being brought by the pilgrims in coconuts for Abhishekam will be collected by TDB staff through special counters. The sanctified ghee will be returned to the pilgrims through counters. Arrangements have been worked out for the pilgrims to purchase Prasadam while returning to Pampa after having darshan. The Mandala puja is on December 26 and the temple will close on December 27 after the 41-day pilgrimage season. The temple will open on December 30 for the Makaravilakku pilgrimage. The Makaravilakku is on January 14, 2021, and the temple will close on January 20, 2021.
30 October 2020||New Delhi/ Srinagar,||NIA searches on in Kashmir and Delhi||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) conducted searches at seven locations in the Kashmir Valley and two locations in Delhi for the second day in connection with a case pertaining to “certain NGOs and Trusts raising funds in the name of charitable activities and then using those funds for carrying out secessionist and separatist activities in J&K”. The NIA said the case was registered under various sections of the anti-terror law, UAPA, on directions of the Union Home Ministry, on receipt of credible information that certain NGOs and Trusts are collecting funds domestically and abroad through donations and business contributions in the name of various welfare activities such as public health and education. “Further, these funds are sent to J&K through various channels such as hawala and cash couriers and are used to carry out and sustain secessionist and terrorist activities in J&K,” the NIA said in a statement. The NGOs raided on Thursday are JK Yateem Foundation at Srinagar and Kulgam, the Salvation Movement at Srinagar run by Zafar Akbar Bhat, Human Welfare Foundation at Delhi and Anantnag, Jammu and Kashmir Voice of Victims at Baramulla run by Abdul Qadeer, Falah-e-Aaam Trust at Budgam run by G.M. Bhat and Charity Alliance at Delhi run by Zafarul Islam Khan. Mr. Khan is former chairman of Delhi Minorities Commission and the founding editor of Milli Gazette , an English newspaper. Khan’s plea Mr. Khan said on Twitter that the raids seemed an attempt to implicate him in “some terror or riot case”. The Charity Alliance has been engaged in providing relief and aid to victims who were affected by riots in February in Delhi, he said. The NIA claimed that several incriminating documents and electronic devices have been seized during the searches.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amid Shringla’s France visit, India flays attacks in Nice||Foreign Secretary Harshvardhan Shringla arrived in Paris on Thursday, just hours after another deadly suspected terror attack in France, in which three people were killed by a knife-wielding attacker inside a church in Nice. The attack was condemned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who expressed solidarity with the French people. “Our deepest and heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and the people of France. India stands with France in the fight against terrorism,” Mr. Modi tweeted. Ahead of the visit, the External Affairs Ministry of had condemned a similar beheading of a school teacher in a Parisian suburb last week, and backed French President Emmanuelle Macron against “personal attacks in unacceptable language” made by Turkey and Pakistan. “We believe there is no justification for terrorism,” said External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday, when asked about the latest attack. During his visit, Mr. Shringla, who is due to travel to Germany and the United Kingdom next as part of the week-long three-nation tour, is also expected to focus on strategic partnership, cooperating on the Indo-Pacific, and dealing with the coronavirus pandemic. “The in-person consultations with European interlocutors are another step in India’s pandemic-age diplomacy,” Mr. Shringla tweeted. The MEA said several aspects of dealing with COVID-19, including cooperation in the development of a vaccine, diagnostics and testing, procuring medical equipment and ensuring safe treatment, as well as dealing with the post-Covid impact on the economy are on the agenda for talks. Boosting supply In particular, the MEA spokesperson said talks would include “enhancing supply chain resilience”, indicating that concerns over an over-dependence on Chinese manufacturing over the past few months, which has been shared in Europe, would also come up. “This is part of our continuing outreach despite the COVID-19 pandemic. We share democratic values with them, they are our strategic partners. We have multidimensional relations with them,” Mr. Srivastava said, referring to the three-nation visit, adding that the Foreign Secretary would discuss India’s “commitment to a free open and inclusive Indo Pacific”, as well.
30 October 2020||JAIPUR,||Over 60% turnout in Rajasthan civic polls||Over 60% votes were cast in the first phase of polling in the municipal elections in Rajasthan’s three cities — Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota — on Thursday to choose the councillors for 250 wards. The polling, which was largely peaceful, was conducted amid tight security measures with adherence to the COVID-19 norms. The municipal corporations of Jaipur Heritage, Jodhpur North and Kota North went to polls in the first phase, while the second phase of polling for the three remaining civic bodies will be held on November 1. The counting of votes will take place on November 3. COVID-19 norms in place Chief Election Officer Shyam Singh Rajpurohit said the number of polling stations had been increased to 2,761 and the polling time extended by half an hour to ensure compliance with the COVID-19 control guidelines. Mr. Rajpurohit visited several polling booths in Jaipur to inspect the arrangements. Polling was held for 100 wards in Jaipur Heritage, 80 in Jodhpur North and 70 in Kota North, where 430, 296 and 225 candidates respectively, were in the fray. The voting was held through more than 3,300 electronic voting machines (EVMs). The State government had bifurcated municipal corporations in the three cities in October last year, paving the way for two Mayors in each of them. While the Jaipur and Kota civic bodies are considered the BJP’s strongholds, the Congress has won thrice in the five elections held since the formation of municipal corporation in Jodhpur, which is Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s home district. The ruling Congress has sought votes on the plank of development of urban areas, while the BJP alleged lack of transparency and nepotism in the Gehlot government.
30 October 2020||MYSURU,||Move to include Kurubus under ST category draws ire||Adivasi and tribal communities of the region have expressed their ire over the move to include Kurubas under the Scheduled Tribe category for reservation in the State. M.B. Prabhu, a social activist working on tribal rehabilitation in Hunsur, said the plan was not only fraught with legal complications but more importantly it would amount to rendering social injustice to the other communities categorised within the ST matrix. He said Kurubas enjoyed a dominant position and had cornered bulk of the OBC reservation benefits and now the government wanted to include them under ST category. He said this would shrink the share of other communities, including Adivasis who had already been deprived of their rights due to the domination of Naikas under the ST group. If the sole criterion for inclusion of any community under the ST category was social backwardness, then there were any number of communities in the State. But their numbers were relatively less and could not make a political difference, and hence had been confined to the margins of society, said Mr. Prabhu. He said Kurubas already had a sizeable presence and representation in different walks of life disproportion to their population, be it in the academia or politics. “The Adivasis – who are among the most backward socially, educationally and economically, do not have any representation and neither do the political leaders care about them,” Mr. Prabhu added. The only government appointment to which the Adivasis were considered were to the posts of forest guard or mahout to tend to the elephants, he said. S. Sreekanth of Development through Education (DEED) described the move to include Kurubas under the ST category as regressive. He said the community had adequate number of MLAs and other elected representatives in the political sphere since 1952. Similarly, it had established an identity of its own as a progressive group and now to vie with the Adivasis and other similar groups to be clubbed as ST, would amount to rendering social injustice to other communities, he said and cautioned that the move would be struck down by the Supreme Court.
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,||ED officials arrest Kodiyeri’s son Bineesh||Enforcement Directorate officials on Thursday arrested Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, for his alleged financial links to a businessman, Mohammed Anoop, who had been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau in Bengaluru in connection with a drug racket in August. Bineesh, who appeared before the ED officials, was subjected to three hours of intense questioning before he was arrested. He was produced before the court and taken into four days custody for further investigation. Mohammed Anoop, in his statement to the ED, which has been probing the finances of the arrested peddlers, had said Bineesh had lent him Rs. 50 lakh to start a business in Bengaluru. This prompted ED officials to summon him for questioning. Incidentally, Bineesh told ED officials that he in turn had borrowed the money from a friend to help Anoop, said ED sources. “We asked him to substantiate his claims about the money and gave him time, but he failed to do so,” said an ED official. The Enforcement Directorate has booked a case against Bineesh under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The ED probe stems from a case being investigated by the Narcotics Control Bureau that claimed to have busted an ecstasy pills drug trafficking racket in Karnataka in August.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC seeks early hearing of Varavara Rao’s plea||The Supreme Court on Thursday did not order the immediate release from jail of ailing poet-activist Varavara Rao, even as it voiced concern over a month-long delay witnessed in the Bombay High Court (HC) to hear urgent pleas for his liberty and medical treatment. “The obstacle bothering us is that the matter is not being heard,” said Justice U.U. Lalit, heading a three-judge Bench. The last hearing of the case before the High Court was on September 17. The Supreme Court requested the Chief Justice of the Bombay HC to list the case for hearing at the earliest. Justice Lalit said the case had “three dimensions”. One, a competent court had taken cognisance of the case, and thus, Mr. Rao’s detention was not per se illegal. Second, the question of bail was, again, under the consideration of the High Court. Finally, the issue of setting Mr. Rao at liberty, either on merits of the case or on medical grounds, was being looked into by the High Court. “So, how do we [Supreme Court] hear the case now,” he asked. Mr. Rao, 79, was arrested in August 2018 in the Elgar Parishad case.
30 October 2020||Srinagar,||Militants kill 3 BJP workers in Kashmir||Suspected militants shot dead three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers in the Y.K. Pora area of Kulgam in south Kashmir on Thursday evening. “Terrorists fired upon the three Bharatiya Janata Party workers. They were shifted to a nearby hospital where all were declared brought dead,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar told The Hindu . The police identified the deceased persons as Fida Hussian Yatoo, who was the Bharatiya Janata Party’s district youth secretary, and Umar Rahseed Beigh and Umer Ramzan Hajam, both party workers. “Senior police officers reached the terror spot and the area was cordoned off to nab the attackers. We suspect the hand of the Lashkar-e-Taiba,” Mr. Kumar said. “Investigation is on, and officers are establishing the circumstances of this terror crime,” the police said. Earlier this year, three Bharatiya Janata Party leaders were killed in Bandipora district of north Kashmir.
30 October 2020||Islamabad,||Abhinandan released for peace: Pakistan||A day after a top Pakistani Opposition leader said that Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had pleaded at a high-level meeting to release Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman fearing an Indian attack, Pakistan said on Thursday that there was “no pressure” to release the Indian Air Force pilot. “The Government of Pakistan took the decision as a gesture of peace, which was appreciated by the international community,” Foreign Office spokesman Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri said at a weekly media briefing. However, a Minister said in the National Assembly that Pakistan was responsible for the Pulwama terrorist attack in 2019 that brought the two countries to the brink of war. “We hit India in their home. Our success in Pulwama is a success of this nation under the leadership of Imran Khan. You and us are all part of that success,” Minister Fawad Chaudhry, a close aide of Prime Minister Imran Khan, said. Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz leader Ayaz Sadiq said Mr. Qureshi had urged the release of Wing Commander Varthaman. “Legs were shaking and foreheads perspiring, and the Foreign Minister told us, ‘For God’s sake, let him [Varthaman] go back now because India is attacking Pakistan at 9 p.m.’,” Mr. Sadiq said.
30 October 2020||Mudu Chintalapalli (Medchal-Malkajgiri district),||‘Online transaction of non-farm properties soon’||The State government is confident of launching online registration and mutation of non-agricultural properties in the next 15 to 20 days. The online transactions of agricultural properties got under way on Thursday after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao formally launched Dharani, the portal developed as part of the integrated land record management system. Online transactions related to non-agricultural properties are however likely to take about a fortnight more as the required software is being trial tested to ensure that no problems are encountered during the operation of the system. “There will be difference in the software used for agricultural properties and non-agricultural ones. The non-agricultural properties will have multiple owners, for instance, apartment complexes with individual flats and therefore, it will take some more days for operationalisation of the new system,” the Chief Minister said.  95% land details  Of the more than 1.48 crore acres of land across the State, details of 1.45 crore acre lands had already been hosted on the portal. Information of these lands, constituting more than 95% of the total area, could be accessed from anywhere across the globe. Adequate care was taken to ensure that government and forest, wakf and endowment properties were placed under the auto lock mode preventing any transactions relating to them.    Describing the new software as “trendsetter”, he acknowledged that implementation of a new system or new set of reforms which, he said, were “revolutionary” were bound to have some teething problems. But the government was committed to ensure that they would be addressed at the earliest and ensure that people would have hassle-free and transparent revenue administration. “It takes courage to take such decisions and implementation of Dharani reflects our commitment to the cause,” he said recalling how the government addressed problems related to power, drinking water and other issues which Telangana faced at the time of its formation. The system would not give any scope for graft and the entire process would be based on biometric authentication. The finger print and key word of the mandal revenue officer concerned is must for opening up of the portal for transactions,” he said. Mr. Rao said the government has decided to extend the last date for regularisation of the sada bainamas (land transaction on plain paper) by one more week following requests from the people. The government has received 1.64 lakh applications as on date and it has decided to extend the deadline in the interests of the people. “There will be no more Sada Bainamas in future. All the transactions will be through registration,” he averred.  Rythu Vedikas  He said the government would start inauguration of Rythu Vedikas that were constructed as platforms for farmers to exchange ideas about agriculture and related issues. Construction works pertaining to more that 95 per cent of the 2,601 Rythu Vedikas planned across the State had been completed and the remaining would be completed within few days. The Chief Minister said he would himself inaugurate the Rythu Vedika at Kodakandla mandal headquarters in Jangaon district on October 31 and explain farmers about the importance of these platform.  It takes courage to take such decisions and the implementation of Dharani reflects our commitment to the cause. K. Chandrasekhar Rao,Chief Minister
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Online deal of non-farm properties soon: CM||Of the more than 1.48 crore acres of land across the State, details of 1.45 crore acre lands had already been hosted on the portal. Information of these lands, constituting more than 95% of the total area, could be accessed from anywhere across the globe. Adequate care was taken to ensure that government and forest, wakf and endowment properties were placed under the auto lock mode preventing any transactions relating to them. Describing the new software as “trendsetter”, he acknowledged that implementation of a new system or new set of reforms which, he said, were “revolutionary” were bound to have some teething problems. But the government was committed to ensure that they would be addressed at the earliest and ensure that people would have hassle-free and transparent revenue administration. “It takes courage to take such decisions and implementation of Dharani reflects our commitment to the cause,” he said recalling how the government addressed problems related to power, drinking water and other issues which Telangana faced at the time of its formation. The system would not give any scope for graft and the entire process would be based on biometric authentication. The finger print and key word of the mandal revenue officer concerned is must for opening up of the portal for transactions,” he said. Mr. Rao said the government has decided to extend the last date for regularisation of the sada bainamas (land transaction on plain paper) by one more week following requests from the people. The government has received 1.64 lakh applications as on date and it has decided to extend the deadline in the interests of the people. “There will be no more Sada Bainamas in future. All the transactions will be through registration,” he averred. He said the government would start inauguration of Rythu Vedikas that were constructed as platforms for farmers to exchange ideas about agriculture and related issues. Construction works pertaining to more that 95 per cent of the 2,601 Rythu Vedikas planned across the State had been completed and the remaining would be completed within few days. The CM said he would himself inaugurate the Rythu Vedika at Kodakandla mandal headquarters in Jangaon district on October 31 and explain farmers about the importance of these platform.
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||BJP complains to EC Observer on ‘excesses’||The State unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party has demanded that Election Observer (law and order) sent by the Election Commission to oversee the by-election to Dubbak Assembly seat take immediate action against the police officials playing a “partisan role” to favour the ruling TRS. In a memorandum submitted to the Election Observer on Thursday, party in-charge for the Dubbak byelection and former MP Jithender Reddy, national executive member N. Indrasena Reddy, election cell in-charge Antony Reddy, charged the police officials with continuing to harass the party leaders and cadre and keeping them from campaigning. Many workers are being summoned to police stations without rhyme or reason and are being warned that if they continue to participate in electioneering, their families will be deprived of government welfare benefits, they alleged. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders also recounted the recent incidents of raids on the home of party candidate Raghunandan Rao, preventing party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar from reaching Siddipet and disregarding the norms to be followed with regard to a Member of Parliament and how he was forcibly transported back to Karimnagar under police watch.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Lowest core sector shrinking since March||Consequently, output contraction from the core sectors, which account for little over 40% of the Index of Industrial Production, stood at 14.9% in the first half of 2020-21, recovering slightly from the 17.8% decline recorded by August. “While many lead indicators have displayed signals of a strengthening economic recovery in September 2020, we caution that the sustainability of the upturn may not be universal, and await signs of its durability,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ICRA Ratings. September’s improvement in core sector numbers is also attributable to the effect of a lower base, as the index had recorded negative growth of 5.1% in September 2019, with coal, steel and electricity clocking output contractions. Coal output which had shrunk in September 2019 by 20.9%, has reported 21.2% growth in September 2020. Production growth Steel production grew by 0.9% in September 2020, compared to a 1.4% contraction a year ago. Electricity output similarly grew 3.7%, vis-a-vis a 2.6% decline recorded in September 2019. Production of natural gas (-10.6%), crude oil (-6%) and refinery products (-9.5%) continued to fall in September, indicating that these sectors are yet to recover from the demand shock that followed the lockdown imposed in late March. Natural gas output fell for the sixteenth month in a row, crude oil fell for the 34th successive month and refinery products recorded their seventh month of contraction, as per a CARE Ratings note on Thursday’s data. “The sharp improvement in the core sector output is encouraging and collates well with the higher consumer spending seen in early October. A low base effect in the next month and the further unlocking of the economy is likely to push this growth into positive territory in the next month. The negative growth in the oil segment will further narrow in the coming months as the unlock process becomes more prevalent in the country,” the firm noted.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||PLA upgrading troops’ quarters ahead of winter||Talks between the Corps Commanders discussing disengagement on the LAC have made little progress after seven rounds, with an agreement to not add troops but a continuing stalemate on any consensus to disengage. Senior Colonel Wu did not directly link the new plans to the ongoing LAC stand-off but said “the logistic support capabilities are directly connected with the combat effectiveness”. “The application of high-tech means,” he said, “will facilitate the construction of logistic support capacity and promote the troops’ war preparation work.” 2+2 Delhi dialogue On Tuesday’s ‘2+2’ ministerial dialogue in New Delhi between the Foreign and Defence Ministers of India and the U.S., Senior Colonel Wu reiterated the Chinese foreign office’s statement from earlier this week, saying China “believes that the development of U.S.-India relations should help maintain regional peace and stability and should not be directed at any other country”. China’s Foreign Ministry also hit out at comments made by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in Delhi criticising the Communist Party of China and pledging support to India on the boundary issue, accusing the U.S. of looking to interfere in a “bilateral” dispute. Its statements have, so far, not mentioned India, only directing ire at Washington. ‘Cold War mentality’ On Thursday, the PLA too took aim at the U.S. “Regarding the so-called U.S. alliance system, this is a product of the Cold War period, which embodies the outdated Cold War mentality and the zero-sum game concept,” Senior Colonel Wu said. “China has always firmly opposed this.”
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ramp up testing, Centre tells Delhi, WB, Kerala||Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, on Thursday, reviewed the status of COVID-19 in the States/UT of West Bengal, Kerala and Delhi and their public health response measures. He advised these States/UTs to gear up “testing, tracking & treatment” strategy during the festival season and also asked them to ensure that additional thrust be given to public awareness as well as enforcement of COVID-appropriate behaviours. The video conference saw the participation of V.K. Paul, member (Health), NITI Aayog, and Director General of ICMR Balram Bhargava, health secretaries from the States/UT among others. A release issued by the Ministry said Delhi has 29,378 active cases as of Thursday with a fatality rate of 1.76% and a positivity rate of 7.9%. “5,673 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours and there has been nearly 46% increase in the new cases over the past four weeks, and the positivity rate over the past four weeks has escalated by nearly 9%. The rising cases were attributed by the Delhi team to social gatherings during the festivities, the deteriorating air quality, increasing incidences of respiratory disorders, and clusters of positive cases at work places,” said the Ministry. It added that the UT was advised to aggressively ramp up testing, increase RT-PCR tests, focus on contact tracing and effectively enforce isolation of the traced contacts within the first 72 hours. Perimeter control “Delhi has been advised to focus on containment zones, and strict perimeter control to be implemented as per MHA guidelines,” said the Ministry. The Secretary said West Bengal has shown a 1% increase in the positivity rate over the last four weeks. In Kerala, Thrissur, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Malappuram are the top districts showing increasing trend in COVID-19 cases.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||India upset by Kashmir depiction on Saudi note||India on Thursday described the map of Kashmir in a new currency note of Saudi Arabia as a “gross misrepresentation” of sovereign territory. Official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said during the weekly briefing that Delhi has taken up the issue at the diplomatic level with Riyadh. “We have conveyed our serious concern to Saudi Arabia, both through their Ambassador in New Delhi as well as in Riyadh, for this gross misrepresentation of India’s external territorial boundaries on an official and legal banknote of Saudi Arabia and asked the Saudi side for taking urgent corrective steps in this regard,” said Mr. Srivastava asserting that “the entire Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh are integral parts of India”. The 20 riyal note was printed by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority on October 24 to celebrate the Saudi presidency of the G20. The global outfit for international cooperation will convene its next summit meeting on November 21-22 in virtual mode and the controversy has cast a shadow on the preparatory days for the summit. The map shows Kashmir as a separate entity between India and Pakistan. The map also appears to depict Gilgit Baltistan and the Azad Kashmir areas out of Pakistani control. However, it is not yet clear if Pakistan has lodged a formal complaint regarding the map.  We have... asked the Saudi side for taking urgent corrective steps in this regard  Anurag Srivastava  MEA spokesperson
30 October 2020||Kolkata,||No rule of law in Bengal, Dhankar tells Amit Shah||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah and his subsequent remarks on the law and order situation in the State on Thursday once again triggered strong reactions from the West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress. Interestingly, a section of the Left and Congress leaders also criticised the utterances of the Governor, saying such utterances did not go with the high office he occupied. After meeting Mr. Shah, Mr. Dhankhar said, “How can a constitutional head have a sound sleep when the State is sliding into lawlessness”. His accusations included that the “police and administration were politicized” and the rule of law not being restored. “I am not a stakeholder in politics. It is not my concern who gets elected. But it is my concern how elections take place,” he said. The remarks prompted speculation about imposition of Article 356 in the State where Assembly polls are scheduled next year. When Mr. Shah was not in favour of President’s rule and Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh also did not want it, why was the Governor impressing on this, Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy asked. Another Trinamool Congress leader and Minister Partha Chatterjee said Mr. Dhankhar’s utterances were like those of a spokesperson of the BJP. A section of the Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) leaders accused him of “compromising” his position. Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya and CPI(M) leader Samik Bhattacharya were among them.
30 October 2020||Kozhikode,||Kerala bars AYUSH cure prescription for COVID-19||The State government has barred qualified AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) doctors from placing advertisements and prescribing drugs to cure COVID-19. This is, however, not applicable to medicines suggested as ‘immunity boosters’ by the Union government. In an order on October 20, the Secretary, AYUSH, said the direction was in line with the August 21 judgment of the Kerala High Court which said that AYUSH medicines could be used only as immunity boosters and that they could not be prescribed as a cure for the infection. The court order was based on a petition that claimed that the State government was not allowing homoeopathy and other AYUSH branches of medicine to be used in the battle against the pandemic. Protocol The protocol here allows only the government or those authorised by the government to treat the infected persons, their contacts, or those in quarantine. The Union AYUSH Ministry has suggested consumption of Chyavanprash, herbal tea/decoction (kadha) made from tulsi (basil leaves), dalchini (cinnamon), kalimirch (black pepper), shunthi (dry ginger) and munakka (raisin), apart from golden milk or half tea spoon turmeric powder in 150 ml hot milk, as immunity boosters. The State government also allows Arsenicum Album 30C homoeopathic drug as a prophylactic or a preventive drug, which has been opposed by doctors practising modern medicines and the associations representing them. IMA’s opposition Health Minister K.K. Shylaja incurred the wrath of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) when she had purportedly endorsed the above homoeopathic drug as an effective option against COVID-19. The Minister later clarified that she was only referring to a study by a District Medical Officer (Homoeopathy). Any violation of the AYUSH Secretary’s order would invite action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The Health Department and the police have been directed to monitor the activities of AYUSH practitioners, the order adds.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||SC stays HC nod for probe against Uttarakhand CM||The journalists had alleged that money had been transferred into the accounts of relatives of Mr. Rawat in 2016 to support appointment of a person as head of “Gau Seva Ayog” of Jharkhand when he was the in-charge of Jharkhand BJP unit. Justice Bhushan said even the State was not arraigned as a party before the court. Mr. Venugopal said the order could even unsettle the government. The top law officer said the Chief Minister was bound to be heard. The High Court was entirely wrong in law when it said that it could direct lodging of an FIR without hearing the party. The High Court cannot be oblivious that it would result in the unsettling of the government, Mr. Venugopal argued. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the two journalists, said he was not opposing the stay order but there was ample evidence in support of corruption allegation against Mr. Rawat.
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. staff told not to act in films, serials||The State government has decided to ban its employees from acting in films and television serials, publishing books, and voicing criticism against the State and Union government policies. A draft of the Karnataka State Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 2020, said that they cannot act in films and television serials without permission from the competent authority. The draft rules also seek to stop government staff from sponsoring media programmes in radio and television channels. Objection in 15 days The Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms notified these draft rules on October 27, 2020, seeking objections within 15 days. The rule said a government servant should not publish any book or engage him/herself habitually in literary or artistic or scientific work without the permission of prescribed authority. A new set of rules, likely to be enforced soon, also states that government servants cannot consume intoxicating drinks in public places. It also prohibited employees appearing in a public place in a state of intoxication. The rules also seek to ban employees from embarking on foreign tours without permission. “No government servant shall undertake a private foreign tour without prior permission from the prescribed authority,” state the rules. Dress code Related to dress code, the rules state that every government servant should cultivate the habit of wearing “decent dresses” in office and wear uniforms wherever such uniform is prescribed for a category of post. New rules drafted under 39 different heads have prescribed political neutrality; principles of merit, fairness and impartiality in the discharge of his or her duties; accountability and transparency; responsiveness to the public; and courtesy and good behaviour with the public by employees. The rules would be applicable to about six lakh employees.  Draft rules Govt. staff cannot sponsor media programmes in radio and TV channels Should not publish any book without permission No consuming intoxicating drinks in public places No foreign tours without permission
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Shapoorji Pallonji to build TS Secretariat||Infrastructure development company Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Private Limited has been selected to take up construction of the new integrated secretariat complex. The bid submitted by the Mumbai-based company was evaluated as the lowest qualified tender at 4.02% excess over the estimated contract value of Rs. 494.86 crore. Another bidder Larsen and Toubro, who participated in the tender process, quoted 4.8% excess over the estimated value. Letter of acceptance The Commissionerate of Tenders evaluated the tenders on Wednesday and, subsequently, the letter of acceptance was issued to the company on Thursday. The tender process followed the sanction of Rs. 617 crore for construction of the integrated complex. The initial estimate for the complex replacing the old secretariat was enhanced by Rs. 100 crore from Rs. 400 crore to Rs. 500 crore. Thereafter, the State government sanctioned Rs. 617 crore for construction works as more components were added to the complex. The scope for work has reportedly increased as the net site area increased by a little over one lakh square feet on account of addition of buildings proposed for staff amenities as well as electrical block while the total area has gone up from 25.42 acres to 28.05 acres. With the State government putting in place stringent norms for participating in the tender process, only two companies with a track record in infrastructure development remained in the fray. The firms sought extension of the deadline for completion of the project by at least six months given the expansion of scope of work, but the Telangana State government remained firm at the tender stage itself that the deadline for the completion of the new Secretariat project works would not be extended under any circumstances. The selected bidder, sources said, assured the government that works would be taken up on continuous basis with holidays included so that the complex could be completed in all respects in one year’s time.
30 October 2020||PATNA,||‘PM could’ve spoken on key issues’||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a jibe at him, calling him ‘ jungle raj ka yuvraj (crown prince of the rule of lawlessness)’, Tejashwi Yadav, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and heir apparent of party chief Lalu Prasad, on Thursday said “he [Modi] is the PM of the country and he can say anything”. “He is country’s Prime Minister, he can say anything and I don’t want to react to that. He came to Bihar and he could have spoken about what happened to a special package for the State, issues of unemployment, migration etc…” Mr. Yadav told media persons. “It [BJP] is the world’s biggest party and they’re using 30 helicopters in campaign… if their Prime Minister talks like this, what can I say…people know everything… he [Modi] should have spoken on more important issues such as poverty, unemployment, factories, farmers...” stated Mr. Yadav, who is the only star campaigner of his party
30 October 2020||Srinagar,||Protesting PDP leaders arrested in Srinagar||A street protest organised by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Srinagar against the recently notified land laws for the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir was disallowed by the administration on Thursday. Several PDP leaders were arrested when they assembled at the party’s headquarter, which was later sealed by the security forces. “We are protesting against the black laws of the black day. Swords are kept hanging over our heads and a barrel is pointed towards our heads, as there is no space left to express our opinion,” said PDP spokesman Suhail Bukhari minutes before his arrest. The others arrested were Khurshid Alam, Waheed Para, Mohin Qayoom, Tahir Sayeed, Yasir Bhat, Rouf Bhat and Hamid Kohsheen. “...A similar protest was allowed in Jammu so why was it thwarted here? Is this your definition of ‘normalcy’ that’s being showcased in the world?,” PDP president Mehbooba Mufti tweeted.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to alert govt. on uncertified use of drugs||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it would alert the Centre and get a reply on a plea on the uncertified use of Remdesivir and Favipiravir as COVID-19 drugs. Appearing before a Bench led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde, advocate M.L. Sharma drew the court’s attention to a report issued by the World Health Organisation warning that the drugs have not been officially declared an antidote for the virus.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||SC gives time on Permanent Commission||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed the Union government time till December 31 to implement its March 17 judgment, which upheld the right of women naval officers to be considered for permanent commission. The government said it needed more time for preparations owing to the pandemic.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. bans export of onion seeds||The government banned the export of onion seeds with immediate effect as per a notification issued by the Director General of Foreign Trade on Thursday, in view of surging prices of the bulb in the domestic market and concerns about a seeds' shortage ahead of the next sowing season.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP hits out at Rahul Gandhi||The BJP on Thursday hit out at the Congress, after a member of the Pakistan National Assembly said Indian pilot Abhinandan Varthaman was returned as Pakistan feared an attack by India. Tweeting a video of the Opposition politician speaking in the Pakistan National Assembly, BJP president J.P. Nadda said: “Congress’ princeling does not believe anything Indian, be it our Army, our Government, our Citizens. So, here is something from his ‘Most Trusted Nation’, Pakistan. Hopefully now he sees some light...”
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Officials face action over RTI reply||A day after it was slammed by the Central Information Commission over a “preposterous” and “evasive” response to an Right to Information query related to the Aarogya Setu application, the Information Technology Ministry has issued directions to take action against the officers responsible. “The Ministry has taken the lapses made in providing information on Arogya Setu app very strictly. We have issued directions to initiate suitable action against the officers responsible for this,” an IT Ministry official, who did not want to be named, said. The official added that the Ministry has also directed the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and National E-Governance Division (NeGD) to take suitable action against the officers dealing with the RTI query. “We are committed to furnishing all the information sought under the RTI Act to the applicant and comply with the directions of the Central Information Commission (CIC),” the official said.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||Ensure flat rate power for weavers: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday wrote to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath about high electricity tariff being charged from the weavers of Varanasi and urged the State government to charge a “flat rate”. In her letter to Mr. Adityanath , the Congress general secretary in-charge of U.P. said that Varanasi’s weavers were in deep financial distress.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||Ensure flat rate power connections for weavers, Priyanka urges Adityanath||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday wrote to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath about high electricity tariff being charged from the weavers of Varanasi and urged the State government to charge a “flat rate”. In her letter, the Congress general secretary in-charge of U.P. said that Varanasi’s weavers were in deep financial distress.
30 October 2020||Ahmedabad,||Former Gujarat CM Keshubhai Patel passes away||Keshubai Patel, former Gujarat Chief Minister and a stalwart who played a key role in building the BJP in the State, died of cardiac arrest on Thursday. He was 92. The nonagenarian had recently tested positive for COVID-19 but had recovered. The BJP veteran was Gujarat’s chief minister in 1995 when the party came to power for the first time and again during 1998-2001.
30 October 2020||Lucknow,||Ex-Unnao MP Annu Tandon quits Congress||Former Unnao MP Annu Tandon on Thursday resigned from the Congress, stating that there was a “misalignment” between her and the party’s Uttar Pradesh unit. In her resignation letter to party Sonia Gandhi, Ms. Tandon said, “Unfortunately, there is a misalignment between the State leadership and me and I do not see their support in allowing me to work since the past several months.”
30 October 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata International Film Festival rescheduled to be held in January 2021||The West Bengal government has rescheduled the Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF) this year in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said the 26th edition will be held from January 8 to 15, 2021. “This edition... has been designed in a smarter frame giving due importance to social distancing,” the KIFF website stated.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||CVC to receive vigilance clearance proposals only via email from Nov. 1||The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has decided to receive through email, from November 1 onwards, all vigilance clearance proposals for the Board level, all-India and Central services officials for appointment, empanelment, promotion and other related issues. No hard copies of documents will be accepted, the CVC has said.
30 October 2020||Lucknow,||Mayawati suspends 7 MLAs for rebelling||Accusing the Samajwadi Party (SP) of trying to break away her MLAs, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Thursday vowed to ensure the defeat of the SP candidate in the MLC polls in Uttar Pradesh, even if it meant that her party legislators would have to vote for the BJP. The BSP chief also suspended seven of her MLAs — over a third of her total strength in the Assembly — for their alleged rebellion in withdrawing support to her Rajya Sabha candidate Ramji Gautam’s nomination and their alleged meeting with Akhilesh Yadav. She said she also regretted forming an alliance with the SP in 2019 and withdrawing the case in the 1995 guest house attack, calling them both “wrong decisions” taken hastily.  The seven suspended MLAs are Chaudhary Aslam Ali, Hargovind Bhargav, Mohammad Mujtaba Siddiqui, Hakim Lal Bind, Mohammad Aslam Raini, Sushma Patel and Vandana Singh.
30 October 2020||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Re-lay road, say residents and stage protest||Residents of Sambangi Street here staged a protest against the Kariyapatti town panchayat on Thursday seeking to include their street for re-laying of road. They said that the road that had been partially laid several years back. While the adjacent Shenbagam Street has been given a fresh layer, officials ignored this street. Police officials pacified them saying that they would take up their cause with the local body. “The town panchayat finalised tender for several lakhs to re-lay roads in the town. But there is no transparency on selection of works,” complained Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam town secretary, R. K. Senthil. Mr. Senthil, who is the former councillor of ward 12 under which Sambangi street falls, alleged that influence of ruling party was behind selection of roads to be re-laid. M. Velmurugan, 45, a resident of the street, said that several petitions had been given to the local body seeking road work. “However, the officials were reluctant to take up work in our street,” he said. Executive Officer of Kariyapatti Town panchayat, M. Manikandan, said that the delay in taking up work in Sambangi Street was due to lack of drainage facility. “We wanted to ensure proper drainage facility so that the road would last long. We are going to take up work in this street too,” he added.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Active cases dip below 25,000 in State||While there was a marginal rise in fresh cases of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu with 2,652 persons testing positive for the infection, the number of active cases — persons undergoing treatment — dropped below 25,000 on Thursday. With this, the State accounts for a total of 7,19,403 cases. As many as 4,087 persons were discharged after treatment and 35 deaths were recorded on Thursday. A total of 6,83,464 persons have been discharged and 11,053 have died of the infection till date. Currently, 24,886 persons are undergoing treatment in the State, including 7,628 in Chennai, 2,739 in Coimbatore, 1,707 in Salem, 1,136 in Chengalpattu and 1,056 in Tiruvallur. Chennai’s daily count saw a marginal rise to 756. This pushed the city’s tally to 1,98,487. Coimbatore recorded 251 new cases, while Salem and Erode reported 170 and 124 cases, respectively. There were 148 cases in Chengalpattu and 146 in Tiruvallur. The remaining 31 districts had less than 100 cases each. A total of 75,224 samples have been tested in the last 24 hours. As many as 98,08,087 samples have been tested so far. A total of 95,42,700 persons have been tested till date. Of the 35 fatalities, 19 persons died in government hospitals. Chennai accounted for 9 deaths, while there were six deaths in Coimbatore and four in Tiruvarur. Among the deceased, 11 persons were in their 60s and 12 in their 70s. Three of them did not have any co-morbidities. A 64-year-old man from Tiruvarur was admitted to a private hospital in Thanjavur on October 17 with complaints of fever, cough for seven days, loss of appetite and giddiness for two days. He died on October 27 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 57-year-old man from Coimbatore was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on October 21. He died on October 27 due to bilateral bronchopneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and respiratory failure. Another private laboratory has been approved for testing — Maitocon Laboratory, Tiruppur. As of date, there are 136 private laboratories and 66 government testing facilities in the State.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin blames government for inundation in Chennai||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday alleged that the failure of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Local Administration Minister S.P. Velumani to take precautionary measures had resulted in inundation in Chennai, following overnight rains. “Chennai is not able to withstand rain even for a day. People fear that there will be a repeat of the floods that ravaged Chennai in December 2015,” he said in a statement. Mr. Stalin said the Greater Chennai Corporation should have prepared for the monsoon by desilting stormwater drains. “Though Rs. 750 crore was allotted for the purpose, there was corruption and irregularities. This was brought to light by Arappor Iyakkam. But neither the DVAC nor the Vigilance Department of the Greater Chennai Corporation came forward to probe the allegations,” he said. Mr. Stalin accused the Corporation Commissioner and other engineers of having connived with Mr. Velumani and failing to take precautionary measures. “The AIADMK government has failed to learn any lesson from the 2015 floods and now its failure has angered the people. Water is stagnating on the roads that look like ponds. Vehicular movement has come to a standstill,” he said. Mr. Stalin said Chennai already failed in the fight against COVID-19 and now in its preparations for the rain. “The Chief Minister and the Local Administration Minister should feel ashamed about the inundation in the city,” he said. Contending that if the urban local body elections had been conducted, the councillors would have rushed to the field to be with the people, Mr. Stalin said the AIADMK government had turned the administration of the Greater Chennai Corporation into a laughing stock. “Since the Meteorological Department has predicted heavy rain, efforts should be made to drain the water and make safety arrangements for people living in low-lying areas,” he said.  People fear that there will be a repeat of the floods that ravaged Chennai in December 2015
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain leaves several areas in Chennai flooded||After a weak start on Wednesday, northeast monsoon brought intense thunderstorms over Chennai and its neighbourhood that continued well into Thursday. The first spell in the year left many areas of the city water-logged. The upper air cyclonic circulation over southwest Bay of Bengal off north Tamil Nadu coast triggered widespread heavy rain. The weather station at the DGP’s office recorded the highest amount of 18 cm of rainfall followed by Anna University with 14 cm for 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. Thursday. Several areas such as Nungambakkam (13 cm), Ambattur (9), Alandur (8) and Ennore (7) recorded heavy rainfall. The four main reservoirs, including those in Red Hills and Cholavaram, had considerable inflow. Several key roads in the city were flooded within hours of downpour. Delay in completion of minor work owing to lack of coordination between the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) and the Highways Department resulted in inundation in a few areas. General Patters Road and Pattulos Road were inundated near the junction of Anna Salai. The Highways Department reportedly blocked the flow of water to the Cooum river near Hotel Taj Coromandel owing to ongoing work. Besant Road was waterlogged because work on development of a silt catch pit was not completed, Corporation officials said. Funds shortage Inadequate funding for desilting of storm drains because of the COVID-19 pandemic was another reason. Many wards had not prepared estimates for desilting drains. Etimates for desilting had been reduced from Rs. 15 lakh to Rs. 6 lakh this year. Nearly 50% of drains had not been desilted in some areas. Mylapore, Saligramam and Mandaveli were some of the heavily inundated areas after the overnight downpour and pedestrians waded through knee-deep water, including in Singaravelu Street, Saligramam. K. Viswanathan of Mylapore Residents Welfare Association said it is time that the storm drains were checked for connectivity, damages and release of raw sewage. Areas in north Chennai, including Perambur and Vyasarpadi, too were covered under sheets of water. Ganesan Perumal of Ever Vigilant Citizen Welfare Association, Kodungaiyur, said the Corporation must have checked the condition of the drains in low-lying areas. Fines should be imposed on people who dumped garbage in the drains. In some places, policemen cleared clogged drains with bare hands. “Our police personnel helped many, especially women motorists, who were struggling in the morning. We wanted to ensure free flow of traffic and avoid inconvenience to people,” said V. Balakrishnan, Joint Commissioner of Police, North. No flooding This year was an exception in some southern parts of the city, which usually get flooded after a spell of rain. Several areas, including Madipakkam, Pallikaranai and Ullagaram-Puzhithivakkam, identified as flood-prone areas, remained largely free of water stagnation. V. Rama Rao of Nanganallur said several localities usually would be flooded because of rainwater. But there were no complaints this time as the storm drains were linked to a macro canal that flowed into the Veerangal Odai. Two subways in Thillai Ganga Nagar and Palavanthangal, which provide access to G.S.T. Road, remained free of flooding. However, residents of Annai Indra Nagar, Venus Colony and Velachery complained that digging work for shifting overhead electricity network to underground power lines resulted in water stagnation.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||10 SDRF teams deployed in city||Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Thursday deputed personnel of State Disaster Response Force to various places in the city for rescue work. Over 300 personnel attached with the Armed Reserve (AR) police, Chennai, were given special training by T.N. Commando Force on rescue work. Mr. Aggarwal inspected arrangements and provided the wherewithal such as inflated rescue boats, life jackets and protective equipment to them. Of the 10 teams comprising 100 men, eight teams have been deputed to four police zones in the city while the remaining two have been kept on standby with the AR unit. They will rescue those who are affected or likely to be affected by rain.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rainwater streams into two Metro stations, staff take swift action||Hop, skip and jump — this was what many passengers who walked into the Government Estate Metro station had to do as the panel above the steps at the Ritchie Street entrance was leaking with the heavy rain on Thursday morning. There are 32 stations of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) across the city. Of these, 13 are elevated and 19 are underground stations. At many elevated stations, water stagnated on the platforms; at stations underground, it washed down the steps. However, at the Government Estate station, the problem of leak was bigger. “Water kept dripping since morning and the escalator was switched off. CMRL workers kept clearing the water continuously. There was no respite till evening. Passengers had to tread carefully,” said K. Muthiah, a passenger who came to the station in the morning and the evening. The rainwater also stagnated in the subway near the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate. “It is an old subway, and we renovated it and then opened it for the public. One pathway leads to the Government Estate station. Since the drain system is not proper, some water flowed into the station. But we made a kind of retaining wall and ensured that the situation was under control and prevented inconvenience to the passengers,” said a CMRL official. At the Meenambakkam Metro station, rainwater was found sprinkled on the platform. “It was a bit slippery, but the staff kept cleaning it,” said Armutha Sukumar, a chartered accountant. She said the AG-DMS metro station where she alighted was clean and there was no water. Another CMRL official said that apart from the Government Estate station, there was no problem elsewhere.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Power demand fell 2% in September||Tamil Nadu’s electricity demand fell nearly 2% to 8,313 million units in September 2020 from 8,482 million units in the same period last year, according to data from the Central Electricity Authority. Though the State’s demand in September recovered, compared to the previous months, it was below the national average. The all-India demand increased 4% to 112,581 million units in September this year from 108,250 million units in the same month last year. Power demand is used as one of the metrics to measure the level of economic activity. Tamil Nadu has the highest number of factories among the States. The growth in all-India demand in September was led by the western and northern regions, which saw an increase of 9.2% and 6.2% respectively. The southern region’s demand was down about 3.8% to 25,274 million units from 26,263 million units in the same month last year. Tamil Nadu further relaxed the lockdown in September, even allowing big showrooms and shopping malls to reopen, as part of the Union government’s Unlock 4 guidelines. The State’s power demand had rebounded in August and September this year since the lockdown to curb COVID-19 was imposed in March. However, the recovery has been slower. The demand crashed 26.5% in April and 14.5% in May amid the complete lockdown. In September, Tamil Nadu’s peak demand was 14,700 MW, down about 1.92% from 14,988 MW in the same month last year. The peak demand has recovered from a low of 11,435 MW in April. From April to September, Tamil Nadu’s power demand declined nearly 13% to 49,976 million units from 57,360 million units in the comparable period last year. The Reserve Bank of India’s recent report on ‘State Finances: A Study of Budgets of 2020-21’ said the finances of the State distribution companies were likely to weaken further during 2020-21 as the lockdown had crippled power demand, especially in the lucrative industrial and commercial segments, while their cost structure was rigid owing to minimum commitments for power off-take in long-term power purchase agreements.  Though the State’s demand in September recovered, compared to the previous months, it was below the national average
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK blames Governor for confusion||PMK founder S. Ramadoss said on Thursday that the executive order issued by the Tamil Nadu government granting 7.5% horizontal reservation for NEET-qualified students of government schools in undergraduate medical admissions should not create further confusion among students. In a statement, he said the government had issued the order when Governor Banwarilal Purohit had not given assent to the Bill for the horizontal reservation. “It is not known whether such a government order would stand legal scrutiny. The government should put pressure to get the Governor’s assent and then release the medical admission list. If the government order is challenged legally, it should defend it through top-notch lawyers,” Dr. Ramadoss said. He blamed the Governor for all the confusion and said the reasons given for the delay were not acceptable and urged the Governor to immediately give his assent to the Bill. Dr. Ramadoss urged the Centre to bring in an amendment to the Constitution to set a time frame for the Governors to decide on legislation and other issues. In a statement, Dravidar Kazhagam president K. Veeramani welcomed the government order. “It was a policy decision of the government, and since the Governor had not yet given assent to the Bill, this was the only way out. Let the State continue its approach of protecting its autonomy,” he said.  The government should put pressure to get the Governor’s assent and then release the medical admission list
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Statement on my political entry fake: Rajinikanth||Following widespread speculation regarding his political entry being called off, actor Rajinikanth clarified on Thursday that an announcement would be made on his entry into politics at the right time after discussions with the office bearers of the Rajini Makkal Mandram. In a statement which was shared on his social media pages, the actor said that a statement which was circulated on social media and to some sections of the press on Wednesday was fake. He, however, said that the information regarding his health in the statement was true. The statement had spoken about age and health related factors as well as the COVID-19 pandemic. In view of his transplant, his doctors advised him against entry into politics, it said. The actor said that everyone knew that had gone to Singapore in 2011 owing to his kidney ailment, but not that he had made a trip to the U.S. in 2016 for further treatment and surgery. “Everyone is aware that this is not a statement from me. However the parts in the statement about my health and the medical advice I have received from doctors are true,” the actor said. On December 31, 2017, the actor had officially announced that he would enter politics and would launch a political party.  The statement had spoken about age and health related factors as well as the COVID-19 pandemic
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments removed from 3-km stretch of G.N.T. Road||The Highways Department on Thursday removed encroachments from a 3-km stretch of the G.N.T. Road, popularly known as Kolkata Highway between Sholavaram and Karanodai. Around 250 persons were issued notices a few weeks ago and were asked to remove the encroachments on their own. However, following a court order and the time given to remove the unwanted constructions getting over, the officials along with police and revenue officials removed the obstructions. Sources in the Highways Department said the present width of the road was 10.5 m and following the encroachment removal drive, another 10 m would be added. Obstructions, including sun shades and extension of shops and commercial establishments, had blocked the free flow of vehicles for 1.5 km at Karanodai and 500 m at Sholavaram. This portion of the road is State Highway (SH U-15), previously under the control of the National Highways Authority of India. “Since the court has directed us to ensure that the encroachments do not make their way back on the road, we will shortly send a proposal to the government seeking funds to construct stormwater drains and lay the road from one end to another,” the official said.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Rules flouted in DCE appointment’||In a major blow to the State government, the Madras High Court on Thursday held that there was “wholesale” violation of rules in appointing Director of Collegiate Education (DCE), a post that gets filled with the nod of the Chief Minister and the Higher Education Minister. Justice V. Parthiban set aside the appointment of C. Poornachandran to the post after finding that his selection, overlooking two other senior and eligible candidates, was not only contrary to the rules but also “appears to have been actuated on extraneous consideration.” Allowing a writ petition filed by G. Geetha, a contestant to the post, the judge agreed with her counsel N.G.R. Prasad that the entire exercise of selecting the right candidate for the post must be redone in accordance with the rules and by assessing inter se merit and seniority. The judge pointed out that as per rules, the selection process to the post of a head of the department (non IAS) must begin three months before the prospective date of retirement of the incumbent officer. No such process was initiated before R. Sarumathi retired on May 31, 2019. A G.O. was issued on the date of her retirement notifying the vacancy in the post of DCE as one for the year 2019-20. However, no further action was taken to fill the vacancy, forcing Ms. Geetha to submit a representation and also file a writ petition in 2019. The court disposed of her petition in December 2019 with a direction to the government to consider her claim for appointment as DCE. Yet, the government did not act upon the direction and instead issued another G.O. on August 7 this year notifying ‘nil’ vacancy for the year 2019-20. Thereafter, steps were taken to prepare a panel of names eligible for the post of DCE. On August 13, Minister for Higher Education K.P. Anbalagan signed a proceeding recommending the name of Mr. Poornachandran to the post and it was countersigned by the Chief Secretary. A day later, the CM affixed his signature. “Therefore, a lot more explanation is required as to why G.O. No.95 (notifying one vacancy) was not acted upon and why G.O. No.88 was hurriedly issued by notifying the earlier vacancy as nil,” the judge said. He went on to state that on August 14, three successive G.Os had been issued. The first G.O. No. 98 listed the names of five candidates who had been empanelled for the post. The list included the names of Ms. Geetha as well as Mr. Poornachandran. As per the G.O., it should have been circulated to all Regional Joint Directors of Collegiate Education and Grade I Principals and two months’ time should be granted for them to make appeal against their non-inclusion in the panel. Without following this procedure, G.O. No. 99 was issued on August 14 appointing Mr. Poornachandran as DCE. Terming it “an exercise in inanity,” the judge said files circulated by the government didn’t contain any material in favour of Mr. Poornachandran to justify the preference given to him.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Labour agency raided in Chennai||Following an alert from the Jharkhand government, officials from the Labour department cracked down on an illegal manpower agency in Red Hills that supplied over 120 workers from that State to a company in Tada in Andhra Pradesh on Thursday. Investigation is on to ascertain if they were bonded labourers. A group of 120 labourers from Jharkhand were allegedly brought to Chennai during the lockdown period and then sent to Tada for work. They wanted to return to their home town but could not. Some of them informed their relatives back home that they were being harassed and this was information was passed on to the government officials in Jharkhand. The Jharkhand government wrote to Mohammed Nasimuddin, Additional Chief Secretary, Labour and Employment Department, Tamil Nadu. “The complaint was forwarded to us and we rushed to the manpower agency in M.A. Nagar, Red Hills. A person by name Satish was there and he agreed that labourers were brought from Jharkhand but he denied harassing them. However, they did not have any licence to run the manpower agency,” said S. Sudha, Assistant Commissioner of Labour, Enforcement, Tiruvallur district. Inquiry revealed that the labourers were brought here using e-pass. “We are checking how they did this, said Ms. Sudha.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. signed 120 new MoUs in 21 months, says Palaniswami||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday said the State government has signed 120 new MoUs in the last 21 months. He also gave the updated scorecard on the two editions of the Global Investors Meet (GIM) that was held in Tamil Nadu. “Of the 98 MoUs signed during the first edition of the GIM [in 2015], 72 are in various stages of implementation,” he said. The Chief Minister was delivering his address virtually at the inauguration of India’s first ‘Global Yaadhum Oorae Conclave’, organised by the Southern India Chamber of Commerce (SICCI) in association with Guidance Tamil Nadu. Mr. Palaniswami said 304 MoUs were inked during the second edition of the GIM held in 2019. “Of this, 81 MoUs have commenced production and 191 projects are in various stages,” Mr. Palaniswami added. The Chief Minister welcomed the global Tamil fraternity to invest in the State and spoke about the incentives that the State could dole out. Speaking about the three-day conclave, Ar. Rm. Arun, President, SICCI, said, “Our common goal is to create a dedicated online platform for the Tamil fraternity from across nations and facilitate detailed virtual discussions on how industry leaders from across sectors could collaborate with Tamil Nadu to further develop new business models”. “The ‘Global Yaadhum Oorae Conclave’ is a platform for the global Tamil fraternity and it fulfils a long felt need. It will enable successful and budding Tamil entrepreneurs to share and contribute to Tamil Nadu and allow them to network with industry leaders to generate business opportunities. “It will also promote Tamil culture and traditions that are so integral to our lives,” Neeraj Mittal, Managing Director and CEO, Guidance, said. The event aims at promoting business investments from abroad by strengthening social and cultural bonds with non-resident Tamils. It also seeks to create an online platform to bring together industry leaders to discuss the challenges and opportunities to help attract more investments through virtual channels, Mr. Mittal added.  The ‘Global Yaadhum Oorae Conclave’ is a platform for the global Tamil fraternity
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Books give company to patients in isolation at this govt. hospital||How do COVID-19 patients spend their time in hospital isolation? After finding that many of them were bored and constantly glued to their mobile phones, doctors at the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy, in Chennai, decided to create a library to enable patients to take up reading. With the help of donors and discharged patients, the hospital administration collected around 1,700 books and set up a 500 sq. ft. library on the second floor of the building. K. Narayanasamy, Director, Government Corona Hospital (National Institute of Ageing), said, “The patients have an hour of yoga every day. But after that, many were constantly on their mobile phones and were feeling bored as they were away from home. We wanted to help de-stress their minds and make them feel at home as well as enable them to know what is happening across the world by providing them books and newspapers”. The library consists of books in both Tamil and English, and has seven to eight sections. This includes education, medical (general), history, mental health, novels, comics, children’s health and yoga. Ten daily newspapers — both in English and Tamil — are also available at the library. “We have a designated staff for the library and are keeping it open from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. every day,” he said. When they came up with the idea of establishing a library, they roped in patients who were discharged from the hospital after COVID-19 treatment, he added. “They, along with a few others, have donated these books,” he said. The library was received with a lot of cheer by the patients. In the feedback book, a number of them wrote about how reading helped them stay relaxed during the isolation period in the hospital. “It is a great mind relaxation,” one of them wrote. Some of them even suggested that the library be kept open longer.  With the help of donors and discharged patients, the hospital administration collected around 1,700 books and set up a 500 sq. ft. library
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stop bifurcation of Anna University’||A cross-section of academics, activists and members of the civil society has issued a statement urging the Tamil Nadu government to stop the bifurcation of Anna University and clarify its stand on the implementation of the National Education Policy-2020. The statement, issued on Thursday, questioned the need for bifurcating the university if the State government’s claim that it was not in favour of the Institute of Eminence (IoE) status for the university was indeed true. The signatories included the retired judge of Madras High Court Justice D. Hariparanthaman; former Vice-Chancellor of Anna University M. Anandakrishnan; and former Vice-Chancellor of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University V. Vasanthi Devi. Condemning Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa for allegedly bypassing the State government and writing directly to the Union government to proceed with the IoE status for the institution, the statement asked what action had been taken by the State government against him. It urged the State to clarify its stand on various issues in the National Education Policy, which it said would transfer the control of education fully to the Union government. “The State government has stopped with just opposing the three-language formula in the NEP. What happened to the committee formed to study the NEP and its impacts,” it asked. The statement contended that the Union government’s IoE scheme would make education inaccessible to those from socio-economically disadvantaged groups at the State-run universities. Arguing that the grant of the IoE status would take away the State government’s control over the university, the statement said the scheme, along with the NEP, must be vehemently opposed. Justice Hariparanthaman, who spoke at the virtual conference organised to release the statement, criticised the State for not opposing the erosion of the State’s autonomy, particularly in education. “Late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa never allowed that, be it NEET, the Food Security Act or appointment of persons from outside Tamil Nadu as Vice-Chancellors of universities here,” he said.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Boy afflicted with rare neuro syndrome due to COVID-19||A 14-year-old boy afflicted with the rare Miller Fisher syndrome due to COVID-19 has been treated successfully, doctors at the Kauvery Hospital said. The syndrome, a variant of the Guillain-Barré syndrome, is a rare condition in which the immune system attacks the nervous system owing to an acute bacterial or viral infection. A statement said the boy was brought to the hospital primarily with complaints of double vision for five days. An RT-PCR test showed he had COVID-19. He also had difficulty in walking, tingling sensation in the limbs and general weakness. He was later diagnosed with Miller Fisher syndrome. Bhuvaneshwari Rajendran, lead consultant and neurologist, Kauvery Hospital, said Guillain-Barré syndrome could lead to a complete paralysis if not treated early. Vijayalakshmi Balakrishnan, senior infectious diseases specialist, said doctors were seeing serious lung complications, heart attacks, stroke and vascular complications among many of those who had recovered from COVID-19. In some cases, she said, such complications were happening even three to six months after recovery. The boy was put under intense treatment for six days and then physiotherapy. He is now able to walk without support and carry out his daily activities without difficulty, the statement said. Aravindan Selvaraj, executive director, Kauvery Hospital, said post-COVID-19 complications were posing a bigger risk at the moment.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Apollo group to adopt AI for treating stroke patients||“When we talk of stroke, time is brain,” said Sathishchandra P., neurologist, Apollo Speciality Hospitals. In an effort to diagnose stroke faster and reduce treatment time, doctors are adopting artificial intelligence (AI) for stroke management. Apollo Hospitals and India Medtronic Pvt. Ltd have partnered for integrating AI for advanced stroke management across 10 hospitals in the network. The AI software would provide automated analysis in less than two minutes as against currently accepted imaging practices for diagnosis of stroke that takes up one hour to complete, enabling faster decision-making in stroke, according to a release. The platform uses AI to create high quality, advanced images from non-contrast CT, CT angiography, CT perfusion and MRI diffusion and perfusion scans. Silent killer Stroke was one of the leading causes of death and disability in the country. It was the fourth leading cause of death and fifth leading cause of disability, according to Dr. Sathishchandra. “We need to spot stroke to stop stroke,” he said, listing the signs of stroke — face looking uneven, arm or leg weak/hanging down, slurred speech, sudden loss of balance and loss of vision in one or both eyes. Madan Krishnan, vice-president (Indian sub-continent), Medtronic, said their research showed that every day, more than 4,500 persons were affected by stroke in India, and only about 2 or 3% received right care at the right time. Prathap C. Reddy, chairman, Apollo Hospitals, said according to the World Economic Forum, non-communicable diseases (NCD) — diabetes, heart attacks, strokes, cancers and infections — were of serious concern during 2020-2030. At least 70% of deaths were due to NCDs, and this would be 80% by the end of the decade. “Sharing of knowledge and technology has to work hand-in-hand. Speed is the key and intervention at the right time will benefit patients. By focussing on AI, we will be able to work on research, take data and collate it and better the outcomes,” Preetha Reddy, vice-chairperson of the group, said. Suneeta Reddy, managing director of the group, emphasised on the need for patients to get timely care.  Healthcare will have greater inputs in terms of AI, automation, robotics and 3D printing Prathap C. Reddy Chairman, Apollo Hospitals
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shiv Nadar Foundation launches university||The Shiv Nadar Foundation launched its third initiative in the field of higher education — the Shiv Nadar University, Chennai. The University is the first private University to be legislated in Tamil Nadu after 90 years (since Annamalai University Act in 1928), upon the passing of the Shiv Nadar University Act 2018. R. Srinivasan, Co-Founder of Redington (India) Limited, will be the Chancellor of the University and Kala Vijayakumar, who played a key role in managing the SSN Institutions, Chennai, has been appointed as the Pro-Chancellor. To start with, the University will have a school of engineering and a school of commerce and management. The University will open for admissions in April 2021 with four specialised courses in disciplines of Engineering and Commerce. “My father received his education from this State. If not for the education he received, his dream of setting up a global organisation like HCL would not have become a reality,” said Roshni Nadar Malhotra, Chairperson, HCL Technologies and Trustee, Shiv Nadar Foundation. The University plans to introduce a four-year undergraduate programme in Business Management (BMS) in the following academic year (2022-23).
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SIMS launches centre to treat dystonia, spasticity||A centre of excellence for treatment of dystonia and spasticity movement disorders was launched at SRM Institute for Medical Science hospital on Thursday. Termed BONDS (Botulinum Toxin in Dystonia and Spasticity), the centre will treat movement disorders using botulinum toxin injection. Health Minister C. Vijaya Baskar inaugurated the centre. Chairman of SRM group Ravi Pachamuthu said: “With such fine clinical talents and resources available in-house, we at SIMS will continue to deliver high rates of successful clinical treatments for our patients.” Director of Neurology department U. Meenakshisundaram said botulinum toxin injection was administered as an outpatient procedure and the treatment spans from three to six months with minimal side effects. Botulinum toxin is produced by the bacteria clostridium botulinum, whose ingestion could lead to a disease called botulism in which muscles were paralysed. Dystonias were a group of disorders which cause abnormal posturing or movements of a body parts because some muscle groups go into abnormal, asynchronous contraction. Spasticity is abnormal stiffness that happens in diseases of the brain and/or spinal cord. The stiffness can be pronounced and cause considerable difficulty in daily activities.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNOU to launch course on innovative teaching skills||Tamil Nadu Open University (TNOU) along with Learning Matters, Bengaluru, is launching a month-long short-term programme. It is called “Innovative Teaching and Skills for Online Classrooms”. The short-term programme will be offered in open distance learning mode. It aims to improve professional development and practices and skills of school students, a press release said. Candidates can register at www: tnou.ac.in.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New IVRS for Indane customers from Nov. 1||Indane customers will have to use a new phone number 7718955555 to book liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders from November 1. The new IVRS number is an all-India number and it aims to be an unified facility for all Indian Oil Corporation’s LPG consumers across the country. “It was a national tender and the new telecom provider has taken the bid and chosen to provide a new number. We have urged the IOCL head office to hold onto the old number for sometime so that we can provide uninterrupted service to consumers,” said an IOC official. Distributors have been asked to ensure that information about the change in booking number reaches all their customers. The company has 1.2 crore active LPG customers in the State. Flyers are sent to consumers, their bills are getting seals with the new numbers. Indane LPG refill booking can be done using the customer’s registered mobile number only. If the customer’s number is registered in Indane’s records, the IVRS will prompt the 16-digit consumer ID. Upon confirmation, refill booking would be accepted. If the customer’s mobile number is not available in the records, then one-time registration should be done using the 16-digit consumer ID. This should be followed by authentication in the same IVRS call.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC pulls up UGC over arrear exams||The Madras High Court on Thursday came down heavily on the University Grants Commission (UGC) for filing an evasive counter affidavit to a case filed against State Government’s decision to cancel arrear examinations of all arts, science, engineering and Master of Computer Application students except for those pursuing final year this academic year. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha wondered how UGC could file a counter affidavit without commenting on the main crux of the case. In the counter affidavit, UGC Under Secretary Umakant Baluni had not offered any comment on the correctness or otherwise of the State Government's decision to cancel the arrear examinations. V. Sudha, advocate for UGC, apologised for the mistake and undertook to file an additional affidavit by November 20. AL. Ganthimathi, advocate for the AICTE, told the court that her client did not favour of cancellation of the examinations. Justice Sathyanarayanan wondered why arrear examinations can't be held in online mode. As special government pleader E. Manoharan sought time, the judges adjourned the case to November 20.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches portal for opinions||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated a portalhttp://tamilnadu.mygov.inon Thursday through which people can contact the government and express their opinions on various issues. He also inaugurated a scheme under the Jal Jeevan Mission in Salem to provide water connection to 1,143 small villages, at a cost of Rs. 118.46 crore.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MGM launches helpline for stroke treatment||MGM Healthcare on Thursday launched a dedicated helpline 044-42004200 and a stroke rapid response team to mark World Stroke Day. Actor R. Sarathkumar inaugurated the helpline. The Institute of Neurosciences and Spinal Disorders at the hospital has put in place a dedicated team to treat people who suffered stroke. According to K. Sridhar, director of the institute, the moment a person called the helpline a team of healthcare professionals drawn from neurology, emergency medicine, radiology and an interventionist, apart from nurses, would be ready to receive the patient and start treatment. “By having such a team, we have been able to reduce the door to needle time to 11 minutes,” said Dr. Sridhar. Across the world the golden hour was up to 30 minutes. When a person suffers a stroke, every minute counts, doctors say. Stroke is a condition when the brain cells die due to lack of oxygen flow, which can be caused by blood clots in the brain blood vessels. Approximately 30,000 brain cells can die every second once the oxygen flow to the brain stops. The team would have protocols and would be able to handle an emergency without having to wait for a specialist to take over. He gave the analogy of the Formula 1 race where at pit stop each car is serviced by a group of technicians and within seconds the car tyre is changed and it is ready to leave. G. Arjun Das, senior consultant neurologist, said a centre to treat stroke was first established at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wet spell for two more days likely: IMD||Moist north-easterlies that penetrated the coastal areas brought along a patch of rain-bearing clouds off the sea in a short time that caused heavy rain early on Thursday, according to S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, said. Light to moderate rains will continue over some parts of north coastal areas and south Tamil Nadu for two more days, he said. Heavy rain warning Heavy to very heavy rains are likely in one or two places in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Ranipet and Tirunelveli. In Chennai, intermittent thunderstorms are likely to continue and this may be heavy at times, Mr. Balachandran added.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman arrested for robbing a family||The Neelankarai police on Thursday arrested a 45-year-old woman who allegedly robbed 102 sovereigns of gold and Rs. 8 lakh cash from a family on the pretext of warding off evil spirits. The police said the accused, Narayani of Perumbakkam, was arrested from her hideout. The pawn broker and his son with whom she pledged the jewellery were also arrested. The victim, Sivakumar, 42, is employed at Chennai harbour and a resident of Palavakkam. His wife died in April 2018 in a fire. Nayarani visited Mr. Sivakumar and his daughter while she came to her daughter’s house who was his neighbour. She convinced him that evil spirits caused his wife’s death and a special puja had to be performed to ward them off. She told him to keep all the jewellery used by his wife and cash at puja. She reportedly told him they should perform the puja for one year. Even after a year, she failed to return them and went missing. Mr. Shivakumar lodged a complaint with the Neelankarai police.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CWMA takes stock of T.N.’s Cauvery water realisation||The Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) on Thursday took stock of the realisation of Tamil Nadu’s share of water, as per the 2018 judgment of the Supreme Court. Chaired by R.K. Jain, Chairman of the Central Water Commission (CWC), the meeting was attended by representatives of all the basin States — Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala — and the Union Territory of Puducherry. An official of the State government said the subject of the Mekedatu dam project was neither listed in the agenda nor raised during the day’s deliberations. As per the data provided by the CWC, Tamil Nadu received around 157 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft.) of water between June 1 and October 27, whereas its share for the period was about 141 tmc ft., marking an excess of 16 tmc ft. In October, the State recorded nearly 37 tmc ft. against the due of 18 tmc ft. On Thursday morning, the level in Mettur dam, the principal storage point of Tamil Nadu for Cauvery water, stood at 100.73 ft. against the full reservoir level of 120 ft. Its storage was 65.79 tmc ft. against the capacity of 93.47 tmc ft. The dam registered an inflow of 9,333 cusecs while its discharge stood at 9,900 cusecs, including 9,000 cusecs through the river and 900 through the canal. The pros and cons of the Sarabanga Lift Irrigation Project, which envisages the diversion of excess water from the Mettur dam, was also discussed at the meeting.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK bifurcates Dharmapuri district unit||The DMK on Thursday bifurcated its Dharmapuri district unit into Dharmapuri (East) and Dharmapuri (West) to facilitate better administration. A press release from party general secretary Duraimurugan said MLA P. Subramani will be in charge of the Dharmapuri (East) unit, which will cover Dharmapuri, Pappireddipatti and Harur (SC) Assembly constituencies. Fellow legislator P.N.P. Inbasekaran will be in charge of Dharmapuri (West), which will include the Palacode and Pennagaram Assembly constituencies.
30 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Deepavali sales: FSSAI gives instructions to sweet makers, traders in Coimbatore||The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has issued instructions to sweet manufacturers and wholesale and retail traders to follow good practices during Deepavali sales. The food regulator has appealed to sweet manufacturers to make sure that the products are free from adulterants and non-permitted food colours. As per the instructions issued by K. Tamilselvan, Designated Officer of FSSAI, Coimbatore district, confectioners should avoid the use of adulterants, non-permitted colourants and re-heated oil for making sweets. Traders have been instructed to avoid the use of newspaper and single use polythene bags to pack sweets. Packaged products should have a proper labelling with FSSAI licence/registration number, the name and address of the manufacturer, dates of manufacture and expiry, price, ingredients and whether they are made of oil or ghee. These details should be displayed for customers at the shop in the case of non-packed or loose sweets. Traders have been asked to store and display sweets made with milk separately besides informing customers the ‘use by date’. In view of COVID-19, the traders have also been instructed to ensure that staff and customers follow safety guidelines in shops. Customers can report grievances to the FSSAI through the WhatsApp helpline at 94440-42322.
30 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Efforts under way to reduce positivity rate, case load in Coimbatore district||Coimbatore district’s COVID-19 positivity rate stood at 6.1 % on Thursday, slightly above the target which Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami urged the district administration to achieve on Wednesday. In a video conference held to review COVID-19 situation in the State on Wednesday, Mr. Palaniswami urged Collector K. Rajamani to bring down the rate below 5 %. Though the Health Department is hopeful that the positivity rate will further reduce in the coming days, the festival season is posing a challenging situation, according to officials. The Chief Minister had also instructed the district administration to be more vigilant during festival season besides urging it to bring down the daily case load below 100 and death rate below 1 %. Deputy Director of Health Services G. Ramesh Kumar said Coimbatore district’s death rate stood at 1.27 % on Thursday. According to the official, the positivity rate was below Thursday’s 6.1 % on Wednesday and the figure will definitely decline with the co-operation of the public and continuing efforts of the Revenue and Health Departments, Coimbatore Corporation and the police. “Officials with the Revenue Department, Coimbatore Corporation and the police are giving instructions to people in shops, markets and other busy areas in view of the festival season. We expect to achieve the target soon,” he said. The official said, the Health Department and the health wing of Corporation were together collecting around 5,000 swab samples for COVID-19 tests a day in the district at present. As per statistics shared by the Health Department, the district’s daily case load fluctuated between 200 and 300 in the one-week period up to Thursday. The figure remained below 250 in the last three days.
30 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at airport||Officials of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized 6.8 kg of gold worth Rs. 3.6 crore from six passengers at Coimbatore International Airport recently. According to G. Sathish, Deputy Director of DRI, based on specific intelligence that gold was smuggled from west Asian countries, officers of DRI, Coimbatore, intercepted six passengers - Basha, Naazar, Sajif, Sahul Hameed, Yuvaraj and Dharmaraj. They arrived here from Sharjah by Air Arabia flight on October 24. The officers examined their belongings and found that each of them were carrying gold mixed in paste form and had concealed the same in their clothes and inner garments. When questioned, the six said that they were carrying the gold for a commission. The seized gold in paste form was processed and extracted. A total of 6.88 kg of 24 carat gold was recovered. It had been told that gold smuggling was slowly picking and the same was being carried out by various carriers and smugglers through the Vande Bharat Mission flights also, he said.
30 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||GST evasion detected||Officials of the Central GST Commissionerate of Coimbatore have detected Rs. 9.7 crore tax evasion and arrested one person. According to a press release, the officials initiated investigation by searches and summon proceedings against MSK Associated Traders and found that the unit was into bill (invoice) trading by issuing invoices without supply of goods to various units through intra and inter-State trade. These were mostly to scrap dealers or traders. The tax amount in the fake invoice was availed of as input tax credit by the traders who received the fake invoices on commission basis without receipt of actual goods. The invoices were used for further bill trading or tax payment of supply of non-duty paid goods procured without bills from the open market. M. Sampath Kumar, proprietor of MSK Associated Traders admitted to the office and was remanded in judicial custody on October 29. The total tax evasion worked out to Rs. 9.7 crore. Since evasion involved was more than Rs. 5 crore, it was a non-bailable office and hence, he was arrested under GST Act. Further investigation was under way, the release said.
30 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK organises black shirt demonstrations||Members of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) staged black shirt demonstrations in multiple locations in Coimbatore district on Thursday condemning the allegedly defamatory remarks made against the party’s leaders by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Youth Wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin. The party members alleged that Mr. Udhayanidhi, who led a demonstration near the South Taluk Office on Huzur Road here on Tuesday, made defamatory remarks against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani. According to AIADMK sources, the demonstrations were held at over 15 locations, including near the South Taluk Office on Huzur Road, Ganapathy, Singanallur, Thudiyalur, Peelamedu and Selvapuram. Coimbatore South MLA Amman K. Arjunan led the demonstration on Huzur Road, Coimbatore North MLA P.R.G. Arunkumar at Ganapathy and Kavundampalayam MLA V.C. Arukutty at Thudiyalur, the sources said. Hundreds of AIADMK cadre took out a rally from the party office to the South Taluk Office. DMK MLA condemns Singanallur MLA and Coimbatore urban east unit in-charge N. Karthik condemned the Coimbatore city police for allowing the demonstrations on Thursday. In a statement, he alleged that the AIADMK demonstrations were conducted in a manner that “caused inconvenience to the public” and claimed that the police “attempted to prevent” the DMK's demonstration on Tuesday.
30 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested on sexual harassment charge||A 39-year-old man was arrested by the police on Wednesday after a girl for whom he took motivational classes in school nine years ago accused him of sexually harassing her over the phone when she was studying in sixth standard. Samuel Jaisundar of Netaji Nagar on Nanjundapuram Road was arrested by the All Women Police Station, Coimbatore east. He was associated with a religious organisation named Scripture Union, said the police. The girl, now aged 21 and doing third-year undergraduation, complained to the police that the accused had collected phone numbers of a few students, including her’s, when he was taking motivational classes. She alleged that Jaisundar sent her obscene messages following which she blocked his number. She did not report the incident to parents or teachers then, the police said. The girl recently saw social media posts which mentioned similar charges against Jaisundar and decided to lodge a complaint, said inspector M. Amutha. “The accused was associated with the religious organisation and he was not a regular teacher. He is no longer part of the organisation,” said the officer. The accused was arrested, and remanded in judicial custody. Screenshots of messages allegedly sent by Jaisundar and another person who was associated with the religious organisation were recently shared in social media, the police said.
30 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Five arrested for child marriage, sexual assault||The All Women Police Station, Coimbatore east, on Wednesday arrested five persons in connection with the marriage of a minor girl and alleged sexual assault on her by her husband and a male friend. The police said the girl, resident of a village near Saravanampatti, was married to a youth at the age of 15 in 2018 with the knowledge of her parents and her mother-in-law. The girl got acquainted with another youth when she stayed at Usilampatti one-and-a-half-years ago, said inspector M. Amutha. The girl’s husband recently lodged a complaint with the Saravanampatti police stating that she eloped with her male friend on October 7. During the investigation, the police found that the girl was a minor and she was aged 17 now. The police arrested her husband, friend, her parents and her mother-in-law.
30 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police seize Rs. 7.36 lakh in fake currencies||A team of officials from Peelamedu station here and Thirumayam station in Pudukottai district, who were investigating a girl missing complaint, stumbled upon Rs. 7.36 lakh in fake currencies at a house near Cheran Ma Nagar here on Thursday. According to the police, the team went to the house at Kumaran Ma Nagar near Cheran Ma Nagar on Thursday based on a complaint lodged by the father of the missing girl from Thirumayam. He had complained to the police that a youth named N. Ranjith Kumar (23) from Sivakasi was involved in his daughter’s disappearance. As the house was found locked, the police opened the door using force and found low quality counterfeit currencies of Rs. 2,000 denomination inside, said the police. A total of 368 fake notes of Rs. 2,000 denomination bearing serial numbers 8MH 188038, 7CA567890, 8CQ 876454 were found at the house. The seized fake currencies, according to the police, were of very low quality made using desktop printing facilities. The police suspect that Ranjith Kumar and the girl moved from the house before the search. A senior police officer said that investigations were under way to trace Ranjith Kumar and suspected involvement of others in the fake note printing.
30 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance works at Saravanampatti sub-station, there will be no power supply on October 31 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the following areas: Saravanampatti, Amman kovil, Chinnavedampatti, Krishnapuram, Sivananda puram, Vellakinar, Urumandampalayam, Gounder Mills, Subramani yampalayam, K.N.G. Pudur, Maniyakaram palayam (part), Lakshmi Nagar, Nachimuthu Nagar, Jayaprakash Nagar, Ganapathypudur, Udayam palayam, Vellakinar Housing Unit and Vinayagapuram North Side.
30 October 2020||COIMBATORE/ERODE/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||I.T. Dept. unearths Rs. 150-cr. investments||Searches conducted by the Income Tax Department at 22 locations in Chennai, Coimbatore, Erode and Namakkal have led to the identification of unaccounted-for investments and on-money payments to the extent of around Rs. 150 crore. “Cash amounting to Rs. 5 crore has been seized. Some lockers are yet to be operated. The searches are continuing,” said a press release from the Department, which continued its searches for the second day on Thursday. The searches were conducted on a group engaged in the running of educational institutions and its associates, including a civil contractor. The searches followed information that the fees collected from students were not fully accounted for in the regular books of accounts. Sources said Income Tax Department sleuths continued search operations at Nandha Educational Institutions on Erode-Perundurai Road trying to verify the bills. “Evidences found during the searches revealed that the allegations regarding suppression of fees received are true and the unaccounted receipts are siphoned off to the personal accounts of the trustees, which in turn are invested in real estate through a company,” the Income Tax Department said. The other shareholders of the company — an architect from Tiruppur and a textile businessman — were also covered by the search teams. Electronic devices seized during the searches are being examined, the release said. During the searches on the premises of the civil contractor from Namakkal, expenditure was found to be inflated by booking bogus expenses under labour charges and material purchase.
30 October 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||31 test positive in Cuddalore, tally 23,110||Thirty-one persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Thursday. With this, the total number of cases in the district touched 23,110. The Health department said that 358 persons were under care at different treatment centres. With 269 persons getting discharged on Thursday, the number of persons recovered from the disease touched 22,421. Villupuram’s tally Villupuram district reported 42 fresh cases, taking the total to 13,668. Fifteen persons tested positive in Kallakurichi district, taking the tally to 10,226.
30 October 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||2 fatally knocked down||Two persons were fatally knocked down by a private bus in Palacode on Thursday. The victims Ranganathan (56) and Govindaraj (53), both relatives, were on a motorcycle and headed along Krishnagiri – Dharmapuri road, when their two-wheeler was knocked down by the bus.     A bus carrying a wedding party ran off course crashing in Anchetty hill road, injuring over 60 persons, in the early hours of Thursday. The injured were from Settanhalli village in Palacodde in Dharmapuri district, en route for a wedding at Keratty in Anchetty in Krishnagiri. The private bus was carrying people past midnight through the hilly stretch, when the driver is reported to have lost control over the vehicle.
30 October 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Dindigul district to get 9 more polling stations||Collector M. Vijayalakshmi on Thursday said that nine new polling stations would be added to the Assembly Constituencies in the district taking the tally from 2094 to 2103. Presiding over a consultative meeting in which representatives from recognised political parties were present, she said that as per guidelines of the Election Commission of India, a review conducted on stability of the existing polling stations across the seven Assembly constituencies in the district showed that 81 buildings had to be changed from the present premises. Besides, 64 polling stations had to be changed, 57 had to be relocated, re-arrangement of sections had to be carried out in seven polling stations. Thus, from the existing 2094 polling stations, nine more new polling stations had to be added. As for the inclusion, addition, deletion and changes in the voter list, Ms. Vijayalakshmi said that persons attaining 18 years as on 1.1.2021 can register their names in the voter list. Beginning from November 16 to December 15, public can approach the polling stations in their locality or visit the nearest office of the Tahsildar or the municipal office and submit the applications in appropriate forms. After enumeration, the names would be included in the list. Registration can also be done through the ECI website and residents can call toll free number 1950 on working days for any clarification, wherein the staff will clear doubts with regard to filling up of forms or submissions. While the revised voter list would be available for public from November 16, she said that eligible voters can register and incorporate suitable changes from now onwards. The exercise would be conducted till December 15. The final voter list would be released on January 20, 2021, she said and appealed to the political party representatives to ensure that eligible persons are registered in the list within the prescribed date. District Revenue Officer R. Govindaraju, PA (general) T Sivasubramanian and officers from the Election Department participated in the meeting.
30 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Commercial establishments in Erode told to adhere to safety norms||With two weeks left for Deepavali and people started thronging textile showrooms, the Corporation has asked commercial establishments to ensure COVID-19 guidelines are followed strictly and warned that action will be taken, if violations are found. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan held a meeting with members of all traders association here during which he asked them to adhere to the COVID-19 guidelines as instructed by the government. ‘Wear mask’ He asked traders not to encourage too much crowd inside the shops and also ensure that customers wear masks and maintain personal distancing during their purchases. Also, workers should wear masks without fail and they should frequently spray disinfectants on dress materials as it is touched by many people. “Action will be taken against establishments if they fail to follow the guidelines”, Mr. Elangovan said. Since vehicle parking continues to be a problem in market areas, the civic body has allowed the Kamarajar Boys Higher Secondary School premises to be used for parking of customers' vehicles. “The civic body, through the public address system, will create awareness among the people on the need to maintain personal distance during shopping”, the Commissioner added. Mr. Elangovan said that disinfection measures will be carried out on arterial roads and in commercial areas during night hours till Deepavali.
30 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||New machine for sample testing to be commissioned at hospital||Testing of samples drawn from suspected COVID-19 patients will be reduced from the present five hours to 20 minutes once the Automated RNA extraction machine is commissioned at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai here. Currently, the Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) sample test is done which is taking four to five hours for a sample. So far, 2,06,562 swab samples were tested and a total of 10,015 positive cases were reported. The new machine analyses the samples with minimal human intervention and test results will be known in 20 minutes. “The machine can run 32 samples at a time and can take input of various sample types like plasma, tissue and swab”, said a health department official. Testing can be done with minimal supervision and reduced human effort and sample testing can be increased when the machine is connected to a network, said the official. Samples drawn from the five Urban Primary Health Centres in corporation limits, district headquarters hospital, and government and taluk hospitals are taken to the laboratory at Perundurai hospital for testing. On an average, 800 to 900 samples are tested under RT-PCR now and 400 to 450 samples can be tested everyday with the extraction machine. The State government has provided the compact machine that will be commissioned in a few days.
30 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Sale of onions at subsidised price launched||Sale of big onion at subsidised price of Rs. 45 kg a kg through the Cooperative Department’s Farm Fresh outlet commenced here on Thursday. MLAs K.V. Ramalingam (Erode West) and K.S. Thennarasu (Erode East) launched the sales in the presence of Collector C. Kathiravan. The wholesale price of ‘Bellary’ onion had soared to Rs. 140 a kg in the markets recently due to drop in arrival from Karnataka. Mr. Kathiravan said that due to rains in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra, arrival of onions from those States had dropped in the past weeks leading to increase in prices. He said that during the rainy season, onion arrivals drop and last year the government had imported onions from Egypt and sold them to the people. “To control the rising price, the State government is selling the onion through the outlets”, he added. Mr. Kathiravan said that there are 52 Amma small cooperative special outlets and nine self-service centres and onions will be sold through these outlets. He said that the outlets should submit the required quantity of onions to the Tamil Nadu Co-operative Marketing Federation after which it will be supplied. He asked the officials to ensure that there are no complaints regarding the sale of onions and its quality from the public. He said that initially one kg will be sold to a person.
30 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted cash seized||Personnel from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) raided the Office of the Primary Agricultural Credit Cooperative Society at Uratchikottai in Bhavani taluk and seized Rs. 2,31,842 unaccounted cash on Thursday evening. A DVAC team, led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Dhivya and Inspector Rekha, raided the premises and found the cash kept in the office. The team also questioned the officials and later seized the cash and documents.
30 October 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Woman found dead||A 60-year-old woman was found dead in a suspected murder for gain near Mathigiri. According to the police, the body of Nanjamma was found by her son with the throat slit, and her chain and earrings were missing. Mathigiri Police sent the body to the government hospital for autopsy. A few residents from the victim’s village stormed a nearby steel unit, alleging that the crime was committed by migrant workers, They dispersed from the site later. Mathigiri police are investigating the case.
30 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Hope Governor will decide on 7.5% horizontal quota soon: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday hoped that the Governor would take a decision at the earliest with regard to the Bill on implementing 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students who have cleared the National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for medical admissions. During the course of the hearing of a batch of Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petitions filed in this regard, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi was informed by Advocate General Vijay Narayan that the Governor would need three to four weeks time to take a decision with regard to the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy on Preferential Basis to Students of Government Schools Bill, 2020. When the judges asked as to why there was a delay in taking a decision, the Advocate General, referring to Article 361 of the Constitution (Protection of President and Governors), submitted that protection has been given to the constitutional authority. Moreover, the Governor was not answerable to any court for the exercise of the powers and duties or any act done or purporting to be done, he added. “No doubt Article 361 of the Constitution of India gives protection to the constitutional authority. However, in the given circumstances, a decision has to be taken taking into consideration the future of government school students, who are invariably from marginalised and poor sections, as soon as possible as provided under Article 200 of the Constitution of India [Assent to Bills],” the judges observed. Further, the judges observed that, “A perusal of Article 200 [Assent to Bills] would reveal that the constitutional authority has to take a decision if a Bill is presented for assent as soon as possible. The protection has been given by the framers of the Constitution with the hope and trust in the appointees that they would perform their constitutional functioning promptly and there would not be any situation wherein they would be called to give an explanation or where they will be questioned by the court of law”. The court observed that the Bill was passed by the Tamil Nadu State Legislative Assembly unanimously on September 15 and the same was sent for assent to the Governor on the very same day. However, the Bill was pending for almost two months without any decision being taken. Under these circumstances, on October 16, the results for the NEET examination were also published. Though it is claimed that around 400 to 500 students from government schools qualified in the said examination, the reality is that only a single digit number of students will be qualified for admission to the medical courses as per the committee report. Moreover, from the introduction of NEET examination in the year 2017, only 14 students from government schools have gotten admission to the medical courses, the judges added. “When the situation changes and the present kind of situation arises, a different approach has to be taken by the courts in the interest of the public. It is a well settled law that an ‘extraordinary situation requires extraordinary remedies’. When public interest requires, this court has to do its constitutional duties and address the situation. However, this court is of the opinion that such a situation would not arise to pass any order in this matter,” the judges said. The court was hearing a batch of PILs which sought a direction to the State to implement horizontal reservation for government school students as recommended by the Commission headed by retired High Court Judge P. Kalaiyarasan. The case was adjourned till November 2. Earlier, the State government informed the court that until a decision was taken by the Governor on the Bill on implementing 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students, the prospectus for admissions would not be issued.
30 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Treat all sportspersons on an equal footing’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday observed that it was disheartening to note that a decorated differently abled sportsman had to knock the doors of the court for relief. The court was hearing the plea of the sportsman who sought an appropriate government job. Referring to a speech delivered in 2015 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who suggested the use of the term ‘Divyang’ (one with a divine body) over the term ‘viklang’ (disabled), a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi took a serious view of the plight of Madurai sportsman A. Gopikannan. He had won 41 gold medals, 19 silver medals and 17 bronze medals in international, national and State level sports meets, including four gold, two silver, one bronze and one brass Medal at the international level. Special Government Pleader M. Muthugeethayan said he had studied upto Class IX and he was appointed as an Office Assistant. However, advocate Prabhakaran representing Mr. Gopikannan, submitted that for such an achiever, educational qualification should not come in the way to deny a better post. Famous sporting personalities such as boxer Mary Kom and cricketer Harbhajan Singh were offered the post of Deputy Superintendent of Police by their respective State governments (Manipur and Punjab) and cricketer Umesh Yadav was appointed as an Assistant Manager in Reserve Bank of India. Taking note of the submission, the judges observed: “There should not be any hurdle to extend a similar treatment to the petitioner by the Tamil Nadu government, especially since he achieved in spite of his disability. We hope and trust that the State government would encourage the petitioner and his like with the same spirit as that of other sportspersons.” Related petition In a related public interest litigation petition that sought financial assistance for specially abled sportspersons, advocate K. Samidurai representing a group of such sportspersons submitted that the State government had passed an order in 2019 increasing the incentives for such sportspersons, and a sum of Rs. 15 lakh for gold medal, Rs. 10 lakh for silver medal; and Rs. 5 lakh for bronze medal was to be provided. However, despite a Government Order, the incentive had not been disbursed and the benefits given were not on a par with that of the general category achievers. He said the Central government was giving only a meagre cash prize of Rs. 5 lakh for gold medal, Rs. 3 lakh for silver medal and Rs. 1 lakh for bronze medal. The court directed Central Government Standing Counsel D. Saravanan to get instructions from the Secretary to Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, and Secretary to Social Justice and Empowerment to consider increasing the reward money for the specially abled achievers. The court also directed Special Government Pleader Muthugeethayan to get instructions on providing an appropriate government job to Mr. Gopikannan, implementation of the G.O., and disbursal of incentives and cash rewards. The case was adjourned to November 10.  It is disheartening to note that a decorated differently abled sportsman had to move the court for relief High Court
30 October 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in fire triggered by cracker blast||Two persons died following a fire due to a cracker blast at a residence in Pallipalayam here on Thursday. According to the police, the deceased were identified as Rangaraj (27) and Raja(25). Based on preliminary investigation, officials said that residents in the vicinity heard a loud noise and found crackers bursting inside a house. In a few moments, the thatched house of the deceased and the adjacent house collapsed. The public alerted police and Fire and Rescue Services. Fire-fighters from Veppadai fire station rushed to the spot and doused the fire. The two were charred to death on the spot and three others suffered injuries. Fire and Rescue Services officials said the youth had bought crackers and while bursting them, a spark could have fallen on the stock that led to the fire. Pallipalayam police have registered a case.
30 October 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘Decision on re-opening schools only after discussions with CM’||Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan has said that a decision on re-opening schools could be made only after discussions with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and other Ministers concerned. Mr. Sengottaiyan on Thursday issued orders of recognition for two years for 2,505 private schools in Namakkal and neighbouring districts. Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani and other senior officials attended. Mr. Sengottaiyan told presspersons that a decision on re-opening schools could be taken only after the Chief Minister held a meeting, involving the Health and Revenue Ministers also. The present government had ushered in several changes in the State since it came to power. In the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test examinations, 176 out of 180 questions were from the new syllabus introduced by the government. On reducing the age limit for recruitment for teachers, Mr. Sengottaiyan said 40 years has been decided as age limit for Open category and 45 for other categories. “Teachers, the public and educationalists have made requests in this regard and these will be taken to the notice of the Chief Minister,” he said. On the preparations for Class 12 examinations and reduction of syllabus, he said that only 60% of portions were being taken through Kalvi channel and questions could be asked only from those portions. On the demand to declare the current academic year as “zero” year, he said: “Chief Minister would have to decide on it”.
30 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 tests cover 20% of Puducherry’s population||Puducherry on Thursday crossed an important COVID-19 milestone — 20% of its approximately 15 lakh population has been tested. The health department has done 3,01,167 tests, of which 2,62,971 returned negative results as on October 29. On October 1, Puducherry had led the country clocking 3,705 tests per day per million of population, according to data provided by the health department as against 2,996 tests by Delhi and 1,685 tests by Kerala. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told a press meet that this was the highest testing rate in the country as yet. On Thursday, 181 new cases had been detected from 4,001 tests to raise the overall tally to 34,761 cases. And after 142 patients were discharged, the cumulative total of recovered patients was 30,449. Puducherry and Mahe recorded two deaths in the last 24 hours taking the toll to 592. The number of active cases is 3,720, including 2,123 patients under home isolation. The test positivity rate was 4.52%, the case fatality rate 1.70% and the recovery rate 87.60%, the Minister said. Health Secretary T. Arun said going forward the daily testing average would continue to be maintained between 4,000 to 5,000 tests. In fact, stepping up testing has been central to putting a lid on the spread of the pandemic in the U.T. through early detection, isolation and treatment and timely contact tracing, officials said. Simultaneously, the opening of a cluster of fever clinics helped identify and test symptomatic patients early and get COVID-19 patients to hospital without delay and cut down case fatality rate from the peak level of 1.90% in August. “Our test positivity rates have come down to 7 to 8% from nearly 40% a couple of months ago coinciding with the reopening of more sectors. The focus now is to further reduce the positivity rates,” he said. L-G, ICMR experts meet Meanwhile, ICMR experts, who had a virtual meeting with the Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, have called for a set of measures to consolidate the gains made in the U.T. in controlling the pandemic. ICMR senior scientist Prabhdeep Kaur said while overall positivity rate was declining in the U.T., the RT-PCR positivity was not coming down enough. She said suggested strengthening the surveillance by cluster testing to identify areas or pockets where the disease transmission remained high due to which the RT-PCR positivity was not coming down. With the dip in number of positive cases, tracing of secondary/extended contact should be strengthened to prevent formation clusters. The ICMR recommended that the health teams do rigorous tracing of the source of infection, whether it was markets, restaurants, bars, offices or industrial units. Periodic check-ups to monitor students’ health was recommended. Distribution of masks free of cost at places of congestion was mooted at the meeting. Behaviour survey The ICMR team has suggested a COVID behaviour survey in Puducherry on the lines of the one conducted in Chennai where it was found that while mask compliance was low at 30%, 50% among this group was wearing it in improper manner. Ms. Bedi directed measures along the lines recommended by the experts keeping in mind the recovery situation the Union Territory was in and the imperative of additional qualitative measures to avoid the risk of slippages. “Future reviews shall factor in the action taken on the specific steps she has suggested,” Ms. Bedi said. With adherence to the recommendations, which had helped bring down COVID morbidity-mortality in the U.T., the rate of infection could be maintained at below 5%, the Lt. Governor added.
30 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for talent search exam||Applications have been invited for the State-level National Talent Search Examination (NTSE Stage-I) for the students of Class 10 in recognised schools in Puducherry. The examination will be conducted on December 13 (Sunday) in all the four regions of the Union Territory by the Directorate of School Education, Puducherry. A. Michael Benno, Joint Director of School Education, said in a press note that this was as per the communication from the Union Education Ministry. The students can apply through respective schools online on the website nmmsntspdy.com till November 15. The top 20 rank students (11-General, 1-EWS, 5-OBC, 3-S.C. Origin) from the State Level National Talent Search Examination (NTSE Stage-I) will become eligible for the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE Stage-II) to be held on June 13 conducted by the NCERT, New Delhi. Scholarship for toppers The students selected in this examination will receive scholarship from Class XI to Ph.D from the Government of India. In addition to that, the students selected in the first stage and second stage of the talent search examinations will be awarded Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 10,000 respectively as one-time cash incentive from the Government of Puducherry.
30 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||New facility for treating urinary tract stone||Jipmer has commissioned an advanced Extracorporeal Shock-Wave Lithotripsy System (Dornier Delta III) in its Department of Urology which facilitates non-surgical treatment of urinary stone. Jipmer Medical Superintendent A. S. Badhe commissioned the equipment in the presence of Director Rakesh Aggarwal and Abdoul Hamide, Deputy Director (Administration). Dr. Badhe said that this machine would provide a non-operative and relatively painless treatment option for patients with urinary stones. It involves breaking the stones, using high-energy shockwaves, into tiny pieces which are then passed in urine. This treatment does not involve any incision, anaesthesia, or scar, and can be done as a day-care procedure, allowing the patient to be back at work the next day. According to a Jipmer release, uro-technicians at the Department of Urology, have already provided lithotripsy treatment to more than 3,000 patients over the last 11 years. However, the previous machine had become out-dated and could be used to treat only stones in the kidney but not in other parts of the urinary tract. The new system has several advanced features, including integrated fluoroscopy and ultrasound imaging devices, a stone-focussing software, a system to monitor coupling and an unified remote control for guiding and controlling table movements. These allow a more precise focussing of the shockwaves on stones, located not only in the kidney but along the entire upper urinary tract, making the treatment more efficient and quicker. The system can also be used to treat gallstones and pancreatic stones, Dr. Badhe said. Dr. Aggarwal noted that the new machine was capable of treating children and adults, including those with obesity. The machine has two focussing techniques, namely fluoroscopy and ultrasonography, integrated into it. This would help minimise the radiation exposure received by the patients, as also to reduce the time spent for treating each patient thus enabling more patients to be treated every day.  Dr. Hamide said the Dornier Delta III system has cost the Institute Rs. 4.05 crore. It is one of the most advanced lithotripsy systems installed in the country, and the first such system in southern India. The equipment has an integrated patient database management system for a better follow up of the treated patients. The treatment will be free for patients below poverty line and would cost a nominal Rs. 4,000 to others.
30 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Administration geared up for monsoon||The district administration has geared up to face the northeast monsoon by engaging field workers to carry out fogging operations in all households in municipalities and commune panchayats and also to conduct special medical camps. According to a release, staff from 35 line departments have been deployed to monitor and prevent accumulation of garbage and ensure its disposal from time to time. They will also prevent stagnation of drainage water. Collector T. Arun said that field workers from municipalities and commune panchayats were already involved in carrying out fogging operations.
30 October 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Adequate stock of seeds, fertilizers available: Collector||The district administration has taken necessary steps to ensure that farmers received quality fertilizers on time without any interruption or delay, Collector P. Uma Maheswari said here on Thursday. The district had adequate stock of seeds and fertilizers, Ms. Uma Maheswari said presiding over the farmers grievances redressal meeting that was held through video conference at the Collectorate. Highlighting the stock position of fertilizers, Ms. Uma Maheswari said 3,307 metric tonnes of urea, 1,063 metric tonnes of DAP, 1,145 metric tonnes of potash and 4,250 metric tonnes of complex have been stocked at present and were being supplied to farmers through cooperative institutions and private outlets that had licence to sell fertilizers. In respect of availability of seeds, the Collector said the district had a stock of 231.7 metric tonnes of paddy seeds, 38.62 metric tonnes of groundnut seeds and 13 metric tonnes of cereals among others at the 33 agriculture extension centres all over the district. The Collector also asked the farmers not to wait till the last date for insuring their crops. Paddy had been cultivated in 36,167 hectares, cereals in 1,473 hectares, oil seeds in 7,844 hectares, sugarcane in 955 hectares, cotton in 25 hectares and coconut in 10,795 hectares up to September in 2020-21 year. The district had received 578.9 mm rainfall till this month. she further said.
30 October 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||PWD engineer arrested for taking bribe||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance Anti Corruption (DVAC), Pudukottai unit, arrested an Assistant Engineer of the Public Works Department in Aranthangi taluk on bribe charge on Wednesday. Assistant Engineer Thennarasu (45) of Kallanai Canal Division had allegedly demanded Rs. 5,000 as bribe for recommending an application of a farmer Prabhakaran for a No Objection Certificate to sink a borewell in his land near the canal. DVAC sources said Prabhakaran had approached the Tangedco seeking power supply under the tatkal scheme to sink the borewell in his land. He was advised to obtain a No Objection Certificate from the Public Works Department since the land was close to the canal. Accordingly, Prabhakaran approached the Assistant Engineer who allegedly demanded bribe for recommending his application to the higher ups, the sources further said. Unwilling to pay bribe, Prabhakaran lodged a complaint with the DVAC here and a case was registered. A trap was laid and the Assistant Engineer was allegedly caught red-handed when he obtained the bribe amount in his office at Nakudi. A search was conducted by the DVAC officials in his house at Nakudi. The arrested Assistant Engineer was later produced before the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court here and remanded in judicial custody.
30 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||CM, Stalin land in Madurai||Ramanathapuram town and peripheries in southern districts has been brought under a thick security blanket in view of Thevar Jayanthi celebrations. Apart from a large contingent of police personnel deployed at vantage locations, sophisticated drones have been put in use at the function area in Kamudhi and other places of importance. Speaking to reporters about the arrangements, Superintendent of Police E Karthik said that two IGPs, three DIGs of Police, 13 SPs, 30 DSPs and 33 companies of Tamil Nadu Special Police and a separate traffic team were regulating the vehicles. The DGP (Special) Rajesh Dass visited the district and was supervising the arrangements. The IGP (south zone) S Murugan, DIG (Ramnad Range) N. Mylvaganan and other senior officers were present with their contingent. The police have identified 151 statues and deployed personnel to protect them. As many as 130 locations were identified as ‘sensitive’ and they have been brought under close monitoring, he said and added that 60 cameras would be on live-stream, which would be accessible to the DGP at Chennai. Replying to a specific query, the SP said that 39 special check-posts have been installed and all vehicles entering should produce the pass issued by the District Collector. With COVID-19 pandemic, the curfew was in force. So, the people and representatives of political paries have been told to cooperate with the official machinery. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami landed in Madurai by a scheduled airline from Chennai to participate in the event at Pasumpon, officials said. After overnight halt in Madurai, he would go there at 8.30 a.m. and pay homage at the memorial. Senior ministers including Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, among others, would accompany him. The DMK president M K Stalin also arrived at Madurai airport. According to airline officials, both the CM and the Leader of Opposition travelled in the same flight from Chennai to Madurai. Various leaders from the Congress, the MDMK, the Communists, the BJP, among others, were expected to pay homage at the memorial.
30 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 rehabilitation centre inaugurated at Salem GH||An integrated post COVID-19 Care Centre and follow-up centre was opened at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here. District Collector S.A. Raman inaugurated the centre and reviewed the facilities. Dean of the hospital R. Balajinathan, Head, General Medicine Suresh Kanna, and senior officials took part in the event. Mr. Raman discussed with doctors regarding the facilities at the centre. The centre has doctors from various streams for improving the general health condition of persons recovered from the disease. Dr. Balajinathan said, “doctors from different departments like Physical and Medical Rehabilitation, general medicine, yoga and naturopathy, nutrition and psychiatry are present here. Patients visiting the centre would be advised on various exercises and diet to regain their health. Exercises to improve lung capacity would be taught here. This is the fourth such centre to be started in the State.” He added, “patients, who have completed the 14-day quarantine after recovery from the disease can visit the centre and get treated for illnesses." A.M. Sudhakar, Head, Yoga and Naturopathy, said that patients would be provided with breathing exercises to improve lung capacity. He added that aroma oils are provided which would help patients get relieved from stress. K. Nithya Manoj, Head, Physical and Medical Rehabilitation, said that even after quarantine period post-discharge from the hospital, certain patients complained of tiredness and body pain and other illnesses. Dr. Manoj added that based on the diagnosis, the patient would be advised on necessary exercises that would help them recover from the illnesses and regain their strength. According to doctors, over 4,500 persons have recovered from COVID-19 disease after treatment at the hospital. Events to mark World Stroke Day were also organised at the hospital on Thursday. Mr. Raman launched distribution of awareness pamphlets here.
30 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||All accused acquitted in Angammal Colony case||The First Additional District Judge court on Thursday acquitted all the accused charged with torching huts at Angammal Colony here. Former DMK Minister late Veerapandi S. Arumugham was one of the accused in the case. The Pallapatti police in 2012 registered a case against 37 persons, including Arumugham and his accomplice Ganeshan, for torching over 20 huts at Angammal Colony. During trial, Arumugham and Ganeshan passed away. Hearing the case on Thursday, the Judge L. Abraham Lincoln acquitted all the accused on finding that the police were not able to prove the charges against them.
30 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DVAC seizes over Rs. 1 lakh during raid||Officials from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption conducted raid at the office of Motor Vehicle Inspector here and seized over Rs. 1 lakh unaccounted cash. According to officials, a team of DVAC sleuths led by Additional Deputy Superintendent Police Chandramouli along with revenue officials conducted raids at the Motor Vehicle Inspector’s office on the premises of RTO, Salem West. Officials seized Rs. 1,05,290 unaccounted cash from the office and brokers. Officials have registered a case against MVI Rajesh Kanna, office assistant Saravanan and a few middlemen.
30 October 2020||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||Providential escape for staff of fireworks unit near Sattur||Workers of Sandal Fireworks at Thulukkankurichi had a providential escape as an explosion occurred in the unit before they reported for duty on Thursday. One room was razed in the blast that occurred at 6.30 a.m., police said. Fire and Rescue Services personnel put out the fire. K. Pandey, Controller of Explosives, Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation, inspected the scene and found that the unit had been illegally leased out to three different entities. “Further, our officials found that some banned fireworks were being made at the unit,” Deputy Chief Controller of Explosives K. Sundaresan said. Officials suspect that the workers could have left unused chemical mixture at the mixing room in violation of safety norms. “The left-over mixture could have undergone a chemical reaction overnight and decomposition could have caused the explosion. Besides, stocking of filled chorsa (joined crackers) would have added to the impact of the blast,” Mr. Sundaresan said. The licence of the unit would be suspended for violation of safety norms.
30 October 2020||SATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Explosion in Sattur unit||There was a blast at Sandal Fireworks at Thulukkankurichi near here on Thursday at around 6.30 a.m. before workers reported for duty . One room was razed to the ground. Fire and Rescue Services personnel put out the fire. Controller of Explosives K. Pandey of Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation inspected the scene and found that the unit had illegally been leased out to three different entities. “Our officials found that some banned fireworks were being made at the unit,” Deputy Chief Controller of Explosives K. Sundaresan said. Officials suspect that the workers could have left unused chemical mixture at the mixing room. “The left-over chemical mixture could have undergone a chemical reaction overnight and decomposition could have caused the explosion. Besides, stocking of filled chorsa (joined crackers) would have added to the impact of the blast,” he said.
30 October 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||2 killed, 18 injured in road accident||Two persons, including a woman, were killed and 18 others injured in a road accident at Puliyangudi on Thursday when a cargo auto in which they were travelling overturned. More than 20 persons from Vellaanakkottai were returning home after offering prayer in a temple at Kottamalaiyar. When they were crossing Naavalsaalai, the cargo auto overturned and S. Sundarammal, 65, and Manickam, 45, were killed on the spot. Police rushed to the spot and sent the injured to government hospitals at Puliyangudi and Tenkasi and Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. The condition of one of them was reportedly critical.
30 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Anganwadi workers don a new mantle||Around 600 anganwadi workers in Thanjavur district are all set to perform the role of Food Safety Supervisors (FSS) to ensure the quality of food offered to the children at the centres. The training was imparted to them under the ‘Eat Right Challenge’ campaign conceived and implemented by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India through the Food Safety Department, Tamil Nadu. Though hotels and other eateries and canteens in business/industrial establishments were the targeted area of concern of the campaign, the Thanjavur District FSD officials decided to extend the scope of the campaign to public establishments/institutions having facilities to fulfil the requirements of food among the dependents of such establishments/institutions. When this idea was presented as one among the several points of the action plan, it was accepted by the FSSAI. Thereafter, the training was imparted to around 600 anganwadi workers in the district. In the first phase, certificates were issued to 192 anganwadi workers, recognising them as the ‘Food Safety Supervisors’ on October 28 by Collector M. Govinda Rao, according to official sources. The role of FSS was to act as liaison officers between the FSSAI/FSD and the establishments/institutions for proper execution of schemes for food safety implemented by the governments and thereby ensure the availability of safe, healthy and quality food to the public. Stating that Thanjavur had been selected as one among the several districts identified for implementing the ‘Eat Right Challenge’ in Tamil Nadu as a pilot project, sources said that the FSD staff had been directed to ensure that all the eateries, irrespective of the size and volume of business, were enlisted as ‘licensed eateries’ and Food Safety Supervisors appointed in large-sized eateries such as hotels and other food joints and also in canteens in business/industrial and educational institutions.
30 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Re-lay roads on a war footing and clear encroachments’||Office-bearers of various labour unions have urged the Thanjavur Corporation to initiate necessary steps on a war footing to black-top the roads that were dug to lay the underground pipelines for sewer network. The representatives who met the Corporation Commissioner recently pointed out that almost all the roads in the town remain dotted with potholes. With the northeast monsoon having commenced, leaving these roads in such a state would make the lives of motorists and the general public miserable, they added. The labour union representatives also urged the civic body to clear encroachments on the pavements in market areas and clear the debris from the channels passing through the town to ensure quick and easy draining of flood waters during monsoon.
30 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Opening of TASMAC outlet opposed||Residents of Umaiyaval Arcot and Nagathi hamlets near Thiruvaiyaru have opposed the move by TASMAC authorities to establish a retail outlet in the area. A group of villagers from these hamlets, led by local leaders of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the Communist Party of India (Marxists), CITU, AIDWA and Tamilnadu Untouchability Eradication Movement and other associations arrived at the District Collectorate on Thursday morning and presented a memorandum demanding withdrawal of the move to set up a retail outlet in their area.
30 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi tops southern districts in daily case count||After a brief lull, the number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Thoothukudi crossed the 50-mark. With reporting of 57 new cases and discharge of 65 people from hospitals on Thursday, Thoothukudi, which has marked a total case count of 14,946, has 468 active cases. Madurai recorded 51 fresh cases, which took the district’s tally of cases to 18,659. Fifty-six people were discharged from hospitals in the district, which now has 556 active cases. No death was recorded on Thursday. Kanniyakumari, with 35 new cases, has 502 people undergoing treatment at hospitals, even as 71 people were discharged. The district’s tally stands at 14,841. Theni reported 24 fresh cases, with which its tally went up to 16,207. There were 26 discharges from hospitals. Twenty people tested positive in Tirunelveli, taking the district’s infection tally up to 14,176. After the discharge of 72 people, the number of active cases in the district stands at 220. Virudhunagar reported 19 fresh cases, which raised its tally to 15,405, and 29 discharges. There are 174 active cases in the district, which maintains a death toll of 220. Sivaganga district accounted for 15 new cases to have a total case count of 5,865. There were 15 discharges marked at hospitals in the district. Ramanathapuram registered 11 fresh cases, which pushed the district’s tally up to 5,988. Twenty-one people were discharged from hospitals. Dindigul recorded nine new cases and saw its tally move up to 9,758. Hospitals discharged 88 people on their complete recovery. Tenkasi’s positive case count rose to 7,810 with the addition of seven cases. After 41 people were discharged from hospitals, the district has 71 active cases.
30 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Shallot price continues to soar, touches Rs. 135 a kg in retail market||Despite the State Government’s intervention for price regulation, the cost of onion has been soaring in Tiruchi market. The price of top quality shallots, which was being sold for Rs. 100 a kg in the second week of October, was sold for Rs. 135 in the retail market on Thursday. One bag of shallots (50 kg) was being sold at Rs. 5,300 at the wholesale market in Tiruchi. One kg of shallot was quoted at Rs. 106 in the wholesale market. The price of big onion too did not show signs of a downward trend. One bag of big onion weighing 50 kg, was sold for Rs. 3,700. The price of one kg big onion was being quoted at Rs. 74 in the wholesale market on Thursday and it was being sold between Rs. 90 and Rs. 100 in the retail market. The soaring prices suggested that the price stabilisation exercise by the State government to sell onion at Rs. 45 in the farm fresh outlets have not impacted the market prices. The onion wholesale traders in Tiruchi, who source both the big and small varieties of onions from Perambalur, and Karnataka, supply them to traders in Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Pudukottai, and Tiruvarur district. The wholesale market in Tiruchi requires 30 loads of big onion (10 tonne each) to meet the requirement of retail markets in Tiruchi and other delta districts. But, the arrival dwindled drastically. The wholesale market receives about 10 loads of big onion for the last few weeks from Karnataka and Maharashtra. Similarly, as against the requirement of 250 tonnes of shallots, the market received just 75 tonnes of shallots a day for the last two weeks. “There is a clear mismatch between supply and demand. The arrival continues to decline. It has eventually caused escalation in prices of onions,” says P. Sudhakar, a wholesale onion trader in Tiruchi. Traders say that the extended south-west monsoon in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telengana has damaged the standing crop of onions. The arrival from Maharashtra had actually helped to meet out the demand to an extent. Otherwise, the prices would have touched beyond Rs. 150 a kg. They are of the view that the prices will show no respite even after Deepavali festival on November 14. The prices will stabilise only in January, they believe.
30 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Thanjavur records a sudden spurt in positive cases||The central districts on Thursday recorded a slight increase in COVID-19 cases with 284 patients testing positive for the viral infection. A total of 243 cases were reported on Wednesday. Meanwhile, seven deaths, four in Tiruvarur, two in Nagapattinam and one in Thanjavur district were recorded. In Thanjavur, a 64-year-old man with no comorbidities, a 70-year-old man with a history of acute respiratory distress syndrome, a 52-year-old man who underwent a renal transplant after suffering from chronic kidney disease, and a 70-year-old man with a history of hypertension succumbed to the infection. A 65-year-old man with a history of diabetes and lymphoma and a 79-year-old man with a history of hypertension died of COVID in Nagapattinam. A 53-year-old man who had been suffering from chronic kidney disease died of the infection in Thanjavur. Thanjavur recorded a sudden spike in numbers with 88 fresh cases reported on Thursday. Among which many were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. A total of 47 cases were reported in Tiruchi while in Tiruvarur, 45 patients tested positive. Most patients who tested positive in Tiruchi were persons from existing containment zones. Meanwhile, a total of 15 who were being treated at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Nagapattinam recorded 37 new COVID-19 cases, among which were inter-district travellers, primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. In Pudukottai, 28 cases were reported, among which were local index cases, patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses and their primary contacts. In Karur, too, 28 fresh cases were recorded, among them were residents of Kulithalai, Aravakurichi and Vennaimalai. Inter-district travellers from Tiruchi and Dindigul also tested positive. A total of nine patients tested positive in Ariyalur while, in Perambalur, only two patients tested positive. Of the two in Perambalur, one hailed from the Perambalur block while one hailed from Veppanthattai block.
30 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||App-based delivery service of essentials launched in city||A Kumbakonam-based company has launched an app-based delivery service of essentials in the city. Named ‘Delibots’, the service aims to purchase, pick up and drop any essentials for the customer. Announcing its launch in the city, A. Muhammed Mukarak, Director, Delibots, said on Thursday that the sole aim was to bring such services to Tier II and Tier III cities in Tamil Nadu. “Why must only the tier I cities enjoy these services? We have needs and requirements too, and with a service like Delibots, we seek to bridge the gap,” he said. The service will cover a 20-km radius around the city and has milk and dairy delivery, fruits and vegetables, delivery from restaurants, meat and seafood shops, groceries, medicines, and even pet supplies. A bike-pool option has also been launched for a single-person pickup and drop facility. The app was launched in Tiruchi by V. Govindarajulu, State Secretary, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu and A. Zameer Pasha, former governor, Rotary International District 3000. Mr. Govindarajulu said that services like Delibots would help small vendors to reach consumers. “We will be happy to hand over our ware to them if they are able to deliver it directly to the consumer,” he said. Dr. Pasha said that the service is necessary to encourage people to stay at home. “People venture out to purchase essentials. With a service that reaches their doorsteps, social distancing can be maintained well,” he said.
30 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Chased by police, gang abandons abducted boy||A car-borne gang which allegedly kidnapped a 12-year-old boy here on Wednesday evening abandoned the minor and the vehicle hours later and escaped after sensing police teams were in hot pursuit. The minor was playing with his bicycle in front of his house situated in Cantonment area when the gang which came in a car allegedly abducted him. Police sources said the kidnappers reportedly made a call to the boy's family demanding a hefty amount as ransom. Acting swiftly based on information provided by the family, the police sounded an alert to all checkposts falling within its jurisdiction besides constituting special teams to apprehend the kidnappers and rescue the boy. Information about the kidnap was also flashed to police personnel of neighbouring districts such as Pudukottai, Dindigul and Karur, Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan said. The police teams immediately got into the task of sifting video grabs generated from surveillance cameras installed in the locality where the boy was kidnapped. The teams ascertained the colour of the vehicle used for the crime and its model from the video grabs. Information about the vehicle was flashed to all the checkposts. A few hours later, a policeman noticed a car of the same colour in Somarasampet area and the vehicle was proceeding towards Tiruchi. He immediately alerted his counterparts deployed at the checkpost along Vayalur road. Acting on the information, the police personnel tried to stop the car at the checkpost. However, the vehicle sped away prompting the police to sound an alert. Patrol vehicles began to chase the car which then entered Ramalinga Nagar area. Sensing that they could be intercepted by the police, the gang members abandoned the vehicle and the boy and took to their heels. The boy was rescued and the vehicle used for the crime was confiscated. Commissioner of Police Loganathan said the registration number of the seized vehicle was found to be fake. Based on the engine and chassis number, the police teams managed to get hold of the original registration number and name of the owner. Mr. Loganathan said the vehicle owner had been traced. Further investigation was on to apprehend the culprits and establish the motive behind the kidnap, he added. The Cantonment Police has registered a case under IPC section 364-A (kidnapping for ransom).
30 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 100.67 feet on Thursday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 7,692 cusecs and the discharge was 9,302 cusecs.
30 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli gets its first lighthouse||The first lighthouse in Tirunelveli district, which has a 49-km-long coastline between Periyathaazhai and Koottapuli, was commissioned at Kooththenkuzhi on Thursday. Minister of State for Shipping Mansukh Laxmanbhai Mandavia inaugurated the 45-metre-tall beacon built at a cost of Rs. 5.50 crore through video conferencing. Tirunelveli MP S. Gnanathiraviam and Radhapuram MLA I.S. Inbadurai remotely participated in the event. The Directorate of Lighthouses and Lightships under the Ministry of Shipping built the lighthouse located 51 metres above sea level. Mariners and fishermen, who use two lighthouses at Kanniyakumari and Manappad, will have one more beacon light — visible up to 20 nautical miles — to guide them on high seas. While the Kanniyakumari lighthouse is located 39 km away to the south, the Manappad facility is 40 km to the north. Hence, the Kooththenkuzhi lighthouse will bridge the 79-km gap between the two. Two other lighthouses in the region are at Muttom (68 km in the south) and Thoothukudi (93 km in the north). Now, five lighthouses will guide fishers and mariners between the 161-km stretch from Thoothukudi and Muttom, with the facility available every 32 km. Work on Kooththenkuzhi lighthouse with lift began in August last after the district administration allotted 3,500 sqft land and the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change gave its mandatory final approval. Although fishermen of the district are opposed to the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project, they say they use the red lights blinking atop the reactor domes at a height of about 100 metres to identify the coast.  Guiding light  The beacon light will be visible up to 20 nautical miles There are five lighthouses between Thoothukudi and Muttom
30 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Over 300 govt. school students will benefit from horizontal reservation’||Over 300 government school students in the State will benefit upon the implementation of the 7.5 % horizontal reservation for medical college admissions, Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan said in Perumanallur here on Thursday. Extended recognition issued Mr. Sengottaiyan and Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan issued extended recognition till 2022 for 571 private schools that did not have the approval from the Directorate of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) from four districts. The Minister said the “time to rejoice for students and parents” regarding the horizontal reservation was “approaching soon.” For students’ benefit The Department of School Education announced in August that 2,505 private schools in the State without DTCP approval would receive extended recognition till May 2022 for the benefit of the students enrolled in these schools. The extension of recognition was issued under the condition that they should get the necessary approvals within the next two years, school education officials said. Four districts During the event held at a private school on Kanakkampalayam Road in Perumanallur in the district, 190 private schools from Coimbatore district, 156 schools from Tiruppur district, 145 schools from Erode district and 80 private schools from the Nilgiris district received the extended recognition from the Ministers, the officials said.
30 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Siblings drown in PAP canal at Udumalpet||Two boys drowned in the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP) canal at Udumalpet in Tiruppur district on Wednesday. The police said K. Sanjay (14 ) and his brother Akash (9) visited the canal with their father Krishnan at around 6 p.m. on Wednesday. The father, who was an autorickshaw driver, was washing his vehicle while the siblings went to take a dip in the canal and were washed away. The father reported the incident to the Udumalpet police, who along with personnel from Udumalpet Fire Station, commenced the search operations. At around 8.30 p.m., the bodies were found stuck in a branch canal and were retrieved. The bodies were autopsied at Udumalpet Government Hospital and were handed over to the family on Thursday, the police said. This is the third incident where two brothers died by drowning in Tiruppur district in October as similar deaths were reported on October 22 in Avinashi and on October 12 within Tiruppur City Police limits.
30 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Congress holds poll meeting||All India Congress Committee secretary Sanjay Dutt participated in a meeting for election preparatory works organised by Tiruppur North District Congress Committee at Sivanmalai near Kangeyam on Thursday. Mr. Dutt asserted that the DMK-Congress alliance would win the State Assembly elections, a release said.
30 October 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested under POCSO Act||The Udumalpet All Women Police on Wednesday arrested a 47-year-old man on charges of sexually assaulting an eight-year-old girl near Dhali in Tiruppur district. The police said the victim and her grandmother were staying at the accused's house, where he sexually assaulted her when she was alone. The man was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He was remanded in judicial custody.
30 October 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||SNNL adds 10 new branches||Shri Narayani Nidhi Limited (SNNL), Tiruvarur, added 10 new branches to its fold on Thursday. The SNNL was started as Nidhi company in2015at Tiruvarur where it had earlier functioned as a town benefit fund since2012. As the company’s slogan “Traditional Trust with Secured Investment” gained the goodwill of the depositors, additional branches were opened in Tiruvarur area and at Kumbakonam where a sister concern “Shri Narayani (Kumbakonam) Nidhi Limited” was set up. It has also forayed into Forex business by setting up “Karkesh Forex Services Private Limited” at Tiruvarur and Kumbakonam. With the latest expansion, the SNNL now has 32 branches across Tamil Nadu. The SN(Kumbakonam) NL will start functioning from October 30 in a new building: Shri Narayani Anugraha,41/41A, Gandhi Park, Kumbakonam, where the office of the KFSPL will also be housed, according to a SNNL press release.
30 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Despite reopening for tourism, the Nilgiris sees dip in cases||A month after the district was reopened to controlled tourism, the anticipated spike in COVID-19 cases has largely been kept at bay so far. In fact, over the last couple of weeks, the average number of cases has declined sharply from more than 100 cases a day to between 30 and 50 over the last two weeks. Officials from the Health Department said the district administration and the department had been expecting a spike in the number of infections recorded each day due to the district being reopened. “However, due to the precautions taken, this spike has so far not materialised,” said a health official. With over 2,000 samples being collected every day, the positivity rate had also dipped from an all-time high of 7.2 % to 1.9 to 2 % in the district, the official said. “We had seen a spike in the number of cases following resumption of bus services, but due to the district administration increasing the number of buses and reducing the passenger load by between 50-60 % and ensuring personal distancing, this spike too was managed.” Deputy Director of Health Services P. Balusamy said private hospitals had also been asked to report cases of patients reporting with influenza-like or Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses. “We then conduct fever camps in the locations where the cases are reported to trace any potential COVID-19 patients,” he said. Officials said the number of tourists who tested positive after entering the Nilgiris was relatively low, but local residents with travel history continued to test positive. They appealed to the residents to travel to other districts only if it was absolutely necessary.
30 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||59 new cases take Vellore’s COVID-19 tally to 17,771||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 17,771 with 59 new cases reported on Thursday. While 17,051 patients have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 415. The district’s death toll stands at 305. In Ranipet district, 24 cases were reported positive taking the total to 14,787 In Tirupathur, the number of positive cases stood at 6,588 with 26 new cases reported on Thursday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 22 fresh cases were reported taking the total number of cases to 17,497. Of these, 16,863 patients have been discharged and there are 373 active cases.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 251 new cases, six deaths||As many as 2,739 persons from Coimbatore district are under institutional care for COVID-19 on Thursday including the 251 persons who tested positive on the day. The district saw 633 persons being discharged, and the toll increased to 553 with six more deaths reported on Thursday. The total number of positive cases in the district stood at 42,776 as on Thursday. In Tiruppur, for the third consecutive day, the daily case load was below the 100-mark with 94 fresh cases. The district reported the death of two persons aged 52 and 87, taking the toll to 189. Of the total 12,497 cases, 960 were active cases and 11,348 patients recovered. On Thursday, 114 patients were discharged in the district. In the Nilgiris, 39 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 6,556, with 247 patients undergoing treatment. The toll so far stood at 38. Erode district reported 124 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 10,127. While 83 persons were discharged, 829 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 121 in the district. Of the 170 new cases reported in Salem, 151 were indigenous including 92 in Salem Corporation limits. Nineteen patients returned from Madurai, Namakkal and Coimbatore. Two persons aged 67 and 77 died of the disease. In Namakkal, 46 persons tested positive, of whom five returned from Tiruchi, Salem and Karur. Krishnagiri reported 28 cases and Dharmapuri 21.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sainik School Amaravathinagar to admit girls to Class VI||For the first time since its establishment, Sainik School Amaravathinagar near Udumalpet in Tiruppur district will admit girls to Class VI from the academic year 2021-22. Principal of the school Captain K. Nirmal Raghu announced that the Sainik Schools Society would conduct the All India Sainik Schools Entrance Examination (AISSEE) on January 10, 2021 for the academic year 2021-22. While boys and girls would be admitted to Class VI, only boys would be admitted to Class IX, he said in a release. The residential school prepares the students for entry into the National Defence Academy. Since 2018, various Sainik Schools in the country have been admitting girls, limited to 10 % of total authorised admissions for Class VI. An official said a separate hostel building would be provided for the girl students. “Whatever training is being given for the boys will be given for girls also,” he said. The school at Amaravathinagar expects around 10 girls and 100 boys to be admitted in Class VI for the coming academic year, the official said. Within the State, the AISSEE will be conducted in Amaravathinagar, Chennai, Coimbatore, Thanjavur and Udumalpet and also Puducherry. For details visit websitewww.sainikschoolamaravathinagar.edu.in. Interested students can apply online (https://aissee.nta.nic.in) and the last date for applying is November 19.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N.’s figure is better than national average’||The recovery rate in Tamil Nadu is even higher than the national average, and is about 94.5%,” he said at the review meeting. The Minister added that the fatality rate of India as well as Tamil Nadu remained 1.5%. At the national level, the sample positivity rate was 7.6%, while it was 7.3% in the State, he said. “I would like to congratulate you as Tamil Nadu is probably one State where the example is worth emulating...as you are doing only RT-PCR tests, which is a good indication,” he said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Managing Director P. Umanath, Joint Secretary (Health) A. Sivagnanam, Mission Director of National Health Mission-Tamil Nadu K. Senthil Raj and Directors T.S. Selvavinayagam (Public Health and Preventive Medicine), S. Gurunathan (Medical and Rural Health Services) and R. Narayana Babu (Medical Education) were present at the meeting.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Quick decision on 7.5 % quota needed, says HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday hoped that the Governor would take a decision at the earliest with regard to the Bill on implementing 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students, who cleared National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test (NEET), in medical admissions. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi made the remark while hearing a batch of public interest litigation petitions which sought a direction to the State to implement reservation for government school students as recommended by the commission headed by retired High Court Judge P. Kalaiyarasan. The Bench was informed by Advocate General Vijay Narayan that the Governor needed three to four weeks to take a decision on the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy on Preferential Basis to the Students of Government Schools Bill, 2020. When the judges asked why there was a delay in taking a decision in this regard, the Advocate General referring to Article 361 of the Constitution submitted that protection had been given to the constitutional authority and the Governor was not answerable to any court for exercise and performance of his powers and duties. The judges observed that, “No doubt Article 361 gives protection to the constitutional authority. However, in the given circumstances, a decision has to be taken, taking into consideration the future of the government school students, who are invariably from marginalised and poor sections, as soon as possible as provided under Article 200 of the Constitution of India (Assent to Bills).” The court observed that the Bill was unanimously passed by the Tamil Nadu Assembly on September 15 and sent for assent to the Governor the same day. However, it was pending for almost two months. On October 16, NEET results were published. Though it was claimed that around 400-500 students from government schools cleared NEET, the reality was that only single-digit number of students would be qualified for admission to medical courses as per the committee report. Since the introduction of NEET in 2017, only 14 students from government schools got admission to medical courses, the judges said. “When.. present kind of situation arises, a different approach has to be taken by the courts in the interest of the public. It is well settled law that ‘extraordinary situation requires extraordinary remedies’. When public interest requires, this court has to do its constitutional duties and address the situation. However, this court is of the opinion that such a situation would not arise to pass any order in this matter,” the judges said. The case was adjourned till November 2. Earlier, the government informed the court that until a decision was taken by the Governor, the prospectus for admissions would not be issued.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Work on Rs. 3.15-crore sewage treatment plant in Madurai to be over in 45 days||Work on construction of a sewage treatment plant along Panthalkudi channel near Goripalayam would be completed within 45 days, said Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan here on Thursday. The channel, which drains into the Vaigai at Alwarpuram, is one of the major channels that pollutes the river. It carries the surplus from Sellur tank and traverses through densely populated areas of the city before emptying the muck into the Vaigai. The Panthalkudi channel has become a receptacle for household sewage and garbage. Residents who do not have underground drainage connection discharge the household waste directly into the channel. A Corporation official said construction of the sewage treatment plant was interrupted for around six months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The plant has a capacity to treat up to 2 million litres a day. It is being set up with an estimated cost of Rs. 3.15 crore. While Rs. 2.50 crore has been contributed by Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited through its corporate social responsibility initiative, the rest is routed through the Corporation’s general fund. The Corporation official said the treated water could either be discharged into the river or used for watering gardens. “This sewage treatment plant will help in minimising the damage caused to Vaigai river because of rampant water pollution,” the Commissioner said. Underground drainage system was being established in the newly-added wards in the northern parts of the city under Smart Cities Mission. A similar proposal was being prepared for wards in the southern parts of the city, he added. “Once all these projects are completed, there will be no discharge of sewage into the Vaigai,” Mr. Visakan said.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Subscribers receive pension pay orders on retirement day||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation handed over pension pay orders to a few subscribers who retired from service on Thursday. The Union Government, in a bid to ensure uninterrupted service delivery to subscribers of EPFO, has introduced the plan ‘Prayas’ to grant pension to retiring EPFO subscribers on their date of retirement under the programme. Hence, EPFO – Tirunelveli organised a simple event on its premises on Thursday to disburse the pension payment orders to subscribers retiring on October 29, 2020. Mahalakshmi, employed with Muruga Home Industries, Surandai; Paulthai of Muruga Home Industries, Koodankulam; Bharathi Gopalsamy of Vaiyapuri Vidhyalaya Matriculation Higher Secondary School; Xavier Ignatius Christopher of Venus Home Appliances, Thoothukudi; and a few others received their pension pay orders from V. Kalaichelvan, Assistant PF Commissioner, EPFO, Tirunelveli. Mr. Kalaichelvan appealed to employers to extend their cooperation for successful implementation of the plan by duly following the pre-requisites required such as KYC of employees, online updation of profile and nomination, advance payment of contribution due for the retiring month, forwarding of pension claim in 10-D enclosing additional documents as deemed necessary. Senior officers B.V. Harikrishnan, P. Nageswari, S. Safrina, Saraswathi and others were present.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. takes executive route to clear 7.5% horizontal quota||The Supreme Court has held in the past that reservation can be provided through executive order and that seems to have bolstered the State government’s case for issuing the G.O. Not violative Citing the Advocate General’s opinion, the State said in the G.O. that the government quota was not violative of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution. “Since the NEET undergraduate results have now been declared and the admissions process has started, there is an urgency to decide on the issue,” the G.O. said. In fact, the State had informed the High Court earlier this month that the prospectus for admissions will not be issued till a decision is taken by the Governor on the Bill. Through the G.O., the government has decided to set apart 7.5% on preferential basis to students who have studied from Classes 6 to 12 in State government schools in admissions and have qualified in NEET to MBBS, BDS, BSMS, BAMS, BUMS and BHMS courses. This setting apart of seats will be done under the State quota seats in all government medical, dental colleges and all courses for which NEET has been prescribed as an eligibility criteria. ‘Vertical reservation’ “The above horizontal reservation shall be provided in each category of vertical reservation followed in the State of Tamil Nadu within the 69% reservation from the academic year 2020-2021,” the G.O. said. An official in the Directorate of Medical Education said, “The government’s position is that it will implement the reservation for government school students from the current year itself”.  (With inputs from R. Sujatha)
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||The headline and picture of the article ‘65 babies born on a single day at Egmore Children's Hospital’, published in these columns on October 29, are wrong. While the picture wrongly depicted the Egmore Children's Hospital, the headline should read ‘65 babies born on a single day at the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology’. The error is regretted.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Focus on promoting IT sector in the south, says Minister||The State government is keen to join hands with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) to facilitate rapid industrial growth between Madurai and Kanniyakumari, said Revenue and Information Technology Minister R.B. Udayakumar here on Wednesday. Speaking at the inaugural session of the two-day forum, ‘CII Connect Madurai 2020 - developing southern Tamil Nadu as a value-added ICT destination,’ he said the steps taken by the State government in the last nine years had kindled an interest in many small and medium industries and, major IT firms to set up shop in southern districts. HCL and Honeywell were planning to expand their operations in a major way. New facilities have come up in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Nagercoil. The government was committed to improve infrastructure in southern districts. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, IT and IT-enabled services had registered good quarterly performance in the State. The exports in the IT sector had marginally increased by 12% - from Rs. 1.23 lakh crore to Rs. 1.39 lakh crore in 2019-20 over the previous year. Apart from Chennai, tier-2 cities had also shown good results, the result of which many have preferred to take up jobs in southern districts. The ELCOSEZs (ELCOT-promoted IT-Specific Special Economic Zones) had provided jobs to 94,000 candidates, Mr. Udayakumar said.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Meeting discusses problems faced by tapioca farmers||A tripartite meeting of tapioca farmers, sagoserve industry units and district administration was held at the Collectorate here on Thursday. District Collector S.A. Raman and other senior officials heard grievances of tapioca farmers and sago unit owners and assured them that necessary action would be taken. Tapioca farmers sought steps for paying farmers directly for procuring tapioca. The farmers also requested that they should be made members in sagoserve and steps must be taken for selling sago through PDS shops. Farmers demanded they should be provided training in producing value-added products. Farmers also demanded that sago payasam should be made part of nutritious meal. Sago unit owners requested that officials from food safety should visit sago manufacturing units here to prevent adulteration and steps must be taken to improve sale of sago.
30 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||19 candidates file nomination papers for DCC Bank polls||As many as 19 candidates filed their nomination papers for the 16 posts of directors of the District Central Cooperative Bank in Belagavi on Thursday, sending out a message that the elections will not be unanimous. Thursday was the last date for filing nomination papers. Friday will see scrutiny of nomination papers and Saturday is the last date for withdrawal of nomination papers. Polling is scheduled for November 6. BJP leaders, on the other hand, held a joint press conference saying that they were working towards a consensus to avoid voting on polling day. They also hinted that they were trying to allow the former MP Ramesh Katti to have his fifth term as bank chairman. S.G. Dhavaleshwar, a representative of the industries sector, is likely to continue as the bank vice-chairman. The 16-member bank has 10 geographical constituencies and six sectoral constituencies, including urban banks, silk and wool farmers, Karnataka Milk Federation and industries. The Returning Officer received one set of nomination paper each from seven of the 10 taluks. Just one candidate filed nomination papers from the six sectoral constituencies. The three taluks that received multiple nomination papers are Khanapur, Ramdurg and Bailhongal. First-time MLA Anjali Nimbalkar is challenging former MLA and MES leader from Khanapur Arvind Patil. She told journalists that she met Mr. Ramesh Katti seeking his advice six months ago when she began planning for the elections. “I am here to help farmers and the rural poor. I have built a cooperative organisation that has active workers of Congress, BJP and MES,” she said. She insisted that no one had approached her for a consensus and ruled out withdrawing from the race. She said that she had begun preparations for voting on November 6. BJP leaders, however, say that efforts will be made to convince the additional candidates to withdraw from the race on Saturday. They are banking on BJP MLA Balachandra Jarkiholi to request his brother and Congress leader Satish Jarkiholi to convince Dr. Nimbalkar to withdraw from the race. They don’t see a problem in urging the additional candidates from Bailhongal and Ramdurg to quit. Despite repeated declarations by senior leaders that the DCC Bank polls are non-political, elections to the biggest lender in the district continue to have significant political implications. Nomination papers are not filed on behalf of political parties and parties don’t issue ticket. But parties routinely back candidates who enter the fray. Five years ago, the BJP camp was divided when the Katti brothers convinced the government nominee to side with them, to defeat Laxman Savadi (now Deputy Chief Minister) in the race to the chairmanship. This time, the BJP has put in efforts to save such an embarrassment. RSS leader Arvind Rao Deshpande and leaders of the Sahakara Bharati, an affiliate of the Sangh Parivar, held two rounds of meetings with BJP leaders in Belagavi. Union Minister Prahald Joshi and BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel held meetings in Hubballi and Belagavi to iron out differences between the groups owing allegiance to different leaders. Even on Thursday, BJP leaders held a closed door meeting in the DCC Bank office to work out modalities. Those in the know say that it was agreed that Mr. Laxman Savadi would be sent to Bengaluru as the DCC Bank representative to vote in the State-level polls to the Apex Bank. MLA and Congress leader Ganesh Hukkeri, who had spoken of fighting the DCC Bank polls, did not submit his nomination papers on Thursday. This cleared the way for bank director Anna Saheb Jolle to get elected unopposed. Shivanand Doni, a loyalist of the Jarkiholi family, is the lone contestant from Gokak. Deputy Speaker Vishwanath Mamani, Mr. Ramesh Katti, Rajendra Ankalagi and Mr. Savadi are the other important candidates. In the joint press conference, the BJP leaders said that they were all united and believed that all were equal in the party. They vowed to stay united for the next 20 years and work for the district and its poor. They said that they planned to invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inaugurate the bank’s new building in a few months. Balachandra Jarkiholi, who is also KMF chairman and who did most of the talking, said that Karnataka was set to witness a cooperative revolution and that it was about to begin from Belagavi. The former Minister Umesh Katti said that the bank had saved funds in the estimated cost for construction as it completed work earlier than expected. Rajya Sabha member Eeranna Kadadi, MLC Mahantesh Kavatagimath, Mr. Savadi, Minister for Women and Child Welfare Shashikala Jolle, Mr. Jolle, Mr. Mamani, MLA and director Mahantesh Dodagoudar and other leaders were present in the press conference.
30 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 safety material donated to hospital||Lions Club and TATA Education and Development Trust donated COVID-19 safety material to KLE Society’s Prabhakar Kore Hospital in Belagavi on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said that the donor agencies had handed over PPE kits, N-95 masks and other material to the hospital. He urged them to donate similar material to government hospitals.  The Deputy Commissioner said that the 500 COVID Care Centres in the district had treated around 24,000 patients against a total of 24,500 active cases. He said that the number of active cases and the death rate were both reducing. Mr. Hiremath asked people to take precautionary measures, including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Lions Club representatives Girish Kuchinad, Monika Sawant, P.R.S Chetan, hospital authorities and others were present.
30 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farmers take out rally||Members of farmers associations took out a rally to protest against the delay in payment of sugarcane arrears by sugar factories in Chikkodi in Belagavi district on Thursday.  The farmers walked to the Tahsildar’s office and submitted a memorandum to the State government seeking enforcement of the rule of making factories settle all their dues in two weeks of them supplying sugarcane. The farmers also demanded that the State government fix a minimum support price for all crops, including soyabean, and buy grain directly from farmers, to arrest the fall in prices. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Karnataka Rajya Kabbu Belegarara Vedike and other organisations organised the protest.
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mask rule for solo motorists may be put on hold for a week||The rule of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) making a mask mandatory for solo motorists – in four-wheelers and two-wheelers – is likely to be put on hold for a week. Following a public outcry, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad on Thursday wrote to the Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), seeking a clarification. The Health Department has, in turn, referred the matter to the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), which will again discuss the issue in detail. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said the issue has been referred to the TAC. On the agenda TAC Chairman M.K. Sudarshan told The Hindu on Thursday that the issue will be taken up at its next meeting. “Till then, the rule will have to be put on hold, at least for a week,” he said. Mr. Prasad said he has written to the Health Secretary seeking a clarification if solo motorists in four-wheelers and two-wheelers should wear masks compulsorily. “Based on the department’s clarification, we will suitably amend the order, if required,” he said. In the letter, the Commissioner said: “Keeping in mind the directives of the Supreme Court as to whether a private four-wheeler on a public road constitutes a public space or a private space, a detailed order was issued on October 27. Before issuing the above order, the contents were discussed with the Health Department as well as the police authorities.” Stating that issues raised by the general public previously regarding wearing masks were placed before the TAC, the Commissioner said in the letter: “The TAC had given clarifications and made some recommendations. These clarifications and recommendations were reviewed in detail in the light of the COVID-19 directives issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, government of India, as well as the government of Karnataka, which mandates use of masks by everyone in public spaces.” ‘Rule of thumb’ TAC member Giridhar R. Babu said, “I completely support the mask rule. Till we have a vaccine, the rule of thumb is to have a mask as an absolutely essential accessory when we step out of the house.” Stating that this rule can change as and when the pandemic gets under control, Dr. Babu said, “This is the only way for now.”
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nightmare ride: Recent spate of rains damage roads||Around a week ago, when Venkataraman Durgadas, who lives in Whitefield, was walking on Borewell Road, he lost his footing and fell after stepping onto a hastily covered ditch that had been dug by a telecom service provider. “I had to undergo a minor surgery in a private hospital. I have raised complaints about the poor condition of the road on every available forum. To date, the road has not seen any repair… it is still dug up and there is no footpath. It is dangerous for both pedestrians and two-wheeler riders,” said the IT professional, who had to shell out Rs. 30,000 for the surgery. Borewell Road is just one among hundreds of roads in the city that are either full of potholes and craters, or have been dug up for work. The recent spate of rains has exacerbated the problem even as civic agencies have not met deadlines. Roads, especially those in the outer zones, are in a pathetic condition, and some stretches have been reduced to rubble, say residents, citing examples of Nallurhalli Main Road, ITPL Road, ECC Road, Pattandur Agrahara Road, the road connecting Varthur Kodi and Gunjur, Belagere Road, Sorahunase Road, Munnekolalu Road, and Kundalahalli Junction to Sarjapur Road. Following the recent spate of rains, potholes are seen on parts of the Outer Ring Road like the stretch between Peenya metro station and Yeshwantpur station on National Highway 4, HMT Main Road, Seshadripuram 1st Main Road, Hennur Main Road and Hedgenagar Main Road. Residents take initiative Jagadish Reddy from Varthur Rising told The Hindu that around three months ago, the BBMP identified just 21 potholes on a 2.2-km stretch in Varthur village, coming under Whitefield sub-division. “The stretch has hundreds of potholes,” he said. With their repeated complaints about poor roads falling on deaf ears, residents of Owners Court Layout in Kasavanahalli decided to pool in money and repair the roads. Hemukumar K., president, Namma Owners Court Layout, said that all the 18 cross roads had been dug up for laying water and underground drainage pipelines, but restoration had not been taken up. Residents of around five cross roads pooled in Rs. 3 lakh, contacted private building contractors and engaged them. “During the lockdown, ambulances got stuck. Accidents are reported nearly every day. Though we submitted several petitions, no repair work was taken up,” he said and added that construction debris, jelly and wet mix was used to level the roads. CBD also dug up In the Central Business District (CBD), several roads have been dug up for development works that have been taken up by Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. However, progress has been slow. “The city resembles a war zone. The civic body that shows so much interest in collecting taxes from citizens has done close to nothing on improving civic infrastructure,” said a resident of Palace Guttahalli. BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta said that he had directed engineers to ensure that roads are in a motorable condition, including portions where work has been taken up. “Priority will be given to fixing the arterial roads that witness most traffic,” he said. Civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad said that over the next 15 days, the identified stretches will be repaired, provided there are no rains. Though the civic body has its own hot mix plant, the plant could not be operated, given the wet weather conditions. “We cannot use the wet jelly, as it will impact the quality of the hot mix. If it is raining, road repair cannot be taken up,” he said.  During the lockdown, ambulances got stuck. Accidents are reported nearly every day. Though we submitted several petitions, no repair work was taken up Hemukumar K., president, Namma Owners Court Layout   The city resembles a war zone. The civic body that shows so much interest in collecting taxes from citizens has done close to nothing on improving civic infrastructure A resident of Palace Guttahalli
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘My husband’s contribution to Sira is my strength’||Ammajamma, the 61-year-old Janata Dal (S) candidate for the byelection to Sira Assembly constituency, is in the thick of campaigning though she only recently recovered from COVID-19. The bypoll was necessitated by the death of her husband and Sira legislator B. Sathyanarayana. In her first outing in electoral politics, Ms. Ammajamma has been seeking votes as the “daughter of the taluk”. In a brief interview with The Hindu , she spoke about her entry into politics and her campaign.  This is your first election. How do you feel? I was not involved in politics much as my husband was an active participant. But people are responding well when I go for canvassing for votes now. What are the issues on which you are seeking votes? I am seeking votes on the good work done by the party. My husband has contributed to the development of the taluk. He did not discriminate and was popular among all. I am seeking votes upon the contribution of former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy. You were reluctant to contest initially. Why? There was some amount of fear about entering politics and I was anxious. I was also not well as I was down with COVID -19. Many JD(S) leaders have left the party. Are you worried about it? It’s an old story now. JD(S) workers are still around and enthusiastically campaigning. My husband had taken good care of party workers. The arrival of Mr. Gowda in Sira for campaigning has changed the scene on the ground. Are you getting support from the party workers? All the workers are supporting me. My strength and confidence comes from the fact that Mr. Gowda and Mr. Kumaraswamy have been very helpful and have been backing me well. The party legislators are also campaigning on my behalf. You are pitted against veteran T.B. Jayachandra and debutant Rajesh Gowda. How do you fancy your chances? My husband’s work in the constituency is my strength. I am confident of voters standing by me. There are many women voters in Sira constituency who I think will vote for me. The sympathy factor will work.    My husband has contributed to the development of the taluk. He did not discriminate and was popular among all Ammajamma, JD(S) candidate in Sira byelection
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Give compensation to the flood-hit: Siddaramaiah||With standing crops on 15 lakh hectares destroyed in heavy rains and floods in this year’s monsoon in north and south Karnataka, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has demanded that the government provide compensation to farmers and the poor who have lost their crops and houses. He has urged the State government to take an all-party delegation to the Centre to seek funds for undertaking relief and repair work. The government should also convene a legislature session to discuss the problems faced by the flood-affected people, he said. In a letter to Chief MinisterB.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the government had not paid compensation to more than one lakh house owners whose houses were destroyed in last year’s rains. Though 2.47 lakh houses were destroyed in 2019, compensation of Rs. 5 lakh was paid to some of the 1.24 lakhhouseowners. Some house owners received just Rs. 1 lakh, he claimed. “This year’s monsoon destroyed crops, houses and public infrastructure evenmore. While crops on 15 lakh hectares were destroyed in 2020, about 10 lakh hectares was affected in 2019. The government has decided to borrow Rs. 90,000 crore from various sources, but has not provided relief to flood victims,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. The Congress leader, who toured Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Bagalkot and other rain-devastated districts a few days ago, said the sowing of crops this year had exceeded the target on more than 30% of the targeted area, but the floods had destroyed the crops. Crops such as groundnut, maize, jowar, paddy, onion, oilseeds, and commercial crops such as coffee and cotton were destroyed. Legislators and Ministers havenot been responding to the grievances of the flood victims, choosing instead to campaign for polls, he said.  The government should convene a legislature session to discuss the problems faced by flood victims Siddaramaiah, Leader of the Opposition
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Objection over manner of transfer of headmasters||Allegations have surfaced over the drawing up of a seniority list without following the roster system for the purpose of transfer of headmasters in Mysuru division of the Education Department. The counselling for transfer of headmasters commenced on Wednesday. While stating that the department had followed the roster system in Bengaluru division, the Karnataka State Government SC/ ST Employees’ Committee has alleged that the same was not followed in Mysuru division “owing to pressure”. In a letter to the Chief Secretary, the committee said decision to not draw up the seniority list based on the roster system would put those from the SC and ST communities at a disadvantage. “While one particular community gets an undue advantage over the urban centres in transfers, members from other communities will be posted in rural centres because of the lack of a roster system,” committee president D. Chandrashekaraiah said. The committee has sought the immediate stoppage of counselling and initiation of action against those for starting the counselling without adhering to the roster system. Meanwhile, a senior official said the roster system was followed in effecting promotions and the seniority list was being followed in transfers as per the Department of Personnel and Administrative Services rules. “We are doing it as per the rules. Objections have been made and we have looked into it,” the official said.
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ASER underlines digital divide in schools||Online learning, which has become the norm due to the COVID-19 pandemic, has brought to the fore the digital divide in education with only children having access to smartphones and internet experiencing the benefits. The extent of the divide is stark, according to the Annual Status of Education Report (Rural) 2020 Wave 1 Report, which was released on Wednesday. Only 63% of students aged between 5 and 18 years, enrolled in government schools in rural Karnataka, have access to smartphones. Among those enrolled in private schools, 82% had access to smartphones. This year, the report examined the apparent effects of the pandemic on schooling and learning opportunities of children in rural India. For Karnataka, 3,128 households in 900 villages across all 30 districts were surveyed. A total of 7,557 children in the 5-18 years age group were surveyed. The survey revealed that 89% of children enrolled in private schools and 80% of students enrolled in government schools have access to television. The report explored provision of and access to remote education mechanisms and materials in rural parts of the country, and how children, families, and educators were engaging with these from their homes. It noted an increase in enrolment in government schools: 71.86% of boys and 75.1% of girls have been enrolled in government schools this year, as against 66.2% boys and 74.2% girls in 2018. It highlighted the role of government school teachers in ensuring that students were not left behind. Around 61% of government school teachers visited students or spoke to them or their parents in the reference week, which is the week before the survey was conducted. The percentage of private school teachers who took similar initiatives stood at 55.6. As far as availability of textbooks for their current grade was concerned, 93.9% of children in government schools had textbooks whereas only 76% of children in private schools had textbooks. However, only 73% of children in government schools and 67% of children in private schools received the learning material and activities in the reference week. The data applies only to rural schools. According to the survey, WhatsApp was the most used medium to share learning/activity material in private schools (76.2%) and government schools (40.3%). “As schools are closed, children rely mainly on the resources available at home to help them learn. These resources consist of people who can help them study (eg. educated parents); technology (TV, radio or smartphone); or material (such as textbooks),” a release said.
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rainwater yet to exit homes in Bengaluru’s Bandepalya||Three days after heavy rains lashed the city, life for families residing near Ayyappa temple in Bandepalya in Bommanahalli is yet to return to normal as the area continues to be inundated. Residents, who live in makeshift houses and work on construction sites or as domestic help, said that they have been residing in the are for several years, but this is the first time that water has been stagnant for so long. “There is nowhere for the water to drain,” said a resident. Radha, who works as a household help, said that last year the authorities had drained out flood water, but this year no one has come to their help. “Over 25 households have been affected. We worry about mosquitoes and our health,” she said. Yashoda P. of Domestic Workers Rights Union said that the civic body should work on a permanent solution. “We met elected representatives. They said that they could do something if families vacated the space temporarily. But people do not want to leave, as they are worried that they will be permanently evacuated,” she said. Yashoda pointed out that many had even lost jobs due to COVID-19. “They cannot afford the rent in other places,” she said. Bommanahalli MLA Satish Reddy told The Hindu that he would talk to officials on working out a permanent solution.
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HAL signs contract worth Rs. 400 cr. with Tech Mahindra||Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL) and Tech Mahindra (TM) signed a contract worth Rs. 400 crore in Bengaluru for implementation of Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) to support HAL’s Project Parivartan. HLA said in a release that Project Parivartan is a comprehensive business transformation exercise initiated by HAL through technology enhancement and centralised ERP. R. Madhavan, CMD, HAL, said that the exercise will enable HAL to adopt some of the best practices followed in some of the similar industries globally. Sujit Baksi, president, Corporate Affairs and Business Head Emerging Markets, Tech Mahindra, said that selection by HAL extends “our vision of supporting government’s Atmanirbhar (self-reliant) initiative to enhance our indigenous capabilities.” The contract was signed by Dibyendu Maiti, Executive Director (Corporate Planning), HAL, and Prashanth S., Group Competency Head, Tech Mahindra, in the presence of Mr. Madhavan. Tech Mahindra will be responsible for the transformation and modernisation of the ERP System as an implementation and support partner enabling HAL to streamline and standardise its business processes across the organisation. As a system integrator, Tech Mahindra will implement ‘Project Parivartan’ over a period of nine years, said the release.
30 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power cut in some areas||There will be no power supply from November 2 to 4 between 10 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. in the areas serviced by Jayadeva, Sarakki, Iskcon and RBI sub-stations.
30 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||IOC transforms garbage dump into green zone||The debris and garbage lying below the flyover on Mission Road, running from Subbiah Circle to Lalbagh and Double Road junction, in Bengaluru have vanished and the place has been turned into a garden, a statement from the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) said. The IOC has turned the dump into a green zone. Also, the stretch had broken railings and cracked medians, leading to safety issues for motorists and pedestrians, it added. “IOC took up the work of not just cleaning the garbage, but also replacing the old railings on the road divider median, from Subbaiah Circle to the entry of the flyover. Apart from this, the railings below the flyover were replaced with new ones. Also, saplings were planted and the area developed into a green zone,” said D.L. Pramodh, Executive Director and State head, Indian Oil, Karnataka. Indian Oil had taken BBMP and the local police into confidence on this initiative, the release said.
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Voting arrangements for COVID-19 patients||Between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. on November 3, COVID-19 patients and those suspected to be infected by the coronavirus will be allowed to cast their vote in the 678 polling stations in Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituency. Addressing reporters here on Thursday, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, who is also the District Election Officer, said that till Wednesday, 1,177 people in R.R. Nagar segment had tested positive for COVID-19. Of these, 317 were hospitalised, 18 were in COVID-19 care facilities, and 842 under home isolation. “We will collect data on all those who test positive till November 2,” he said, adding that consenting voters would be picked up in ambulances and brought to the polling stations. A day ahead of polls, each of the polling stations are to be sanitised. To avail the ambulance service, those suspected to have COVID-19 may call 080-28600954/ 28604331/ 28601050/ 94822 24474.
30 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘My father will complete term as CM’||Dismissing Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah’s statement that Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa was set to be replaced in about a fortnight, the latter’s son and BJP State vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra on Thursday maintained that his father was sure to complete his full term. Seeking to downplay the speculation, he said such remarks were only to be expected in the run-up to bypolls. He alleged that the Opposition parties, particularly the Congress, were frustrated over not being able to win the confidence of the people in the two constituencies going to the polls, and hence were issuing such statements. Meanwhile, launching a counter-attack at Mr. Siddaramaiah, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said in a lighter vein that he had “credible information” from New Delhi thatMr. Siddaramaiah was set to be replaced as Leader of the Opposition in 15 days. He will be replaced by KPCC chief D.K. Shivakumar, Mr. Ashok claimed.
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Restaurant owners held||The Ashok Nagar police on Thursday arrested two owners of the restaurant in Richmond Town where a steamer had exploded resulting in the death of an employee. The accused, Ashok Shetty and Bhaskar Shetty, have been charged with causing death due to negligence, said the police. Three other employees, who were working in the kitchen of New Udupi Upahar, were injured.
30 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Need to reimagine healthcare’||There is a need to rethink and reimagine the healthcare system in the backdrop of COVID-19, Gagandeep Kang, professor of Microbiology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, said. Delivering a lecture on 'Reimagining the Indian Healthcare System', on the occasion of the 47th Foundation Day of Indian Institute of Management Bangalore, she said, “A lot has changed in the last six months; we have recognised that diagnostics is important and needs to be scaled to provide information on infectious diseases. We have begun to manufacture equipment, tools, consumables, kits that we have never done at scale before. We realized that global supply chains are easily disrupted and strategic planning for disasters requires an understanding of critical control points. And I hope we have realised the tremendous economic impact of the pandemic and our attempts to control it, require us to rethink, reimagine India’s healthcare system”. “At the moment, the world is in crisis, pinning hopes on a vaccine that will not restore us to 2019, no matter what we fervently desire. But in nine months, public health and science have shown us that we can move with speed, that we can implement measures of control, collaborate and come with new technologies for potential, if partial, solutions,” she said. Replying to a question on whether there is any evidence to encourage mainstreaming of AYUSH, she said, “I think there are too many detractors of the traditional systems of medicines”. Dr. Devi Prasad Shetty, Chairman of Board of Governors of the Institute, said the pandemic turned everything upside down but also resulted in a few positive developments. “Seventeen years ago with the help of ISRO, we launched telemedicine programmes across the country. I was treating patients from Tripura, Siliguri and sitting in my office. I treated 53,000 heart patients. Telemedicine was not acceptable then. The Medical Council changed the regulation to legalize telemedicine.”
30 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Chaos marks Hassan CMC poll||The election for the post of Hassan City Municipal Council president was held on Thursday amidst heated arguments among political parties. The election procedure for the president’s post was completed. However, the Returning Officer did not announce the result as per the court’s order. The election to the vice-president’s post was mired in chaos and confusion as the JD(S) leaders sought more time to file nomination papers. In the council of 35 members, the president’s post was reserved for Scheduled Tribe category. The only member who suits the category, Mohan Kumar, elected on the BJP ticket from ward 34, filed the nomination papers. The JD(S), despite winning 17 seats in the council, could not get a chance to file the papers for the president’s post. The party has moved the court challenging the reservation. The court had ordered to hold the election as per schedule but restricted the administration from declaring the results until the petition is disposed of by the High Court. B.A. Jagadish, Assistant Commissioner of Hassan sub-division, who acted as Returning Officer, accepted the nomination papers but did not announce the winner. However, chaos prevailed in connection with the election for the post of vice-president, which was reserved for the BCA Woman category. Mangala Pradeep of the BJP had filed the nomination papers; none from the JD(S) or the Congress had done so. Members of the JD(S) argued that there was ambiguity concerning the deadline for filing the nomination papers and sought more time. However, the BJP leaders including Preetham Gowda, MLA, urged the Returning Officer to complete the election process. Later, the RO announced that the election for the vice-president’s post would be held on Friday.
30 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||BJP has ‘tacit’ support of Congress, says Revanna||JD(S) leader and former Minister H.D. Revanna says he suspects an understanding between the Congress and the BJP in the by-elections to Sira and R.R.Nagar constituencies. He told presspersons in Hassan on Thursday that the BJP came to power in the State “with the tacit support” of the Congress. Even now, the BJP had the support of the Congress. “Similarly, there could be understanding in the by-elections as well”, he said. Regarding the election for Hassan City Municipal Council, Mr. Revanna said the government had reserved the post of CMC president for Scheduled Tribe. The BJP’s candidate Mohan, elected from ward 34 in the city, did not belong to the ST category. “The records show that his father belonged to the Maratha community. He has forged the caste certificate. We will bring all these issues before the court”, he added.
30 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Four deaths in Hassan||Four people died of COVID-19 in Hassan on Thursday and 111 tested positive for the infection on the day. With this, the total number of deaths due to COVID-19 increased to 422 in the district. So far 24,597 people have been infected in the district. Among them, 22,967 have recovered. As on Thursday, 1,208 are under treatment and of them 40 are in the intensive care unit. Of the fresh cases reported on the day, five are from Alur, two from Arkalgud, 13 from Arsikere, and five from Belur.
30 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||22 COVID-19 warriors to be felicitated||The Department of Health and Family Welfare has chosen 22 staff members, who worked as COVID-19 warriors, for felicitation on Kannada Rajyotsava on November 1. They include Rajesh Kulkarni, entomologist, health assistants, drivers, nursing officers, lab technicians and D-group employees. Besides them, the department has also chosen three medical practitioners who joined hands with the department in the fight against the pandemic. They are Prasanna N. Rao, principal of SDM Ayurveda College, Abdul Basheer, Director of Janapriya Hospital, and Ramesh, president of Hassan chapter of Indian Medical Association.
30 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Railway Police Force launches ‘Meri Saheli’ for women train passengers||“Meri Saheli”, an initiative aimed at ensuring safety of woman passengers on trains has been launched by the Railway Police Force of Hubballi division of South Western Railway. The launch coincides with the phased resumption of regular train services and running of special trains on account of the festival season and a direction from Director-General of RPF Arun Kumar and Inspector-General and Principal Security Commissioner of South Western Railway R.S. Chauhan, a press release said. The RPF, Hubballi division, launched “Meri Saheli” for four pairs of trains originating from Hubballi division to begin with. Under the initiative, a team comprising a woman Sub-Inspector and constables will visit the women’s coach and also identify those travelling alone and brief them about the precautions to be taken during their journey. The passengers will be briefed about security helpline 182 which they can contact in case of security issues. An email ID has also been created for Hubballi division (mysaheliubl@gmail.com), and passengers can call 7022626987 for security assistance. Train services “Meri Saheli” has been launched on train no. 07305/02779-02780/07306 Hubballi/Vasco Da Gama-Hazrat Niamuddin-Hubballi/Vasco Da Gama Express Special, 07317/07318 Hubballi-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Hubballi Express Special, 07225/07226 Hubballi-Vijayawada-Hubballi Express Special, and 01140/01139 Gadag-Mumbai CSMT-Gadag Express Special, the release said.
30 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||AIMSS seeks justice for Hathras victim’s family||Seeking justice for the victim’s family in the Hathras rape and murder case in Uttar Pradesh, members of the Dharwad district unit of the All India Mahila Sanskritik Sanghathan (AIMSS) staged a demonstration in Dharwad on Thursday. The protest was held at Vivekanand Circle in Dharwad in response to a call for All India Protest Day seeking justice for the Hathras victim and against the increasing attacks on women and children in the country. The protestors raised slogans against the governments for their failure to check crimes against women and sang protest songs to highlight the need for strict action. Addressing the protestors, district president of AIMSS Madhulata Goudar said that although more than a month had passed after a young woman was raped and murdered at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, the victim’s family had been denied justice. “Instead of taking steps to ensure justice for the victim’s family, the Uttar Pradesh government and administration were trying to protect the criminals who belonged to an influential community in that State,” she said. Although the government’s action had been condemned by the High Court of that State, no proper action was being taken against the criminals who had committed the heinous crime indicating the way the government treated women. Unless people’s movement became stronger, such crimes against women and children and poverty, which were outcome of the filthy corporate system, would only continue, she said. AIMSS district vice-president Gangubai Kokare said that vulgar films, pornography, liquor and drugs were the main reasons for the increasing cases of violence against children and women. The patriarchal mindset in society had reduced women to the level of being a sex commodity. Unless such mentality changed, it was difficult to bring about a change in the way women were treated in society, she said. The protestors demanded early steps to provide justice to the victim’s family and also strict action against the perpetrators of the crime. Vijayalakshmi Devtkal, Devamma and others led the protest.
30 October 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||‘BJP using wrong methods to win co-operative society polls’||M.Y. Patil, Afzalpur MLA, accused the Bharatiya Janata Party of adopting wrong practices to win the taluk Agricultural Produce Co-operative Marketing Society (Vyavasaya Seva Sahakara Sangha) elections to be held on November 5. Addressing presspersons in the city on Thursday, Mr. Patil alleged that the names of voters belonging to particular communities were being deleted surreptitiously from the electoral rolls. Out of 1,466 eligible voters for the society elections, the names of 1,195 voters were removed from the list, he said. “Though I am president of the society, my name was removed from the electoral list, the supporters of former Minister Mallikayya Guttedar had deleted 80% of the names from the voters’' list and kept the names of few families that support the BJP,” he alleged. Condemning the BJP’s unruly behaviour, Mr. Patil said he would fight legally against the alleged violation of election rules. The elections are being held for the post of president and vice-president of the Afzalpur taluk agricultural co-operative society.
30 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalyan Parva Utsav from today||The two-day 19th Kalyan Parva Utsav, a religious convention, will be organised by the Basava Dharma Peetha Trust in Basavakalyan in Bidar district from Friday. President of the Basava Dharma Peetha, Kudal Sangam, Mathe Gangadevi, addressing presspersons in Kalaburagi on Thursday, said that Kalyan Parva would be celebrated in a simple way this year due to COVID-19. The organising committee will follow social distancing and Standard Operation Procedures and safety guidelines stipulated by the government, she added. Minister for Animal Husbandry Prabhu Chavan will inaugurate the convention. Jagadguru Siddarameshwar Swami, chief of Allamprabhu Shunyapeetha, Basavakalyan, and Basavakumar Swami, chief of the various Allamprabhu Yogapeetha, Allamgiri in Maharashtra, Mathe Satyadevi of Basava Mantap, Bidar, Basavaprabhu Swami of Basava Mahamane, Basavakalyan, will participate in the utsav.
30 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Head constable makes a bid to end his life||A head constable attached to the Sedam Police Station in Kalaburagi district made an attempt to end his life by consuming a poisonous substance after a senior officer rejected his leave application. The head constable identified, as Ravi, after completing a full day on election duty on Wednesday, asked for leave, which was denied by his senior officer.  Ravi was then rushed to Kalaburagi after preliminary treatment at a hospital in Sedam town. His health condition is now said to be stable. His family members said that Ravi was under stress as the senior officer did not accept his leave requests and used to harass him. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help, )
30 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Residents left in the lurch as road is yet to be restored||Government agencies concerned appear to have remained mute to the woes of about 20 households in Batapady-Uchchila that have been cut off from the mainland after the Someshwara-Uchchila-Batapady Fisheries Road was completely eroded by the Arabian Sea in July this year. “I had cautioned the agencies involved in ADB-funded Someshwara Shoreline Protection Project that the road would get washed away this monsoon in February itself,” said Batapady Abdullah, a resident. Yet, officials ignored the caution and the inevitable happened when it rained heavily, he said. Completing only one of the two offshore reefs in the region was the reason for the erosion, he said. Mr. Abdullah further said it was not that the sea current was very strong, as a ring well in the locality withstood the erosion and remained intact. Only sand was being washed away, including the one beneath the fisheries road. If the agencies had at least put up a strong protection wall, erosion could have been averted, he said. Hanif, another resident, said that residents of the affected houses were in distress as they had to carry everything by foot. The aged and patients are the most affected as they cannot walk the stretch. Government apathy was deplorable, he regretted. Even as the government took up the ADB-funded shoreline protection project five years ago, the seashore near Batapady, about 400 m wide between the fisheries road and the sea, was swallowed by the sea every year culminating in the complete erosion of the fisheries road itself. Someshwara Town Municipal Council president Rajesh Uchchil said that since the Town Municipal Council does not have enough funds, it had been urging the government to protect the fisheries road, but in vain. Some works taken up by the government at the Batapady end point too have come to a halt following erosion of the fisheries road. Work to start in a week Meanwhile, Minister for Ports and Fisheries and district in-charge Kota Srinivas Poojari told The Hindu that the department has proposed to execute the construction of a sea protection wall and restoration of the road through the Nirmithi Kendra without resorting to the tender process. A grant of at least Rs. 2 crore was expected from the government in a week and the work would immediately be taken up given the urgency of the situation, according to the Minister.
30 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three civic bodies owe Rs. 1.36 cr. waste processing fee to corpn.||Three urban local bodies which send their solid waste for processing at Mangaluru City Corporation’s compost plant at Pachchanady owe the corporation Rs. 1.36 crore as solid waste processing fee till this September, according to Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar. Of these, Ullal City Municipality owes Rs. 94.62 lakh, Bantwal Town Municipality will have to pay Rs. 39.66 lakh and Kotekar Town Panchayat owes Rs. 1.50 lakh, he said. The corporation charges them Rs. 500 per tonne as the processing fee. The council of the corporation in its meeting on Wednesday decided to write to these three civic bodies asking them to pay their dues. The council also decided to stop receiving their solid waste at Pachchanady after three months and that it will accept only segregated waste till the next three months from them. Commissioner of Ullal City Municipality Rayappa told The Hindu that there is no suitable land within the jurisdiction of the Ullal City Municipality to set up a compost plant and to have a landfill site. Hence, the municipality will have no other way but to send its waste to Pachchanady. He said that at present, Ullal is sending only wet waste, about five tonnes daily, to Pachchanady. It is sending chicken waste to a processor at Baikampady and the dry waste is being handed over to a non-government organisation. Mr. Rayappa said that the processing fee dues to the corporation will be paid by the end of this year. Chief Officer of Bantwal Town Municipality Leena Britto said that the government gave 8.50 acres of land to the civic body for its solid waste management in March this year. At present, dry waste is being stored there. The civic body has taken steps for processing its other waste at the allotted land. It has invited bids for setting up a processing facility on the allotted land.
30 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Invest more in medical, clinical research: Biocon MD||The chairperson and Managing Director of Biocon Limited, Bengaluru, Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, has said that there is a need to invest more in medical and clinical research to find solutions to the COVID-19 pandemic and other infectious diseases. She was speaking at the 10th convocation of Yenepoya (Deemed to be University) held in the virtual mode on Wednesday. Educational institutes should promote scientific temperament among youth and society in general. The contributions of Nobel laureates in the field of science, medicine and technology are still relevant, she said. Knowledge is power Director of the King’s Health Partners Integrated Cancer Centre, United Kingdom, Arnie Purushotham, who delivered the convocation address, said knowledge is power and it should be made use of for the benefit of society in general. In all, 750 candidates were conferred with degree, including Ph.D., diploma certificates. They are from the streams of dentistry, medicine, nursing, allied healthcare, science, commerce, and management. Eight gold medals were awarded to the toppers. Chancellor of Yenepoya (Deemed to be University) Yenepoya Abdulla Kunhi presided. V-C VijayaKumar was present.
30 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MRPL-MSNIM holds competitions to mark Vigilance Awareness Week||Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd., (MRPL) and Manel Srinivas Nayak Institute of Management (MSNIM) organised the award distribution programme for MRPL-MSNIM Vigilance Awareness Competitions 2020 that received overwhelming response from college students here on Thursday. The compeittions were organised as a part of MRPL’s Vigilance Awareness Program for students. MRPL's Chief Vigilance Officer Rajeev Kushwaha inaugurated the award distribution programme at the Institute's campus at Bondel that was held through an online platform. As many as 4,120 e-certificates were issued for the quiz competition, 105 entries were received for the essay writing and poster competition from colleges across States, said a release. Addressing the participants, Mr. Kushawaha invited them to make the well-crafted Vigilance pledge part of their life and also while working in the industry try to re-engineer the systems to eliminate chances of foul play. Women's National Education Society president Kudpi Jagadeesh Shenoy emphasised the importance of good governance as corruption is inhibiting governance; only vigilance would play a vital role in promoting economic development. It was followed by announcing winners of various competitions held online. Veena Shetty, Govinda Dasa College, Surathkal, Sathwik Shetty, Canara Engineering College, Mangaluru and K. Dilna from School of Social Work Roshni Nilaya, Mangaluru, were the first three winners in English essay writing. In Hindi essay writing, M. Kiran, KG College of Arts and Science, Coimbatore, Fathima from GFGC, Belthangady and Venishya Lasado, Carmel Colelge, Bantwal, secured the first three positions. Sharath Shetty, B.B. Hegde First Grade College, Kundapura, P. Kavya, P. Dayananda Pai P. Sathish Pai GFGC, Mangaluru and Roshney Vilma Lobo, Carmel College, Bantwal secured first three places in Kannada essay writing while Ankitha Pai, SDM College, Ujire, Solita Rodrigues, Bhandarkar's College, Kundapura and Rekhaprakash Achar from Vivekananda college, Puttur secured first three places in Poster competition. Institute Director Molly S Cahudhuri, MRPL's General Managers Lakshmeesha Bhat and Rudolph Noronha and others were present.
30 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cooperative Week celebrations in city on November 15||The Karnataka State Cooperative Marketing Federation will hold this year’s State-level Cooperative Week celebrations in Mangaluru on November 15. M.N. Rajendra Kumar, president of the federation, as well as the South Canara District Central Cooperative Bank, announced this at a preparatory meeting for the Cooperative Week celebrations in Mangaluru on Thursday. The Cooperative Week was being celebrated in November to cherish the cooperative values propagated by the former Prime Minister late Jawaharlal Nehru, he said. The November 15 celebrations would be held at the T.V. Ramana Pai Convention Hall. Additional Registrar of Cooperative Societies C.N. Devaraj, Karnataka State Apex Bank Chief Executive Officer M. Venkataswamy, Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies Prakash Rao and others attended the meeting.
30 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||12th NMAMIT graduation day at Nitte tomorrow||The 12th Graduation Day of N.M.A.M Institute of Technology (NMAMIT), Nitte, will be held at 10 a.m. on Nitte Campus in Udupi district on Saturday. Visvesvaraya Technological University Academic Senate Member and Principal of PA College of Engineering Abdul Sharief will be the chief guest. Chancellor of Nitte (Deemed to be University) and president of Nitte Education Trust N. Vinaya Hegde will preside over the function. He will also felicitate the toppers. Due to COVID-19, the physical event is being conducted only to award the gold and silver medals and merit certificates to the recipients. The entire programme will be webcast live onhttp://nmamit.nitte.edu.in/.
30 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Probe has been ordered, says Minister||Minister for Ports and Fisheries Kota Srinivas Poojari on Thursday said that he has directed the department secretary to initiate a departmental probe into the ADB-funded Someshwara Shoreline Protection Project wherein over Rs. 300 crore was spent to protect the seashore between Someshwara and Batapady. Mr. Poojari told The Hindu that despite spending large amounts, the 2.5-km coastline was witnessing frequent erosion and people have been complaining about the poor quality of work. As such, he has ordered a probe into the work. The probe should commence soon, he added. The project involved construction of off-shore reefs and sea protection walls along the coast to prevent sea erosion.
30 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||17 children rescued at fishing harbour||Various government agencies acting in coordination rescued 17 children engaged in fish collection at Malpe Fishing Harbour in Udupi district in an early morning operation on Thursday. The operation was led by the Children Protection Unit of the Women and Child Development Department. The rescued children hailed from Raichur and Koppal districts, said a communique here. The rescued children were later produced before the Children Welfare Committee. District Children Protection officer Sadanand Nayak, legal officer Prabhakar Achar, labour officer Kumar and others participated in the raid.
30 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||P. S. Yadapadithaya nominated chairman of search committee||The State government has nominated P.S. Yadapadithaya, Vice-Chancellor of Mangalore University, as chairman of the search committee to recommend a panel of eminenteducationists  for appointing one of them as Vice-Chancellor of Bengaluru City University. A government notification issued this week stated that Mr. Yadapadithaya was the State government’s nominee. Other members The other members of the committee are Vidyashankar S., Vice-Chancellor of Karnataka State Open University, Mysuru, who is the Governor’s nominee; M. Jagadish Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi, the University Grants Commission’s nominee; and N.R. Shetty, former Vice-Chancellor, Bangalore University, and now Chancellor of Karnataka Central University, Kalaburagi, who is nominee of the Syndicate. The Principal Secretary to the Department of Higher Education or his nominee should be the convener of the search committee.
30 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru’s active cases drop by over 50% in ten days||Even as the Dasara fete passed off successfully, the number of active cases in Mysuru has dropped by over 50 per cent in a span of about 10 days. Also, the cumulative recoveries as on Wednesday were nearing the 45,000-mark, thanks to remarkable improvement in the discharges of patients since early this month. As on Wednesday, Mysuru has 2,073 active cases which is over 50 per cent less when compared to the number of active cases about 10 days ago. There were nearly 6,000 active cases until October 20. When Mysuru was gearing up for the festivities early this month, there were a lot of apprehensions on whether the celebrations, though on a low-key, would spike the cases with tourists thronging the city. The anxiety also led to the visit of COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee from Bengaluru and advisories to the Mysuru district administration on dealing with the pandemic through the celebrations. Since the start of the festivities and the conclusion, the cases did not spike like they did last month, much to the relief of the authorities even though most events had been cancelled as a precautionary measure besides restricting public entry to the venues. Prior to the celebrations, Minister for Health and Medical Education K. Sudhakar visited Mysuru twice to assess the COVID-19 situation and issue directions for keeping the pandemic under control. Accordingly, some steps were initiated, including the ramping up of tests, doorstep testing, and active contact tracing besides carrying out a death audit of all the fatalities since the outbreak to ascertain the reasons for the spurt in deaths here. The active cases on day one of Dasara on October 17 stood at 7,246. On that day, 501 positive cases had been reported along with 10 deaths. A day later, Mysuru reported one death with 404 new infections. The cases, however, dropped with 151 new infections on day three with four new deaths. But, there were 451 new cases on day four besides two new deaths. On day four, October 20, the active cases were 5,976. In 10 days from thereon, the active cases have dropped by over 50 per cent with the sliding of the positivity rate (PR) and the case fatality rate (CFR) After the authorities managed to get a grip on the pandemic, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, a week ago, said that all parameters were showing improvement with the case fatality rate down from 2.1 per cent to 1.1 per cent since early this month with the rise in testing from 2,000 to nearly 4,000 a day. She, however, cautioned against being inattentive to the precautions, saying that Mysuru was still not COVID-19 free and advised the people to continue taking all precautions until the pandemic was brought under full control.
30 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 test for tourists visiting Mysuru palace||COVID-19 test may become compulsory for those wishing to visit the Mysuru palace even as the Department of Health and Family Welfare has deployed testing teams at the city’s popular tourist destination for subjecting visitors to the test using the RT-PCR and the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) methods. Though the test to all visitors is not mandatory as of now, it may become compulsory even as the department was insisting on the test to those having symptoms and tourists from other States. Such tests may also be expanded to the visitors of other prominent tourist destinations in the city, including the zoo, soon as a measure to bring the pandemic under control. Mysuru District Vector Borne Diseases Control Officer Chidambar said nearly 200-300 tests were being conducted for the visitors at the palace since the last four days. All visitors are being screened and anybody with COVID-19 like symptoms are told to undergo the test if they wish to visit the palace. “We are persuading even travellers from other States to take the test as a precaution to contain the spread and keep the possibilities of a second wave of infection at bay.” Initially, the RATs were conducted. Now RT-PCR swab test had also been started, as it was a confirmatory test. In the case of PCR, the details of tourists such as phone numbers and the addresses are collected since the PCR result would take at least 48 hours. Dr. Chidambar said more testing teams would be deployed at the sites for faster swab collection and testing. The system of mass testing will also be expanded to the industries in Mysuru shortly. To a question, Dr. Chidambar said some positive cases, including visitors from other States, were detected during the free testing at the palace, and steps were taken to ensure that the infection does not spread from such persons.
30 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 task force set up in Kodagu||In Kodagu, a COVID-19 vaccine task force has come into force in connection with the preparations to be made in the district in anticipation of vaccine availability next year. The first meeting of the task force was held to discuss about the arrangements to be made and the steps to be taken as per the State government’s directives in view of various reports and the claims on the possibilities of vaccine coming to the market early next year. List Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy, who chaired the meeting in Madikeri on Wednesday, asked the officials to prepare the list of those who are likely to be vaccinated on a priority as announced by the government. They include COVID-19 warriors and all the frontline workers. Gopinath, District Officer in charge of immunisation, gave a PowerPoint presentation on the status of COVID-19 vaccine research, citing the recent reports and also those who are likely to get the vaccine in the first phase. They include doctors and all healthcare workers and staff from the Departments of Health and Medical Education, doctors and staff of all the private hospitals, and ASHA and anganwadi workers. Mr. Joy told the officials to prepare the list of all staff and sought coordination among all the key departments as the data being prepared now would be used to distribute the vaccine.
30 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||BJP bags the top two posts in Surpur City Municipal Council||After the win in the Yadgir City Municipal Council on Thursday, the BJP has come to occupy the top two posts in the Surpur City Municipal Council also. The party candidates Sujatha V. Jewargi and Mahesh S. Patil won the posts of the council president and vice-president without a contest. Assistant Commissioner Shankargowda Somanal declared the results. In the 31-member House, the BJP has 16 seats, while the Congress has 15 seats. Ms. Jewargi and Mr. Patil from the BJP were the only candidates to have filed nomination papers for the elections to the two posts that were reserved for Scheduled Tribes (Woman) and general categories. Except these two candidates, none filed nomination papers and Mr. Somanal declared Ms. Jewargi and Mr. Patil elected unopposed. MP Raja Amareshwar Naik and MLA Narasimha Naik (Rajugowda) were present.
30 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||BJP wins top posts in Yadgir CMC||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has won the top posts in the Yadgir City Municipal Council in the elections held on Thursday. Assistant Commissioner of Yadgir Sub Division Shankargowda Somanal declared the results. Vilas Patil and Prabhavathi M. Kalal of the party have been elected as president and vice-president, respectively, of the council. These posts are reserved for general and general woman categories. The Congress fielded Mansoor Ahmed Afghani and Nirmala Jagannath for the two posts, respectively. Of the total 31 members of the House, 30 were present for the elections. One member from the Janata Dal(S) has died. The BJP has 16 members followed by the Congress with 11, the Janata Dal(S) two and one Independent. Both candidates of the BJP secured a total of 21 votes each, including the votes of MP Raja Amareshwar Naik and MLA Venkatareddy Mudnal who voted for their party candidates. Surprisingly, two members from the Janata Dal(S) and the Independent candidate also supported the BJP. The Congress candidates secured 11 votes each to suffer a defeat at the hands of the BJP. “The members present in the elections supported and chose the council president and vice-president candidates by a show of hands,” Mr. Somanal said. Mr. Naik and Mr. Mudnal said that the newly elected president and vice-president of the council will take up development works with the support of all members. The State government will support the newly elected body in taking up new projects for improving infrastructure in Yadgir, they added.
30 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Complete ongoing works within stipulated time, officials told||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has said that ongoing works under various schemes, including those under the grants of Kalyan Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB), should be completed within the stipulated period. And, officials concerned should upload related data. Addressing a review meeting in Yadgir on Wednesday, Ms. Ragapriya said that the expenditure target till October 2020 is Rs. 19.34 crore of which, Rs. 9.58 crore has been utilised for implementing projects. Officers of the government departments concerned should spend the remaining grants that have been earmarked and complete the ongoing projects expeditiously. At the same time, they should ensure that quality in work is maintained, she added. Officials of the Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Limited (KRIDL) told the Deputy Commissioner that the expenditure target for this month is fixed to Rs. 3.34 crore and works worth Rs. 1.13 crore have been completed. Further, they said, the Department of Public Works has completed works worth Rs. 1.25 crore against the fixed target of Rs. 7 crore. Ms. Ragapriya said that the district has been suffering from heavy rain and floods. Infrastructure and other facilities have been destroyed. Therefore, officials of the departments concerned should utilise the funds released for schemes, including the grants under KKRDB, and implement development works without any discrepancies or irregularities, she added.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||FAIFA voices concern over growing sale of smuggled cigarettes in India||On the occasion of World Tobacco Growers’ Day, the Federation of All India Farmers Associations (FAIFA) has voiced concern over the rapidly rising sale of smuggled cigarettes in country. FAIFA organised gatherings of farmers in various tobacco growing locations of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday and appealed to the government to immediately impose strict regulations to curb the growing illicit cigarette market, which was hurting the interests of tobacco farmers in the country. In a statement here, FAIFA president Javare Gowda said India has now become the fourth largest and fastest growing illegal cigarette market in the world with sale of the illicit cigarettes more than doubling from 13.5 billion sticks in 2006 to 28 billion sticks in 2019. “As smuggled cigarettes do not use Indian tobacco, the offtake of tobacco in India for manufacture of legal cigarettes is declining”, he said. The Flue-Cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco production in India has declined from 325 million kg in 2014-15 to 2010 million kg in 2019-20, which has forced the tobacco farmers to incur losses of over Rs. 6,000 crore in the last 7 years. The drop in FCV tobacco production in India has been attributed primarily to rising illicit cigarette trade on account of higher and punitive taxation on cigarettes, which has led to a significant drop in sale volumes of legal cigarettes, Mr. Gowda claimed. FAIFA, which is a non-profit organisation representing the cause of farmers and farm workers of commercial crops in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Gujarat, among others, has appealed to the government to include tobacco in the Remission of Duties or Taxes on Export Product (RoDTEP) scheme and encourage exports through aggressive promotion schemes. “The Indian government has removed tobacco export incentives, making India a lesser competitor in the global market, whereas other countries such as Zimbabwe and Malawi are encouraging their tobacco farmers by providing incentives and subsidies,” FAIFA claimed. FAIFA general secretary Murali Babu regretted that anti-tobacco activists in India were pushing policy makers to take extreme decisions citing Framework Convention on Tobacco Control without giving due regard to the recommended stance on calibrated approach to cultivation and needs of tobacco farmers. National spokesperson of FAIFA Yashwanth Chidipothu expressed concern over a proposal by Indian Council of Agricultural Research to dilute the mandate of Central Tobacco Research Institute and broaden its scope to include other commercial crops.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Metro line to Anjanapura will not open on Nov. 1||The commercial operations of Namma Metro to Anjanapura will not begin on November 1 as expected. The BMRCL had approached the Commission of Railway Safety for inspection of the line after completing trial runs. However, it is yet to receive the dates for the inspection. Yeshwanth Chavan, Chief PRO, BMRCL, said, “The line will be opened to the public after receiving necessary clearance. We are hopeful of commissioning services in November.” The extended Green Line from Yelachenahalli to Anjanapura is the first reach under Phase II of the planned commercial operations. It has stations at Konanakunte Cross, Doddakallasandra, Vajarahalli, Talaghattapura and Anjanapura.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||EPF pension processing fast-tracked in Chikkamagaluru under Prayas scheme||The regional office of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) at Chikkamagaluru has fast-tracked the process to release pension to retiring employees from private sector, under Prayas scheme. Sources in the EPFO regional office said there is a directive from the Union government to expedite the pension processing exercise so that the individuals retiring from service receive the pension from day 1 of they becoming eligible for the same. Sachin Shetty, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, Chikkamagaluru, formally handed over the pension cheque to an employee in a private college who retired from service on Thursday. All EPF offices are expected to follow the new regulations so as to benefit the retirees, according to EPFO officials. The fast tracking also depends on the employer who has to send the date of retirement of the workers beforehand. “We have sounded out to all the employers whose staff are members of the EPFO to send us the list of their workers and their date of retirement so that the pension processing exercise is concluded on the day the individual retires and receives the pension’’, the EPF officials added. Earlier, the exercise would take weeks.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Shaheen Group’s scholarship for NEET repeaters||Shaheen Group of Institutions has come forward to provide scholarships to long-term National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) repeaters for the 2020-21 academic year. Over 2,000 students from across the country are expected to benefit from the scholarships. The institute has set aside Rs. 5 crore for the purpose. Selected candidates will be given free coaching. NEET is the gateway examination for students who wish to study medical (MBBS) and dental courses (BDS) in government or private colleges. Candidates can visit the institute’s website and register on or before November 1. Candidates can also call the toll-free number 18001216235 for more information. Abdul Qadeer, chairman, Shaheen Education Foundation, said that they have over 42 NEET coaching franchises across the country. “We will identify students from economically deprived families who are academically brilliant and who aspire to become doctors. Such students will be sponsored, mentored, trained and motivated to achieve their aspiration of becoming doctors,” he said. Kannada-medium students will be given preference in Karnataka. Candidates will be awarded the scholarship based on marks obtained in NEET 2020. Students who lost their parents due to COVID-19 will be provided free training for NEET. Karthik Reddy and Arbaaz Ahmed, students of the institute, secured the first and third rank in the State in NEET 2020 examination.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Misty morning magic||
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Evening chaos||
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||AITUC centenary celebrations||The State unit of All India Trade Union Congress is organising the centenary celebrations of the union on Saturday. On the occasion, the union will release a booklet detailing the history of struggles of AITUC and the present situation of labour legislations in the country.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Praying for universal welfare||
30 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||788 new cases in Alappuzha||The district recorded 788 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. Of the new cases, 686 contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 55 people remains undetected. Forty-four people who came from other States, two from abroad, and one health staff were among the new cases. The district also reported three COVID-19-related deaths, taking the official death toll to 95. Among the 788 cases, 133 were reported from Alappuzha, 59 from Punnapra South, and 51 from Mararikulam South. Meanwhile, 368 people undergoing treatment in the district have recovered. The active cases in the district stands at 8,684. A total of 482 new cases, one death, and 451 recoveries were reported from Kollam on Thursday. More contact cases Those who tested positive included 469 contact cases, four cases with no known source, two health workers, four NRIs, and three persons who had travelled from other States. The Health Department also confirmed the death of a 72-year-old Karunagappally resident as due to COVID-19. Cases with no known source have been reported from Chathannur, Edamulakkal, Elampalloor, and Poothakulam. The health workers who tested positive include a 44-year-old Pathanapuram resident and a 29-year-old Pooyappalli resident. The district has 18,010 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 3,33,846. Kollam has 6,559 active cases at present. As many as 389 people tested positive in Kottayam on Thursday. Of this, all but three persons contracted the virus through local contact. The patients also included 55 persons above the age 60 and 46 children. Among local bodies, Erattupetta led the tally with 52 cases, followed by Kottayam with 37 cases. 1,050 recoveries The number of recoveries stood more than double the number of fresh cases with 1,050 people testing negative. There are 6,296 active cases in Kottayam now. As many as 270 persons tested positive for the infection in Pathanamthitta on Thursday. Of them, 238 contracted the virus through local contact. The contact source of 34 persons could not be ascertained. Among local bodies, Kunnanthanam reported 19 cases, followed by Pathanamthitta municipality with 14 cases. Four more persons succumbed to the infection taking the death toll in the district to 89. These numbers, however, were yet to be included in the State-wide statistics. With 147 recoveries during the day, the district has 2,572 active cases now. (With inputs from Kollam, Kottayam, and Pathanamthitta bureaus)
30 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Pathiramanal gets a green acclaim||The ecologically sensitive Pathiramanal island in Vembanad Lake has become the first local biodiversity heritage site (LBHS) in the district. A declaration in this regard was made by the biodiversity management committee (BMC) attached to the Muhamma grama panchayat recently. As per a decision of the BMC, the district unit of the Kerala State Biodiversity Board (KSBB) had conducted a biodiversity study of the island. The KSBB recently approved a report, which recommended Pathiramanal island heritage site status. As per the report prepared by Jose Mathew and Sandeep Unnikrishnan, both members of the district-level technical support group of the KSBB, the island is home to a large number of mangroves belonging to four species. There are 160 types of flowering plants and nine types of ferns. Of them, 52 types are trees. There are 21 species of shrubs, 72 small plants, 13 creeper plant species and so on. Besides, 106 types of butterflies, 89 bird species, 18 types of dragonflies, 18 amphibians, 12 types of reptiles, and five mammal species are also found on the island. In the waters surrounding the island, fishes, prawns, clams are among the 120 aquatic species found during the study. Major plans J. Jayalal, president, Muhamma grama panchayat, said the island would be made a biodiversity study centre. “Muhamma is the first local body in the district to declare an LBHS for the protection of biodiversity. We will plant more mangroves, medicinal among other plants at Pathiramanal,” Mr. Jayalal said. K.V. Dayal, environmentalist and convener of the BMC, said a portion of the island would be converted into a bird sanctuary. KSBB district coordinator T.G. Chandraprakash urged other local bodies in the district to follow suit. “BMCs attached to local bodies can declare biodiversity-rich sacred groves, mangrove forests, wetlands and so on within in their limits as local biodiversity heritage sites,” he said. Apart from being biodiversity-rich, Pathiramanal is also a popular tourist destination.
30 October 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Hi-tech anganwadi||A hi-tech anganwadi was inaugurated at Mazhukermel in Thiruvanvandoor grama panchayat on Thursday. According to Manu Thekedathu, local ward member, the 700 sq ft structure named Anandam has an airconditioned smart classroom, wall paintings, colourful chairs, projector, screens, and playing materials for tiny tots. The anganwadi was constructed on 3.5 cents provided by Jacob Kurian, a local resident. Saji Cherian, MLA, provided Rs. 19 lakh for the project from his local area development fund.
30 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Donna is a winner||Donna has finally got the recognition it deserved. A police dog that worked hard to find victims of the Pettimudy landslip, it has bagged the gold medal at the service efficiency test conducted at the Kerala Police Academy, Thrissur. Donna, a Labrador Retriever, got the gold medal as part of the assessment test before the passing-out parade at the State dog training institute of the Kerala Police Academy recently. Donna was an integral part of the rescue team at Pettimudy, near Munnar, where four estate lanes were buried under landslip debris on August 7. “Donna was deputed for search and rescue operations for the first time. It has now completed training,” Idukki dog squad in-charge Roy Thomas said. Donna was included in the district dog squad in view of the chances of similar incidents in future. Along with Donna, Dolly (sniffer) also completed training and joined the dog squad at Idukki. Idukki Superintendent of Police R. Karuppusami gave a reception to the two members. He also lauded trainers of the squad.
30 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Landslip survivors to get title deeds||The government will distribute title deeds to the land allotted to Pettimudy landslip survivors at Kuttiyarvalley on November 1. As per an agreement with Kanan Devan Hills Plantations (KDHP) Ltd., the company will construct the houses on the land provided by the government. The construction of the houses will begin on the same day, said District Collector H. Dinesan on Thursday. As per the recommendation from the Collector, the Cabinet issued a special order to allot 50 cents of land at Kuttiyarvalley to the eight families found eligible for it. Each family will get five cents for constructing house.
30 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Probe leading to CM: Chennithala||Opposition Leader Ramesh Chennithala on Thursday demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the wake of the Enforcement Directorate arresting M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister , as the fifth accused in the gold smuggling case. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, Mr. Chennithala said the probe would lead to the Chief Minister and he would turn as the main accused. Mr. Vijayan was in the dock with the arrest of Sivasankar. He was not legally and morally qualified to continue in the post any more and should resign to respect public sentiments, he opined. Mr. Chennithala accused the Chief Minister of protecting Mr. Sivasankar from the very beginning. That was why he had not shifted the official out even after CPI leader Kanam Rajendran asked for it, he observed. The Chief Minister was aware of all the transactions of Sivsankar, he said. The Chief Minister, who initially denied knowing Swapna, accused in the gold smuggling case, later admitted meeting her after she confirmed meeting him six times. The Opposition Leader alleged that the CCTV footage was destroyed to wipe out such evidence. CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who should question the Chief Minister on the issue, was in a predicament with his son Binish Kodiyeri being arrested by the ED in Bengaluru. K. Sudhakaran, MP, and DCC president Satheesan Pacheni were present at the press conference.
30 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||PCB seeks DIC’s support to check Periyar pollution||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has sought the assistance of the District Industries Centre (DIC) to check whether effluents from industrial units in Eloor and Edayar were discharged into the Periyar through pipes and drains meant to discharge rainwater. The move forms part of the directives issued by the National Green Tribunal and the State Level Monitoring Committee on Solid Waste Management appointed by the tribunal to act tough against those found polluting the river. Senior board officials said the support of the DIC was necessary, as the industrial estate came under the centre. The board wants to ascertain whether unauthorised outlets have been directed towards stormwater drains set up for the discharge of rainwater from the premises of industrial units. The presence of such illegal outlets can be checked by digging along the side of the drain, according to its officials. SLMC report The SLMC had pulled up the board in its report filed before the Southern Bench of the tribunal while stating that it had failed along with other departments concerned in taking strong action against Periyar pollution. Independent panel The panel had suggested the formation of an independent committee having powers to inspect any industry, hotel, high-rises, healthcare institutions and other establishments on the banks of the river and to collect data necessary for evaluation from such institutions. A report filed by the committee before the tribunal in September had suspected the presence of underground pipes starting from industrial units and ultimately discharging industrial waste illegally to the river through the system. The report had included photographs of drains through which industrial effluents reached the river. However, the committee had recommended that its inference needed to be ascertained through further investigations. Action plan The board is expected to present a concrete action plan before the tribunal in the first week of November. The counsel for the board had assured the tribunal that it would come up with a detailed report on the action taken against each erring unit along the Periyar.
30 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Recognition for social media cell of police||Having won accolades from far and wide since its inception just over two years ago, the social media cell of the Kerala Police added yet another feather to its cap by winning the State government’s e-governance award for 2018. It won the award in the social media category, with separate winners being adjudged in e-citizen service delivery, mobile governance, and e-health categories. The State government instituted the awards for encouraging innovative and people-friendly initiatives by various departments and public sector undertakings. The social media cell of the State police won the award for its non-conventional awareness campaigns and public interactions through social media platforms. Headed by Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) Manoj Abraham, the social media cell boasts running one of the most popular Facebook pages among police forces across the world. With its humorous memes and sharp and witty repartees to comments, the page now has 15 lakh followers. “Now, only the Facebook pages of Nepal and Malaysia police remain ahead of us, and we are confident of surpassing them shortly,” said a member of the social media cell. A team from Microsoft had come visiting to study the police social media initiatives, while its hand washing dance video featuring uniformed cops propagating the safety protocol against COVID-19 had gone viral across the globe shortly after the pandemic broke out. The State police, which have been using social media extensively to create awareness on law, traffic rules, and the pitfalls of the cyber world, also used it as an effective communication tool to reach out to people during the pandemic. The social media cell is manned by a six-member team including Kamalanath K.R., Bimal V.S., Santhosh P.S., Arun B.T., Santhosh K., and Akhil P.
30 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cusat, NUALS introduce new innovative courses||The National University of Advanced Legal Studies (NUALS) and Cochin University of Science and Technology have introduced innovative programmes for the new academic year. The law university located in Kalamassery is offering Postgraduate Diploma programmes in Insurance Law and Banking Law. The courses were proposed in view of the increasing need for trained law professionals in these two sectors. The course curriculum has been drafted keeping in mind the advanced knowledge level to be earned by the aspirants. Both the courses will be held online in video conferencing platforms in view of the pandemic crisis. The intake for each programme is 50. The courses will be spread over one year with classes being held on holidays and Saturdays, according to the varsity authorities. The minimum qualification for admission to both the postgraduate diploma courses is a Bachelor’s degree in any subject from a recognised university. The varsity will also invite experts in both banking and insurance laws to share their expertise with the students. Besides these two programmes, NUALS has also invited applications for the existing Postgraduate Diploma programmes in Medical Law and Ethics and Cyber Law for the academic year 2020-21. The intake for both the programmes is 50 each. The minimum qualification for admission to the programme in Medical Law and Ethics is a Bachelor's degree in any subject of a recognised university. The minimum qualification for admission to the course in Cyber Law is a Bachelor's degree in any stream or a Bachelor’s degree in Law recognised by the varsity. Cochin University of Science and Technology has introduced an MSc programme in Forensic Science. The course was proposed considering the growing demand for professionals in the field. The Kerala Police Academy is partnering with the varsity in offering the course. The intake for the course is 25. Of this, 10 seats will be reserved for police personnel, differently abled and transgender people. The duration of the course is two years. Graduates from recognised universities with not less than 55% marks in subjects that include Forensic Science, Applied Microbiology & Forensic Science, B.Sc Zoology/Botany/Chemistry/Physics/Microbiology/Medical Microbiology/Biochemistry/Medical Biotechnology/ Biotechnology/ Genetics/Computer Science/Information Technology; B.Tech Computer Science/Information Technology; and BCA can apply for the programme
30 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||DMRC to shut city office||The Kochi office of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) near the Ernakulam South Railway Station will be closed on October 31, having completed the first phase of the metro rail project between Aluva and Petta. However, the DMRC, which has undertaken the repair and restoration work of the Palarivattom flyover, will retain the office of its Chief Engineer at Kaithavalappil near Padivattom, according to a communication from the DMRC. Kochi Metro Rail Limited is operating and maintaining the metro service.
30 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||802 persons test positive||Eight-hundred-and-two persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Thursday. Of them, 594 acquired infection through local contact. The source of infection in 181 cases has not been traced. Twenty-one health workers were among those who tested positive on Thursday. The area-wise positive cases are 42 in Koovapadi, 35 each in Edathala and Fort Kochi, 33 in Thrikkakara, 28 in Cheranalloor, 20 in Elankunnapuzha, and 18 each in Thoppumpady and Kalamassery. Around 600 persons tested negative on Thursday, while the number of persons under isolation is 30,453. Nearly 170 persons were admitted to first-line treatment centres.
30 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Common number for LPG booking||Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) has launched the common number 7718955555 for Indane LPG refill booking across India. The number is available 24x7 for the customers for SMS and the Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS). The current system of telecom circle-specific phone numbers for booking will be discontinued from October 31. Indane LPG booking can be done using the customer’s registered mobile numbers only and the revised process of LPG refill booking and mobile number registration is as follows: If the customer’s number is already registered in Indane records, IVRS will ask for the 16-digit consumer ID, which is mentioned on the customer’s Indane LPG invoices/cash memos/subscription voucher. On confirmation, the refill booking will be accepted. Customers can login to website https://cx.indianoil.in or download IndianOil ONE mobile app for further updates.
30 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Tourism Dept. issues separate guidelines||The Department of Tourism has issued separate sets of guidelines as a precaution against pandemic spread in destinations with and without access control, ahead of their reopening next month. The guidelines for destinations without access control are mainly applicable to beaches, walkways, and other open areas. They call for the deployment of people at designated entry points with thermal checks and hand sanitisers, besides providing hand washing facilities. Deployment of boards with do’s and dont’s, frequent sanitising of walkways, handrails, chairs and shelters, demarcations for physical distancing every two metres on walkways, chairs and seats wherever possible, deployment of the tourist police to help Kudumbashree workers or life guards, cleaning of toilets and washrooms at frequent intervals, and maintenance of registers to record the name, place, contact number, date and time of visitors are the other recommended guidelines. The department has brought out another set of guidelines for destinations with controlled access like parks and museums. It encourages advance entry ticket booking either online or SMS, wherever possible. Boards displaying do’s an don’ts should be set up, while parking in designated areas should be restricted to one hour. The Deputy Director or secretary of the DTPC has been entrusted with the supervision of the destinations, to ensure enforcement of the COVID-19 protocol. All destinations should be cleaned up and fumigated during regular intervals, and street vendors should be instructed to follow the protocol. A visitor register has been made mandatory.
30 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Traders to stage protest on Nov. 3||Traders under the aegis of the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti will stage a protest on November 3 in the district. They have demanded that the authorities take them into confidence before imposing restrictions as part of COVID-19 containment efforts. They also said that traders who were evicted for development projects should be compensated and rehabilitated. The ‘trade bandh’ will see merchants not conducting any trading activities between 10 a.m. and 12 noon.
30 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Webinar on opportunities in food processing||Agri-Business Incubator, Kerala Agricultural University, in association with RKVY RAFTAAR Project, ICAR NAHEP CAAST scheme, and Subhiksha Keralam Project, is organising a webinar on emerging opportunities in food processing industry on Friday between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. as an introduction to the scope of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat programme. The webinar will address the One District One Product concept, giving thrust to the moto, ‘Vocal for Local’, for the development of micro food industries under self-help groups and farmer producer organisations. Those who wish to join the webinar may register usinghttps://bit.ly/34AcuqPand the meeting number is 1700106264.
30 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Five star rating for college||The Institution Innovation Council (IIC) at St. Xavier’s College for Women, Aluva, has won a five-star rating from the Innovation Cell of the Ministry of Education for undertaking various activities to promote innovation and start-ups on the campus in the year 2019-20. The council had undertaken various projects to boost innovation culture among faculty members and students. The focus areas include ideation, proof of concept development, design thinking, intellectual property rights, and entrepreneurship, according to a release.
30 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Seat-sharing talks pick up steam||With the notification for the local body elections expected soon, seat-sharing talks among major political coalitions have gathered momentum in Kottayam. Coming hot on the heels of a much-discussed political realignment of the Kerala Congress(M) led by Jose K. Mani, the stakes are high for both the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF). The National Development Alliance (NDA), meanwhile, is in trouble with the prospective exit of the Kerala Congress led by P.C. Thomas, which seeks to align with the UDF. While discussions on sharing of seats in local and civic bodies have entered the final stages, discussions on the block and district panchayats are set to commence in a couple of days after a formal meeting of the respective district-level committees of the three coalitions. Mani’s entry to LDF With the Mani group in its fold, the LDF counts on making inroads into Christian vote base of the rubber heartland. Its entry, however, has not come without troubles as the CPI and NCP, two other constituent parties, are reported to have expressed reluctance to forgo their share of seats for the KC(M). Adding to the confusion, the KC(M) has also expressed its desire to maintain all the seats it contested in the previous election. According to V.N. Vasavan, the CPI(M) district secretary, all issues with regard to seats would be settled amicably. “The LDF will be convening a meeting of its district committee on Saturday to kick start discussions on the seat-sharing formula,” he said. The UDF, on the other hand, is slated to hold a meeting of its district committee to be attended by AICC general secretary Oommen Chandy, Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan and K.C. Joseph on November 2.  As the P.J. Joseph faction of the KC(M) has demanded that the UDF leadership maintain status quo of the previous local body election with regard to seat sharing, discussions in the UDF are expected to become a stormy affair. Panels formed in UDF “The proportion of seats to different constituents at the block panchayats and municipalities will be decided at the district level, while subcommittees have been formed at different panchayats for the purpose,” said Joshy Philip, president, District Congress Committee. The NDA, meanwhile, has completed two rounds of discussions and is planning to wind up the same by November first week. “Talks at the panchayat level are progressing and are slated to be complete by October 30,” said a senior BJP leader.
30 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Farmfrnd to help farmers get a better deal||As farming technologies continue to evolve at a rapid pace, markets for agricultural produce too are fast migrating to online platforms. Farmfrnd, a mobile application launched by the K.R. Narayanan Foundation in Kottayam, is the latest to join the ever-increasing list of technology-enabled solutions to help farmers sell their produce directly to customers. The app seeks to network the farmers with the local shopkeepers and the end-customers by avoiding the middlemen, who typically hinder fair trading . Launched by Pala MLA Mani C. Kappan, the mobile app was created in connection with the centenary birth year celebrations of K.R. Narayanan, former President of India. The app can be downloaded for free from Google Play Store for Android phones. “We are working on other platforms too, which will be available soon,” said Thommen Jose, a Corporate filmmaker who developed the app with a tech-team in Kochi. Hailing from Pala, a predominantly agrarian economy, Mr. Jose had been witness to the difficulties experienced by local farmers in connecting with their markets during the lockdown. He decided to come up with a technology-enabled solution to help the farmers. Expansion plans According to Eby J. Jose, chairman of the K.R. Narayanan Foundation, the service of the mobile app will be limited to the registered users in Kottayam district in the first phase while plans are afoot to expand the scope of its operation to more areas. The app enables the farmers to list their produce along with phone number while for buyers, it gives a view of available produce, sorted by their geographical proximity to the farmers. Meanwhile, the makers of the app are also exploring options to augment the service by providing the current prices of commodities in trade, demand for listed products, and weather and seasonal changes, to help farmers plan better.
30 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Orthodox Church backs 10% quota||The Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church is the latest community organisation to back the 10% reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) among forward communities. In a statement here on Thursday, Church secretary Biju Oommen welcomed the State government’s move to implement 10% reservation for EWS candidates in government jobs and observed that the move would help ensure social equality. “The norms of reservation will become meaningful only when special consideration is given to the economically backward people. A notification amending the rules should be issued with retrospective effect.”
30 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tests decline, as do fresh cases||A decline in the number of lab tests led to a corresponding dip in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district on Thursday. Only 692 were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day here when 6,366 sample were tested. According to the District Medical Officer, the test positivity rate was 10.87%. As many as 677 of the fresh cases were due to local transmission of the infection and the source was unknown in eight cases. 1,006 recoveries A total of 1,006 people were cured and the active cases from the district now are 9,686. Kozhikode Corporation has the highest number of locally acquired infections at 215, Kodiyathoor has 30, Feroke 27 and Thiruvambady 24. As many as 6,401 people are in home isolation. Meanwhile, two deaths were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Thursday. In Malappuram As many as 589 people tested positive for the virus in Malappuram on Thursday. However, there were 1,300 recoveries in the district, bringing signs of a dip in the number of infections. While 547 cases had got the infection through direct local contacts, there were 31 cases with an unidentifiable source of infection. The number of active cases currently under treatment in the district came down to 10,083. Most of them were under observation at their homes across the district. However, the number of those quarantined across Malappuram crossed 61,000 on Thursday.
30 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Caring for the elderly in times of pandemic||The ‘Vayokshema’ call centre opened by the Social Justice Department in the city under its Grand Care project is proving to be a big relief for many elderly people. Within just one-and-a-half months, the call centre team has managed to make 44,300 direct calls to the target group and enquire about their well-being. The centre helps the elderly address their personal issues and remain connected with the authorities to get information on latest government welfare programmes. The project makes headway at a time when many elderly citizens are badly in need of personal support following the outbreak of COVID-19. According to social Justice Department officials, the call centre is a trustworthy place for the elderly to approach to solve their physical, mental or emotional problems. The District-level Senior Citizen Cell is also monitoring the activities of the centre. “Our task during the launch time was to popularise the service and prompt maximum elderly citizens to approach us in case of any legal, medical or financial requirements. Since September this year, we have been doing the phone interaction apart from visiting the needy to assure them spot relief,” says M. Indhu, one of the technical assistants at the call centre near the Iqra Hospital. She says that the call centre has so far received over 3,000 calls from senior citizens seeking solutions for various personal issues. In Kozhikode district, the target group comprises about 2,47,000 elderly people. Personal details of the majority of the elderly are available with call centre officials to contact them occasionally and enquire about their well-being. As there are officials from the Maintenance Tribunal as well with the centre, legal support is also available for them. There are now 20 professionals who work in two shifts to handle daily interactions at the call centre. Medicine supply On the basis of calls, the call centre team is now working on a separate project to supply essential medicines to some of the needy in their list. The support of sponsors will be sought to purchase medicines and deliver them. There are also plans to purchase supportive equipment like wheelchairs for financially backward members in the group. Officials with the Social Justice Department say the State-level project is likely to be linked with a similar national project under the Union government for better reach. Plans are afoot to take up geotagging of senior citizens’ locations and assure them a software-based support all the time using an exclusive app. Till then, they can contact the district-level cell between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. on 04952-377911.
30 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||All policemen in Mukkom station quarantined||All policemen, including the Station House Officer, at the Mukkom police station were quarantined after seven of them tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. It is for the first time that all personnel in a local police station are being quarantined in the district. Police officials from Thamarassery, Koduvally and Thiruvambady stations have been given additional charge to ensure uninterrupted functioning of the Mukkom station. However, situation is not different in other rural and city stations too where personnel have been infected. The Armed Reserve camp of the Kozhikode Rural police had reported 49 confirmed COVID-19 cases. Recently, seven policemen at the Elathur police station too had been tested positive. Considering the increasing number of COVID cases among policemen, the number of personnel who appear for station duty has been reduced to a great extent. Work-from-home option has been granted to many senior policemen.
30 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Gold smuggling, drug case have close links’||Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Ramesh Chennithala has accused Communist Party of India (Marxist) leaders of running an underworld in the State. “The arrests of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, and Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPI(M) State secretary, in two separate cases, revealed the organised syndicate of that party functioning in the State,” he said at a news conference here on Thursday. The State secretary and the Chief Minister were heading the underworld activities. Such incidents were an insult to people, Mr. Chennithala said. Demanding the resignation of the Chief Minister, Mr. Chennithala said that cases of gold smuggling through diplomatic channel in Kerala and the drug racket of Bengaluru had close links. “All the culprits in the case should be brought to book. More persons attached to the Chief Minister’s office will be questioned shortly,” he said. Replying to questions on the statement of Mr. Balakrishnan that the CPI (M) had nothing to do with the drug case, Mr. Chennithala wondered why only Mr. Bineesh was continuously involved in criminal cases unlike the children of other CPI(M) leaders. Mr. Bineesh had been involved in criminal cases totally under the complete protection of the LDF government, he alleged.
30 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Man found dead||A 35-year-old man was found dead near his house at Kodiyathur on Thursday. The police identified the deceased as Yusef. He was reportedly staying alone in the house. The body was in a decomposed state.
30 October 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Birth anniversary of the Prophet celebrated||The Madin Academy here celebrated Milad-e-Sherif, the birth anniversary of Prophet Mohammed, by engaging in prayers and singing hymns of the Prophet during a night-long programme on Wednesday. Circumventing COVID restrictions, the programme was aired live on various platforms of social media and the mainstream media. Madin Academy chairman Sayed Ibrahim Khaleel Bukhari led the celebrations that began on Wednesday evening and concluded on Thursday morning. The organisers said a number of people from different continents took part in the programmes. A flower show by children to the accompaniment of hymns in praise of Prophet Mohammed substituted the usual Milad rally. The rally was abandoned following a request by District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan in view of the pandemic situation. The programme was held on a stage built by the Madin Kulliyya students by using discarded materials. The organisers said that the stage was a reminder of the Prophet’s love for the environment. Milad-e-Sherif celebrations under the banner of the Madin Able World will continue till Saturday. The celebrations titled Himma (meaning determination) stood apart as differently abled persons attended it from across the country.
30 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||INL asked to make stand clear||The Indian National League (INL) Democratic has demanded that the INL make its stand clear on the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government implementing 10 per cent reservation for the economically weaker sections in forward communities. “The silence of the INL on the quota issue indicates that it has a lot to hide,” said INL Democratic general secretary Kareem Puthupady.
30 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Bineesh case: Mullappally lashes out at CPI(M) leaders||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran said here on Thursday that the case involving Bineesh Kodiyeri would reach CPI(M) leaders if the Bharatiya Janata Party did not intervene in it. He said some accused persons would escape from the case because the investigating agencies were not given a free hand. According to him, Chief Minister’s additional private secretary C.M. Ravindran too was involved in the gold smuggling case apart from former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar. Talking to newspersons at Walayar, Mr. Ramachandran said the property details of Mr. Ravindran should be investigated. ‘Govt. scuttled case’ The Congress leader visited the parents of the girls who had been found dead in mysterious circumstances at their house in Walayar. The parents have been on a week-long protest staging a dharna in front of their house demanding a reinvestigation by the High Court. A Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act court here had set free all the accused after the prosecution failed to prove them guilty. Mr. Ramanchandran said that the government could not wash its hands of the responsibility of denying justice to the Walayar girls by scuttling the case. Congress State general secretary K.P. Anil Kumar, V.K. Sreekandan, MP, Shafi Parambil, MLA, and former MP V.S. Vijayaraghavan accompanied Mr. Ramachandran. They also visited the Chellankavu tribal colony, where five persons died after reportedly consuming poisoned liquor a week ago.
30 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||369 cases in Palakkad||The district registered 369 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday while 568 infected persons recovered from the disease. Among the new cases, 189 had contracted the disease from direct local contacts. However, there were 159 cases whose source of infection could not be established. Eighteen cases had come from across the State border. There were three health workers among those who tested positive in the district on Thursday .
30 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Brahmana Sabha for quota-free society||The Kerala Brahmana Sabha (KBS) said here on Thursday that it stood for a reservation-free society where all sections enjoyed equal opportunities and status. In a statement, KBS general secretary N.V. Sivarama Krishnan and president Karimpuzha Raman said the concept of reservation should be changed if the country wanted a robust society. Welcoming the State and Central government decisions on reservation for forward communities, KBS leaders said they did not favour the idea of 10% reservation in the 50% general category.
30 October 2020||Staff Reporter,KERALA||Lal Koyilparambil passes away||Lal Koyilparambil, former president of the Kerala Swatantra Matsya Thozhilali Federation (KSMTF), died on Thursday. He was 69. He had fought for the rights of the fishermen community . He was the Alappuzha district secretary of the federation between 1985 and 1988 before becoming its State president, a position he held until 1994.
30 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Test positivity rate remains a constant||Kerala reported 7,020 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday when 54,339 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 4,18,484. The number of recoveries reported on the day is more than the new cases, with 8,474 patients leaving hospitals, keeping the State’s active case pool stabilised and thus preventing hospitals from getting overwhelmed. Active caseload The active caseload of the State is yet to cross the one lakh mark and has been hovering around 95,000. With the total number of recoveries till date being 3,25,166, the active case load on Thursday was 91,784. The number of critically ill patients in ICUs in the State is 715, with 217 requiring ventilator support. The test positivity rate remained at 12.9%, and has been remaining more or less stable between 12% and 14% most of last week as well. 26 deaths The cumulative death toll rose to 1,429, with an addition of 26 new deaths to the official list. Of these deaths which occurred between October 17 and 26, nine were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, five from Malappuram, four from Kannur, three from Alappuzha, two from Thrissur and one each from Wayanad, Idukki and Ernakulam. Of the new cases reported on Thursday, 6,852 cases (97.6%) are locally acquired infections, with 734 cases remaining untraced to any known source of infection. The number of health-care workers in the Stae who contracted the infection is 81. Among districts, Thrissur reported 983 cases, Ernakulam 802, Thiruvananthapuram 789, Alappuzha 788, Kozhikode 692, Malappuram 589, Kollam 482, Kannur 419, Kottayam 389, Palakkad 369, Pathanamthitta 270, Kasaragod 187, Idukki 168 and Wayanad 93. CM’s warning Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday warned against people gathering in large numbers again to organise political protests and said that prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure were in place till October 31. The government will, if required, think of extending it, he said.  The government will extend prohibitory orders if the situation warrants. Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister
30 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Oppn. clamour for CM’s resignation||The Opposition’s demand for the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan got shriller on Thursday with a court in Kochi remanding his former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar in the custody of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for a week. The ED’s filing in court that Mr. Sivasankar had often called Customs inspectors to expedite the release of freight send from Dubai in the name of UAE consulate officials here without inspecting the incoming goods or levying duty appeared to have provided ammunition to the Opposition to target the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) and Mr. Vijayan directly. The Congress and the BJP unleashed a wave of protests across the State accusing Mr. Vijayan of allowing economic offenders to harness the heft of his office to facilitate the smuggling of gold in air freight addressed to foreign officials at the diplomatic mission. Protests galore The police used water cannons to disperse Youth Congress workers who attempted to storm the Chief Minister’s official residence at Cliff House here. Congress workers held torchlight processions in panchayats and municipal wards in the evening to highlight Mr. Vijayan's “culpability” in the racket. BJP protesters tried to topple barricades and push their way into the Secretariat here through the police cordon guarding the gates. On the 64th anniversary of the creation of the State on November 1, BJP workers would line up by the side of State and National Highways to form a human chain to highlight Mr. Vijayan’s alleged link with economic offenders. The gold smuggling scandal has unfolded as the State prepares to hold local body elections in December. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the overlapping investigations into the gold smuggling racket would expose the role of more officials in the CMO. The ED and Customs were set to question them. Mr. Vijayan’s turn would come soon. Mr. Sivasankar had merely done Mr. Vijayan's bidding. Mr. Vijayan was the real culprit, he alleged. Congress State president Mullappally Ramachandran said the case involving Bineesh Kodiyeri would reach CPI(M) leaders if the BJP did not intervene in it. BJP State president K. Surendran said the Central agencies were probing the role of two Ministers in the gold smuggling case. He declined to identify them and said their “discreditable” activities would come to light soon. CPI(M) defends CM The CPI(M) on Wednesday stoutly defended Mr. Vijayan. CPI(M) central committee member M.V. Govindan said Mr. Vijayan would serve out the rest of his term and the Left Democratic Front would sweep to power in the coming local body and Assembly elections. The Congress and the BJP have scant credibility. The public would see through their lies and vote for the development and social welfare achievements of the LDF government.  BJP State president K. Surendran says Central agencies are probing the role of two Ministers in gold smuggling case
30 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Death toll crosses 400 in capital||The COVID-19 death toll in the capital district crossed 400 with nine more deaths being attributed to the disease on Thursday. With 403 people succumbing to the virus, Thiruvananthapuram has reported a case fatality ratio of 0.7, higher than the State average of 0.4. The district registered 789 new cases when 5,269 people were tested during the last 24 hours, reporting a test positivity rate of 14.9. With 880 people testing negative for SARS-CoV-2, the number of active cases in the district stood at 8,678. 8 health workers Among those diagnosed with COVID-19, 625 people acquired the infection through local transmission while the source of infection in 151 others were unknown. Eight health care workers were also infected. The caseload included five imported cases. The deceased included natives of Vanchiyoor (89 years old), Sreevaraham (64), Pazhavangady (60), Karikkakom (54), Kazhakuttam (67), Kanjirampara (63), Perumala (40), Venganoor (73) and Varkala (82). The district administration quarantined 1,559 people as part of the containment measures on the day, taking the number of those being monitored in the district to 25,042 in houses and 171 in various institutions. Sectoral magistrates apprehended 499 people for violating prohibitory orders in the district. These included 14 people who flouted the COVID-19 protocol. Eighty-five people were fined by the officials as well as the police in separate crackdowns. Action has been taken against 14580 people since the launch of the curbs early this month in the district. New micro-containment zones were declared in Pazhaya Uchakkada in Karode grama panchayat, Arinelloor in Pulimath grama panchayat, Office ward in Vilappil grama panchayat, Puthenthope south in Kadinamkulam grama panchayat, and Arannoor in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. Off the list The existing containment zones in Thycaud in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, Kazhivoor in Kanjiramkulam grama panchayat, Choottayil in Kilimanoor grama panchayat, Ottasekharamangalam and Kadambara in Ottasekharamangalam grama panchayat; and Vembanoor and Kadambanad-Vembanoor junction in Aruvikkara grama panchayat have been withdrawn. Revised rates The government has reduced the rates for COVID-19 tests in private laboratories, District Medical Officer (DMO) K.S. Shinu has said. The revised rates for RT-PCR (Open System) and TrueNat tests, and Gene Xpert test are Rs. 2,100 and Rs. 2,500 respectively. The price for the rapid antigen test will remain unchanged at Rs. 625. He urged the public to report instances of laboratories overcharging patients by submitting complaints todmohealthtvm@gmail.com.
30 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Prayers mark Nabi Day||Milad-i-Sherif, the birth anniversary of Prophet Mohammed, was celebrated by the Vallakkadavu Muslim Jamaat with prayers on Thursday. Special prayers were held across all mosques that function under the Jamaat during the last 12 days. Free meals Imam Ahsad Ahsani, Abdul Salam Musaliyar Koyivila, Jamaat president A. Saifudeen Haji and general secretary S.M. Haneefa led the prayers at the Vallakkadavu Juma Masjid on the occasion of Milad-i-Sherif. Free meals were distributed to over 5,000 families on the occasion.
30 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A day tightly packed with protests||Demonstrations erupted in the State capital on Thursday for the first time since the clamping of prohibitory orders on October 3, with Opposition parties demanding Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s resignation following the arrest of his former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. Several organisations took out protests to the Secretariat and the Cliff House throughout the day. The protesters raised their pitch by the evening shortly after ED’s arrest of CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in Bengaluru for his alleged links in a narcotics case. The prohibitory orders and the COVID-19 protocol were flouted as the protests paved way for sizeable gatherings. While the Youth Congress marched to the Cliff House, the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) took out a demonstration to the Secretariat around the same time. Three Mahila Morcha activists were arrested after they barged into the Secretariat compound. The police used water cannons to disperse the protesters. The BJYM took out another march by 7 p.m, which turned unruly after the police lathi-charged an agitator who tried to scale the compound wall. Laying siege to MG Road This led to a violent confrontation between the protesters and the police, following which the former laid siege to the MG Road. Around five activists sustained injuries in the demonstration. The protests continued into the late hours of the day when the Muslim Youth League and the Social Democratic Party of India also took out protests, prompting the police to fend off the agitators from multiple entrances of the Secretariat.
30 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Test co-morbid persons for COVID repeatedly: CM||People with co-morbidities should subject themselves to repeated COVID-19 tests at intervals, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The Health Department would soon launch a campaign to create awareness of this fact amongst the public, he added. People who recovered from COVID-19 required special attention and care as persisting symptoms could be dangerous. The Health Department had rolled out a care plan for providing post-COVID care to people, he said. The department intended to expand the telemedicine services so that post-COVID care could be extended to all. While the case graph had not been climbing higher and had shown signs of plateauing, the COVID-19 situation in the State was still a matter of grave concern. The case per million figure in the State, at 11,280, was much higher than the current national average of 5,790. Hence all disease containment activities and vigil against disease transmission would have to be maintained as such, Mr. Vijayan said. Interventions and Break-the-Chain campaigns have been strengthened in all districts and the sectoral magistrates and the police together were doing a good job, he said. 167 spots identified District Collectors had been asked to increase testing by setting up more testing kiosks in public places. Some 167 spots had been identified, of which 57 spots already had functional kiosks. Steps hadbeen taken to empanel private hospitals with ICU beds and to ensure that 10% of the beds in private hospitals are set aside for COVID-19 care.   People who recover from COVID-19 require care as persisting symptoms can be dangerous 10% of the beds in private hospitals will be set aside for COVID care
30 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Arrests put govt. on the defensive||Two high-profile arrests appear to have put the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] on the back foot on Thursday. A court in Kochi remanded M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in the custody of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for a week for questioning in connection with the money laundering aspect of the politically stormy UAE Consulate gold smuggling case. Mr. Sivasankar's arrest appeared to have cast a shadow on the LDF. The dimness seemed to lengthen when news broke that the ED in Bengaluru arrested Binish Kodiyeri, son of CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, on the charge of bankrolling narcotic drug traffickers. The developments seemed to threaten, at least for a day, the LDF's political standing irrespective of its governance track record. The back-to-back arrests also exposed the LDF to a cannonade of criticism from Congress and BJP leaders. The LDF government, convulsed by the gold smuggling scandal, seems to be facing unexpectedly strong political headwinds ahead of the local body and Assembly elections. Central investigations have come awkwardly close to the CPI(M) leadership and the government. The government also faced the potentially challenging task of preventing a mustering of backward class and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe social organisations against its reservation policy targeted at providing succour to economically disadvantaged sections among forward castes. The arrests provided added ammunition to the Opposition to launch broadsides against the LDF. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said Mr. Balakrishnan had betrayed CPI(M) workers. Binish had enriched himself illegally under the shade of Mr. Balakrishnan's political influence. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the CPI(M) secretary's house had become a hive of illegal activity. LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan seemed to set a brave face when he said Binish's arrest was not a political issue that concerned the CPI(M). Livelihood issues and development guided voting and not salacious scandals. The LDF would coast to victory, he said.
30 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||30 more Janakeeya hotels to come up in district||The Kudumbashree district mission plans to open 30 more of the popular Janakeeya hotels in the district, 10 of them by December. The mission currently runs 70 Janakeeya hotels in the district – 13 in urban areas and 57 in rural areas. The Janakeeya hotels, started with the aim of providing affordable food to the needy, receive good footfall. On an average, each hotel sells 1,000 food packets a day, say Kudumbashree officials. Ananthapuri Cafe, the Janakeeya hotel at Overbridge, sells more than 1,000 food parcels daily. In Neyyattinkara and Nedumangad municipalities, the demand was so high that additional ones had to be sanctioned. Neyyattinkara has four such hotels now. The property rent, electricity and water charges for the hotels are borne by the local self-government institutions. The Kudumbashree gives a subsidy of Rs. 2 lakh to a hotel a month on an average to ensure quality of food. The hotels give at least four curries in a food parcel, which cost Rs. 20-25. Special dishes may cost extra. Home delivery too is made in areas where the demand is more. Training for staff There are plans to provide on-the-job training to the units once the lockdown restrictions are removed. The training had to be postponed when the lockdown was announced earlier in the year. The 10-member unit that runs the Janakeeya hotel near Overbridge has received the training, besides being followed-up for two months, say officials. Kudumbashree officials say they hope that by the time the pandemic ends, they will be able to open 100 Janakeeya hotels in the district. The plan is to continue to operate these hotels in future with the support of the people so that no one goes hungry, says Kudumbashree district mission coordinator K.R. Shaiju.  Each hotel sells 1,000 food packets a day on an average, as per Kudumbashree.
30 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM slams IUML’s stance on quota||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday slammed the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) for attempting to stir up resentment against the government on the issue of providing 10% reservation in government jobs for economically disadvantaged persons from forward communities. He said the IUML should realise that Kerala was the only State that accorded backward class reservation for Muslims. The Lok Sabha had passed the Constitution (124th Amendment) Bill, 2019 with an overwhelming majority to succour the poor among forward castes without diminishing the existing 50% quota for the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and backward classes.He said the Left Democratic Front government would ensure that nobody misused the new reservation policy to rob the backward classes and SC/STs of their due. The LDF manifesto had promised social justice for all. It had recognised poverty as a marker of backwardness much earlier than other political formations. The government had ensured that the creamy layer ineligibility criteria did not deprive the backward classes of their allocation.
30 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State to get two more synthetic tracks||The State is set to get two more synthetic tracks. The Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports has sanctioned one synthetic track each in Kannur and Thrissur districts as part of the Khelo India programme. An amount of Rs. 7 crore each has been allowed by the Union government. Work will get under way soon. In Kannur, the 400-metre synthetic track will come up at Government Medical College, Pariyaram. The college has 10 acres of land where the track will be set up. Besides the eight-lane synthetic track, a jumping pit and a football field with drainage facilities will be built here. Fencing around the track, pavilion, dressing room, bathroom, and toilets too will be arranged. This is the fourth synthetic track to come up in the past four years in the district. The second synthetic track will come up at Government Higher Secondary School, Kunnamkulam. The State government had earlier initiated steps to turn the school’s playground into one of international standards. Sports division Steps to start a sports division in the school are in the final stage. The nod for the track will further give a fillip to these steps, a statement from the Minister for Sports said here on Thursday.  An amount of Rs. 7 cr. each has been allowed by the Union government and work will get under way soon.
30 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 60,000-cr. stimulus package for State: Isaac||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said the government has given shape to a Rs. 60,000-crore stimulus package to fight the economic downturn that has affected the State amid COVID-19. Inaugurating a ‘Meet the Scholar’ lecture series organised by the University of Kerala on Wednesday, Dr. Isaac said the COVID-19 outbreak had had a severe impact on the State’s economy. It had affected several key sectors, including tourism. The manufacturing sector had also witnessed immense loss during a short period. Unemployment The burgeoning unemployment coupled with the worrying rate of job loss among non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) had compounded the crisis. “The proposed stimulus package will be implemented through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The government has adopted steps to ensure that all financial assistance reached the lower strata of the society directly,” he said. Lecture series Dr. Isaac’s lecture on ‘COVID-19 and the Kerala Economy’ marked the launch of the 52-week lecture series that will feature scholars, researchers, social reformers and pioneers in various fields interacting with teachers and students on contemporary issues. Each research department or centre will coordinate a lecture every week under the programme. Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai presided over the inaugural function.
30 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Floriculture centre to be opened in Wayanad||The Centre of Excellence for Vegetables and Flowers being established at Ambalavayal in Wayanad district with technical guidance from the Dutch government is set to be inaugurated on November 5. Coming up on the Ambalavayal campus of the Regional Agricultural Research Station (RARS), with technical hand-holding under the Indo-Dutch Joint Action Plan, the centre is expected to turn full-fledged over the next one year, Agriculture Department officials say. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will formally inaugurate the centre at a virtual conclave on November 5. Rs. 13-crore project Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar and senior functionaries of the Government of the Netherlands will attend the function. Envisaged under the State Horticulture Mission (SHM), the centre is being established at a cost of Rs. 13 crore, of which Rs. 4.2 crore will come as Central share. In the first phase, open-field precision farming of vegetables and flowers, production and distribution of quality planting materials to farmers and training programmes are planned. Considering the special climatic conditions of Wayanad, there will be special focus on capsicum, tomato and cucumber and flowers such as chrysanthemum and gerbera. Calling the centre a dream project for the State, Agriculture Minister V. S. Sunil Kumar said the State government expects to tap the expertise of the Netherlands in vegetable and flower cultivation for the benefit of farmers in Kerala. Tissue culture lab “'A tissue culture laboratory has been set up as part of the project for producing good quality planting materials. The idea is to transform Wayanad into a hub of floriculture,” Mr. Sunil Kumar told The Hindu .
30 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Balan inaugurates 15 Ambedkar villages||The Ambedkar Village scheme has transformed tribal colonies in the State, Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and Backward Classes A.K. Balan has said. He was inaugurating 15 Ambedkar villages and launching the development of nine others in various parts of the State through videoconference on Thursday. 52 completed The scheme had paved way for the social and economic progress of tribal communities, Mr. Balan said. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government had included 273 colonies under the scheme. While the construction of 52 colonies was completed, the development of 221 others was in the final phase. The project enabled development works worth Rs. 1 crore. The government aimed to provide land and house to each family, he said. Seven in capital Seven Ambedkar villages have been developed in Thiruvananthapuram district. These are at Pullachalkonam and Pallithara in Parassala constituency, Thennoor Eenthannoor Vazhveli in Attingal constituency, Nilamel in Kattakada constituency, Erumala in Vamanapuram constituency, Azhankal 44th Nagar and Puzhikkunnil Parankimamvila in Nemom constituency. Renovation of houses, road tarring, construction of retaining walls and link roads leading to colonies, electrification and waste processing are undertaken as part of the scheme.
30 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Why glorify Central agencies, asks CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala lionised and feted Central law enforcement agencies functioning in Kerala. At the same time, Congress president Sonia Gandhi portrayed them as political tools of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government. Mr. Chennithala glorified federal law enforcement as politically non-partisan and objective. In contrast, Ms. Gandhi said they were instruments in the hands of the Centre to unsettle non-BJP ruled States, hound political opponents and discredit Opposition activists in general, he said. The country’s history was dotted with examples of successive Central governments using federal law enforcement for political purposes. “I am not venturing further into the topic. The government is still of the opinion that the multiple investigations into the gold smuggling case were not the right track,” the Chief Minister said. But, Mr. Chennithala should explain why he extolled the Central agencies functioning in Kerala. The State had challenged the CBI’s decision to investigate LIFE Mission officials on the charge of violating the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act because it received a legal opinion that the agency had overstepped its jurisdictional bounds. The Congress and the BJP had attempted to lay down a smokescreen of lies to eclipse the track record of the government and put it on the defence ahead of the local body polls. They had tried to kick up a stink by spreading conspiracy theories about the government’s link with gold smugglers.
30 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Logo of food delivery app released||Minister for Industries E.P. Jayarajan released the logo of Rezoy, an online food delivery app launched by the Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association, on Thursday. Association general secretary G. Jayapal, treasurer K.P. Balakrishnan Poduval, Kannur district unit treasurer K. Achuthan, and Rezoy chief executive officer Mohammed Mustafa were present on the occasion.
30 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Valedictory of fete for senior citizens||The valedictory of the programmes organised by the Senior Citizens’ Service Council as part of the International Day of Older Persons celebrations from October 1 will be held on Friday. Communist Party of India State unit assistant secretary K. Prakash Babu will inaugurate the programme being organised through the council’s Facebook page at 5 p.m.
30 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Construction begins||Minister for Devaswom Kadakampally Surendran on Thursday inaugurated the construction of the Chirapalam bund sidewall in Nedungad ward under the city Corporation as part of the Chief Minister’s local road rebuild project. Deputy Mayor Rakhi Ravikumar presided.
30 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SKOCH award for Kudumbashree||The Kudumbashree has bagged the SKOCH order of merit for its interventions during the COVID-19 pandemic.
30 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SEC defers nomination dates||The State Election Commission (SEC) has issued formal orders deferring the appointment of dates for nominations and related procedures for local body elections to a date after November 11, given the COVID-19 situation in the State. The entire election process to the panchayats, municipalities and Corporations would be completed before December 31, the order dated October 28 said.
30 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||983 new cases in Thrissur||Thrissur tops in the number of new COVID-19 cases in the State with 983 patients on Thursday. However, 1,037 patients recovered from the disease. Currently, there are 9,598 active cases in the district and 98 patients from the district are undergoing treatment at hospitals in various other districts. The district recorded 37,563 cases so far and 27,646 people recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 964 people contracted the disease on Thursday through local contact. Nine residents of Santhosham Home for Elderly at Ollukkara are among the positive cases reported on Thursday. 6,052 in home care There are 127 people above the age of 60 and 67 children below the age of 10 among the patients. In all, 6,052 people are in home care. Of the 1,019 people started treatment on Thursday, 424 are in hospitals and 595 people are at homes. In all, 5,555 samples were collected for tests on Thursday. So far, 2,84,345 samples have been tested in the district. Meanwhile, the district administration has set up a special cell to coordinate information on violations of COVID-19 guidelines. People can send WhatsApp messages to the cell. Strict steps will be taken against people who spread messages to mislead people. The District Collector will review the functioning of the cell on a daily basis.
30 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||St. Thomas College global alumni meet||The Old Students’ Association of St. Thomas College, Thrissur, will organise a virtual global alumni meet from 7 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. on November 1 on YouTube Live. Old students and teachers will share their memories about the college. Old students from across the world will join the virtual meet, according to the Old Students Association. Former student and patron of the college Thrissur Archbishop Mar Andrews Thazhath will inaugurate the meet. Education Minister C. Ravindranath (former student and teacher); College manager, former student and Auxiliary Bishop Mar Tony Neelankavil ; Former manager and old student Shamshabad Bishop Mar Raphael Thattil; and Calicut University Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj will speak. Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago Mar Joy Alappat will release ‘Santhome Luminaries’, a note about eminent alumni. The registration link is :https://forms.gle/ DiaiUzy3nhxTDLHe8
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Police wary of visitor influx to beaches||With beaches in the district set to be opened to the public from next month, the police along the coastal areas are keeping their fingers crossed over the potential challenges in regulating visitors in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol. Among the prominent beaches in the district are Fort Kochi, Cherai, Munambam, Kuzhupilly, Puthuvypin, and Raktheshwari, and they fall within the limits of various police stations and local bodies. They are among the tourist destinations that the State government has allowed to be thrown open to the public from November 1. ‘A challenge’ “We are anticipating a huge influx of visitors to the beaches considering that it may serve as a safety valve for people smothered by frustrations associated with the pandemic, including being forced to stay indoors. It may be a challenge to maintain order in such an event,” said A.K. Sudheer, Station House Officer, Munambam, which accounts for at least four popular beaches, not to mention the little known access points along the nearly 12-km-long coastline within its limits. The police said though they were yet to receive any guidelines, including the time when visitors could be allowed to beaches, plans are afoot to deploy additional patrol and to vacate visitors using public announcement system shortly after dusk. V.P. Unnikrishnan, secretary, Pallippuram panchayat, said the local body had started removing shrubs and weeds along the beach road to make space for parking and sprucing up street lights. P.S. Dharmajith, Station House Officer, Njarakkal, said the police expected to have more clarity on the regulations once the CrPC Section 144 ran its course this month-end. However, many people are visiting beaches notwithstanding prohibitory orders. The Fort Kochi police have been slapping visitors violating prohibitory orders and turning up at the beach with fine under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance. “We are yet to receive any specific guidelines in the absence of which we will have to devise our own plans to control visitors,” said G.B. Manuraj, Station House Officer, Fort Kochi. However, the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) said detailed guidelines had been issued on the permissible number of visitors and vehicles to each beach based on their capacity. Work in full swing “We have started renovation of washrooms at the Munambam beach maintained by us employing Kudumbashree workers, while the Pallippuram and Kuzhupilly panchayat authorities have been asked to do the same at Cherai and Kuzhupilly beaches respectively,” said S. Vijayakumar, secretary, DTPC. The Department of Tourism and Heritage Society which maintain facilities at the Fort Kochi beach are working on similar lines.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Paddy procurement begins||
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Countdown on||
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Remains of a tragedy||
30 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘BE FAST’ is the mantra to identify strokes early||How do you know that you suffered a brain stroke? What are the signs to look for before you approach a doctor for stroke treatment? These were some of the questions posed by people at an awareness camp held by KIMS Saveera Hospital on Thursday as part of the ‘World Stroke Day’ awareness programme. A headache could be a dominant sign of a developing stroke, but not all headaches are signs of stroke, said neurologist K. Joshua Caleb. The mantra for making the preliminary diagnosis is the acronym ‘BE FAST’ — B for balance, E for eye movement, F for facial changes, A for arm movement, S for speech, and most importantly, T for time. Reaching out to a medical practitioner within 4.5 hours of such signs is essential to mitigate any further damage to the brain, said Dr. Joshua. Giving examples of three patients, who recently overcame the debilitating consequences due to the alacrity with which they consulted neuro-physicians, Dr. Joshua displayed the video at the time their first interaction on arrival at the clinic and presented them in person at the awareness programme to drive home the message of the importance of the ‘Golden Hours’. Among them were farmers, policemen and businessmen. Hypertension, diabetes, obesity, which many times become a leading cause of stroke, are modifiable factors and everyone who crosses 40 years of age must keep a tab on these through regular routine health checks, said Tirupathi Kedar, another neurologist who treated those patients. Currently, ischemic stokes are managed at any small hospital with Alteplase or Tenecteplase injections for diluting the blocks in the arteries and give time to reach a bigger centre for more complicated cases, he said.
30 October 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flattening of curve okay, but virus threat still persists, say experts||The decline in COVID-19 positive cases, drop in death rate, and impressive recovery figures give people of Andra Pradesh enough reasons to cheer. But, does the flattening curve mean that the threat of the dreaded virus is subsided? Well, doctors say no. ‘Kerala, an example’ The COVID-19 threat is very much there and lowering of guard or flouting the measures such as wearing mask, frequent washing of hands and maintaining social distance may lead to the second wave like the one was witnessed in Kerala and elsewhere in the world, say doctors. Many people, even the educated ones, seem to think that the drop in positive cases is an indication that the virus is on the wane. Though the wishful thinking is all right, giving the norms the go-by can have serious consequences, say experts. Many people are now seen visiting public places, jostling through crowd and taking part in social gatherings without wearing mask and not maintaining social distance. “Even as the positive cases are on the decline, negligence of a few persons is enough to spurt in the number of infections. It was thought that the pandemic was under control in Kerala, but the second wave has proved it wrong. Kerala is once again registering thousands of new cases on a daily basis. Similar situations are also witnessed in the U.S.A. and the U.K.,” says B. Ramachandra Rao, an associate professor at the Government ENT Hospital. He says the course of treatment is still an enigma with many drugs, which were thought to cure COVID-19, are proving to be ineffective. “Even as the positive patients are developing antibodies to fight the virus, the cause of cured patients testing positive again in barely two months remains a mystery ,” explains Dr. Ramachandra Rao. “The virus threat still persists. Not wearing mask in public places is dangerous. The chance of the second wave cannot be ruled out at this juncture,” says P. Venugopal, Officer on Special Duty, Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS).
30 October 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools, junior colleges gear up to resume classes||The Education Department in the district is gearing up to start schools and junior colleges from November 2 in phases, as instructed by the State government. As part of COVID-19 safety protocol, school managements were ordered to take adequate steps to ensure physical distancing among students to avoid spread of the coronavirus. A senior official from the Education Department said that they had already arranged a meet with all the headmasters from various schools in the district and briefed them on the precautions to be taken. For those schools having huge strength, the headmasters were asked to divide the students in shifts. Wearing of mask was made mandatory for the students to enter the school premises. Schools were also asked to see if they can check body temperatures of students while they enter the school and also provide masks if possible. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana conducted a meet with all headmasters of civic schools on Thursday. She has asked the officials to make sure classes are sanitised every evening. She asked them to arrange flexis in the schools about the precautions to be taken and also educate students in the first and the last periods. Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao asked the headmasters to inform parents if students suffer from fever, cold or cough to conduct rapid test. Headmaster of Zilla Parishad High School, Chandrampalem, Raja Babu, said that they have around 700 students studying in Class X alone and would see that only one-third of students attend per day. “We have about 45 classrooms available and would make sure only two students sit in a bench and 16 students per class to ensure social distancing. Temperature will be checked at the entrance of the school. We have also kept some stock of masks. If any student fails to wear mask, we would provide him,” he added. The decision by the state government to start schools in a phased manner is being welcomed by parents. “Resuming classes for higher classes on a pilot basis is the demand from many parents. This will not put burden on the school managements,” said M. Appalanaidu, a parent from Isukathota area from the city. Meanwhile, some parents said that the government should continue with online cases for one more month .
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six-fold rise in passenger footfall at RGIA||Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) from May 25, when travel restrictions after a two-month lockdown began to be lifted, till September 30 has handled about 1.2 million passengers with footfall rising from 3,000 domestic passengers a day to 20,000 a day — a six-fold increase. “We are seeing an uptick in air traffic movement (ATM) from about 40 daily to over 230 domestic flights daily and over 13,500 domestic flights in total handled till last month end,” said an official spokesman on Thursday. It regained 52 destinations out of pre-COVID 55 destinations and even added a new domestic destination — Jagdalpur in Chhatisgarh from September 21. GMR’s Hyderabad International Airport is connected to 53 destinations in the domestic sector with Nagpur, Mangalore, Kozhikode/Calicut and Jabalpur added in the last few weeks. Top five destinations, during post-COVID situation, were Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Mumbai. From initial uni-directional traffic due to pent-up demand, the demand is gradually back to both-ways with IndiGo, SpiceJet and Air India being the top three domestic airlines, he explained. RGIA has also been handling international flights from March 20, including those permitted under ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ and the ‘Air Transport Bubble’ agreements connecting to United Kingdom, UAE (Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah), Qatar and Bahrain. “Many charters from various countries are also operating on a regular basis. We are now having over 11 international flights daily and this could increase once ‘Air Transport Bubble agreements’ cover more countries,” he said. Since the time of lock-down starting from March, 1.1 lakh international passengers have been handled with over 800 flights complying to all safety protocols. E--boarding for domestic flights and now for international flights had helped to ramp up contact-less mode of travel across the passenger touchpoints. Sanitization has been a key focus area and all steps were taken to ensure every portion of the airport is deep cleaned and fumigated. Touchless counters and cashless transactions are in place while all retail outlets inside have a UV box to sanitize every product which a passenger buys, the spokesman added.
30 October 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||All Tungabhadra pushkar ghats to be built by Nov. 13||All the pushkar ghats related to the Tungabhadra Pushkarams will be completed by November 13 in time for the religious event to begin on November 20, District Collector G. Veerapandian has said. The Kurnool Irrigation Superintending Engineer P. Sree Ramachandra Murthy inspected the construction work of the ghats at Rampuram on Thursday and gave some instructions for the quick completion of the project. In his review meeting, the Collector said that all district officers must work with dedication to ensure the pushkarams were conducted as per the COVID-19 protocol and ensure that no hindrance was there for the religious traditions to be followed. The likely gathering of a large number of people at all the pushkar ghats was discussed and measures to be taken to keep the areas clean through proper deployment of sanitation staff. About Rs. 200 crore had been sanctioned by the State government for the laying of roads, construction of ghats and some improvements in the existing infrastructure at many places, said Mr. Veerapandian. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy had taken a keen interest in the event and sanctioned the required funds based on the proposals submitted by various departments, he said. Establishment of a media centre, e-ticketing, a website and a central command control centre were also discussed. He asked the officials to identify a proper place for the establishment of a reception centre at all the pushkar ghats. COVID-19 testing centres and medical camps would be established and requisite number of doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff would be deployed at all places, he added.
30 October 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||State Valmiki Jayanthi fete in Kurnool||The Valmiki Jayanthi celebrations at the State level will be organised in Kurnool this year as per the State government’s decision, Minister of Labour, Employment, Training, Factories Gummanuru Jayaram announced at a media conference here on Thursday night. The State celebrations were organised in Anantapur district last year. It had been decided to invite the key leaders of Valmiki welfare organisations from all districts of the State to Kurnool on October 31. COVID-19 protocols However, the celebrations will be organised in strict adherence of the protocols laid down to check the spread of coronavirus the Minister said. “We had thought of organising a grand function, but in view of the pandemic, honouring the Central and State government directives, we will confine it to only a few people,” Mr. Jayaram said. The Minister urged the people from those communities not to come to Kurnool and send only the leaders. He appealed to them to organised the celebrations in their respective villages on a small scale, in strict compliance of the COVID-19 norms.
30 October 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shed sedentary lifestyle, urge neurologists||Adopting lifestyle changes and addressing key risk factors like hypertension and diabetes can help prevent up to 90% of stroke cases, according to noted neurologist Bindu Menon. Launching an awareness campaign on the occasion of World Stroke Day, Dr. Menon said unhealthy diet, smoking, alcohol intake, obesity and lack of exercise are major contributors to stroke. Other risk factors include a rapid heart rate, raised blood lipid levels and snoring. The World Stroke Organisation is planning to cut strokes by half in the next 10 years, she said, underscoring the need for recognising symptoms such as loss of balance, blurred or double vision, drooping of the face and slurred speech in time. Such patients should be rushed to a specialised stroke unit within the ‘golden window’ period of four hours for excellent recovery. Rehabilitation is critical Rehabilitation, which is another critical step in the treatment process, could improve the functioning and enable the survivor regain as much independence as possible over time, Dr. Menon explained. Globally, one in four adults over the age of 25 will have a stroke in their lifetime. Stroke disproportionately affects individuals living in resource-poor countries. Today, two out of every three people who suffer from a stroke live in low- and middle-income countries, she said.
30 October 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. will sign MoU with Johns Hopkins University: Mekapati||Industries Minister Mekapatti Goutham Reddy on Thursday said that the government would sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Johns Hopkins University soon to promote industries in a big way in the State. The Minister held deliberations with the officials in Nellore district through video link. Representatives of the US-based university had been in touch with the officials of the Industries Department and the Indian School of Business(ISB) would work out the details of the MOU, he said, adding that Visakhapatnam would be developed as a ‘growth engine’ as part of the plans to further industrial transformation in the State. e-governance polices “The government has a tie-up with the ISB for policy guidance to spur growth in the State and create jobs. The ISB will be involved in shaping the e-governance polices. Besides attracting industries to the State, the government is making all out efforts to promote expertise and set up a policy lab to enable greater synergistic functioning of departments and work towards the objective of economic monitoring, recovery and development,” said Mr. Goutham Reddy. Among others, Department of Skill Development and Training Special Chief Secretary G. Anatharaman, Industries Department Director J. Subramanyam and representatives of the ISB took part in the meeting. Later in the day, the Minister, along with his Cabinet colleague P. Anil Kumar Yadav, inaugurated an electricity sub-station. Mr. Reddy said Nellore and its surroundings would attract investments of Rs. 50,000 crore in the next three years. A MSME park will bne set up at Udayagiri, he added. Noting that the Somasila reservoir has attained full capacity for the second year in a row, the Minister said that the High Level canal would be ready by 2022. The two Ministers reviewed the progress of infrastructure development in government schools at Brahamapalli in Atmakur constituency. Modern facilities were being developed at a cost of Rs. 25.63 crore in 134 schools, they said, after inspecting the works at Nandavaram Model School.
30 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam records zero COVID deaths||Prakasam district registered zero COVID-19 deaths for the first time in recent weeks as the pandemic curve began to witness a dip in south-coastal Andhra Pradesh. Recoveries outnumbered admissions in both Prakasam and Nellore districts in the last 24 hours, in a much-needed encouragement for health officials working tirelessly to combat the pandemic. The death toll remained unchanged in Prakasam district at 570, while in neighbouring Nellore district, one man succumbed to the virus, taking the district’s toll to 486, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Thursday night. With 302 new cases, the total number of confirmed cases in both districts rose to 1.20 lakh. However, the number of active cases came down to 3,136 as 359 patients made a full recovery. Over 1.16 lakh patients have recovered from the virus in the two districts so far. Prakasam Collector Pola Bhaskar, however, said there was no room for complacency. Flagging off an awareness rally organised by the District Rural Development Agency, Mr. Bhaskar said: “The health situation is under control now. COVID-19 deaths have abated, so have the number of new positive cases. More patients have also recovered.” “However, there can be no room for complacency as the cases might rise once more if necessary precautionary measures are not followed. Grassroots-level functionaries have been given over 3,000 pulse oximeters to monitor blood oxygen levels and shift vulnerable patients swiftly to hospitals,” the Collector said. With the advent of Deepavali in November, as well as several auspicious days in the month for solemnising weddings, and the reopening of schools, it is all the more important for people to strictly follow COVID-19 protocols including social distancing, regular hand sanitising and wearing masks in order to avoid contracting the virus, he said.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||File response in 10 days, apex court tells LG Polymers||The Supreme Court on Thursday deferred the National Green Tribunal (NGT) proceedings indefinitely and ordered LG Polymers to file its response to a Joint Monitoring Committee report highlighting many lacunae in the functioning of its Visakhapatnam plant prior to a gas leak on May 7 leaving 12 dead and several injured. A Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit gave LG Polymers 10 days’ time as a “last opportunity” to file its objections to the report which was uploaded on the NGT website on May 23. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said the company “could not” file its response to the report after June 1 due to several unexpected reasons. “We are willing to defer the hearing for you to file the objections to the report,” Justice Lalit told Mr. Rohatgi. The Bench scheduled a hearing for November 16. ‘Restoration plan’ On June 15, the Supreme Court stayed an NGT order of June 1, which directed LG Polymers to pay Rs. 50 crore for the restoration of environment and payment of interim compensation to victims of the gas leak. On June 1, the tribunal also directed the framing of a “restoration plan”, final quantification of the compensation to be paid to victims and action against officials responsible for allowing the company to function without statutory clearances. All of these directions were stayed by the Supreme court. LG Polymers had appealed to the Supreme Court, challenging the jurisdiction of the tribunal to take up the case suo motu and direct the company to pay the compensation, especially when the case was already pending in the A.P. High Court. The company had also questioned the High Court order to seal the Visakhapatnam factory and premises. The company argued the sealing was unconstitutional. The High Court had also sought information on how the toxic styrene monomer was allowed to be transported to South Korea despite the registration of a crime in connection with the gas leak, the appointment of a probe team and the requirement of a magisterial probe.
30 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam tops list in rescuing child workers||The Prakasam district police have rescued 1,258 orphans and child workers, including 1,026 boys, the highest for any district in the State. On the second day of Operation Muskaan on Thursday, 502 children were rescued by the police in coordination with government and non-governmental organisations, Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said. The SP warned that those engaging child labourers would be booked and sent to jail. He also exhorted parents to enrol their children in school and ensure that they are given an education.
30 October 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Archaeological museum soon for Rajamahendravaram||Andhra Pradesh State Archaeology and Museums Department Commissioner Vani Mohan on Thursday said that the State government would set up a museum in Rajamahendravaram to showcase the city’s connection with Chalukyas and Buddhism. Speaking to reporters here during her one-day visit of heritage sites in the city, Ms. Vani Mohan said, “The Detailed Project Report will be submitted to the Central government for necessary financial assistance and support to develop the museum that showcases the connection of Chalukyas and Buddhism with the city. The project will begin by December.”  Site MP M. Bharat promised to provide a 40,000 square foot site for the proposed three-storey museum.  “We have authentic evidences of a good number sites with archaeological importance in Rajamahendravaram. We will soon seek permission from the Archaeological Survey of India to carry out excavations in the sites,” said Ms. Vani Mohan.  Heritage tag Ms. Vani Mohan and Mr. Bharat inspected a few heritage sites - Rallabandi Subba Rao Archaeology Museum, 14th century Royal Masjid, Chintrangi Guest House, Sir Arthur Cotton House, Kandukuri Veeresalingam House and Havelock Bridge - in the city. Their visit is as part of the process of preparing a report to be submitted to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs to declare Rajamahendravaram as ‘Heritage City’ under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY). Cultural capital “Rajamahendravaram was the cultural capital of the united Andhra Pradesh. The city deserves to be declared as a heritage city given the importance of the heritage sites here,” said Mr. Bharat, who is also a Member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture.
30 October 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikakulam police bag Digital Formation Award||The Srikakulam police bagged Digital Transformation Award for its QR (quick response) code-based e-beat system which had been launched for optimum utilisation of manpower involved in patrolling in the district. Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar and Kasibugga Inspector Guggilapu Srinivasa Rao jointly received the award on Thursday. They said that the system was helping the department in many ways as patrolling was monitored in an effective manner.
30 October 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to establish police training college in State: Home Minister||Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita on Thursday inaugurated an additional floor at the Srikakulam fire station. The building, constructed at a cost of Rs. 48.50 lakh, will enable the fire department to respond more efficiently to emergencies, the Minister said, adding that the State government was giving utmost priority to the modernisation of the A.P. Disaster Response and Fire Service Department. She congratulated District Fire Officer Ch. Kripavaram, Assistant Fire Officers B.J.D.S. Prasant Kumar and K. Srinu Babu for their commendable work for the people of Uddanam region during Cyclone Titli which caused devastation in October 2018. Director General Hasan Raja spoke on the department’s achievements, such as saving property worth Rs. 10.81 crore in various fire accidents. Later, Ms. Sucharita inaugurated a new fire station at Kothavalasa in Vizianagaram district. In Vizianagaram, she told reporters that the Police Department was providing 87 services to the people through the Police Seva app. She said that the government was mulling the establishment of a police training college in the State as there was no such institution after the bifurcation of the State. She interacted with Deputy Chief Minister Pamula Pushpa Srivani, Parvatipuram MLA A. Joga Rao, Vizianagaram MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy and S. Kota MLA Kadubandi Srinivasa Rao. The Minister said that the State Election Commission seemed to be in a hurry conduct local body elections when thousands of COVID-19 positive cases were being reported each day.
30 October 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||People happy with govt., says YSRCP MLC||YSRCP MLC Gangula Prabhakar Reddy on Thursday said the State government has spent around Rs. 70,000 crore on various welfare activities ever since coming to power. Over 4.82 crore people have benefited under various schemes and the people of the State are happy with the performance of the government, he said. Mr. Prabhakar Reddy cautioned opposition leaders that the people are watching their every move, as well as their haste to criticise every move of the government. “The government is determined to provide Rs. 13,500 in the form of financial assistance to farmers for the second year in a row. We can proudly say that our government does not indulge in tall talk, but instead is proving its efficiency by fulfilling its electoral promises,” he said.
30 October 2020||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surrogacy, the key to reviving an endangered ‘holy cow’!||Shocking but true! The urine of a Punganur breed cow is sold for Rs. 10 a litre and its dung for Rs. 5 a kg. Though they are generally bought to be sprayed on crops, this ‘exorbitant’ price is attributed to the perceived ‘high anti-bacterial’ property of this breed. Ignored for decades, this breed, which is also considered holy in Hindu religion, is back in demand as it is priced up to Rs. 3.5 lakh. Andhra Pradesh is famous for its native Punganur and Ongole cattle breeds. Having a Punganur cow in the barn was not only viewed as a status symbol, but also synonymous to opulence, when it was patronised by Vijayanagara emperors and Pithapuram rulers. The breed, which gives a mere 3 litres of milk a day, eventually lost out to high-yielding varieties, especially the cross-bred cattle, in the mad race that followed White Revolution. A rough estimate puts the number of well-characterised Punganur cows in the State at 2,000. Even in its home ground comprising Chittoor, Nellore and Kadapa districts, technically grouped under the southern agro-climatic zone, this short variety that is just over a metre tall, is fast losing ground, notwithstanding its ‘most sought after’ status in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Mission Punganur Around 50 Punganur cows are maintained at the Livestock Research Station (LRS) in Palamaner and propagated under in-situ conservation by processing the quality semen at LRS Lam (Guntur). The State government has recently sanctioned Rs. 69.36 crore under Mission Punganur to be implemented by Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University (SVVU), Tirupati, and at the Andhra Pradesh Centre for Advanced Research in Livestock Limited (APCARL), Pulivendula. Conserving and propagating the breed and ensuring rapid multiplication of superior female through in-vivo and in-vitro embryo production to increase its population is the objective. “The idea is also to efficiently use low genetic merit cows as surrogate to produce elite offspring,” SVVU Vice-Chancellor V. Padmanabha Reddy told The Hindu . Hundred elite Punganur cows identified as oocyte/embryo donors will be used for the purpose, from which 25 viable embryos will be produced each year, taking the total to 1,250 in five years. “At a pregnancy rate of 30% and calving rate of 90%, 338 calves will be produced each year, which means 1,690 in five years,” Prof. Reddy explained. However, non-availability of disease-free, genetically-superior donors in the market seems to be a challenge in taking the project further. The role of SVVU and APCARL appear to be hazy in the government order, giving scope for confusion over dual control. Local cattle rearers are already agitated amid rumours of the Palamaner research station being totally shifted to Pulivendula, which adds a new dimension to the issue.
30 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||OPD, emergency services to be up in 10 days in Chittoor||With the number of COVID-19 cases registered in the district witnessing a decline, the general outpatient and emergency services are expected to be up and running in ten days at government and private hospitals in the district. The District COVID-19 Task Force Committee, which met here on Thursday under the aegis of Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy and Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, also decided to make COVID testing mandatory for private and government schoolteachers, with the Centre mulling to allow schools to reopen from next week. Similarly, a post-COVID treatment will be offered at SVR Ruia Government General Hospital soon. Chittoor district has registered 79,800 cases so far, while the testing capacity improved from 3,000 a day in March to 7,000 a day as on Thursday. “Admission into COVID Care Centres and private hospitals has witnessed a sharp decline. At present, there are only 2,800 active cases in the district,” Dr. Gupta explained. SVIMS and Ruia hospitals have registered zero deaths for the second day in a row. Mr. Narayanaswamy opined that doctors, in spite of offering best services, should also try to instill courage and confidence in COVID-19 patients by creating awareness. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy stressed the need to get mandatory testing done for teachers, in view of the reopening of schools. It was also decided to hand over all the pilgrim accommodation complexes, which doubled up as COVID Care Centres, back to the TTD, barring Sri Padmavathi Nilayam in Tiruchanur.
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ajith Singh Nagar dumping yard site reclaimed||The dumpyard site in Ajith Singh Nagar, which was a source of several problems to the locals, has been transformed into usable land through the reclamation process. Erode-based Zigma Global Environ Solutions Pvt. Ltd, the company which has been contracted by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation, has stated the reclamation process has been completed. In a release, the company claims that it is the country's largest land reclamation project carried out in terms of the area through bio-mining. The 42-acre land covered by heaps of garbage for years has now been reclaimed. Out of the reclaimed land, five acres was converted into a construction and demolition waste facility, two acres for a plastic waste management facility, two acres for waste to compost processing facility, five acres for farmers produce market and five acres for a children’s park, according to the release. The VMC has already announced construction of a park in the reclaimed land at a cost of Rs. 10 crore. Reclamation of the land and construction of the park would give a new lease of life to the area which was nearly abandoned for years due to the dumping yard. Processing of waste A total of 3.05 lakh tonnes of waste has been processed, segregated and disposed of. Also, 47,212 tonnes of refused derived plastic (RFD) collected and processed at the dumping yard site was sent to cement industries for use as fuel.
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 positivity rate in State drops to lowest at 3.27%||The State reported 2,905 new cases and 16 deaths in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The daily test positivity rate at 3.27% was lowest in nearly four months, even as 88,778 samples, highest in a day so far were tested. For the fifth day in a row the State reported less than 3,000 new cases. The tally increased to 8,17,679 and the death toll increased to 6,659. The death rate and recovery rate remains at 0.81% and 95.97% respectively. In the past day, 3,243 patients have recovered taking the total number of recoveries to 7,84,752. There are 26,268 active patients undergoing treatment across the State currently. So far, 78,62,459 samples were tested and their test positivity rate stands at 10.40%.  Kurnool reports only 25 infections Meanwhile, three districts reported no deaths and Krishna reported three new deaths, the highest among districts. Five districts of West Godavari, Guntur, Visakhpatnam, Nellore and Vizianagaram reported one new death each in the past day. Similarly, East Godavari, Chittoor, Anantapur and Kadapa districts reported two deaths each. No district reported more than 500 new cases and West Godavari reported 494, the highest number of new infections reported in the past day.East Godavari reported 414, Krishna 361, Guntur 359, Chittoor 259, Anantapur 221, Prakasam 206, Kadapa 191 and Visakhapatnam 119 cases. Daily caseload Four districts reported less than 100 new cases. They including Nellore (96), Srikakulam (90), Vizianagaram (70) and Kurnool (25). The district infection tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,14,968), West Godavari (84,765), Chittoor (77,695), Guntur (66,511), Anantapur (64,285), Kurnool (59,398), Nellore (59,330), Prakasam (59,121), Visakhapatnam (55,548), Kadapa (51,763), Srikakulam (43,788), Vizianagaram (39,161) and Krishna (38,451).
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. Formation Day to be celebrated as State function||The Jagan Mohan Reddy government has decided to celebrate the Andhra Pradesh Formation Day as a State function on November 1. Principal Secretary to Government (political) Praveen Prakash, in an order issued on Thursday, said orders were issued constituting a committee to look into the issues pertaining to the arrangements to be made for smooth conduct of the AP Formation Day as a State function at the State headquarters and all the district headquarters on November 1. On that day, the Chief Minister will hoist the national flag at his camp office at Tadepalli at 9 a.m. and pay tributes to freedom fighter Amarajeevi Potti Sriramulu by garlanding his portrait. Arrangements are being made for live telecast of this programme. In the districts, the respective in-charge Ministers and Collectors will ensure celebration of the day in a fitting manner, while Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan will participate in the celebrations at Raj Bhavan. Fete at AP Bhavan AP Bhavan in Delhi will also celebrate the occasion, according to a statement issued by the Department of Information and Public Relations. The decision assumes significance because six years after the State bifurcation, the government will officially resume celebrations of Andhra Pradesh State Formation Day on November 1. The celebration of this day was halted by the Chandrababu Naidu-led TDP government after the bifurcation of the State in 2014 as a sign of protest against the manner in which the bifurcation was carried out. Appointed Day Instead, June 2 which was declared as the Appointed Day for State bifurcation in 2014, was observed as a day to mark a resolve to rebuild the State along with June 8 as the first popularly elected government was formed after elections post bifurcation.  The decision assumes significance because six years after the State bifurcation, the government will officially resume celebrations of State Formation Day on November 1
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agriculture Dept. to set up digital studio in Vijayawada||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu has said that the government will be soon setting up a digital studio in Vijayawada for the benefit of farmers. It is aimed at disseminating latest information on the best agriculture practices, research works, new crop varieties, etc., to enable the farmers to maximise the returns on their investments. The government was also giving a fresh lease of life to the seed village concept that helps the farmers in producing the required seeds on their own in order to be self-reliant and self-sufficient, in association with Acharya N.G. Ranga Agriculture University (ANGRAU, he sadi. Addressing the participants after releasing the ‘Vyavasaya Panchangam’ for 2020-21 at the Secretariat on Thursday, Mr. Kannababu said scientists and other experts were being roped in to share advancements in agriculture with the farmers, who needed to be equipped with the latest technologies and the technical know-how through the digital studio. Crop loss The Minister said the enumeration of the loss suffered by the the agriculture sector by the recent floods would be completed in a couple of days and the report submitted to the Centre. Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah, Commissioner of Agriculture H. Arun Kumar, ANGRAU Vice-Chancellor A. Vishnuvardhan Reddy and Registrar N. Trimurthulu were present.
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revised dates of Group-I Mains exams announced||In compliance with the directive of the High Court on Group-I Services, the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has posted on its official websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.inthe merit list of the candidates who have qualified for the Mains examination. The Mains (descriptive type) examination of the Group-I Services, scheduled from November 11 to 13, are postponed and the following is the list of revised dates: The candidates will write their paper in Telugu (qualifying nature) on December 14, paper in English (qualifying) on December 15, Paper-I on December 16, Paper-II on December 17, Paper-III on December 18, Paper-IV on December 19 and Paper-V on December 20. The commission has also declared the list of the candidates provisionally selected for recruitment to the post of Assistant Statistical Officer in the Andhra Pradesh Economics and Statistical Sub- Service. The provisional list is available on the commission’s website and also in the notice board of the commission office.  Fresh list A fresh list of the candidates provisionally and additionally admitted for verification of certificates for the post of Assistant Inspector of Fisheries in the AP Fisheries Sub-Service, has been placed on the commission’s website. The verification of original certificates will be held on November 11 from 10 a.m. in the commission office in Vijayawada.
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. leader moves NHRC over ‘handcuffing’ of ryots||Congress leader and Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi Mahila JAC member Sunkara Padmasree has accused the police of harassing the farmers of 29 villages in Amaravati who have been protesting for the last 315 days against shifting of capital. In separate letters addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind, Chairmen of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and the National Commission for Scheduled Castes and Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, she alleged that the police was harassing the farmers ‘with the tacit support of the ruling party leaders’ and sought stringent action against them. “The police with the support of ruling party MLAs Alla Ramakrishna Reddy, Sridevi and Bapatla MP Nandigama Suresh and Advisor (Public Affairs) to the Chief Minister Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, framed cases against farmers who were peacefully protesting for the just cause of Amaravati as the single capital of Andhra Pradesh,” Ms. Padmasree alleged in her letters. She further said that the farmers’ protest against the CRDA Repeal Act and the A.P. Decentralisation Act had garnered widespread public support in the last 315 days. “To foil the protest, false cases were booked against the farmers who were handcuffed, which was in gross violation of human rights,” said Ms. Padmasree. The Congress leader condemned the police for handcuffing the farmers and said that it was an attempt to create fear psychosis among the protesters. She demanded protection to the protesting farmers and constitution of a ‘State Security Commission’ and a ‘Police Complaints Authority’ for effective redressal of such grievances.
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati JAC demands release of arrested farmers||Leaders of the Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi Joint Action Committee (JAC) and various other political parties on Thursday slammed the State government and the police for the arrest and handcuffing of farmers who were protesting against the three capital move, at Krishnayapalem village in Guntur district. The leaders staged a demonstration at the MRO office and later gave a representation to him condemning the police act and demanding immediate release of the arrested farmers. JAC convener A. Siva Reddy said the Jagan Mohan Reddy government was resorting to autocratic rule in the State. It was unfortunate that the hapless farmers who had given their precious lands for construction of a new capital of the State were now being targeted for no fault of theirs. ‘Handiwork of ruling party’ Madiga Reservation Porata Samithi State president P. Venkateswara Rao said another group of Dalit farmers from outside was sent to the protest site to stage a counter-agitation in support of the government plan to relocate the capital. When the farmers of Amaravati tried to prevent them, they were arrested and handcuffed. The MRPS leader called it the handiwork of the ruling party, which, he said was trying to divide the Dalits and Backward Classes to further its own selfish motives. Jana Sena Party leader P. Mahesh warned that people were closely watching the actions of the YSR Congress government and they would soon teach a fitting lesson to it. Dalit Bahujan Front leader Bhargav Rao, Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi JAC co-convener Gadde Tirupati Rao and others took part in the protest.
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTTPS tender papers sent for judicial preview||The AP-Genco has submitted tender documents pertaining to the Flue Gas Desulfurization (FGD) plant being set up at the 800-MW unit of Dr. Narla Tatarao Thermal Power Station (NTTPS) near here to the government’s Judicial Preview Committee (JPC), a release by MD B. Sreedhar said. He said the plant was in compliance with the Centre’s revised pollution control norms. The documents could be accessed on the website www.Judicialpreview.ap.gov. in All stakeholders i.e. developers, contractors and general public could submit their advice, comments and objections through e-mail (apjudicialpreview@gmail. com and judge-jpp@ap.gov. in) up to 5 p.m. on November 5. Copies of the suggestions could also be sent through (ho.tpcse3@apgenco.gov. in)
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, CM wish Muslims on Milad-un-Nabi||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan conveyed his greetings to the Muslim brethren on the occasion of Eid Milad-un-Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Mohammad, being celebrated on Friday. “I extend my warm greetings to the Muslim brethren on the occasion of Eid Milad-un–Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Mohammad. The life of the Prophet has been an inspiring saga of love, brotherhood and virtue to the mankind. The Prophet’s mission is fulfilled when we serve our fellow countrymen with faith, trust, care and compassion. May the birthday of Prophet Mohammad usher in peace and goodwill amongst all," Mr. Harichandan said in his message, according to a release. Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has conveyed his greetings to the Muslim brethren on the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi, which marks the birth anniversary of Prophet Mohammad, who preached peace, harmony and universal brotherhood.
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State police department bags more awards||The Andhra Pradesh Police Department has once again bagged several awards for its best practices in the Governance Now magazine’s India Police Awards 2020, according to the State police department. In a release, senior police officials said that Andhra Pradesh Police bagged 18 of the 28 awards presented at the award programme. While AP Police Headquarters bagged seven awards for Disha mobile app, public announcement through drones, house quarantine app and others. Anantapur and Prakasam police districts bagged two awards each. East Godavari, Guntur Urban, Kadapa, Kurnool, Srikakulam, Vijayawada City and Vizianagaram police districts bagged one award each in various categories, the release said.
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||382 SPs, ASPs, DSPs allocated to State||The Department of Personnel and Training has issued orders, allocating all the State cadre employees of the Director-General and Inspector General of Police in the categories of Superintendents of Police (non-cadre), Additional Superintendent of Police (civil) and Deputy Superintendent of Police (civil) to the States of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana as per the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh State Reorganisation Act, 2014. An order has been issued by the Union government and the State government also issued a G.O. in this regard on Wednesday. The same will be published in the A.P. Gazette. As per the order, 16 Superintendents of Police (non-cadre) officers, 64 Additional SPs (civil) and 302 Deputy SPs (civil) have been allocated to Andhra Pradesh. Similarly, nine SPs, 49 Additional SPs and 192 Deputy SPs have been allocated to Telangana.
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||POSCO keen on investing in State||A delegation of the POSCO India led by its Chairman and Managing Director Sung-Lae Chun met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Thursday and expressed their willingness to invest in the State. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the government has drafted a transparent industrial policy which encourages investors to foray into the State which has many natural advantages. POSCO India chief financial officer Goo Young An, senior general manager Jung Le Park and others were part of the delegation.
30 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter admissions first phase over||Thursday (October 29) was the last date of the first phase of online admissions in two-year Intermediate courses in General and Vocational streams in various colleges for the academic year 2020-21 by the Board of Intermediate Education. Secretary V. Ramakrishna said the online registration submission date had been extended up to November 6 for two-year Intermediate courses.
30 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Act against all land grabbers: CPI||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has extended total support to the action of the State government in recovering the ‘lands in the illegal possession of GITAM Deemed to be University.’ Speaking to the media here on Thursday, CPI State Assistant Secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy said that evidence indicates that GITAM had encroached government land, constructed buildings on it and then applied to the government for regularisation. The management had filed writ petitions in the High Court and tried to get the disputes settled in its favour, he alleged. The CPI leader said that giving land either free of cost or at a price lower than the market rate was not justified. While supporting the action of the State government, Mr. Murthy said that whether the State government was keen on protecting government lands or simply targeting its political rivals would be known based on its future actions. “The action on GITAM, of which TDP leader Sri Bharat is the president and on former Mayor Sabbam Hari, another TDP leader, in the recent past, is giving rise to the suspicion that YSRCP is targeting only TDP leaders,” he said. He said that it would be wrong to think that only these two leaders had encroached government lands. The YSR Congress Party government could earn the trust of the people, if similar action was initiated on all political leaders, who had indulged in such violations, irrespective of their party affiliations. On the contrary, if only one political party was targeted, it would send wrong signals to people, he said. Mr. Murthy recalled that former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu had announced, when he was a Minister, that nearly 2,000 acres of land in Visakhapatnam city and surrounding mandals was grabbed by unscrupulous persons. He had written to the then Chief Minister alleging that one of his Cabinet colleagues had mortgaged government lands to obtain loans from banks. The previous government had appointed a Special Investigation Team (SIT), following a number of complaints. The SIT had submitted its report to the previous government but neither the TDP government nor the present YSRCP government have made it public so far.
30 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New tourism policy will attract investors, says Minister||The State government will release the new tourism policy soon to attract more private players to invest in Andhra Pradesh, Minister for Tourism, Culture and Youth Advancement Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said at the CII Andhra Pradesh Tourism Conclave here on Thursday. The CII organised the conclave with the theme of ‘Restarting Tourism and Hospitality Sector- Andhra Pradesh as most preferred Destination’ in the digital mode. Delivering the keynote address, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said Andhra Pradesh would take the lead among the State in resuming the tourism operations, after the coronavirus has affected the sector badly. He said that tourism has grown by leaps and bounds over the years in the country, with each region contributing to its exuberance. “Andhra Pradesh has the distinction of being a leading tourism destination in India and at present, it is the third most visited State by domestic tourists. The sector has been impacted after the outbreak of the virus, but Andhra Pradesh will continue to promote the State to attract more tourists,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao. Theme-based tourism The Minister further said the State offers unmatched tourism potential to investors and tourists and highlighted the major strengths of the A.P. Tourism with various themes related to beach and water, eco-tourism, Buddhist circuit, religion, heritage, health, spirituality and wellness. Speaking on the occasion, Vinod Zutshi, former Tourism Secretary, Government of India and president of New Tourism Foundation, said Andhra Pradesh could take a lead in resuming the tourism activities. “Andhra Pradesh has great locations with the advantage of long coastlines, natural bounty and pilgrim destinations.In view of COVID-19, there is a need to promote tourism with new concepts to build confidence among all the stakeholders,” he said. Mr. Zutshi suggested that there was a need to effectively manage the supply and demand in the sector and advocated for State-level tourism summits for investors, saying that it would create a platform for investors to explore new avenues. SOP for COVID-19 Pravin Kumar, Managing Director, Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC), said that the sector is contributing significantly to the GSDP. He mentioned that the government has already put the required standard operating protocols (SOPs) to resume the tourism operations in the State.
30 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five more night shelters to be set up||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana extended support on behalf of the civic body to the night shelters to develop them with good standards. Eight night shelters are being run by various NGOs providing shelter to 354 homeless people. She said that these night shelters played a crucial role during COVID-19 lockdown. Various NGOs sought the Commissioner to set up five more night shelters for which she approved. The members also requested her to provide additional rooms, kitchens, storerooms and bathrooms at the existing night shelters. Responding to it, Ms. Srijana asked the Engineering Department officials to prepare estimates. Urban Community Development (UCD) Project Director Y. Srinivasa Rao said that the funds for the night shelters will be paid immediately after being granted by MEPMA. Assistant Commissioner of Police Kulasekhar, Chief Engineer M. Venkateswara Rao, Chief Medical & Officer for Health K.S.L.G. Sastry and representatives from various night shelters attended.
30 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu failed to distribute houses to the poor: Botcha||Accusing Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N. Chandrababu Naidu of being failed in sanctioning houses meant for the poor during his tenure as Chief Minister, Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) Botcha Satyanarayana alleged that the TDP leaders were involved in large-scale corruption in the TIDCO housing scheme during their regime. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Satyanarayana alleged that the TDP leaders had looted huge chunk of public money in the name of houses for the poor. The TDP government had laid the foundation for only three lakh houses, despite the Central government had sanctioned seven lakh houses, he said. “Of three lakh houses, 2,62,216 reached the basement level while 81,040 houses came up to 90% of works. Only 20% to 40% works were done for in 71,488 houses during the the five-year term of the TDP. Even as a single house was not given to the beneficiaries, Mr. Naidu left a debt of Rs. 3,200 crore to the TIDCO contractors,” said Mr. Satyanarayana. The then TDP government had fixed Rs. 2,000 per sft for providing a house in 300 sft and charged over Rs. 2.6 lakh from the poor. For houses in 345 sft and 430 sft, the beneficiaries were made to pay Rs. 3.25 lakh and Rs. 4.65 lakh respectively. Though the price per sft was only at Rs. 1200, the TDP government charged over Rs. 2,000 and pocketed all the money, without even clearing the bills of the contractors or completing a single house, he added. “The government has decided to distribute 30 lakh houses free of cost, along with the TIDCO houses. By spending Rs. 600 crore, the government had completed all the houses and is geared up for distribution. However, the TDP leaders obstructed the distribution of house pattas,” said Mr. Satyanarayana. He asked where were the six lakh houses that were constructed during the TDP regime as claimed by Mr. Naidu  Polavaram project Referring to the Polavaram project, the Minister said that it was Mr. Naidu who exploited the project for commissions from the contractors, which ultimately led to the reduction of funds from the Union government. “We will convince the Centre to complete the Polavaram prtoject. If necessary, we will also go to court for funds,” he said.
30 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||485 children rescued in ‘Operation Muskaan’||A total of 485 children, including child labourers, abandoned ones and runaway kids, were rescued by the city and the district police, during the two-day ‘Operation Muskaan’. Following instructions from Director General of Police Gautam Sawang, the police along with Integrated Child Development Society (ICDS), Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Child Line and several NGOs organised the operation by conducting raids at hotels, dhabhas, small scale industries, bus stands, railway stations and other public places. The city police teams under the supervision of Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha had rescued 381 children, including 63 girls. Later the police conducted counselling for the parents of the children. Meanwhile, district police had rescued 104 children, including 24 girls.
30 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||81 teams from Maoist-hit areas take part in volleyball competition||As many as 81 teams from Busuputtu, Kumudu, Rangabayulu, Lakshmipuram, Vanugumma and many villages from Maoist-affected areas of Pedabayulu and Munchingput mandals, enthusiastically took part in the volleyball competition organised by the district police as part of community policing at Kandrangivalasa village in Munchingputtu mandal in the district on Thursday. Around 1,500 tribals witnessed the event. Officer on Special Duty (OSD) Satish Kumar expressed happiness over the successful conduct of the event. He said that the district police is always in forefront in identifying and nurturing talent among the tribals through various community interaction programmes. He also appealed to the youth to avail various skill development courses offered by the police. He later interacted with the youth and learnt about their local issues. The OSD along with other police officials had lunch with them. Team from Vanchurba (Pedabayulu) won first prize and received Rs. 40,000. Team from Rangabayulu (Munchingputtu) which secured second prize won Rs. 25,000 cash. The youth from Kumada (Munchingputtu) bagged third prize and cash reward of Rs. 10,000. Mr. Satish Kumar along with Paderu Deputy Superintendent of Police B. Raj Kamal gave away the prizes and shields.
30 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Incidence of stroke increased during pandemic’||A stroke is a disease which affects the arteries of the brain. Whenever an artery carrying oxygen and nutrients to the brain gets obstructed by a clot (ischaemic stroke) or ruptures (haemorrhagic stroke), the specific part of the brain where this happens dies. There is also the possibility of a mini or temporary ischaemic stroke caused by a floating clot, temporarily blocking the blood supply. The effect of any type of stroke is debilitating as restricted blood flow alters or stops the functions of that specific part of the brain, sometimes leading to paralysis. In the present pandemic time due to the vascular involvement noted in the pathogenesis of the disease, the incidence of stroke has increased as a part of COVID-19 disease and also as a post-COVID complication, says Dr. CH Vijay, consultant neurologist, KIMS ICON, Vizag, on the occasion of World Stroke Day. Some signs of a stroke are weakness on one side of the body, numbness of the face, severe headache, numbness and tingling sensation all over the body and change in gait. Reducing the intake of junk food, saturated fat and salt intake is the key to keep blood pressure under control.
30 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vendors’ meet organised||As a part of the ongoing Vigilance Awareness Week, a vendors meet was organised online by Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) and the Dredging Corporation of India Limited (DCIL), here on Thursday. A total of 22 vendors participated and most of them expressed their views, specifically with regard to delay in payment of bills and other issues, and requested the CVO to intervene for an early solution. Chief Vigilance Officer J. Pradeep Kumar informed that bill tracking system will be introduced shortly for speedy disposal of payment of bills by tracing out the status of the bills .
30 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) resents decision to provide AU land to startups||A protest was organised by the CPI(M) at Maddilapalem Junction on Thursday opposing the decision of Andhra University to allocate land for IT startup companies on the university campus. Addressing the gathering, party Greater Visakha City committee secretary B. Ganga Rao demanded cancellation of the MoU, which was reached between AU and the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI). He said that previous governments had already allotted lands to software companies in the past thinking that they would provide jobs. He alleged that the companies were now having their sights on AU lands. The original plan was to allocate the vacant land, opposite the VMRDA building, to the IT startups and agreements were also made in this regard. There was thousands of acres of government land in Visakhapatnam for setting up of startup companies apart from the land, which was already allocated to some IT companies remaining vacant, and they could be recovered. AU lands should be utilised only for construction of new buildings for introduction of new courses and for research purposes. The CPI(M) also demanded that the State government make a statement on the issue.
30 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poster released on Abul Kalam Azad’s birth anniversary fete||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao released the poster of Moulana Abul Kalam Azad’s 132nd birth anniversary celebrations programme, which will be conducted on November 11, by Andhra University, Moulana Abul Kalam Azad Trust, and Moulana Azad Students Welfare Association. The Minister said that competitions are going to be conducted. He said that interested can register inasma2020au@gmail.combefore November 5.
30 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Advisory committee expanded||Advisory committee constituted by the Endowments Department for regularisation of occupied lands belonging to Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam has been further expanded on Thursday with the inclusion of three more members, including MPs Vijyasai Reddy and Bheesti Venkata Satyavati and the Endowments Commissioner.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man booked for landing chopper in Nellore village||The police booked a high-networth individual on charge of landing a helicopter on a school ground at Revuru village near Anantsagaram in Nellore district, without obtaining permission from the district administration. Ramakoteswara Rao, a film producer and former aviation officer, came from Hyderabad to attend a marriage function of an non-resident Indian person in this remote village on October 27. He had landed the chopper on the school grounds, after reportedly taking permission from the school headmaster. A case has been booked against Mr. Rao and seven others. “Action will be taken after a thorough probe into the issue,” said Superintendent of Police Bhaskar Bhushan.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||On the edge!||
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Risky stretch||
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seeking job security||
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Musical tribute||
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Training for Paddy Procurement Centres staff held||A training programme for the staff of Paddy Procurement Centres (PPC) on the measures to be taken for the purchase of paddy and the guidelines to be followed, at the TTDC at Pendurthy here on Thursday. The paddy procurements centres in the district will be open from 8.30 a.m. every day from November 15, according to DRDA Project Director Visweswara Rao.
30 October 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Helpline launched||The district administration has set up a helpline number 08744-241950 at the Collectorate to disseminate information on Dharani web portal and provide suggestions on the newly launched online service. Announcing this at Palvancha on Thursday, Collector M V Reddy said the online services of Dharani portal were launched by the State government as part of its digital initiative.
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGT asks AP not to go ahead with RLS without green nod||The National Green Tribunal (NGT), Southern Zone, has restrained Andhra Pradesh from going ahead with any work related to Rayalaseema Lift Scheme (RLS) planned by it without securing environmental clearance (EC) as it has found, prima facie, that “there is a component of irrigation envisaged in the project, which requires prior EC”. In the 134-page judgment pronounced on Thursday by the Bench comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan, Judicial Member, and Saibal Dasgupta, Expert Member, the NGT also observed that since the Ministry of Jal Shakti (MoJS) has already directed the AP government not to proceed with the project without submitting the detailed project report (DPR) to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB), constituted under the provisions of AP Reorganisation Act, for getting the appraisal done there is no necessity for the Tribunal to go into that aspect. The Tribunal also was of the opinion that it is for the river board to decide whether its (river board’s) prior approval is required or not for the RLS as it has be considered by the board after evaluating the DPR. The judgment was delivered by Justice Ramakrishnan. Expert committee Disagreeing with the finding of the committee of experts of the Ministry of Environment and Forests that the project proposed by AP does not require prior EC as it does not attract the provisions of Environmental Impact Assessment Notification, 2006. The tribunal agreed with the submissions of the counsel for the petitioner, one Gavinolla Srinivas from Narayanpet district, Sravan Kumar and Additional Advocate General of Telangana J. Ramachandra Rao that the scheme has been framed in such a way to avoid the process of obtaining EC in the guise of drinking water project, although it is intended for irrigation purpose as well. The counsel for the petitioner and Telangana government have also submitted that the actual purpose could be ascertained only if the DPR is prepared and impact assessment study is carried out on the basis of the DPR, the Tribunal said in its judgement. Observing that there is change in the scope of the project, even if RLS is considered as expansion or supplementary project, since it seeks to draw water from 800 feet level of Srisailam reservoir against 854 feet level for existing projects — Telugu Ganga, Srisailam Right Bank Canal, Galeru-Nagari, drinking water to Chennai and supplementation to to K.C. Canal — and “it is very difficult to accept the view of the expert committee changing of water drawing level with lift pumping facility will not have any impact”. Quantity required The RLS which also includes the proposal to enhance the water drawal capacity of Pothireddypadu Head Regulator from the existing 44,000 cusecs to 80,000 cusecs but the AP government has not mentioned as to how much water is required for drinking purposes in Rayalaseema region and “what they propose to do with the remaining water that is to be drawn in excess of the present capacity”, the NGT said adding that earlier projects drawing water from Pothireddypadu have the component of irrigation as well. “This Tribunal is of the view that the scheme is framed in such a way to come to the conclusion that it is only for drinking water purpose and no irrigation component is added so as to avoid the exercise of getting EC as required under EIA Notification and it (the Tribunal) is entitled to lift the veil off the project,” the NGT said in its judgment. Its impact on agriculture (irrigation) even if it is intended for the purpose of overcoming drought situations is not mentioned and it could be ascertained only with proper evaluation, the NGT felt.
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sanitation drive extended by 10 days||The special sanitation drive taken up by the GHMC has been extended by 10 more days, to focus more on 10 circles where the flood damage was more. Citizens seeking garbage clearance in any locality may contact the GHMC emergency control room at 040-21111111, or the mobile contacts of the special sanitation officials appointed circle-wise, a statement from the GHMC informed. GHMC has collected around 2,000 metric tonnes more garbage on an average from the city during the drive taken up in the aftermath of the floods experienced by various localities recently. Since October 18, when the drive was initiated, up to Wednesday, the corporation’s sanitation workers and staff have ensured removal of a total of 89,134 MT of waste from the six zones of the city, of which 62,996 MT has been moved to the waste processing facility at Jawahar Nagar. In addition, 10,504 MT more of recyclable waste has been separated at the transfer stations. The special sanitation drive has been taken up upon Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s instructions to clear the 235 colonies, which were under severe impact of flooding during the recent spate of intense rains. Also, a total of 15,634 MT of construction debris generated from building collapses across the city has been removed and sent to the construction and demolition waste processing plants at Jeedimetla and Fathullaguda. To enable speedy collection of garbage, additional staff and vehicles are being deployed, the statement said. In addition to the regular 242 vehicles, 495 vehicles have been engaged in garbage collection, which include 177 excavators, 258 tippers, 26 bobcat excavators, 96 six tonne tippers, 126 10 tonne tippers, and 44 tractors. In order to clear sludge and flood water, 334 pump sets have been deployed. In addition to the 1,008 workers in the monsoon emergency teams, 1,522 more have been deployed on a daily basis. To prevent communicable diseases and mosquito menace, colonies under the impact of flooding are being sprinkled with bleach, anti-larval and germicidal sprays. In addition to the 23,000 staff from Sanitation and Entomology wings, 2,530 more workers have been deployed on the duty, the statement said. So far, Rs. 5.51 crore have been spent on the sanitation drive, and in view of extension, Rs. 5 crore more expenditure will be incurred, it said.
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revamped RPO launched||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy has called upon all other States to emulate Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in adopting the latest technologies to fast-track the passport verification process through the police department. Inaugurating the revamped Regional Passport Office (RPO)-Hyderabad virtually from New Delhi along with Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muralidheeran, the Minister pointed out that police verification was a critical element of the passport issuance process. The External Affairs and Home Affairs Ministries had been encouraging State police departments to quicken the verification and in this TS and AP had "consistently performed" setting examples for others to follow. "Delhi police has also recently decided to use the mPassport Police App”, he said. Passport rules and application processes have been drastically simplified and access has also expanded rapidly. From 90 odd passport centres in 2016, it has been increased to 507 centres with the successful roll out of post office passport seva kendras. Passport has become an essential travel document and symbol of identity and economic empowerment, he said. Earlier, people had to travel all the way to the RPO as it was the only centre for the entire State with no online appointments. "People had to come in the morning and wait for long hours just to enter the office. The system was opaque and the building itself hardly resembled a central government office with poor public amenities" he observed. But, now under the guidance of Mr. Muraleedharan, RPO-Hyderabad has upgraded infrastructure with better public facilities with the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) completing the work despite COVID-19 restrictions. “With better infrastructure and accessibility, people can avail passport and other services in a comfortable environment”, he said. There are 92 passport service centers across the country running in addition to the old passport offices with five passport service centers in TS. Apart from these, passport service centers have also been opened in about 308 post offices including 14 in TS, added the Minister. Telangana Home Minister Mohd Mohamood Ali, MP Revanth Reddy, MLA G. Sayanna and senior officials were present on the occasion.
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State to unveil all-inclusive electric vehicles policy today||For incentivising usage of electric vehicles (EVs) in the State, Telangana government is proposing to exempt the first batch of two lakh such two-wheelers, 20,000 three-seater autorickshaws, 5,000 commercial passenger vehicles such as cabs and an equal number of private cars besides 500 buses from payment of road tax and registration fee. A similar benefit will be provided to the first 10,000 light goods carriers, including goods carrying three-wheelers, and electric tractors. The exemption will be applicable if the vehicles are purchased and registered within Telangana, said a government order on the Telangana Electric Vehicle & Energy Storage Policy 2020-2030. Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao along with Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar is set to formally launch the policy on Friday at a programme, in which industry leaders are scheduled to participate. Passed by the State Cabinet in August, the policy seeks to make Telangana a hub in the EV space through a combination of measure, including by offering incentives for manufacturing of EVs, energy storage systems and related components. The incentives will include capital subsidies, State GST reimbursements and power tariff subsidies. Different facets With an eye on addressing the different facets of the EV ecosystem, the Policy said incentives will be provided for charging infrastructure. The government will facilitate setting of up initial batch of fast charging stations in Hyderabad and other towns in a phased manner by State entities and private players. It also moots a special power tariff category for electric vehicles (EV) charging stations, by the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission. The GO said existing state self-employment schemes shall be extended to provide financial assistance for purchase of EVs for commercial purposes. Ride hailing services will be encouraged to operate electric 2, 3 and 4 wheelers through incentivisation. Promoting adoption of electric vehicles at institutional level, starting with government entities, encouraging State Transport Units to purchase electric buses, and provision of preferential parking slots with required charging infrastructure for EVs are among the aspects touched by Government Order. The government will facilitate dovetailing with Centre’s schemes and encourage stakeholders to avail benefits available under latter schemes under the 10-year policy, one of whose objectives is to achieve substantial reduction in total cost of transportation for personal and commercial purposes, supported by a world-class infrastructure.
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Coordinated steps to be taken to protect wildlife||High ranking officials from the Forest and Police departments of Telangana, Maharashtra, and Chhattisgarh participated in a one-day workshop on forest protection, timber smuggling, tiger conservation, growth of wildlife habitats and inter-State coordination at Bhupalapally on Thursday. The officials have decided with the common aim of protecting Godavari river basin, wildlife conservation and prevention of timber smuggling. The discussions mainly focused on the measures already being taken up at the Tadoba, Indravati and Kawal tiger reserves, as well as the measures that have to be taken up in view of increasing number of migrating tigers. Resolutions have been taken up for tightening security, setting up control rooms on both sides, increasing vigilance through joint patrolling, meeting frequently, creating WhatsApp groups with joint executives of the states, and setting up of base camps in requisite areas to crack down upon timber smuggling. Tiger sighting at Mulugu, Bhupalapally and Pedddapally areas has assumed importance in the meeting, and Inspector General of Forest (IGF), NTCA regional office, N.S.Murali has assured more funds to the Telangana Forest department in view of the possibility of development of forests where the tiger has made its appearance. PCCF and Head of Forest Forces R.Sobha represented the State, while Chief Conservator M.J. Akbar of Warangal Range presided as the coordinator of the workshop. Mulugu District Collector Krishna Aditya, Bhupalpally Collector Abdul Azim, administrative officials of the Godavari Basin districts in three states, police and project directors of the Tadoba, Indravati, and Kawal Tiger Reserves and Forest officials from 13 districts participated in the workshop.
30 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Harassed’ woman kills son-in-law||A 38-year-old woman allegedly killed her son-in-law at her residence in Sri Nagar Colony of Ramanthapur here on Thursday. Valluri Anitha, who worked at a catering service, stabbed Peram Naveen Kumar (32) to death. Later, she walked into the Uppal police station and confessed to the crime. She accused Naveen of physically harassing her ever since they were released from jail after being arrested by Meerpet police for abetting the suicide of her daughter Vandana. Uppal inspector N. Ch. Ranga Swamy said that Naveen’s wife Vandana (19) committed suicide a few months ago after she learnt about her mother’s illicit relationship with her husband. Both Naveen and Anitha were known to each other for quite some time in their line of work and were in a relationship. Fearing that Naveen would leave her in case he got married to another woman, Anitha performed Vandana’s marriage with the former in November last. “The marriage was performed with an intention to continue their illegal intimacy, but Vandana was unaware of their plan. When she came to know about her mother’s relationship with Naveen, she warned them to live separately, but in vain. Later, she ended her life,” the inspector said. When Vandana asked Anitha to stay away from her husband, the latter threatened her with dire consequences, he said. After being released on bail, Naveen started harassing Anitha for ‘ruining’ his life and asked her to settle the case by talking to her other children. “Unable to bear the harassment, she hatched a plan to kill him and on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, she picked up an argument with Naveen and stabbed him to death,” Mr. Ranga Swamy said.
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gurram Cheruvu, Nalla Cheruvu pipelines repaired||The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) has initiated measures to protect water supply from the impact of recent floods in the city. As part of the measures, major pipelines of Krishna Ring Mains at Gurram Cheruvu and Nalla Cheruvu have been repaired and restored immediately, and supplies have been released through the mains, a statement from the Water Board informed. Trunk distribution mains at Kismatpura, Golden Heights across Esi river and pipelines at Nallacheruvu, and Peerzadiguda were washed out, which have been relaid and supply restored, it said. 12 pump houses at Jagadgirigutta, Sainikpuri, Chilkalguda, and other locations, have been repaired and commissioned, besides repairing the electrical transformers at the pump houses. Water supply sluice valve chambers and sewer manholes have been repaired. Flood affected areas are being supplied through water tankers. So far, a total of 2,530 tanker trips have been made to the areas. A total of 2.3 lakh chlorine tablets and 16.4 metric tonnes of bleaching powder have been distributed. Temporary relief works have been taken up with an expenditure of over Rs. 2 crore. As part of relief measures to address sewerage overflow and chokage, sewer cleaning machines have been engaged in two shifts, and 700 workers deployed to attend to sewer line repairs. A few preventive measures have been planned to control the damage in future. Trunk distribution mains across Musi river at Manchirevula, Kismatpura, and Golden Heights will be laid on pipeline bridges above the highest flood level of the river as permanent measure. Inlet sewer mains of the sewage treatment plants at Nanakramguda, and Gopannapally will be relaid away from the submergence area, as they got drowned in lake water during recent floods. Pump houses located underground will be provided with protection plinths.
30 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Traffic restrictions imposed||To maintain smooth flow of traffic during the Milad-un-Nabi procession on Friday, traffic police of Hyderabad enforced certain restrictions and diversions from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Vehicular traffic will not be allowed to proceed towards Charminar at Shalibanda crossroads. Similar traffic will be diverted towards Khilwath or Nagula Chintha or Moghalpura. Motorists will not be allowed to go towards Charminar at Motigalli and will be diverted towards Moosa Bowli or Volga hotel. Similarly, vehicles will not be allowed to Charminar and will be diverted towards Mitti Ka Sher or Panjesha. Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar said that vehicles headed for Gulzar Houz will be diverted at Mitti Ka Sher towards Khilwath or Ghansi Bazaar. Mr. Kumar said that when the procession reaches Madina, the traffic coming from Afzalgunj will not be allowed to proceed towards Nayapool and will be diverted towards Shivaji bridge and MJ bridge. When the procession reaches Delhi Gate, traffic moving from SJ Rotary will not be allowed to proceed towards Nayapool and will be diverted towards Shivaji bridge and Mir Alam Mandi. At Darul Shifa, vehicles coming from Dabeerpura will not be allowed to proceed towards APAT and will be diverted towards Matha Kidiki or so on and similarly when procession reaches APAT, motorists coming from Dabeerpura or Matha Kidiki will not be allowed to proceed towards Purani Haveli / Peeli Gate and will be diverted towards Dabeerpura or Matha Kidiki. “When procession reaches APAT, traffic coming from Etebar Chowk will not be allowed to proceed towards Purani Haveli / Peeli Gate and will be diverted towards Panjesha or Yakutpura,” he said. “People participating in the procession can park their vehicles at Charminar bus terminal,” Mr. Anil Kumar added.
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call to increase awareness on stroke, its effects||On World Stroke Day, observed on October 29, neurologists and heads of corporate hospitals in Hyderabad have stressed the importance of making people aware about symptoms of the stroke, rushing patients to hospital in the ‘golden hour’, to avoid disability or death. Neurologist at Aster Prime Hospitals Sindhu Vasireddy said that stroke is a condition where the blood supplies to the brain is disrupted, resulting in oxygen starvation, brain damage and loss of function. It is most frequently caused by a clot in an artery supplying blood to the brain, a situation known as ischemia. It can also be caused by haemorrhage when a vessel bursts leading blood to leak into the brain. “The main symptoms of stroke can be remembered and checked with the word FAST — Face – is the face drooping to one side, Arms – is there a weakness in one arm or leg, Speech – is speech slurred or garbled, Time – if these symptoms are present it is time to call emergency services,” Dr. Sindhu said. Advisor and senior consultant in Neurology at Apollo Super Specialty Hospitals Satish Chandra said that stroke is fourth leading cause of death, fifth leading cause of disability in our country. Managing director of Yashoda Group of Hospitals G. S. Rao said that close to one-fifth of first-time stroke patients were aged 40 years or less. Apollo Hospitals Group on Thursday announced a partnership with India Medtronic Private Limited to integrate Artificial intelligence (AI) for advanced stroke management. Chairman of the Apollo Hospitals Group Prathap C. Reddy said that there is an urgent need to improve the treatment and management of stroke using digital technologies.
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Digithon starts CyberReady programme||‘Digithon’ in association with University of Texas at Dallas (UTD), USA, supported by Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA) has announced the launch of a one-month ‘CyberReady programme’. Digithon has invited applications for new batch that will start from November 9. The training aims at preparing 10,000 people to protect the cyber infrastructure and digital assets in Telangana. Participants will receive a globally-recognised certificate from Digithon and UTD, said TITA founder and global president Sundeep Kumar Makthala. “This is the right time for students and working professionals to look for career prospects in the cyber security industry,” he said. Candidates for the training programme will be selected by a TITA panel and will also include a live project. Interested can register for the Digithon CyberReady programme at bit.ly/digithon_academy (or) reach at 6300368705 or 8123123434, a release said.
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC to carry out temporary road repairs||GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar has issued orders for immediate restoration of flood affected roads to make them motorable. Through an official memo, he directed zonal commissioners and engineering officials to engage contractors for restoration of CC roads, and for BT roads, to use the departmental BT mix and monsoon emergency teams to fill up potholes. For taking up the repairs, works may be sanctioned on nomination basis up to Rs. 1 lakh for each ward. Pending approval, the works may be started on Thursday, and completed by November 5. Such temporary restoration should be completed within the coming one week, he said.
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,504 more test COVID- positive||The number of daily COVID-19 cases in Telangana is once again hovering around 1,500 as the number of tests is back to normal. On Wednesday, 41,962 people were tested and 1,504 tested positive for coronavirus. Results of 1,049 were awaited. Five more COVID-19 patients died. The test numbers dropped to 582 on Sunday when only 14,729 samples were tested, and 837 on Monday when 21,099 were examined. From Third week of October, around 40,000 samples are tested in a day. The new cases include 288 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC),118 from Medchal Malkajgiri,115 from Rangareddy,93 from Nalgonda,83 from Bhadradri Kothagudem, 84 from Khammam. The lowest of two cases were recorded in Narayanpet, three in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district. Of the 41,962 people who got tested, 39,090 opted government health facilities, and 2,872 underwent tests at private labs. From March 2 to October 28, a total of 41,96,958 samples were examined for cornavirus and 235656 were found to be positive. Out of the total cases, 17979 were active cases, 216353 have recovered, and 1,324 have died. At the 61 State government hospitals, 4,755 oxygen beds and 1,194 ICU beds were available on Wednesday.
30 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Investment agent held for cheating||Prashanth Prabhu (38), director of 29K Investment Advisory, Bengaluru, and agent of Manoj Javeri Stock Broking Pvt. Ltd. was arrested by the Hyderabad police on charges of cheating. Prabhu violated the SEBI rules and without purchasing any shares, he diverted the funds by providing fabricated stock holding certificates, JCP (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said.
30 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Seven-year-old boy drowns||A seven-year-old boy drowned in a pit at an open plot in Ankushapur village of Ghatkesar here on Thursday. The seven-year-oldboy, who was identified as Gajji Ganesh, son of Gajji Sathaiah, went out to play with his friend Srinivas near their house, it was learnt. While playing, he accidentally fell in the water pit and drowned. His parents along with some villagers rushed the boy to State-run hospital at Ghatkesar where doctors declared him brought dead.
30 October 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Secure ASI conviction’||‘Mohan Reddy Victims Association’ on Thursday appealed to the government to ensure suspended police Assistant Sub-Inspector B. Mohan Reddy was awarded punishment in all criminal cases registered against him. Observing fifth death anniversary of a private school correspondent Prasada Rao, who ended life allegedly due to harassment of Mohan Reddy, they sought to know why higher-ups did not dismiss Reddy from service. Recently, a cotton trader from Karimnagar town Nagamalla Venkata Narsaiah killed himself.
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Book release||A book titled `Veyi Padagala Medhavi’ written on former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimah Rao by a journalist Velijala Chandrasekhar was released at the hands of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao during the launch of Dharani portal on Thursday.
30 October 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||A path-breaking online initiative: Puvvada||The launch of Dharani web portal encompassing gigantic digital data of around 1.55 crore acres of agricultural land in the entire State heralded a new era in revenue administration paving the way for online land transactions in a transparent and expeditious manner, said Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar. The entire data relating to all agricultural lands, survey-number wise, detailing their market value, has been incorporated into Dharani land portal to facilitate hassle-free and speedy land registrations, mutations and documentation in online mode in one go, he said, adding that this has become possible following the enactment of the Telangana New Revenue Act. He was speaking at the tahsildar's office at Raghunadhapalem after attending the Dharani portal unveiling ceremony at the mandal level along with Collector R V Karnan and others on Thursday afternoon. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao launched Dharani portal in Medchal-Malkajgiri district rolling out the path-breaking online initiative for the benefit of farmers, he remarked. The web portal allows the registration and spot mutation of agricultural lands by tahsildars appointed as Joint Sub-Registrars in respect of agricultural lands. The slot booking facility has been made available in Dharani portal from today for agricultural land registrations slated to begin at all the offices of tahsildars in all the 570 mandals across the State on November 2 this year, he added. Khammam Municipal Commissioner Anuraag Jayanti, Additional Collector Madhusudhan and others were present. Helpline The district administration has set up a helpline number 08744-241950 at the Collectorate to disseminate information on Dharani web portal and provide suggestions on the newly launched online service. Announcing this at a meeting held in connection with the formal launch of Dharani portal at the office of tahsildar in Palvancha town on Thursday, Collector M V Reddy said the online services of Dharani portal were launched by the State government as part of its digital initiative for the benefit of farmers in all the 23 mandals all over the district. With the launch of the integrated land record management system, the process of land registrations and mutations has been made hassle-free, transparent and accountable, he noted. The portal with user-friendly features will prove immensely beneficial for farmers, he remarked. Palvancha ZPTC member Vasudeva Rao, Kothagudem RDO Swarnalatha, the mandal Revenue staff, Rytu Bandhu members, and others were present. The Zilla Parishad Chairperson Koram Kanakaiah attended a function held in connection with the unveiling of Dharani portal in Lakshmidevipalli mandal headquarters.
30 October 2020||MUDU CHINTALAPALLI,TELANGANA||‘Now, focus is on digital survey of land’||After the launch of Dharani, the portal of integrated land record management system, the State government has now set its eyes on starting survey of entire land across the State. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao asserted that every inch of land would be measured and boundaries would be fixed to avoid land-related disputes once and for all. Orders for the conduct of the digital survey would be issued within a few days and the work would be taken up at the earliest. The government had decided to give latitudinal and longitudinal coordinates to the entire land in the process. “Giving geo-coordinates will make land records 100 per cent tamper proof,” he said. The Chief Minister was addressing a public meeting after formally launching Dharani portal at this village, about 50 km from the State Capital. The survey was aimed at ensuring that issues pertaining to forest, podu and wakf lands were settled once the boundaries of the properties were demarcated. The government was committed to protect these lands and at the same time, ensure that interests of the land owners were protected. He exhorted the people to cooperate with the officials who would be deployed on survey work so that the State could become role model for the country. Elected representatives at mandal and district levels should form teams to assist the surveying teams in effectively completing the process.  ‘States enquiring’  The Chief Minister elaborated on the more than three-year exercise that went into preparing Dharani portal, considered one of its kind in the country, and said officials concerned were initially sceptical about operationalisation of the new system. But, the portal was prepared so effectively that registration and mutation of the documents would done on the same day and there would be real time updation of data online. “Several Chief Ministers called me to know about the new reform and expressed doubts over the efficacy of the portal. The new portal is sure to usher in revolution in the country and mount pressure on other States to follow suit. But the portal cannot be emulated so easily as it has been designed in a fool proof manner in exercise spanning more than three years,” he asserted. Explaining the efforts that went into the design and preparation of Dharani portal, he said the government had decided to leverage the advantage of information technology in providing transparent services to the people and Dharani was accordingly launched. “A Chief Minister who spoke a lot about IT in the past never conceived such measures. It is our government and conceptualised and brought IT intervention in land administration,” he said.  ‘Hide’ option  When reporters asked him about the reluctance of owners of non-agricultural properties to share details during an informal chat, he said the government would give a “hide” option to them. Accordingly, property owners who give their details should select the ‘hide’ option in the column provided so that details of their properties would not be displayed for others. “Entering the details into Dharani is must. But owners will be given an option if they want the information to be kept confidential,” he said. To another question, he said the government had not effected any changes in the registration values and old rates would continue. The government rates pertaining to lands survey number wise could be accessed online through Dharani portal for those interested in buying lands. The Chief Minister cautioned people against vested interests who would try to create obstructions in the implementation of Dharani and other reforms that were aimed at protecting their interests. Dharani, being a new system, could face minor irritants technically in the initial stages, but people should not get influenced by any adverse propaganda. “Teams have been set up at different levels to address technical issues. One should not be unduly worried if there is delay in registration process,” he said.
30 October 2020||ONGOLE,TELANGANA||Prakasam Police bag 2 more awards||Close on the heels of winning two SKOCH Awards for the Dasa Sutras and Sadbhavana projects, the Prakasam Police have bagged two more national awards at the ‘Governance Now India Police Virtual Summit & Awards-2020’. The awards were given for innovative use of technology in Spandana and Parivartan and TATA (Training & Activities for Technology Adoption)) projects. Adapting quickly to the COVID-19 situation, the district police began receiving complaints online and disposed them of swiftly, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said while taking part in the summit via video-conference from here on Thursday. As part of Parivartan, reception centres were set up at all police stations to educate the staff about appropriate technology tools and redress the grievances of complainants. As part of the TATA project, training was given to all personnel from Home Guards to Additional SPs in using technology tools and rendering efficient service to the public. The awards, which were in recognition of the proficiency of the Prakasam District Police, will act as an impetus to better serve the public, he said.
30 October 2020||STAFF REPORTER,TELANGANA||Milad-un-Nabi to be low-key affair||Muslims of the city are gearing up to celebrate Milad-un-Nabi on Friday, the birth anniversary of Prophet Muhammad. However, this year, due to the pandemic and recent floods that battered several parts of the city, the celebrations are likely to be a low-key affair. While funds are raised every year to help those in need, this year many individuals and organisations will be more focused on philanthropic efforts. For instance, FOCUSS and Tanzeem-e-Irshadul Muslimeen will be organising their 11th annual blood donation drive on Friday. These will be at Eidgah Balamrai in Secunderabad and the State Central Library in Afzalgunj. FOCUSS president Maulana Ahsan bin Mohammed al Hamoomi said that the donated units of blood will be used to help patients diagnosed with thalassemia, or those who find themselves in medical emergencies. The Chishti Foundation in Hyderabad will organise its sixth blood donation camp at GMK Garden in Moti Darwaza, Golconda. While there will be no procession as such, those who wish to celebrate have been asked by Sunni United Forum, an umbrella body or religious organisations, to move on two-wheelers, and in an orderly fashion, without inconveniencing others and by following the law. Meanwhile, the United Muslim Forum, on Thursday issued a press release in which they accused France of indulging in ‘Islamophobia’. It also condemned the discourse on Prophet Muhammad. The Forum has requested Muslims to register their protest and send emails to the French Embassy. It also stated that it is requesting mosques in the city to touch upon this subject.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||CM launches app for registration of pollution-related complaints||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday launched an app — Green Delhi —, which will involve citizen participation and ensure timely action in the government’s fight against pollution. The app enables citizens to register complaints, report pollution sources and violations of anti-pollution norms. “The people of Delhi are suffering due to rising pollution levels. In the last five years, pollution has reduced by 25% due to several measures taken by the Delhi government and the people. Today, we are launching the 'Green Delhi' App. Our aim is to enable every citizen to participate in our 'Yuddh, Pradushan Ke Viruddh' campaign. No movement can happen until people take part in the movement,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Citizens can take photos, videos and audio of local causes of pollution such as garbage burning, industrial pollution and construction dust among others and upload on the app. For the effective resolution of the complaints, Mr. Kejriwal said, constant monitoring will be done at the Delhi government’s Green War Room. Complaints lodged on the app, which is currently available on the Play Store and will soon be rolled out on other platforms, will be received by the departments concerned and will have to be resolved in a time-bound manner as per specified timelines. Mr. Kejriwal said citizens will also have the option of reopening complaints if they feel they have not been addressed adequately. He said when the issue is resolved, the department will also upload a picture that should show that the complaint has been resolved in a specified timeline. Environment Minister Gopal Rai later said the app has received 228 complaints related to pollution since its launch. He added that a meeting on the complaints received and overall monitoring with nodal officers and coordinators of every department will be conducted on November 2. Green marshals deployed “For the monitoring of the complaints, we are deploying 70 Green Marshals. For instance, if a complaint is being registered repeatedly despite being resolved, the green marshals will visit the location to inspect the situation for any false reporting,” Mr. Rai added. “Please make us aware of any difficulties that you may face in the app initially, and we will work towards resolving them. Our aim is to involve every agency and department, be it DDA, MCD, Delhi government, to strengthen our 'Yuddh, Pradushan Ke Viruddh',” Mr. Kejriwal said. Around 21 departments, including civic bodies, DDA, DJB, Delhi Police, DSIDC, Delhi government departments, he said, are attached to the app and every department has a nodal officer along with a senior officer who is in charge of all the complaints registered related to the department. “Around 12 coordinators have been assigned to the green war room who will check every complaint and overlook the resolution of all the complaints as per the timeline, especially a specified timeline of 48 hours. If the complaints are not resolved within 48 hours, they will coordinate with the senior officials of the departments and work to resolve the complaints,” Mr. Rai said.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Apex court stays surrender of 2,674 undertrials in Delhi||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed an order of the Delhi High Court directing the surrender of 2,674 undertrials, who were released on interim bail in a move to prevent the spread of COVID-19 infection within the prison walls in the National Capital. Stays HC order A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao stopped the implementation of the High Court order of October 20 on the basis of a petition filed by NGO, National Forum on Prison Reforms, represented by advocates Harini Raghupathy, Ritu Kumar and Ankita Wilson. The prisoners were lodged in 16 jails across Delhi before they were released on bail amid the pandemic. The High Court had ordered them to surrender from November 2 in a phased manner. On October 20, the High ourt had ordered 2,300 undertrial prisoners, who were granted bail by district courts, to surrender district-wise from November 2 to November 13. Another 356 prisoners, allowed to go on bail by the Delhi High Court itself, were ordered to surrender before their respective jail superintendents on November 13. The High Court had however allowed them liberty to apply for extension of their bail. In its petition the NGO said the order was passed under the “gross misunderstanding” that there were only three cases of COVID-19 amid the 16,000 inmates now. Secondly, the HC order describing the undertrials as accused in heinous crimes was baseless as the High-Powered Committee which had recommended their release had looked into the facts of the cases. Finally, the petition said the release of the undertrials on interim bail was based on a suo motu order of the apex court on March 23 in a frantic effort to reduce the number of inmates in the overpopulated prisons of the Capital. At the time, the prison population was 170% above capacity.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC says will study ordinance to check stubble burning||Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde on Thursday said the apex court will study the new ordinance promulgated by the government to check stubble-burning by farmers and will pass orders if necessary. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the court about The Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance of 2020. The ordinance is meant to both prevent and monitor stubble-burning by farmers of Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. The air pollution caused by the indiscriminate burning of the fields is choking Delhi. “We will hear you [Mr. Mehta] and petitioners on steps to be taken under the ordinance and if necessary will issue directions,” Chief Justice Bobde observed, posting the case to Friday next week. As an aside, Chief Justice Bobde urged the lawyers’ appearing in the case to shed their “beautiful cars” and take to bicycles as a clean mode of transport. On Monday, the court had decided to “keep in abeyance” its pre-Dasara order appointing former apex court judge, Justice Madan B. Lokur, to a one-man committee to monitor/prevent stubble-burning. The decision came soon after Mr. Mehta had informed the Bench about the coming of a law to “tackle the problem”. On October 16, the court had asked Justice Lokur to protect Delhi NCR from air pollution with the help of student volunteer forces deployed from the NCC, the NSS and the Bharat Scouts and Guides. The court had said the student forces could patrol highways and fields in the three States and ensure that no fires were started in the fields. The court had chosen Justice Lokur as he had headed the Green Bench which was monitoring stubble-burning for two whole years before his retirement.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||City’s air quality deteriorates to ‘very poor’ category, says CPCB||The air in the Capital deteriorated on Thursday with the average AQI rising to 395, which is in the upper end of the “very poor” category, said Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). This was a day after the AQI improved on Wednesday to the “poor” category. The AQI at Noida, Gurugram and Ghaziabad were 383, 384 and 389 respectively — all of which are in the “very poor” category. Greater Noida with an AQI of 412 was in the “severe” category. ‘Air likely to improve’ Delhi’s air is likely to improve but remain in “very poor” category on October 30 and is likely to improve further and reach the lower end of “very poor” category on October 31. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. “Extremely calm surface and boundary layer winds along with the low nighttime boundary layer height resulted in low ventilation, practically stagnant no dispersion condition has resulted in the current situation,” said government-run monitoring agency System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). “The stubble burning share in PM2.5 is estimated as 36% for Thursday. In summary, the stagnant wind-related non-dispersion of locally generated pollution combined with the increased magnitude of external intrusion to be major factors for the increase in the level of PM2.5 for the next 24 hrs. Increased surface wind speed and better ventilation conditions are likely to significantly improve the situation by October 31,” said SAFAR. “The predominant surface wind is likely to be from North-East direction of Delhi with wind speed upto 10-15 kmph, mainly clear sky and mist in the morning on October 30. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming North-West direction of Delhi with wind speed upto 08-15 kmph, mainly clear sky and mist in the morning on October 31,” the forecast read. The Capital also recorded its lowest minimum temperature for October in 26 years with the night temperature on Thursday falling to 12.5 degrees Celsius, which was three degrees colder that the normal for this time of the year, said Met officials. The city recorded the all-time lowest temperature 9.4 degrees Celsius on October 31 in 1937 , according to data available with the Met department. Last year, the lowest minimum in October was 16.5 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature is likely to fall to 11 degrees Celsius on October 31. The maximum temperature on Thursday was 32.2 degrees Celsius which was one degree above normal. The maximum temperature is likely to stay around the 30 degrees mark for the next few days.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jamia celebrates its centenary||Jamia Millia Islamia on Thursday celebrated its Centenary Foundation Day with limited guests at the University’s M.A. Ansari Auditorium. The university was founded at Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh on October 29, 1920. Vice-Chancellor Najma Akhtar said that Jamia Millia Islamia is a unique institution as it believes in the philosophy of action and casts sloth and laziness aside.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||No action against seniors, Head Constable tells CP||In a letter to the Commissioner of Police, a Head Constable posted in the Police Control Room unit has alleged that low-rank officials face several issues while sharing grievances against other officials on the force. The Head Constable claimed to have written over a hundred requests and complaint letters against several officers over the last eight years. “In 2012, I saved a boy from being harassed by a local goon. I took him to the police station concerned and helped him submit a complaint. Following that, the officials who were involved with the goon told him about how I helped. Since then, the goon and the officials have been after my life,” he said. A case under POCSO Act was registered against the Head Constable’s son (22-year-old then) in 2012. He was acquitted in 2019. Another case on charges of criminal intimidation and intending to insult the modesty of a woman was registered against the policeman and two other sons. The case is yet to conclude. Additionally, two departmental inquiries were initiated against the Head Constable in the past few years. In his letter on October 27, the policeman alleged that if a complainant approached senior officers regarding an issue against another official, no action is taken. He alleged that false status reports into complaints are filed and if the official approaches a court for justice, he would have invested all his savings by the time he gets it. In September, a vigilance inquiry was initiated into the complaint given by the Head Constable.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||Man stabbed to death by two others||A 21-year-old man was allegedly stabbed to death by two men after he raised objection over an outsider visiting their colony in south Delhi’s Tigri Extension, the police said on Thursday. The victim, identified as Satish Kumar, a resident of Tigri Extension, was stabbed on Tuesday night. He was rushed to Batra Hospital where he was declared dead. Kumar worked as a delivery man for a popular online food ordering and delivery platform site. One accused has been arrested while the police is trying to nab his accomplice. DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said that on the statement of a witness, a case was registered. The body would be handed over to the family after post-mortem, the police said.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||IPL betting racket busted in Delhi; 3 held||With the arrest of three people, the police on Thursday claimed to have busted an IPL betting racket. Acting on a tip-off, they arrested Ashish Gupta, Yogesh and Himanshu Rawat for allegedly accepting bets.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jaideep- IP brief||IP University on Thursday announced that it has started two new academic programmes — BSc ( Medical Technology Radiotherapy) & BSc (Medical Imaging Technology). “BSc ( Medical Technology Radiotherapy) programme will be available at Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute and Research Centre, Rohini. Total seats for the programme are four. BSc (Medical Imaging Technology) programme is available at Holy Family Hospital, Okhla. Total seats for the programme are 15,” the university said. Admissions for both the programmes will be given on the basis of Common Entrance Tests (CETs) organised by the university. The last date for submission of offline applications for the programmes is November 12.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||Protesters block DND flyway over death of man||Commuters on Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) flyway witnessed heavy traffic jam on Thursday as hundreds of people blocked the road, demanding strict action over death of a 22-year-old man in Rohini here. The man was allegedly found dead at his home in Rohini a month ago. The father of the deceased, had filed a complaint alleging that three people were responsible for the death of his son. The victim had uploaded a video on social media before his death. The protesters gathered at DND flyover at 11 a.m., demanding action against the three persons. Mukul Gurjar (24), a resident of Meerut, said that he, along with other 50 people, reached at the spot on Thursday to join the protest. “We came to know about the protest through social media. We want the police to arrest the accused persons,” he said. Traffic diverted There was heavy deployment of police on the DND flyway and it was closed for traffic. The traffic was diverted from the DND to other alternative routes. “The case has been transferred to Delhi Police Crime Branch. We are also investigating the matter where the family alleged that a police officer took selfie with one of the accused persons.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)   We came to know about the protest through social media. We want the police to arrest the accused Mukul Gurjar Protester
30 October 2020||Lucknow,||Mayawati suspends 7 MLAs for rebelling||Accusing the Samajwadi Party (SP) of trying to break away her MLAs, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Thursday vowed to ensure the defeat of the SP candidate in the MLC polls in Uttar Pradesh, even if it meant that her party legislators would have to vote for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The new phase of acrimony between the two parties comes a year after they contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election together. The BSP chief also suspended seven of her MLAs — more than a third of her total strength in the Assembly — for their alleged rebellion in withdrawing support to her Rajya Sabha candidate Ramji Gautam’s nomination and their alleged meeting with Akhilesh Yadav. She said she also regretted forming an alliance with the SP in 2019 and withdrawing the case in the 1995 guest house attack, calling them both “wrong decisions” hastily taken.  ‘Tit for tat’ action In a “tit for tat” for breaking away her MLAs and trying to get the nomination of BSP’s Rajya Sabha candidate rejected, Ms. Mayawati said that she would use all her force to ensure the defeat of the second candidate the SP would field in the MLC polls. The BSP would ensure the SP’s defeat “even if our MLAs have to vote for a candidate of the BJP or any other party,” she said. The seven suspended BSP MLAs are Chaudhary Aslam Ali, Hargovind Bhargav, Mohammad Mujtaba Siddiqui, Hakim Lal Bind, Mohammad Aslam Raini, Sushma Patel and Vandana Singh.
30 October 2020||Mumbai,||Court orders inquiry against Kangana, sister||The Andheri magistrate court on Thursday ordered an inquiry against actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister, Rangoli Chandel, on the basis of a complaint, which alleged that they used hateful language against Muslims on social media to gain cheap publicity. The complaint filed by advocate Ali Kaashif Khan Deshmukh said that on April 15 Ms. Chandel had posted a defamatory and objectionable statement against ‘jamati’ from her Twitter account. Thereafter, her account was suspended. Ms. Ranaut supported her statement. On April 18, Ms. Ranaut had posted a short video on various social media platform accounts and called a section of Muslims (‘jamati’) as terrorists. “Thus, both the accused posted hateful and derogatory statements against the community. They have misused the social media platforms to gain cheap publicity and personal gain,” the complaint said. The complaint is filed for offences punishable under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 298 (uttering words etc. with deliberate intent to wound religious feelings), 505 (statements conducing to public mischief), 195A (threatening any person to give false evidence), and 298 (uttering words etc. with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person) of the Indian Penal Code. The court read the complaint, and said, “The allegations are based upon the comments of the accused on social media. Evidence against the accused is of electronic nature. Therefore, an inquiry at the hands of the police is necessary for proceeding against the accused. Such inquiry will be helpful to decide the roles of the accused.” The court ordered an inquiry reported to be called in under Section 202 (postponement of issue of process) of the Code of Criminal Procedure from the police station concerned.
30 October 2020||Mumbai,||All interim orders to continue till Dec. 22: HC||The Bombay High Court on Thursday directed that all interim orders passed by all courts in Maharashtra and Goa would continue till December 22, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The direction is in continuation of previous orders passed by the HC which said that all the orders for eviction, dispossession, and demolition already passed by the courts would remain in abeyance till December 22. A Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta along with Justices A.A. Sayed, S.S. Shinde, and K.K. Tated was hearing a suo motu petition. The HC said, “Although the situation in Maharashtra because of the pandemic has improved over the past few days, access to the courts of law is yet not free. To ensure that persons suffering orders of dispossession, demolition, eviction, etc., passed by public authorities are not inconvenienced by reason of disability to approach the courts of law because of the restrictions on movements imposed by the State government as well as the requirement to maintain social distancing norms, we consider it just and proper to extend the interim orders passed by this court on this writ petition till December 22 or until further orders, whichever is earlier.”
30 October 2020||Mumbai,||TRP case: Fakt Marathi channel owner gets bail||A city civil and sessions court on Thursday granted bail to Shirish Pattanshetty, owner of Fakt Marathi channel, in the Television Rating Point (TRP) manipulation case. Mr. Pattanshetty (44) was arrested on October 8. He was granted bail by additional sessions judge P.R. Sitre on a bond of Rs. 50,000 after it was rejected by the Esplanade magistrate court. An FIR was registered against him under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 120 B (punishment of criminal conspiracy), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Mr. Pattanshetty’s lawyer Aniket Nikam said his client had not done any rigging of TRPs nor there was a rise in the TRPs of the channel. “Even the revenues of the channel had not increased during the relevant period. This was a witch-hunt,” the lawyer said. His bail application said, “The channel is the only free to air channel among all Marathi channels. There is no exponential rise in the TRPs of the channel during the period alleged in the FIR.” The plea also said, “Mr. Pattanshetty never paid any money to anybody for rigging the TRPs. If the prosecution case was that he paid money for TRPs, then the TRPs of his channel should have increased. However, on the contrary, both the TRPs and the revenues of Fakt Marathi channel had dipped from November 2019 to May 2020.”
30 October 2020||Mumbai,||We would not like media to cross its boundaries: HC||Referring to the reportage by the media in the case of death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the Bombay High Court on Thursday said, “We would not like the media to cross its boundaries and we would also like to be within our boundaries.” A Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations seeking a direction from the court to issue guidelines to be followed by all media houses — print, television, radio, internet — to refrain from publishing and curtailing any comments which may jeopardise the reputation of the police or hinder the case. The court asked the Central government to state by November 6 if such reportage adversely affected the probe and subsequent trial, and if the court should issue guidelines on media reporting. The Bench said, “If there is excessive reporting, that can put an accused on guard, and he may resort to destroying evidence or absconding. Or if that person is actually innocent, the excessive media reporting can damage his reputation.” The court told Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh to find out if excessive reporting by the media in an ongoing investigation meant interference in the process of administration of justice under the Contempt of Courts Act. The Bench asked, “Whether excessive reporting by media in an ongoing investigation amounts to interference in administration of justice under of the Contempt of Courts Act and should we lay guidelines? This is the issue before us.” It also asked Mr. Singh to consider scenarios where such reportage about an ongoing probe, where a chargesheet was yet to be filed, influenced the investigating officer, or resulted in a witness being threatened. The Bench went on to say, “If media identifies that a person is a very vital witness, he could be won over, threatened, or he could even be physically harmed so that he does not give evidence.” The Bench also said, “Think of a police officer. Can anyone guarantee that he will not be influenced? He may be following a particular track. Media says no, this must be the track. He loses track and rounds up an innocent person.” “Or, if the officer is competent and does not get influenced, then the media starts maligning him. Is this welcome in a society governed by rule of law?” the court asked. The court added questions for Mr. Singh, and said, “Is there any law which says that whatever an investigation agency collected as evidence should be laid before the public? Where is the obligation for the investigating officer to disclose evidence? How does the post-mortem report come to the press unless of course it is disclosed? Should we lay down guidelines on these aspects?” The court directed Mr. Singh to file his replies and adjourned the matter to be heard on November 6.
30 October 2020||Mumbai,||BMC imposes community service for not wearing mask||Next time if you are caught without a face mask in public in Mumbai, get ready to sweep roads as part of community service if you fail to pay fine to the city civic body. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is making violators do community service in the form of sweeping roads if they are reluctant to pay Rs. 200 as fine for not wearing masks in public places, according to civic officials. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, authorities have made wearing of face masks mandatory in public. The K-West civic ward, which includes areas like Andheri (West), Juhu and Versova, has already made several violators sweep roads for an hour. Vishwas Mote, assistant municipal commissioner (K-West ward), told PTI on Thursday that for the last seven days, they had been making people do community service in the form of sweeping roads if they unnecessarily argued with officials or refuse to pay fine for not wearing a mask. “Until today, a total of 35 people have been made to do community service in K-West ward,” Mr. Mote said. According to officials, this punishment is being handed out as per the BMC’s solid waste management bye-laws that give the civic body powers to ask citizens to do various community services for spitting on roads. A civic official said initially most people showed reluctance to do community service, but they fell in line when they were warned of police action.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi reports highest single-day spike in cases||Delhi recorded 5,739 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the highest number of daily cases reported for the third consecutive day since the pandemic began. On Wednesday, 5,673 cases were reported and on Tuesday, 4,853 cases were reported in the Capital. A total of 60,124 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 9.55%, in the past 24 hours. The city also saw 27 deaths and 4,138 recoveries. The total number of cases now stands at 3,75,753 and total number of deaths at 6,423. With a total of 3,38,378 recoveries, there are 30,952 active cases in the city at present. The number of containment zones has risen to 3,113 Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that the city is seeing a spike in virus cases as the Delhi government is conducting aggressive tracing and testing. He said that it was too early to comment if the spike was a “third wave” in the city, but said that factors like the festive season could also be another reason. Mr. Jain said that the Delhi government has started aggressive tracing and testing of all family members and close contacts of those found infected with the virus and said that it was the “best strategy” to contain the virus.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. ignored plaints on misgovernance at JNU ’||Reacting to an order issued by the Ministry of Education stating that the President of India and the Visitor of DU has initiated an inquiry against the Vice-Chancellor of the university, the JNU Teachers’ Association as to why the Ministry had ignored complaints about alleged misgovernance at JNU. The JNUTA said that the President is the Visitor of both universities and the common appointing authority of their Vice-Chancellors and similar provisions to those in the DU Act that have been invoked in taking the present action also exist in the JNU Act. “The charges of misgovernance in JNU have been repeatedly brought to the attention of the Department of Higher Education along with details, including documentation that served as evidence. The JNUTA had also written three open letters to the Visitor between December 9, 2019 and January 6, 2020,” it said. The background to these letters, the association said, included the crisis created in the university by the unilateral hostel fee hike decision, the mockery of an attempted “WhatsApp examination” and then the gruesome incident of mob violence that was unleashed at JNU on January 5. “In the background of the inquiry against, and suspension of, the DU V-C and the initiation of the process of selection of the next JNU V-C, JNU faculty can thus legitimately ask why the Department of Higher Education has remained a mute spectator to the systematic destruction of one of India’s premier universities and the unique synergy of academic excellence, social equity and democracy that became its hallmark,” the JNUTA said.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||Desist from politics over salary issue, Sisodia tells Mayors||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday wrote to the Mayors of the three municipal corporations in Delhi, requesting them to desist from “petty politics” over the issue of delayed salaries to health workers in MCD hospitals. The three Mayors had earlier this week protested in front of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence claiming a large amount of balance payment from the Delhi government to the MCDs was due. Mr. Sisodia had termed their claim “bogus”. “From your actions, it is clear that rather than finding a viable resolution to the matter using all administrative options available to the MCDs, you are only interested in peddling lies and indulging in shameful politics over the issue,” Mr. Sisodia stated. He also sought to present facts showing that not only had the Delhi government paid all the funds due to the MCDs as per the Fifth Delhi Finance Commission it paid over and above this amount resulting in a “huge outstanding loan”. According to Mr. Sisodia, as on April 1 2020, out of a total outstanding loan of Rs. 6,008 crore, as per records of the Urban Development Department, Rs. 1,977 crore was outstanding from the EDMC, Rs. 3,243 crore from the North Corporation and Rs. 788 crore from the SDMC. The three civic bodies, he said, collectively owed Rs. 2596.32 crore in arrears to the Delhi Jal Board.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Almost a month after bail, riots accused released||Almost a month after Noor Mohammed — an accused in nine cases in connection with Delhi riots — was granted bail in all of them, he was released from jail on Wednesday night.  The Hindu on October 13 had reported that Mohammed’s family has been unable to arrange for the surety of approximately Rs. 1.75lakh for his release after which several NGOs and people in individual capacity approached his advocate Akhtar Shamim and expressed their willingness to help. Mr. Shamim said Jamian-Ulema-e-Hind was finally decided as the organisation which would raise surety for Mohammed. “Fixed deposits receipts were made in the name of Mohammed’s family members and the same were produced before the court on Tuesday after which verification was conducted and he was released on Wednesday night,” the advocate said. On October 5, a Delhi court granted bail to Mohammed in three cases of rioting, vandalisation and causing mischief by fire among other charges, stating that “he cannot be made to incarcerate in jail for infinity just on the ground that the investigations of the cases are going on”.  Fixed deposits receipts were made in the name of Mohammed’s family members and the same were produced before the court...he was released on Wednesday night Mohammed’s advocate
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: ‘Act against BJP leaders for hate speeches’||The Delhi Assembly’s Minority Welfare Committee has directed the Delhi government’s officials concerned to pursue criminal action against BJP leaders for giving alleged provocative speeches before the riots in north-east Delhi earlier this year. According to a statement issued by the committee, its chairman Amanatullah Khan had directed that action be pursued against BJP MP Parvesh Verma and party leader Kapil Mishra. Mr. Khan, it said, had directed Principal Secretary (Home) B.S. Bhalla for prompt action in relation to Delhi Police’s alleged refusal to share copies of FIRs registered in riots cases. Mr. Bhalla, as per the statement, said that the opinion of the Law Department will be sought over refusal of police to provide copies of FIRs. The committee looked at cases of loss suffered by complainants whose shops and houses were looted and burnt, but they were either paid little or no compensation, added the statement. The committee also watched a video clip in which four men in police uniform entered a mosque, which was allegedly later set ablaze, and heard submissions from some riot victims whose grievous injuries were documented as “minor” by doctors and the compensation amount disbursed to them was less than the losses suffered. Compensation worth over Rs. 24 crore has been paid, the statement said. Out of a total 3,300 cases of compensation, 657 were rejected by officials, following review by the Waqf Board, but 86 were again found suitable for reconsideration, the statement added.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. schools backbone of the country: Magsaysay winner||Social entrepreneur and founder of NGO ‘Goonj’ Anshu Gupta interacted with students of Delhi government schools as part of their Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum (EMC) on Thursday. Deputy CM and Education Minister Manish Sisodia also joined the online session where Mr. Gupta shared his journey from starting his NGO in 1999 to winning the 2015 Ramon Magsaysay Award.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- brief||Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta on Thursday met the family of Sushil who was allegedly murdered for playing loud religious music in Adarsh Nagar following a quarrel in which two of his siblings also suffered injuries. Mr. Gupta also provided financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh to the family and assured them of strict action against the culprits. “I appeal to CM Arvind Kejriwal to get this case heard in fast track court,” Mr. Gupta said.
30 October 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active COVID-19 cases come down to 1,27,603||Maharashtra reported 5,902 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday as opposed to 7,883 recoveries, taking the State’s total tally to 16,66,668 while its number of active cases dipped further to 1,27,603. With 156 deaths, the fatality toll reached 43,710. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 14,94,809 with the State’s recovery rate climbing further to 89.69%. “Of a total 88,37,133 laboratory samples tested thus far, 16,66,668 (18.86%) have returned positive with 69,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the case fatality rate currently stood at 2.62%. Pune district reported only 762 cases to take its total tally to 3,32,354 while 21 deaths saw its toll reach 6,657. As per the Pune district administration, the recovery rate is currently 93.69% with 12,576 cases active.  Mumbai tally Mumbai reported 1,120 cases to take its total tally to 2,55,360 of whom 19,082 are active. As many as 33 fatalities saw the city’s death toll touch 10,229. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 499 new cases, taking the district’s total tally to 1,01,341 of whom 5,156 are active. Ten deaths saw the toll stand at 2,722. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported seven deaths with its toll reaching 1,406. As many as 186 fresh cases saw the total tally rise to 47,113 of whom 4,665 are active. Sangli reported 133 cases and seven deaths as the district’s total tally jumped to 46,562 of whom 3,013 are active. Lowest surge In its lowest surge in months, Kolhapur recorded just 56 new cases as its total tally reached 47,094 of whom just 1,103 are active. No fatalities were reported from the district. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 300 cases as its total tally climbed to 93,412 of whom only 5,037 are active. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported 70 new cases and no deaths as its total tally touched 53,417 of whom only 2,149 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,344. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 293 cases as its total tally crossed the 80,500 mark. Seven deaths were recorded, which saw its fatality count rise to 2,036. Lockdown extended The State on Thursday announced extension of the lockdown till November 30. An order issued by Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar said that guidelines issued under Mission Begin Again on September 30 and October 14 remained unchanged. ( With inputs from Alok Deshpande )
30 October 2020||Pune,||Minister Dilip Walse-Patil tests positive||Senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra Minister for Excise and Labour Department, Dilip Walse-Patil, on Thursday tested positive for COVID-19. A legislator from Ambegaon in Pune district, Mr. Walse-Patil tweeted about his health condition, while stressing that he was perfectly fine and was undergoing treatment as a precautionary measure. “Recently, I had undergone a COVID-19 test whose results have returned positive. However, my health is fine and I am not experiencing any trouble. I urge others who have come in contact with me to get themselves tested as well,” the six-time MLA tweeted. A few days earlier, Mr. Walse-Patil’s fellow partymen — Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and former minister Sunil Tatkare — tested positive. Mr. Walse-Patil was present along with the NCP brass when former BJP leader Eknath Khadse joined Sharad Pawar’s party on October 23.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Take your pick||
30 October 2020||PARIS,||France raises threat level to highest||France has raised the security alert for French territory to the highest level after the knife attack in the city of Nice, Prime Minister Jean Castex said on Thursday. Mr. Castex also told French National Assembly that the government’s response to the attack would be firm and implacable. In Paris, lawmakers in the National Assembly observed a minute’s silence in solidarity with the victims of the terror attack. The Mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo, said the people of Nice “can count on the support of the city of Paris and of Parisians”. French President Emmanuel Macron, who visited the church on Thursday, said he would be stepping up the deployment of soldiers to protect key sites, such as places of worship and schools. ‘Won’t give any ground’ He said France had been attacked ”over our values, for our taste for freedom, for the ability on our soil to have freedom of belief”. “And I say it with lots of clarity again today: we will not give any ground.” The police said three people were confirmed to have died in the attack and several were injured. The French anti-terrorist prosecutor’s department said it had been asked to investigate. A man armed with a knife entered the church and slit the throat of the sexton, beheaded an elderly woman, and badly wounded a third woman, according to a police source. A police source told Reuters the assailant was believed by law enforcement to be a 21-year-old Tunisian national who had recently entered France from Italy. A representative of the French Council for the Muslim Faith strongly condemned the attack. “As a sign of mourning and solidarity with the victims and their loved ones, I call on all Muslims in France to cancel all the celebrations of the holiday of Mawlid.” The holiday is the birthday of the Prophet Muhammad, celebrated on Thursday. Egypt’s al-Azhar, the 1,000-year-old seat of Sunni Muslim learning, condemned the incident as a “hateful terrorist attack” and warned against “violent and hate speech”, in a reference to the display of images in France of the Prophet. The city’s Mayor Christine Estrosi said the victims had been killed in a “horrible way”.
30 October 2020||COLOMBO,||30 years since the eviction of Muslims by LTTE||Thirty years may have passed since the LTTE evicted northern Muslims overnight, but the ordeals of the community, most of whom moved to Puttalam district in the North-Western Province, have not ceased, according to Juwairiya Mohideen. The Sri Lankan activist, whose family was displaced from Mannar in the Northern Province to Puttalam — three hours north of Colombo — has spent the last three decades working with the internally displaced community. Recognising her work, Ireland-based international human rights organisation Front Line Defenders recently honoured her with an award for ‘Human Rights Defenders at Risk’. When planned moves to new cities or towns can be a logistical nightmare, being forced to leave abruptly couldn’t have been simple. For two weeks beginning mid-October in 1990, the LTTE undertook a mass expulsion of resident Muslims in the north, at gun point, amid growing hostilities between the two Tamil-speaking minority communities in the north and east. Like Ms. Mohideen’s family — her parents, grandmother and eight siblings — most left with just the little money they had in hand. “Till date, there has been no collective acknowledgement of this act of ethnic cleansing, except from some individuals. Neither the political leadership nor successive governments have addressed this issue,” says Ms. Mohideen, 52, executive director of the Muslim Women’s Development Trust (MWDT), which she founded in 2010. Bureaucratic hurdles Some 70,000 people had no choice but to build their lives from scratch in Puttalam or elsewhere. “When some original residents of Puttalam, including Muslims, refer to us, they call us refugees,” Ms. Mohideen notes. “They fear we are after all their natural resources.” From education and employment to housing and toilets, everything has proved a struggle for the northern Muslims trying to make Puttalam their home. A majority work for a daily wage in small vegetable farms or at the salterns in the coastal district. While a few hundred families have returned to Jaffna with great difficulty, others have chosen to remain in Puttalam, where their families have grown. “But getting an official document or attestation is a big challenge. The officers at the local authorities invariably direct these families to Jaffna or Mannar, where we are from. And when they go there, they are told their records don’t’ exist,” says Ms. Mohideen, of the many bureaucratic challenges faced by a community seen to be “neither here nor there”. . Rather critical of the Muslim parties and its leaders, she says those in Parliament are “more prone to opportunistic politics” than any long-term vision for the community, based on rights and freedoms. “Even when Muslims were attacked [by Sinhala Buddhist chauvinist groups] in the recent past, they would turn up for a media sound bite, and then never care to follow up,” she says. Further, Muslim leaders, in her view, have shown little interest in appreciating Muslim women’s calls to reform personal law. Emphasising the “huge task of pending reconciliation,” she says strengthening relations between the country’s Tamil and Sinhalese communities, as well as Tamils and Muslims, needs a host of initiatives, including addressing the “language barrier”. “Barring a handful, most politicians from all our communities are so disconnected from their own constituencies, that they are unable to do anything meaningful.” All the same, women’s networks built by her and fellow activists are intact and offer hope, she says.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||What is behind the spat between Turkey and France?||Relations between France and Turkey, two NATO members, hit a new low this month after Recep Tayyip Erdogan launched a personal attack on his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron following the latter’s call for reforming Islam. Last week, France recalled its Ambassador from Turkey, for the first time, and Ankara called for a boycott of French goods. The trigger Turkey and France have clashed over a number of geopolitical issues in recent years. The trigger for the latest clash was the French government’s support for Charlie Hebdo , the satirical magazine whose office was attacked by al-Qaeda-linked jihadists in January 2015 over its publication of a set of caricatures of Prophet Mohammed, to republish the cartoons. Ankara, under Mr. Erdogan’s AK Party, has projected itself as a defender of (selective) Muslims causes worldwide, and had slammed Mr. Macron earlier over his push to “reform” Islam in France. On October 16, Samuel Paty, a middle school history teacher in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, a suburb of Paris, was beheaded by an 18-year-old Chechen after he showed his students caricatures of the Prophet. Following Paty’s murder, the French government started an operation to crack down on Islamist organisations, and President Macron stated that Islam was in need of an “enlightenment”. While paying homage to Paty, government buildings in several cities displayed the caricatures of the Prophet. While the French response triggered criticism in Muslim countries, Mr. Erdogan launched the sharpest attack on Mr. Macron, saying he “needs mental treatment”. In response, France recalled its Ambassador from Turkey. Macron’s reform plan? In early October, Mr. Macron outlined the substance of a long-awaited law which his government is planning to introduce to regulate the practice of Islam in France. In September, after Charlie Hebdo republished the cartoons when the trial of the suspected 14 accomplices of the terrorists who attacked the magazine office in 2015 and killed 12 journalists began, Mr. Macron had defended blasphemy, saying “the right to caricature is an essential part of being French”. On October 3, while unveiling the essence of the Bill, which the government plans to formally present in December, the President said the law was being brought in to fight “Islamist separatism”, which is a “conscious, theorised, politico-religious project that materialises through repeated deviations from the values of the republic and which often result in the creation of a counter-society”. It will crack down on foreign influence in French Muslim communities and allow the government to track funding for mosques from overseas. The government will also create a certificate programme for the imams and ban homeschooling. Geopolitical angle While the immediate trigger was the Charlie Hebdo cartoons, there is a larger geopolitical context to the rising tensions between Turkey and France. As Turkey, under Mr. Erdogan, is trying to expand its influence to the erstwhile Ottoman territories, France has stood in its way. In Libya, where Turkey is backing the Tripoli-based government, France has supported the Tobruk-based parallel government and the military campaign of the renegade General Khalifa Haftar against Tripoli. In Eastern Mediterranean, Turkey has launched a gas exploration mission, clashing with Greece and Cyprus, while France threw its weight behind the fellow EU members and even sent French warships to the region. In the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict Turkey offered unconditional support to the Azeri military offensive, while Mr. Macron slammed Ankara’s “reckless and dangerous” intervention. In all these cases, France and Turkey emerged as two opposing poles in the West and the East, respectively. While France, the EU’s most powerful military, is trying to assert itself under Mr. Macron, Mr. Erdogan’s neo-Ottoman foreign policy is ready to pick up fights wherever it sees an opening. It was against this background, the cartoon controversy sent tensions soaring.
30 October 2020||London,||U.K.’s Labour Party suspends Corbyn after scathing anti-Semitism report||Britain’s main opposition Labour Party on Thursday suspended its former leader Jeremy Corbyn, after a government watchdog found his office broke equality law through its “inexcusable” handling of anti-Semitism complaints. The shock development came after Mr. Corbyn said he refused to accept all the findings of the Equality and Human Rights Commission report, in defiance of the party’s new leadership under Keir Starmer. “In the light of his comments made today and his failure to retract them subsequently, the Labour party has suspended Jeremy Corbyn pending investigation,” a spokesman said. He said that Mr. Corbyn, who has continued to sit as a member of Parliament after stepping down as leader, will also no longer count in the ranks of Labour MPs. Mr. Corbyn vowed to “strongly contest” his suspension, potentially reopening the party’s civil war between left- and right-wingers just as it makes inroads in opinion polls over the Conservative government’s handling of the pandemic. The EHRC found damning instances where Mr. Corbyn’s leadership team underplayed, belittled or ignored complaints by Jewish members, and sometimes actively interfered to support favoured allies, after a deluge of anti-Semitic abuse online and in party meetings. Luciana Berger, a former MP and Jewish member to quit the party under Mr. Corbyn, said the report was vindication as she described being threatened by his supporters with acid attack, stabbing and rape. “The party facilitated a culture of bullying, bigotry and intimidation against Jewish people from within its ranks. At every step of the way, Jeremy Corbyn enabled this to happen,” she wrote in a blog.
30 October 2020||Jeddah,||Saudi man stabs guard at French consulate||A Saudi citizen wounded a guard in a knife attack on Thursday at the French consulate in the Red Sea city of Jeddah, officials said, as France faces growing anger over satirical cartoons of the Prophet Muhammed. The assault came the same day as knifings at a church in the French city of Nice that left three people dead and several others wounded. “The assailant was apprehended by Saudi security forces immediately after the attack. The guard was taken to hospital and his life is not in danger,” the French Embassy said in a statement. The police in the western province of Mecca, where Jeddah is situated, said the attacker was a Saudi, but it did not give the nationality of the guard, who they said had sustained minor injuries. The French Embassy in Riyadh urged its nationals in Saudi Arabia to exercise “extreme vigilance”. Security around the Jeddah consulate later appeared to be tightened, with Saudi police cars seen patrolling around the complex. In Riyadh, an AFP correspondent saw two police cars stationed outside the Embassy, located in the city’s high-security Diplomatic Quarter, as Saudi policemen prevented passers-by from taking photographs. Neither the Saudi authorities nor the French Embassy gave a possible motive for the attack. But it comes after France’s President Emmanuel Macron vigorously defended the publication of cartoons of the Prophet Muhammed by the French satirical magazineCharlie Hebdoon free speech grounds.
30 October 2020||Jakarta,||‘China is a threat to religious freedom’||China is the “gravest threat” to the future of religious freedom, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Thursday, in his latest verbal assault on Beijing during a whirlwind Asian tour. Mr. Pompeo has made attacks against China the focus of his trip this week which kicked off in India and included visits to Sri Lanka, the Maldives, Indonesia and, later Friday, Vietnam. Crackdown on Uighur In Indonesia — which has the world’s biggest Muslim population — Mr. Pompeo took aim at China’s treatment of its Uighur Muslim minority. “The gravest threat to the future of religious freedom is the Chinese Communist Party’s war against people of all faiths: Muslims, Buddhists, Christians, and Falun Gong practitioners alike,” Mr. Pompeo said in a speech on Thursday to major Muslim organisation the Nahdlatul Ulama. “The atheist Chinese communist party has tried to convince the world that its brutalisation of Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang is necessary as counter-terrorism or poverty alleviation,” he added. Rights groups say that more than one million Uighurs languish in camps in the northwest Xinjiang region as Beijing attempts to forcibly integrate the community and root out its Islamic heritage. China has denied the numbers and describes the camps as vocational centres that teach skills to prevent the allure of Islamic radicalismfollowing a series of attacks. “But we know that there is no counter-terrorism justification in forcing Uighur Muslims to eat pork during Ramadan, or destroying a Muslim cemetery,” Mr. Pompeo said.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Is the U.S. on the wane as a superpower?||Russian President Vladimir Putin recently said that China and Germany are soon going to be superpowers as U.S. influence wanes globally. Today, as the U.S. is on the cusp of a new presidency, after a remarkable almost four years under President Donald Trump, it is worth examining whether its superpower status endures in the realms of politics, economics, military and diplomatic power, and culture. In a conversation moderated by Narayan Lakshman , Richard Lachmann and Robert J. Lieber discuss this question. Edited excerpts: Some have argued that for the U.S. to have been a robust superpower, it should not have tried, in the post-Cold War era, to adopt a grand strategy of liberal hegemony, spreading democracy markets and other liberal values abroad, when it was driven by partisanship and conservative ideologies at home, which constantly tried to shrink the size of the state. Could this apparent contradiction be the undoing of the U.S. as a superpower? Richard Lachmann:For much of the post-war period, there was bipartisan support for an aggressive U.S. foreign policy. Members of both parties supported large military budgets for most of the wars that the U.S. initiated, as well as smaller interventions. The only break for that came well into the Vietnam War when some Democrats and fewer Republicans opposed that war. With the Gulf and Iraq wars, there was a good bit of opposition from Democrats, but enough support so that presidents were able to move ahead with those ventures. To the extent that there’s a challenge to the U.S. taking an aggressive position around the world, it’s come now. This is the real break in the bipartisan support for U.S. intervention around the world. Robert J. Lieber:I see that question as problematic in itself. First, the Putin quote is typical Moscow disinformation. Claiming that Germany will be a superpower is an insidious effort to puff up Germany. There is no way Germany can or will be a superpower. Its people don’t want it, its institutions won’t handle it. And the nature of its coalition governments would make it impossible in any case. What Mr. Putin longs for is to cripple the European Union, as well as cripple NATO. Second, Russia cannot be a superpower. Its economy remains a basket case. The only thing it produces that anyone wants involves raw materials and energy. It’s run by a corrupt, thuggish mafia state. More than half the economy is controlled through outfits nominally under the state, but which really are tied to Mr. Putin and his cronies. The one thing the Russians do have is modern weaponry, and a rebuilt armed forces, but they lack the attributes to be a great power. The real question is China, no doubt. Let me therefore respond just to the one part of your multi-part question about the U.S. To describe the U.S. foreign policy up until Mr. Trump as a policy bent on liberal hegemony bears little relation to reality. It’s true that U.S. interventions had bipartisan support. But the fact is that George W. Bush in his last days of presidency, Barack Obama throughout his presidency, and then Mr. Trump in his own unique way were all seeking to retrench or pull back from America’s extensive overseas involvements. Those involvements, however, had to do, above all, with seeking to sustain a rules-based international order, which the U.S. and its allies had done so much to construct, but which was increasingly under siege, from both the Russians and the Chinese, as well as from forces unleashed by globalisation itself — economic change and technology. Even if there was bipartisan consensus in terms of the manner in which the U.S. intervened abroad, was there sufficient state capacity afforded to the machinery of the government, the economic muscle to intervene to spread its liberal values abroad? RL:The military budget has been more than ample throughout the post-war period. To the extent that the U.S. military has been unsuccessful abroad, it’s not from lack of money; it’s from poor strategy or trying to push policies in certain countries for which there was no local support. The one thing that’s changed is, since the Vietnam War, it’s been impossible in the U.S. to draft citizens into the military. So the U.S. military has had to operate with a much smaller number of soldiers, and that certainly affects strategy. Domestically, from the Reagan era, there have been very sharp cutbacks in government spending. So the U.S. government’s capacity to deal with domestic issues to provide for its citizens has been declining, and that has an effect on the U.S. and weakens it even if it doesn’t directly affect foreign policy. RJL:This connects closely to a book that I’m nearly finished writing. In it, I ask three questions. First, is the U.S. world role of deep engagement and periodic leadership essential for a decent, rules-based international order? Second, if the U.S. role is indispensable for that order, is it the case that much greater challenges abroad from hostile great powers — China, Russia, Iran — coupled with important changes and challenges domestically, including polarisation and division, no longer make it possible for the U.S. to play that role in some way? And third, if the U.S. cannot play that role, what will the consequences be? My answer to the first question is yes, the U.S. is still as indispensable. Second, the problems abroad and at home  are very real: the U.S. faces much greater obstacles to playing that role than it had, say, after the end of the Cold War for about two decades. And third, if the U.S. is unwilling or unable to play that role, the consequences are likely to be nasty. The reason has to do with what are called collective action problems. That is to say, it’s all well and good to say that if the U.S. pulls back from its commitments, other countries will band together to counterbalance Russia or Iran or China. But it doesn’t work that way. Do you think then that at the present juncture, the U.S. is moving towards a more isolationist model, even as rising powers in other regions are starting to become more assertive and squabble with each other? Does it matter that this is happening even as the world faces a blowback on decades of globalisation dogma? RL:It depends on which realm you refer to. In terms of global finance and regulating the global economy, the U.S.’s powers have become greater. Since the 2008 financial crisis, the Federal Reserve is seen around the world as the one institution that can generate enough money to sustain the global economy. In that area, the U.S. remains indispensable, is recognised by other countries as indispensable, and the Fed has enough autonomy within the U.S. to play that role. In the realm of military, the U.S.’s lack of success in Afghanistan and Iraq has had a profound effect. It has led to governments elsewhere to feel that they have more room to challenge the U.S. without having to worry as much about the consequences. That will lead to instability. It’s important for us to recognise that the decline of the U.S. doesn’t necessarily mean that another power will take its place. We could move into a world where you have regional powers exerting influence. You have a number of strong countries challenging each other, hopefully without direct military clashes. In the realm of culture and championing democracy, the U.S. has had a double role. On the one hand it has been a champion of democracy and liberal values even though in a number of countries the U.S. has fomented coups suppressing democracies. That is something that has happened under both parties. If we look at Latin America, one of the ironies of the post-war period is that it was under Presidents John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson and Barack Obama, the most liberal U.S. presidents, that you had waves of coups in Latin America. If Mr. Trump is re-elected, it will be a blow to American prestige, the image of the U.S., that it won’t be able to recover from. Somebody like that can be elected president once, by mistake, but if they’re re-elected, that’s a sort of endorsement. That would make a statement about Americans and their values that the rest of the world will recoil from with horror. The U.S. national debt is something in the range of $16 trillion and growing, real wages are falling, productivity growth is down, some U.S. companies are losing their competitive edge in global markets to rising powers, the nation’s infrastructure is not in good shape, nor is the healthcare system. Given that countries such as China and India have engines of growth, a young population, a growing manufacturing base, and a culture of innovation, does the U.S. risk losing its global economic pre-eminence to these countries? RJL:The U.S. and the Fed remain effectively the world’s central bank. Despite the rise of China, the U.S. still possesses advantages almost across the entire spectrum by which power is measured that are largely unmatched elsewhere: natural resources, population, population size and scale, inventiveness, flexibility, entrepreneurial skills, high tech, great research, universities, energy and natural resources, agriculture, and resilient institutions. The problem for the U.S. is not so much in the material realm, but in the ideational. It has to do with public consensus and human beliefs. The issue now is polarisation, deep domestic dissensions. The confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Amy Coney Barrett was without a single vote from the Democrats. RL:The U.S. certainly has an unparalleled position militarily and economically. What is worrisome are the trends, the direction in which things are going. I don’t think the large government debt is an issue, because the U.S. is unique in that the dollar is the world currency and most of that debt can be dealt with by just the Fed creating more dollars. The inflation rate is so low that that danger doesn’t exist. If anything is dangerous, it is not too much spending but too little, or spending that goes in the wrong direction. We see that directly in healthcare: the U.S., both in actual amounts, and as a percentage of GDP, spends much more unhealthily than any other country in the world without getting results to justify that sort of spending. Countries that spend a lot less have longer life expectancy, less illness. The only way to explain that is that healthcare is delivered in a way that allows all sorts of providers to collect enormous sums, in essence, to loot the healthcare system. The U.S. is facing a mortal threat if Mr. Trump is re-elected and the limits on foreign students coming to the U.S. are sustained, especially in the sciences at the graduate level. Not that many Americans want to study science and technology, they want to go into finance. The U.S.’s edge in science and technology is sustained almost entirely by international students come to the U.S. The day when they’re not allowed in or they decide they want to study elsewhere, or they want to remain at home, the U.S.’s edge in technology will very quickly evaporate.  Somebody like Trump can be elected president once, by mistake, but if he is re-elected, that’s a sort of endorsement. That would make a statement about Americans and their values that the rest of the world will recoil from with horror. Richard Lachmann
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The India-U.S. defence partnership is deepening||The India-United States defence partnership received a major boost earlier this week with the visit of U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and U.S. Defence Secretary Mark Esper for the third round of the 2+2 Dialogue with their Indian counterparts, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. The joint statement spells out the highlights but the optics are what define the visit. At a time when most ministerial engagements and even summits are taking place virtually, the significance of two senior U.S. officials travelling to Delhi a week before the U.S. goes to the polls conveys an unambiguous political message — the defence partnership has come of age. A long road It has been a long process, with many ups and downs since the first modest steps were taken with the end of the Cold War three decades ago. The 1991 Kicklighter proposals (Lt. Gen. Claude Kicklighter was the Army commander at the U.S. Pacific Command) suggested establishing contacts between the three Services to promote exchanges and explore areas of cooperation. An Agreed Minute on Defence Cooperation was concluded in 1995 instituting a dialogue at the Defence Secretary level together with the setting up of a Technology Group. The end of the Cold War had helped create this opening but the overhang of the nuclear issue continued to cast a shadow on the talks. There was little appreciation of each other’s threat perceptions and the differences came to a head when India undertook a series of nuclear tests in 1998. The U.S. responded angrily by imposing a whole slew of economic sanctions and leading the international condemnation campaign. An intensive engagement followed with 18 rounds  of talks between the then External Affairs Minister, the late Jaswant Singh, and then U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott spanning two years that helped bring about a shift in perceptions. Sanctions were gradually lifted and in 2005, a 10-year Framework for Defence Relationship established, followed by a Joint Declaration on Defence Cooperation in 2013 (https://bit.ly/3mCnKsR). The Framework agreement was renewed in 2015 for another decade. The Framework laid out an institutional mechanism for areas of cooperation including joint exercises, intelligence exchanges, joint training for multinational operations including disaster relief and humanitarian assistance, technology transfer and a sharing of non-proliferation best practices. Initial movement was slow; it gathered momentum once the nuclear hurdle was overcome in 2008 with the India-U.S. civil nuclear deal. There were other factors at play too. Equally important was the progressive opening up of the Indian economy that was registering an impressive annual growth rate of over 7%. Bilateral trade in goods and services was $20 billion in 2000 and exceeded $140 billion in 2018. The four million-strong Indian diaspora in the U.S. has come of political age and its impact can be seen in the bipartisan composition of the India Caucus (in the House) and the Senate Friends of India group. From less than $400 million of defence acquisitions till 2005, the U.S. has since signed defence contracts of $18 billion. A bipartisan consensus A bipartisan consensus supporting the steady growth in India-U.S. ties in both New Delhi and Washington has been a critical supporting factor. The first baby steps in the form of the Kicklighter proposals came in 1991 from the Bush administration (Republican) when P.V. Narasimha Rao led a Congress coalition. Following the nuclear tests, Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee (Bharatiya Janata Party) welcomed President Bill Clinton (Democrat) to Delhi. The visit, taking place after 22 years — the previous one being U.S. President Jimmy Carter’s visit in 1978 — marked a shift from “estranged democracies” to “natural allies”. A Congress coalition led by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh carried the process forward with a Republican Bush administration. Heavy political lifting was needed to conclude the historic nuclear deal in 2008, removing the biggest legacy obstacle. The biggest push has come from Prime Minister Narendra Modi overcoming the “hesitations of history” and taking forward the relationship, first with a Democratic Obama administration by announcing a Joint Strategic Vision for the Asia-Pacific and Indian Ocean Region in 2015 (https://bit.ly/31OXIuk), followed by elevating the India-U.S. Strategic and Commercial Dialogue (launched in 2009 and the first round held in 2010) into the 2+2 dialogue in 2018 with the (Republican) Trump administration reflecting the ‘Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership’. Mr Modi is not constrained (at least on the strategic side) unlike Dr. Singh during his second term who faced opposition within his party, had a Defence Minister who preferred to shy away from any decision, and often had to prod a reluctant bureaucracy. The signing, last week, of the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) providing for the sharing of geospatial data is the last of the foundational agreements. The first, General Security Of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA), relating to security of each other’s military information was signed in 2002. The Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government signed the End Use Monitoring Agreement (EUMA) in 2009 but then dragged its feet on the others on the grounds that it would jeopardise India’s strategic autonomy. However, it was apparent that as military exercises with the U.S. expanded, both in scale and complexity, and U.S. military platforms were inducted, not signing these agreements was perceived as an obstacle to strengthening cooperation. Nearly 60 countries have signed BECA. In 2016, Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) relating to exchange of logistics support had been concluded, followed by Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA) in 2018 permitting encryption standards of communication systems. More than a 100 countries have signed these agreements with the U.S. Equivalent agreements on logistics and mutual security of military communication have also been signed with France but without the political fuss. Breaking away from ‘labels’ Developing the habit of working together has been a long process of building mutual respect and trust while accepting differences. The U.S. is used to dealing with allies (invariably junior partners in a U.S.-dominated alliance structure) and adversaries. India falls into neither category. Therefore, engaging as equal partners has been a learning experience for both India and the U.S. Recognising this, the U.S. categorised India as “a Major Defence Partner” in 2016, a position unique to India that was formalised in the National Defense Authorisation Act (2017) authorising the Secretaries of State and Defence to take necessary measures. It has helped that India also joined the export control regimes (Australia Group, Missile Technology Control Regime and Wassenaar Arrangement) and has practices consistent with the Nuclear Suppliers Group where its membership was blocked by China spuriously linking it to Pakistan. In 2018, India was placed in Category I of the Strategic Trade Authorisation, easing exports of sensitive technologies. In every relationship, there is a push factor and a pull factor; an alignment of the two is called the convergence of interests. An idea matures when the timing is right. After all, the Quad (Australia, India, Japan and the U.S.) was first mooted in 2007 but after one meeting, it petered out till its re-emergence now. Alongside the ministerial meeting in Tokyo earlier this month, India was invited for the first time to also attend the Five Eyes (a signals intelligence grouping set up in 1941 consisting of Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the U.S.) meeting. The policy debate in India is often caught up in ‘labels’. When Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru described non-alignment as the guiding principle of Indian foreign policy, it was designed to expand India’s diplomatic space. Yet, in 1971, when the Cold War directly impinged on India’s national security, a non-aligned India balanced the threat by signing the Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation between the Government of India and the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. However, during the 1970s and 1980s, it was often hijacked by the Non-aligned Movement tying up policy in ideological knots. Such became the hold of the label that even after the Cold War, India defined strategic autonomy as Non-alignment 2.0! The Indian strategic community needs to appreciate that policies cannot become prisoners of labels. Ultimately, the policy objective has to enhance India’s strategic space and capability. That is the real symbolism of the in-person meeting in Delhi. Rakesh Sood is a former diplomat and presently Distinguished Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||An eviction in Sri Lanka, this day, that age||As societies overwhelmed by the novel coronavirus pandemic witness heightening fear, economic deprivation and a persisting curtailment of public events, remembering the past to chart a progressive future has become a casualty. On October 30, 1990, the northern Muslims of Sri Lanka, a population of 75,000, were abruptly evicted by the LTTE that sought to reign supreme as the “sole representative” of the Tamils and their “homeland”. The families were forced to leave with just a shopping bag and a few 100 rupees in hand. For the 30th anniversary of the inhuman expulsion, there will not be any public events of remembrance, unfortunately. Over the last decade since the end of the war, remembering this act of ethnic cleansing at gun point (which displaced generations to live in refugee camps) was a way of mobilising support for resettling this long suffering community, and in doing so, rebuilding fraught relations between Muslims and Tamils, fellow minorities in Sri Lanka. The tragic predicament of the Northern Muslim community, distraught by an unwelcoming Tamil nationalist political landscape and in fear of being attacked by Sinhala-Buddhist majoritarian forces, is but a symptom of polarisation that gravely threatens Sri Lanka’s chances for a plural and democratic post-war future. A polarisation After the end of the war in 2009, the Muslim community began returning to the North gradually, but the state had no coherent plan for their resettlement. Of the approximately 8,000 families who originate from Jaffna, about 2,000 registered with the local authorities to return; now only about 700 families have been able to return as residents. The displaced families have faced social and economic challenges, including bureaucratic hurdles to gain housing grants for the war affected, contested claims over land after their displacement and the abject lack of support for livelihoods. While there has been some progress with respect to their housing needs, the changing political context in the backdrop of attacks on Muslims in the south, particularly by chauvinist goon squads since 2012, to the vilification of Muslims after the Easter Sunday 2019 bombings, has cornered the community even in places like Jaffna. Constituting about 10% of Sri Lanka’s population, Muslims have proved ready targets in the past even if they are geographically spread over and are mainly Tamil-speaking but with a distinct ethnic identity. The extreme nationalists among the Sinhalese and Tamils, seem to be objective allies when it comes to the Muslims as they draw from the global and South Asian discourses of Islamophobia. The “war on terror” spearheaded by the United States in 2001 continues to resonate with the militarised Sri Lankan state; the anti-Muslim assertions of Hindutva in neighbouring India are also being emulated by chauvinist actors in Sri Lanka. In a country fast coming under the grip of majoritarianism and authoritarian populism, the everyday lives of minorities are eclipsed by fear. And the dynamics of such polarising politics at the national level inevitably manifests itself regionally as well. Indeed, the current context does not bode well for Tamil-Muslim relations in the remotest villages in the island’s north and east. For, when polarisation is the dominant game in politics, suspicion and fear of treachery prevail. Competing for resources During the nearly 30 years of the civil war, massacres and counter massacres by the LTTE, the military and Muslim militias in the Eastern Province led to the redrawing of ethnic enclaves that to this day are being fiercely contested. In the post-war decade, it is claims over resources (from land to fishing landing sites) that have aggravated inter-ethnic relations not only in the deeply divided east, but also in the north where the Muslim community is smaller and weaker. In many parts of the rural north today, the novel coronavirus pandemic has pushed people to redouble their efforts to cultivate land in order to survive. As income streams grind to a halt in many urban livelihoods, more people are turning to agriculture, betting on the upcoming monsoon. Regular farmers are increasing their acreage and irregular farmers are cultivating any small plots they can access, through renting and sharecropping, with a view towards subsistence. As Sri Lanka turns to the rural economy and agriculture for survival in a pandemic-struck economy, families are putting more of their own labour into agriculture, while clearing fallow lands for cultivation. In this context, issues around ownership of land and access to state lands by displaced Tamil and Muslim communities can create ethnic tensions. Across the country, such contestations over land become fertile ground for ethno-nationalist mobilisation of social bases by the polarising political elite. Plural north Muslims who have resided in the north for centuries, had historically good relations with the Tamils. They added much to the colour and culture of the northern towns with their distinct architecture (as evident in urban Jaffna) and with businesses, such as tailoring and trading. In the rural north, Muslim families and villages, like those of the Tamils, were involved in agriculture and fisheries. Since the 1990 eviction, the north has become increasingly insular under the sway of bankrupt Tamil nationalist politics holding on to the legacy of the LTTE. In this context, the sustained return of the Muslims to the north is crucial for its plural future. As the pandemic-triggered economic depression reshapes the political economy of Sri Lanka, and an authoritarian and militarised regime is seen as the panacea for national problems, what would become of the future of the Northern Muslims? How will their voice emerge as existential fears of the pandemic and repression take hold? Those on the peripheries Sri Lanka has a history of failing to learn from its past and a tendency to step on its minorities. And in referring to minorities, we should not limit it to the vocal elite in Jaffna, but must include those on the peripheries. They are the hill country Tamils toiling in the plantations and rural masses oppressed along caste lines, and minorities within minorities, such as the Northern Muslims. Addressing the concerns of such minorities will require focusing on their freedoms as much on the resources for their economic rejuvenation, particularly during these times of a great social and economic upheaval. Remembering the tragic past of the northern Muslims and giving their plight the national attention it deserves is just one strand of the collective conscience needed to forge a plural and democratic country. Ahilan Kadirgamar is Senior Lecturer, University of Jaffna and a member of the Jaffna People’s Forum for Coexistence
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Less pollution, more soil fertility||Stubble burning refers to the practice of farmers setting fire to plant debris that remain in farms after harvest. Before the 1980s, farmers used to till the remaining debris back into the soil after harvesting the crops manually. The origin of stubble burning can be traced to the advent of the Green Revolution and mechanised harvesting, which utilised the combined harvesting technique. The Green Revolution increased greatly rice and wheat production, which simultaneously increased stubble post harvest. However, the popular combined harvesting technique was not efficacious, as machines left behind one-foot-tall stalks. This prompted stubble burning as a low-cost and speedy solution available to farmers due to the limited time period of 20-25 days between harvesting one crop and sowing another. Environmental impact Stubble burning is practised predominantly by farmers in north India. It releases harmful gases including nitrogen oxide and carbon monoxide into the atmosphere. In recent years, this practice has created vast smoke blankets across the Indo-Gangetic Plain and numerous neighbouring States, including Delhi. This directly exposes millions of people to air pollution. As per a TERI (The Energy and Resources Institute) report, in 2019 the air pollution in New Delhi and other parts of north India was 20 times higher than the safe threshold level as prescribed by the World Health Organization. Stubble burning also has a deleterious impact on soil fertility, destroys organic fertilizers and reduces ground water levels. Stubble burning during a pandemic could worsen the situation by making lungs weaker and people more susceptible to disease. It could also impact those recovering from infection. In 2013, stubble burning was banned by the Punjab government. In 2015, the National Green Tribunal imposed a ban on stubble burning in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab and directed government to assist farmers by obtaining equipment like happy seeders and rotavator. Stubble burning is an offence under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act of 1981. Recently, in Aditya Dubey v. Union of India , the Supreme Court appointed retired apex court judge Justice Madan B. Lokur as a one-man committee to monitor and provide steps to prevent stubble burning activities in Punjab, Haryana and U.P. Haryana submitted that numerous steps are taken to curb stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, including the development of an app to detect and notify authorities about stubble burning committed in a particular field. Now the Union government has brought out an ordinance to set up a permanent commission for air quality management, which will replace the Justice Madan B. Lokur Commission. New revolution A revolution in timely stubble removal is the need of the hour. The action plan of Punjab and Haryana appears to focus more on setting up Custom Hiring Centres which will facilitate farmers removing stubble by providing them with machinery such as the happy seeder, rotavator, paddy straw chopper, etc. on rent along with the supply of more balers. As per a study by the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre, the application of happy seeders and super SMS machines can improve agricultural productivity by 10% to 15% while reducing labour costs and allowing the soil to become more fertile. This year, the Union government is testing an innovative method, the PUSA Decomposer, developed at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa. The PUSA Decomposer is a set of four tablets made by extracting fungi strains that help the paddy straw to decompose at a much faster rate than usual, giving farmers the option to shred the straw, spray a solution containing the fungal strains, and mix it with the soil for decomposition. If methods such as this become successful, it will be a new revolution in farming. This has the potential to both reduce air pollution and increase soil fertility. Varun Varma is an advocate practising before the Supreme Court
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Grand collision||Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had started with the advantage of Opposition disunity when campaigning began for the Assembly election in Bihar, but his patchy record in governance soon became the central conversation in the State. The voting rate in the first of the three phases of the election on Wednesday matched 2015 levels, and the COVID-19 pandemic has had little impact on voter enthusiasm. There is a new urgency and competitiveness in the arena ahead of the next two phases as some of the original calculations of parties are being tested. Mr. Kumar, who has been on the back foot following his mishandling of the pandemic, is hoping to win a fourth straight term by cashing in on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity, which by all accounts has overtaken his own. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is seeking to chart an independent path, while professing to reinforce the alliance with the Janata Dal (United) that Mr. Kumar leads. The BJP campaigning has put the spotlight on Mr. Modi. The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), another ally of the BJP at the Centre, is contesting separately and has focused its fire on Mr. Kumar, with considerable impact. It is possible that the BJP let one ally loose on another to fish in troubled waters. At the very least, the BJP has shown little interest in keeping the alliance tent in order. Partly fuelled by this friction within and largely due to Mr. Kumar’s inherent failures, the vulnerabilities of the JD(U)-BJP alliance have increased over the last fortnight. Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, carries a mixed bag of his father Lalu Prasad’s legacy — of social justice and misgovernance. The 30-year-old leader of the Opposition alliance that also includes the Congress and the Left, had appeared to be a callow challenger to the battle-hardened Kumar at the beginning. His campaigning has forced a rethink among sceptics. He is rallying noticeable enthusiasm, and has struck a chord with the young voters on a question that matters the most to them — unemployment. The BJP mocked his promise of 10 lakh jobs initially, but came around to offering double that number itself. Mr. Kumar and Mr. Modi are invoking the memories of the RJD rule that ended in 2005, which they think will turn away voters from the party. The young Mr. Yadav is trying to take his politics beyond his father’s legacy by appealing to new concerns. Mr. Modi has also deployed the familiar trope of the Ram temple to seek votes in Bihar. All said, the JD(U)-BJP alliance has a formidable social base that is not easy to breach. What Mr. Yadav has clearly managed to do so far is to challenge the alliance’s imperiousness.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Gaps in learning||In a year of severe disruption for schools caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, students in rural areas have received only marginal assistance in the form of structured learning materials from teachers, and have had to rely more on parents and siblings to study at home. This unsettling finding by the Annual Status of Education Report 2020 should prompt the Centre and the State governments to plan remedial measures for the future, when it will be safe again for students to return to the classroom. In the interim, they must work with schools to make remote learning possible. The ASER 2020 survey covering 26 States and four Union Territories has come up with striking findings, including one of a shift in enrolments from private schools to government institutions, of about five percentage points over 2018, ranging from class one to higher secondary levels. Also, with the suspension of physical classes since the lockdown in March, there is a marked rise in students not being enrolled, either because they dropped out, or because it was not possible to get admitted. It must also concern governments that the digital divide stands out starkly once again: the survey found 43.6% of students in government schools without access to a smartphone, while 67.3% of those who received learning materials in these institutions got them over WhatsApp, underscoring the role played by gadgets and connectivity. On the other hand, only half the children got help with studies at home, a third got materials from teachers, and nearly 60% used textbooks. The ASER survey provides data that could facilitate intervention by the education system in some respects, even if, going forward, schools opt for a hybrid solution of partial reopening and online learning. Expanding availability of textbooks to all, including those who dropped out or are waiting to be formally admitted, will help parents and siblings aid learning. Bridging the divide on educational aids, now including smartphones, will enable transmission of learning materials, and personal tutorial sessions. Beyond these basics, however, the education system could creatively use opportunities during the current year to broaden learning. Students could use the safety of the open countryside to learn, under guidance from teachers, a host of topics by doing things themselves. This is particularly feasible for lower classes, where observational learning creates a strong foundation. Educational video, which has helped thousands, can advance learning even beyond the pandemic, using talented teacher-communicators. States such as Tamil Nadu and Kerala have already hosted curriculum-based video lessons on the Internet, after beaming them on television. It will take out-of-the-box thinking during the pandemic to come up with interventions that are a substitute for traditional methods and prevent 2020 becoming a zero year, as parents everywhere remain wary of sending children to school.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||In Bihar, identity politics is taking another turn||Bihar is the first State to have Assembly polls in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, bringing with it not just the challenge of holding socially distant and safe polling, but also robust media coverage. Covering elections — which necessarily means engaging with the wisdom of crowds — during a pandemic comes with many challenges. The first casualty for me was the act of loitering, that simple joy of shooting the breeze with your fellow man, preferably at a tea stall on the highway, or engaging in a politically charged debate. Much of that was curtailed as I followed very strict SOPs with regard to COVID-19. However, that did not stop me from venturing deep into rural areas to chase stories that had captured the country’s sympathy and imagination over the last few months — stories that were more than just the stacking of caste arithmetic and were about issues such as the flight of migrants from host States back home to Bihar; the constituency of women voters, so assiduously courted by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar; and angry voices on prohibition. “Yeh chunaav 80% jaat ka pinjara main hai, 20% feelings par (this poll is 80% in a cage of caste arithmetic, 20% on feelings),” said a senior leader acknowledging that issues like prohibition and events following the lockdown weighed in on the usual caste discourse, if only, in his assessment, a mere 20%. My travels into sparsely populated interior villages gave important pointers on how politics is to pan out in the rest of India for the next few years, on hyperlocal aspirations, and the mutation of identity politics 30 years after ‘Mandal’ and ‘Mandir’. One of the many interesting encounters I had in Bihar was with Aditya Mohan, who started the Mithila Student Union (MSU) in Darbhanga and its surrounding areas a few years ago. The organisation started with the aim of getting the academic session at the Lalit Narayan Mithila University to start on time. From that, the MSU has grown into an organisation that works in panchayats in Darbhanga and surrounding areas and has also, this time round, put up around 12 candidates extolling ‘Mithilawaad’, the hyperlocal interests of Mithila. The party has no symbol at the moment but the issues are to do with the establishment of an AIIMS in Darbhanga, an airport to be sanctioned for the area and, of course, academic sessions to start and finish on time with examinations. The group is in no hurry to be a big political force as members feel the future of politics is going their way; that caste and identity on their own are not going to be enough to win an election; that delivery on aspirations (not just roads and foodgrain) will be the way. Much of the poll rhetoric on job creation by the mainstream parties reflected this trend. Encounters such as this show me that faith in democracy is alive and kicking, and identity politics is taking another turn in its evolution. Bihar, again, is showing the way in Indian politics. This election that I covered with masks, sanitisers, and a diary full of numbers of contacts in Patna from whom to cadge home-cooked meals and private sanitised vehicles, had lessons to offer me yet again, other than just trying to be safe while doing my job.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad State (From an Editorial)||The report on the administration of His Exalted Highness the Nizam’s Dominions for the year 1328 Fasli (1918 Oct.-1919 Oct.) is an interesting record of the measures adopted to secure the efficiency of administration and the policy followed by the Government to improve the economic condition and to advance the material progress of the people of the State notwithstanding the adverse conditions resulting from the failure of the monsoon and the prevalence of influenza and plague. It is worthy of note that the liberal programme of revenue collection pursued by the Durbar saved the people from undue oppression of tax collectors and the remissions granted, on account of bad season, amounted to Rs. 72,90,587. During the year under review, inams to the value of Rs. 93,356, were confirmed. The net excise revenue increased from Rs. 1,03,50,956 to Rs. 1,27,40, 851.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Dangerous sweetness||In long and verse sweetness has through the ages been equated with goodness but some hard-hearted research scientists have now found that one of the sweetest substances in existence, the cyclamate, spells danger for the consumer. Cyclamates are hydrocarbon compounds 30 times sweeter than sugar and since they are also non-fattening are being widely used as artificial sweeteners in the preparation of low-calorie beverages, confectionery, canned fruits and fruit juices. In to-day’s world of increasing calorie-consciousness, the manufacture of dietary foods has become a billion-dollar (Rs. 750 crores) a year industry. Saccharine is said to be 400 times sweeter than sugar but since it leaves a bitter aftertaste, makers of dietary foods and beverages have gone in for cyclamates. The United States is the biggest user of cyclamates. On the market for two decades, cyclamates first came under suspicion in 1966 when two Japanese scientists discovered that a metabolic product of cyclamate called cyclohexylamine could cause severe skin irritation in some people. Close investigation was thereupon begun in many countries and the World Health Organisation fixed the safe daily intake limit for human beings at 3 ½ grams for adults and 1 ½ grams for children. A group of American scientists has now established a connection between cyclamates and cancer.
30 October 2020||Mumbai,||Mistrys file exit plan in SC, peg stake in Tatas at Rs. 1.75 lakh cr.||The Shapoorji Pallonji Group on Thursday said it had submitted a plan to the Supreme Court to end its seven decades-old association with the Tata Group. The Mistrys have valued their holding in the Tatas at Rs. 1.75 lakh crore, it informed the apex court, which is hearing the legal battle between the two groups that began after the Tatas sacked Cyrus Mistry as the Chairman in October 2016. “Tata Sons is effectively a two-group company, with the Tata Group comprising Tata Trusts, Tata family members and Tata companies holding 81.6% of the equity share capital, and the Mistry family owning the balance 18.37%,” the SP Group said in a statement, citing its submission to the court. Tata Sons is the holding company for the Tata Group and its value arises from its stake in listed equities, non-listed equities, the brand, cash balances and immovable assets. The value of the SP Group’s 18.37% stake in Tata Sons is more than Rs. 1,75,000 crore, it said. The SP Group said disputes over valuation can be eliminated by doing a pro-rata split of listed assets and pro-rata share of the brand (brand valuation already done by Tata and published). A neutral third-party valuation can be done for the unlisted assets adjusted for net debt. TCS stake As a non-cash settlement, the SP Group sought pro-rata shares in listed Tata entities where Tata Sons owns stake. For example, while Tatas own 72% of TCS, the SP Group’s 18.37% translates to 13.22% stake in TCS, which is worth Rs. 1.35 lakh crore at present market capitalisation. Pro-rata share of brand value adjusted for net debt can be settled in cash and/or in listed securities, the SP Group said.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||RBI to issue fresh CDS norms soon: Bajaj||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will soon issue fresh guidelines on credit default swaps (CDS), a financial derivative instrument to hedge risks in bond investments, a senior Finance Ministry official said on Thursday. The development of CDS is considered critical for deepening India’s bond markets and the government believes that the enactment of the Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts law this month should pave the way for an active CDS market. Talks with regulators “The government is working with financial sector regulators, SEBI, RBI, IRDA and PFRDA to build a robust and vibrant bond market,” said Anand Bajaj, Additional Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs. “The traded volumes in our bond markets in 2019-20 were not much at Rs. 19-Rs. 20 lakh crore, while 98% of debt issuances were made through private placements,” Mr. Bajaj added. Stressing that fair valuation of bonds is a challenge when trading is limited, he said that to facilitate the development of the CDS market, the central bank would issue revised guidelines soon. “We think that enhancing the bond markets is very important for the requirement of infrastructure financing, particularly the projects lined up in the National Infrastructure Pipeline,” he said at an Assocham event. NFBCs cautioned Earlier in the day, Chief Economic Adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian also made a pitch for CDS to make India’s financial markets more vibrant, while urging non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) to lend cautiously and enhance their risk assessment systems. “Forbearance is necessary in today’s context, but zombie lending could come back to bite later,” he said. “After the 2008-09 global financial crisis, lending to firms with an interest coverage ratio of below one, had gone up significantly,” he said at a conference organised by FICCI. “NBFCs face rollover and interconnected risks such as liquid debt mutual funds investing in papers issued by NBFCs. Every NBFC should monitor these risks even as the regulators are doing this,” said Mr. Subramanian.
30 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Rupee slides as virus rattles EU, stocks fall||The rupee declined further by 23 paise to close at a two-month low of 74.10 against the U.S. currency on Thursday, tracking weak domestic equities and a strong dollar amid global risk aversion.  Investors flocked to safe-haven assets and cut riskier bets after the imposition of fresh lockdowns in Europe to control resurging COVID-19 cases, analysts said. The rupee breached the 74 level for the first time since August 26. On Wednesday, the rupee had depreciated by 16 paise. “The slide for the rupee continues, as it slips below the 74/USD level, INR is now trading at a two-month low,” said Nish Bhatt, founder and CEO of investment consulting firm Millwood Kane International. “The U.S. dollar has strengthened as investors flock to a safe haven in times of uncertainty. The rising number of COVID-19 cases has forced governments in a few EU countries to enforce lockdown.” The dollar index, which gauges the greenback’s strength against a basket of six currencies, rose 0.09% to 93.49. Brent crude futures fell 0.87% to $38.78 per barrel.  Sensex slides 0.43% In the equity market, the S&P BSE Sensex slid 172.61 points, or 0.43%, to 39,749.85 in choppy trade. The broader NSE Nifty fell 0.50% to 11,670.80. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers as they offloaded shares worth Rs. 1,130.98 crore on a net basis on Wednesday, according to exchange data. “Jitters on the street ahead of the U.S. elections and dimming hopes of a stimulus plan from the U.S. administration in near term have led to the recent rise in Dollar Index from a multi-week low,” said Sugandha Sachdeva VP-Metals, Energy & Currency Research, Religare Broking. Besides, uncertainty due to the second wave of COVID-19 cases hitting the U.S. and Europe had also dented investor sentiment, Ms. Sachdeva said, adding that “amid a shaky landscape, the rupee still looks to find some breather around 74.50 mark. However, if that is also taken out, 75 mark also looks likely on the cards”. Going ahead, investors would track an ECB policy meeting as well U.S. GDP data for further cues. “Rupee depreciated as fresh lockdowns in Europe spooked investor appetite for risk assets,” said Devarsh Vakil, Deputy Head Retail Research, HDFC Securities. Mr. Vakil further noted that the expectation of a fiscal stimulus package to support the economy before Diwali also weighed on the rupee. “The fear that economic conditions are going to get worse before they get better, is keeping the dollar strong against emerging market currencies,” said Rahul Gupta, Head of Research-Currency, Emkay Global Financial Services.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||Centre relaxes Air India sale terms yet again||The Centre on Thursday revised bidding parameters for 100% stake sale in Air India, allowing private players to quote an enterprise value (EV) for the airline. This is the government’s third effort to woo buyers. “There has been a total change in the aviation environment and a large number of airlines are struggling,” Secretary of Ministry of Civil Aviation P.S. Kharola said at a press conference. “The way we had packaged the Air India sale, we felt players may not evince interest,” he added. Bidders will be given seven days to pose queries on the new bidding parameters after which they can submit their bids by November 14. The government will announce the qualified bidder by December 28, Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri said. This is the sixth time since January that the government has extended the deadline due to lack of interest from prospective buyers. “Enterprise value shall mean combined value of debt and equity of AI as assessed by bidder in its financial bid,” DIPAM Secretary, Tuhin K. Pandey said. “The only change is that there is no pre-determined debt. This doesn’t mean that Air India sale will be debt-free, but that the debt will be determined in the market,” Mr. Pandey said. He added that this process would not change the valuation of the airline.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||Maruti Q2 net inches up as sales rise almost 10%||Maruti Suzuki on Thursday reported second-quarter profit inched up 1% Rs. 1,371.6 crore, helped by a near 10% increase in sales. Pointing to the improvement in sales, Chairman R.C. Bhargava asserted there was no immediate need for a reduction in tax rates for the auto sector. He also said he expected steady demand for vehicles at least till December. However, he cautioned that any drop in urban income levels on account of the economic slowdown could impact demand. “Compared with the second quarter of last year, Maruti has performed better because last year was the time when Maruti went down 16%, the industry went down 18% [in volumes]. If you take that as the base, then doing better than that is something which is quite unsurprising,” Mr. Bhargava said. The country’s largest carmaker reported net sales increased 9.7% year-on-year in the July-September quarter to Rs. 17,689.3 crore. To a query on a reduction in the Goods and Services Tax, he said that currently there wasn’t any lack of demand for cars and giving relief at this stage would be quite unnecessary.
30 October 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Pandemic, high prices hit gold demand’||Demand for gold in India declined 30% to 86.6 tonnes in the July-September quarter as compared with 123.9 tonnes a year earlier due to COVID-19 disruptions and record high prices, data released by the World Gold Council showed. Total jewellery demand during the quarter decreased by 48% to 52.8 tonnes. In terms of value, jewellery demand fell 29% to Rs. 24,100 crore from the year-earlier period. However, the demand for gold coins, bars and ETF had seen a surge. “Total investment demand increased 52% to 33.8 tonnes during the quarter,” Somasundaram PR, MD India, World Gold Council said. In terms of value, gold investment demand was Rs. 15,410 crore.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||IndiGo Q2 net loss widens to Rs. 1,194 crore||IndiGo on Thursday reported a net loss of Rs. 1,194 crore for the quarter ended September 2020 with its passenger capacity shrinking to 47% of levels seen a year earlier. Last year, the carrier had posted a net loss of Rs. 1,062 crore in Q2. Total income slid 64.5% to Rs. 3,029 crore. Passenger ticket revenues shrank 68.9% to Rs. 2,208 crore. CEO Ronojoy Dutta said it hoped to reach 80% of pre-COVID capacity by December, if the Centre relaxed the cap on the number of flights airlines could deploy. Aditya Pande, CFO, said IndiGo had been able to raise loans worth Rs. 600 crore from banks and was deferring a decision on a QIP until December.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fiscal deficit widens to Rs. 9.1 lakh crore||The fiscal deficit continued to soar in September to reach Rs. 9.1 lakh crore, or almost 115% of the budget target of Rs. 7.96 lakh crore for 2020-21, as per data from the Comptroller General of Accounts. The revenue deficit hit 125.2% in the first half of the year, with revenue receipts continuing to suffer in view of lower economic activity due to COVID-19. “The monthly expenditure trends revealed a discordant sharp contraction in both revenue and capital expenditure in September 2020, suggesting that the expenditure management restrictions are outweighing the fiscal support measures announced so far,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ICRA.
30 October 2020||WASHINGTON,||U.S. GDP grew 33%, recovery incomplete||The U.S. economy grew at a record 33.1% annual rate in the July-September quarter but has yet to fully rebound from its plunge in the first half, and the recovery is slowing as COVID-19 cases surge and government aid dries up. The Commerce Department’s estimate on Thursday of third-quarter growth showed that the nation had regained only about two-thirds of the output lost early this year when virus closed businesses, threw millions out of work and caused the deepest recession since the Great Depression.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||BPCL Q2 profit jumps 58% on refining margins, inventory gains||BPCL on Thursday reported a 58% jump in Q2 net profit on the back of inventory gains and rise in refining margin. Consolidated net profit was at Rs. 2,589.52 crore in July-September compared with Rs. 1,502.63 crore the year earlier. “Our strategy of buying crude at low prices in May and June has resulted in substantial refinery margin,” BPCL Director (Finance) N. Vijayagopal said.pti
30 October 2020||Turin,||Barcelona eases past Juventus||An early goal from Ousmane Dembele and a late Lionel Messi penalty gave Barcelona a 2-0 win away to Juventus in the Champions League on Wednesday after Alvaro Morata had three goals disallowed for offside for the Serie A side. Dembele struck with a deflected shot in the 14th minute for a Barcelona side smarting from Saturday’s home defeat by Real Madrid. Juventus, still missing Cristiano Ronaldo after he tested positive for COVID-19 two weeks ago, was frustrated as Morata had two goals disallowed in the first half and a third after halftime when VAR showed that his heel was offside. Juve’s frustration was complete as defender Merih Demiral was sent off in the 85th minute and Messi settled the match with a stoppage-time penalty to leave Barcelona top of Group G with six points and Juventus on three. “I believe it was the most complete match since I arrived,” Barcelona coach Ronald Koeman said. “I think the team showed a lot of personality in midfield, it was our best game. “We had a great game against a great team. I think we showed our best soccer. We created a lot of scoring opportunities. I’m very happy with the play, I’m very happy with the character of the team, a great victory.” Marcus Rashford scored a hat trick as Manchester United beat Leipzig 5-0 at home, while Chelsea brushed aside Krasnodar 4-0 in Russia, giving England’s four clubs a sweep of wins this week without conceding a goal. Second-half goals A wave of second-half goals also earned wins for Paris Saint-Germain — after losing Neymar early to injury — Borussia Dortmund and Sevilla. United has the maximum six points from its opening two games in its group. Chelsea kickstarted its group campaign thanks to goals from Callum Hudson-Odoi, Timo Werner, Hakim Ziyech and a late strike from Christian Pulisic. Chelsea has four points after two games in Group E and hosts Rennes next Wednesday. Krasnodar, which visits Sevilla next, has one. PSG’s Moise Kean scored twice and Kylian Mbappe grabbed two assists as it overcame a sluggish start to beat Turkish side Istanbul Basaksehir 2-0 away, securing its first win in this season’s group stage. Injury blow PSG suffered an injury blow, however, as Brazil forward Neymar was forced off in the 26th minute due to a thigh problem and was replaced by Pablo Sarabia. Borussia Dortmund’s coveted young forwards Jadon Sancho and Erling Haaland both scored late to beat Russian champion Zenit St. Petersburg 2-0. Neither game in Group F was played with fans in the stands, and Lazio travelled to Belgium with barely enough first-team players due to a COVID-19 outbreak at the club. Lazio still earned a 1-1 draw at Club Brugge to give both four points, one clear of favoured Dortmund with top-seeded Zenit last after two defeats.  The results:   Group E: Krasnodar 0 lost to Chelsea 4 (Hudson-Odoi 37, Werner 76-pen, Ziyech 79, Pulisic 90); Sevilla 1 (De Jong 55) drew with Rennes 0.   Group F: Club Brugge 1 (Vanaken 42-pen) drew with Lazio 1 (Correa 14); Borussia Dortmund 2 (Sancho 78-pen, Haaland 90+1) bt Zenit St. Petersburg 0.   Group G: Ferencvaros 2 (Nguen 59, Boli 90) drew with Dynamo Kiev 2 (Tsygankov 28-pen, De Pena 41); Juventus 0 lost to Barcelona 2 (Dembele 14, Messi 90-pen).   Group H: Istanbul Basaksehir 0 lost to Paris St.-Germain 2 (Kean 64, 79); Manchester United 5 (Greenwood 21, Rashford 74, 78, 90+2, Martial 87-pen) bt RB Leipzig 0.   We had a great game against a great team. I think we showed our best soccer. Ronald Koeman Barcelona coach
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Classy Gaikwad, nerveless Jadeja dent KKR’s playoff chances in thriller||With nine balls left and 27 to defend, Kolkata Knight Riders would have fancied its chances. But Ravindra Jadeja produced some mighty hits in an unbeaten 31 off just 11 balls (2x4, 3x6) to help Chennai Super Kings win by six wickets at the Dubai International Stadium on Thursday. The momentum shift Lockie Ferguson lost control of proceedings during the final three legal deliveries of the 19th over against Jadeja, conceding 17 runs, including a no-ball and a free-hit six, leaving CSK needing only 10 runs off the final over. Despite Kamlesh Nagarkoti’s best efforts in changing the equation to seven off the last two balls, Jadeja’s experience ensured he sent them over the deep mid-wicket and wide long-on fence to seal the match. The defeat leaves KKR’s playoff chances in jeopardy. It also confirms Mumbai Indians’ place in the last four. Classy knock Chasing 173 for victory, Gaikwad set it up for CSK with a classy 72 off 53 balls (6x4, 2x6). The youngster played some exquisite shots against the likes of Ferguson and Pat Cummins. Gaikwad was particularly severe on Ferguson, pulling and lifting him over the in-field with courage and conviction. Ambati Rayudu gave the innings tempo with a 20-ball 38 (5x4, 1x6), as he added 68 for the second wicket with Gaikwad in just 6.1 overs. Varun Chakravarthy bowled a fine spell (4-0-20-2) for KKR. Earlier, KKR made 172 for five after being put in, thanks to Nitish Rana’s scintillating 87 off 61 balls (10x4, 4x6). Shubman Gill and Rana provided KKR with a solid start, putting on 53 runs for the opening wicket. Rana, after a cautious start, cut loose against Mitchell Santner in the sixth over, sweeping the left-arm spinner for two boundaries and following it up with a six over mid-wicket. Fighting back CSK fought back in the next few overs, through its spinners, Santner, Karn Sharma and Jadeja. However, Rana then went after Karn in the 16th over, hitting the leggie for three consecutive sixes on the leg-side to give KKR the final push. The southpaw seemed on course for a big hundred before he was deceived by a slower one from Lungi Ngidi. Dinesh Karthik, however, ensured that KKR finished strongly as he came up with a 10-ball 21 that contained three boundaries. However, Gaikwad and Jadeja ensured that CSK had the last laugh.   MI enters playoffs  KKR’s loss against CSK meant that MI became the first team to qualify for the playoffs Rayudu plays a crucial role in CSK’s chase against KKR, hammering a 20-ball 38 Varun turns in another fine performance for the Kolkata side, but his effort goes in vain
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Bumrah, Suryakumar help Mumbai Indians pull ahead||Suryakumar Yadav showed what the Indian side may miss in Australia, coming up with a superlative batting effort (79 n.o., 43b, 10x4, 3x6) to lead Mumbai Indians to a five-wicket win over Royal Challengers Bangalore at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Wednesday. MI is now up to 16 points and has two games left. No team with as many points has missed out on a top-four spot in an eight-team IPL. Jasprit Bumrah (4-1-14-3) played no less a part than Suryakumar, bowling a superb 2-1-5-2 spell at the death to restrict RCB to just 164 after the latter was 129 for two after 15 overs. Taking charge During the chase, MI, sans Rohit Sharma, was lumbering, scoring at a rate of just over six in the first nine overs. It was then that the prolific Suryakumar took over, sweeping Yuzvendra Chahal for a six and a four in the 10th. Stunning catch Saurabh Tiwary fell to a stunning catch by Devdutt Padikkal at mid-off, but Suryakumar was unaffected, hitting Chahal over cover for six and then smashing three fours off Dale Steyn. With 48 required from five overs, Suryakumar slammed three more boundaries, this time off Mohammed Siraj, with a flick, a drive and an upper-cut. Perhaps bored at the other end, Hardik Pandya hit a six, engaged in a verbal duel with Chris Morris and was dismissed before Suryakumar finished things off by lifting Siraj over the infield.   MI 99 for three  MI was 99/3 in 13 overs, with Suryakumar (40) and Krunal (7) at the crease. de Kock (18), Ishan (25) and Tiwary (5) were dismissed    Bumrah’s 1 & 100  Kohli, who was Bumrah’s first IPL wicket, also became his 100th during their match on Wednesday
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||TTFI prepares roadmap for Nationals||The Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) has prepared the roadmap to host the National championships at all levels in the next few months. Given the logistical challenges in the prevailing circumstances, Sonepat and Indore are likely to host all five Nationals championships — cadet, sub-junior, junior, youth and seniors. Elaborating on the plans, TTFI secretary-general M.P. Singh said, “the federation is clear that we have to host these championship in asecure environment. Health of the players, coaches and officials are of paramount importance. We zeroed in on Sonepat and Indore because we are confident of providing the participants all arrangements in a bio-secure zone.  “The plan is to host only singles events in every National. Therefore, we are giving the team and doubles events a miss this year. We will the finish girls’/women singles and once they leave the venue, the competition for boys/men will start. In between, there could be a day’s gap to sanitise the accommodation and the venue. “The TTFI is set carry out COVID-19 tests on around 1000 players, coaches and officials, which could cost the federation around Rs. 20 lakh. “We have called a meeting of all our affiliates on Monday to ascertain how each of them plans to go about its State championships, ahead of the Nationals. Depending on the suggestions from all the stakeholders, we will firm up our plans,” he said. Financial support Meanwhile, in a commendable gesture, the TTFI is set to distribute up to Rs. 50 lakh to about 100 players and coaches in need of urgent financial help in these challenging times. “Many of these players and coaches have had no source of income for the past seven months. We have asked the State associations to give an affidavit to the effect that the nominated player/coach is not getting financial help from any other source. The first instalment will be given very shortly,” declared Singh.
30 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Want EB to be a possession-based team, says coach Robbie Fowler||East Bengal coach Robbie Fowler is keen to make a mark in the ISL with a unique style of play — a combination of the gegenpress and tiki-taka. “We want to be a possession-based team, but not have possession just for the sake of it. This is probably where a lot of people get perplexed in terms of how you say you want to play or how you are a long-ball team. In football, it doesn't matter if the right pass is from five yards or 50 yards out. We want to be a team that keeps the ball, probes the opposition defence and is defensively rock solid,” Fowler told Sportstar .  Elaborating on the club’s bold step in hiring former Blackpool manager Terry McPhillips as a set-piece coach, a concept unheard of Indian football, the Liverpool legend said: “Maybe it is a little bit of a pioneer. But look at Liverpool last year – they had a throw-in coach. Why can't we have one? We've got someone who can benefit us from a defensive point of view and a tactical point of view in terms of corners, free kicks or throw-ins.” Having been a part of many a derby during his playing days, Fowler understands the sentiments surrounding the Kolkata derby. “Derbies are derbies, and it is a case of trying to better the opposition. You've to play with your head and cannot be just playing with your heart all the time because there will be 11 red cards if that was the case. We know what the derby means, and we know what we need to do,” he said. “There's going to be millions and millions of people supporting us when we're playing and it's up to us to try and give that little bit of spirit back to the fans,” he added.
30 October 2020||Melbourne,||Green gets Australia call-up||Australia on Thursday included young all-rounder Cameron Green in the T20 and ODI squad for the limited-overs series against India while Moises Henriques returned to the national fold after three years following his exploits in the Big Bash League. India will play three One-day Internationals (November 27, 29, December 2) and as many T20Is (December 4, 6, 8) against Australia before the Test series. Australia has focused on batting all-rounders while picking the limited-overs squad. Considered one for the future, Green’s maiden international call up is on expected lines. Recently, former Australia skipper Greg Chappell had said Green is a serious talent, the best he has seen since Ricky Ponting.   The squad: Aaron Finch (Capt.), Sean Abbott, Ashton Agar, Alex Carey , Pat Cummins (Cice-Capt.), Cameron Green, Josh Hazlewood, Moises Henriques, Marnus Labuschagne, Glenn Maxwell, Daniel Sams, Kane Richardson, Steven Smith, Mitchell Starc, Marcus Stoinis, Matthew Wade, David Warner and Adam Zampa.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||Feeling very good, says Kapil||A week after undergoing angioplasty, the legendary Kapil Dev, on Thursday, greeted his former India teammates from the 1983 World Cup, saying he is “feeling very good” and eager to meet everyone soon. The 61-year-old underwent the procedure after suffering a heart attack. He was discharged from the hospital a couple of days later. “My family 83. The weather is very pleasant and I am very eager to meet you all. I am feeling very good. Thanks to all for your wishes and concern,” an enthusiastic Kapil, dressed in a purple T-shirt, said in a video which he shared with his 1983 teammates. “I am hoping that we all will meet pretty soon. I will try to meet you all as early as possible. We have approached the end of the year and I am confident that we will have a great start to next year. Love you all,” he added.
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sports activity in AP resumes on Nov. 2||Sporting activity in Andhra Pradesh will resume on November 2 outside containment zones after a near eight-month break, according to B. Rama Rao, VC & MD of the Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh. In a communication on Wednesday, Rama Rao said activities outside containment zones in non-contact sports and minimal-contact disciplines such as badminton, weightlifting, table tennis, tennis, archery, athletics, shooting, swimming, cycling and fencing would resume. “This is subject to approval of District Collectors and chairpersons of District Sports Authorities,” he said. “CEOs and chief coaches have been directed to disinfect and clean all sports equipment and play field areas and be ready to reopen indoor and outdoor stadia, tennis courts and swimming pools of the SAAP in DSA-run centres,” Rama Rao said. Coaching sessions shall not exceed one hour per day and time slots shall be pre-allotted. There will not be entry for beginners, spectators and those above 65 years, pregnant women and children below 10 years. All SOPs will also be in place.
30 October 2020||Abu Dhabi,||Rampaging KXIP meets desperate RR||A rampaging Kings XI Punjab will look to extend its exceptional run and inch closer to a playoff berth while Rajasthan Royals will be desperate to stay alive in the tournament when the two sides clash here on Friday. In a dramatic turnaround, KXIP has chalked up five consecutive wins, infusing life into its campaign. It’s a mad scramble for the playoffs. With Mumbai Indians through, six teams remain in the hunt for three slots. If Royals lose on Friday they will be out of the reckoning, while a defeat for Kings will dent their chances of a top-four finish.
30 October 2020||Bangalore:,||TT tourney from today||The first State-ranking table tennis tournament of the year will get underway on Friday. The venue has been shifted from Sree Kanteerava Stadium to Malleshwaram Association after the State government announced the conduct of Rajyotsava Day cultural events at the Stadium on November 1. With 114 players entering the competition instead of the usual 150-odd number, matches will be held over two days instead of three days which were originally set aside. KTTA secretary TG Upadhya said COVID-19 negative certificates weren't mandatory but stringent temperature checks would be carried out. Aryan, Avani win golf event Aryan Roopa Anand and Avani Prashanth emerged the teen boys' and girls' champions respectively at the RBG Champions Golf Development Tour which concluded at the Prestige Golfshire here on Thursday. The results (winners all): Boys: Teen (15-18): 215 Aryan Roopa Anand (70, 73, 72); Teen (13-14 yrs): 141 Kaushal Karupakula (69, 72); Junior (10-12): 162 Ishnidh Virdi (88, 76); Amateur overall: 213 Akshay Neranjen (70, 71, 72). Girls: Teen & Amateur (15-18): 226 Avani Prashanth (79, 75, 72); Teen (12-14): 154 Tanishka Prithvi (81, 73); Junior (10-12): Anoushka Suresh Kannan.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘CSK done in by over-reliance on seniors’||Chennai Super Kings’ unflinching reliance on experience over youth has been its undoing this IPL season, said West Indies batting icon Brian Lara, urging the franchise to give its younger lot a chance in the remaining games. “I think they (CSK) have got a lot of older players. There are not any young players coming through the line-up. You look at it. Even their overseas players, they have been around for a long time,” Lara said on Star Sports’ ‘Select Dugout’ “So, they have backed experience over youth, and this has really turned upside down for them,” he added. It is the first time M.S. Dhoni and his men have failed to clear the league stage, having managed only eight points so far after four wins. The three-time champion’s poor run this season has put a question-mark on its approach, leading to heavy criticism of Dhoni, who has been accused of not showing enough faith in the youngsters. “It’s just an unbelievable season so far. You know, every time they turn up, we’re very hopeful that CSK is going to turn it around,” Lara said. “We all came here thinking this was going to be the time when Dhoni turns things around with his team. And game after game, it just went, and they just kept hoping. “But it’s a situation where they can just to try to build from next year. In the few coming games that they have, see what they can do with the younger players they’ve got,” Lara said.  I think they (CSK) have got a lot of older players. There are not any young players coming through the line-up. You look at it.
30 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hyderabad, Marabella FCs in strategic tie-up||Indian Super League side Hyderabad FC announced a strategic tie-up with Spanish club Marbella FC, with the clubs signing a three-year association. The Andalusia-based club currently plays in the Segunda Division B, having narrowly missed out on promotion last season. “Marbella FC has one of the top infrastructure facilities in not just Spain, but entire Europe. “This strategic tie-up allows us to explore a lot of opportunities which will help Hyderabad FC on the technical side of the game,” Hyderabad FC co-owner Varun Tripuraneni said on Thursday. “For starters, the top young players in our first and reserve team will head to Marbella for an extended training period, once travel opens up,” he said in a statement. Through this tie-up, Hyderabad FC shall be at liberty to avail the facilities and infrastructure of Marbella FC to conducting pre-season for HFC’s first team players, and will also have the opportunity of utilizing its medical personnel and facilities. “The facilities and infrastructure will offer a great level of exposure for our players and the idea is to provide medium to long term training experience and not just a short camp,” Varun said. “This alliance with Hyderabad FC is a source of pride for Marbella FC. It will allow us to be in contact with one of the most important clubs from an emerging football market,” Marbella FC general manager Hector Morales said.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Abhinav Bindra launches sports medicine institute||Olympic champion Abhinav Bindra has taken another big step towards strengthening Indian sports with the opening of a sports medicine and research institute in Bhubaneswar. The Abhinav Bindra Sports Medicine and Research Institute (ABSMARI) will offer four-year Bachelor of Physiotherapy and two-year Masters of Physiotherapy courses, with different specialisations. The objective of the venture, which promises to combine theory with practical exposure, with an affordable fee structure, is to develop professionals who can serve in sports academies, hospitals and other related fields. “The sports industry is growing in India, something most evident in the Odisha sporting ecosystem,” said Bindra. “The next 10 years will create a demand for professionals that channel an athlete’s potential, and provide support in making World champions. “With ABSMARI, we hope to empower Indian physiotherapists and sports scientists to learn from the best and be a part of this movement,” said Bindra. “Through visual learning and state of the art labs in place, students can hope to fast-track their learning, as well as gear themselves for continuous professional development,” said Dr. Joseph Oliver, dean of the institute. Further details can be had from www.absmari.com .
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||India likely to back Barclay for top post||The BCCI is likely to back the candidature of New Zealand’s Greg Barclay over Singapore’s Imran Khwaja in the elections for the ICC chairman, a post vacated by India’s Shashank Manohar after two terms in July this year. Barclay and Khwaja are the only two candidates contesting for the chairman’s post and the 16-member all-powerful ICC Board is set to vote in the first week of December.  While hectic back-channel talks are on to find a unanimous candidate and put up a picture of unity among the Board of Directors (mostly comprising of member nations), it is highly unlikely that Khwaja will have the backing of the Indian cricket board. More aligned “The BCCI is more aligned with New Zealand Cricket (NZC) and those who matter in Indian cricket board find Barclay as a more suitable candidate for the post. Also Khwaja’s policy positioning isn’t exactly in favour of Indian cricket,” a senior official, privy to developments in ICC board, said on conditions of anonymity. “But one month is a big time in cricket’s administrative politics. If Khwaja can come around and probably be on the same page with the BCCI, you never know. Barclay, with his focus on bilateral cricket, is more acceptable to India,” the veteran administrator, who has seen many a board room battles, said.
30 October 2020||Nur Sultan (Kazakhstan),||Divij loses in quarters||Divij Sharan and Luke Bambridge lost 6-3, 7-5 to second-seeded Max Purcell and Luke Saville in the doubles quarterfinals of the $337,000 ATP tennis tournament here on Thursday. Divij and partner collected 45 ATP points and $3,230.  The results:   $337, 000 ATP, Nur Sultan, Kazakhstan: Doubles (quarterfinals): Max Purcell & Luke Saville (Aus) bt Luke Bambridge (GBr) & Divij Sharan 6-3, 7-5.   Pre-quarterfinals: Marcelo Arevalo (Esa) & Tomislav Brkic (Bih) bt Frederik Nielsen (Den) & Rohan Bopanna 6-7(5), 7-6(3), [10-5].   € 44,820 Challenger, Hamburg: Doubles (quarterfinals): Dustin Brown (Ger) & Jamie Cerretani (US) bt Luca Margaroli (Sui) & Sriram Balaji 6-4, 6-4.   €44,820 Challenger, Marbella, Spain: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Carlos Taberner & Benabe Zapata Miralles (Esp) bt Purav Raja & Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-2, 6-4.   $15,000 ITF women, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: First round: Rutuja Bhosale bt Bianca Jolie Fernandez (Can) 7-6(6), 6-1.   $15,000 ITF men, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: First round: Francesco Vilardo (Ita) bt Arjun Kadhe 6-4, 6-4; Oleksii Krutykh (Ukr) bt Sidharth Rawat 6-7(5), 6-3, 6-2.   Doubles (quarterfinals): Vladyslav Manafov (Ukr) & Arjun Kadhe bt Alexander Donski (Bul) & Max Houkes (Ned) 6-3, 3-6, [10-4] .
30 October 2020||BENGALURU,||Philippe-Padikkal combo a big positive: Katich||The emergence of Australia’s Josh Philippe as a promising opening partner for Devdutt Padikkal was the biggest positive from Royal Challengers Bangalore’s five-wicket loss to Mumbai Indians on Wednesday, Head Coach Simon Katich said. The 23-year-old Philippe, who had come in for an out-of-form Aaron Finch, scored a 24-ball 33 and combined with Padikkal for 71 runs. Great start  “The two youngsters at the top were a big positive. They got us off to a great start. At one stage it looked like we were going to get well on top with the bat, but unfortunately young Josh was stumped and it sort of slowed [us] down.” Mohammed Siraj, who had wreaked havoc with the new ball the last time RCB played in Abu Dhabi, did not open the bowling. But Katich said the presence of two left-handers in Quinton de Kock and Ishan Kishan played a part. “Sometimes it is because of the conditions and sometimes the match-ups. With two left-handers the skipper felt we had to get [Washington] Sundar into the game and he did a very good job. Siraj did get us wickets later but unfortunately it wasn't meant to be.”  Siraj did get us wickets later but unfortunately it wasn't meant to be Simon Katich Head coach, RCB
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Wisdom to dispel delusion||From the accounts in the puranas there emerges some kind of explanation on issues such as the cause of creation, cosmology, multi universe theory, galaxy, and so on. In the third Skanda of the Devi Bhagavata purana, Janamejaya confesses to Vyasa that his mind is confused about these matters. Vyasa tells him that earlier he too had such doubts and that he had approached Narada for clarification. Then Narada had told him that in former times he too had pondered on these matters and then went to Brahma for explanation. In a discourse, Sri K. Srinivasan drew attention to the significance of these weighty questions that have baffled even rishis and realised souls. Janamejaya wants to know about Devi, and how she was born and what is her nature. How did this entire Brahmanda, not merely the world where we live, come about? Who is the root cause of all this? Who created the Trimurtis, Brahma, Vishnu and Siva? Do they function independently? Who created the celestial beings such as Indra, Agni, Varuna, etc? These deities seem to be bound by Prakriti and gunas and experience joy and sorrow. They seem to be subject to a higher authority when they perform their respective duties. Brahma, Indra and other celestial beings are also bound by time; for, they reign for a specific period that may appear longer in the view of human beings but nevertheless is limited. Janamejaya is also confused about dharma. He wants to know the true characteristics of dharma and what differentiates it from adharma. For, if the devas are inherently endowed with satva guna and aligned to dharma, why is it that they have to fight when attacked by the sinful rakshasas. He hopes the sage will impart wisdom. He hopes to clear the delusion in his mind.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||Uday Bhan Academy claims Turf Youth Cup||Half-centuries by Vansh Vedi (60) and Suaib Gani (58) and four wickets by left-arm spinner Manan Bhardwaj helped Uday Bhan Academy beat Rohtak Road Gymkhana by 59 runs and win the Turf Youth Cup under-17 cricket tournament. Vedi was declared Man-of the Match while Bhardwaj was Man of the Tournament.  The scores:   UBA 217 in 38.5 overs (Vansh Vedi 60, Suaib Gani 58, Ashish Kumar 38; Anshul Sehrawat 4/47) bt RRG 158 in 39.2 overs (Shreshth Yadav 51; Manan Bhardwaj 4/39).
30 October 2020||new delhi,||Simran’s six goals highlight Jindal Panther’s win||Simran Shergill scored six goals in helping Jindal Panther to a 7-1/2 goals to 7 victory over Sona Polo in a league match of the Indian Masters 14-goal polo tournament at the Jindal Farm in Noida. In another match at the Jaipur Polo ground, Rajnigandha Achievers outplayed Cavalry-Velocity-48 9 goals to 1-1/2.  The results (league):   Jindal Panther 7 1/2 (Simran Shergill 6, Phil Seller, handicap 1/2) bt Sona Polo 7 (Jack Richardson 4, Siddhant Sharma, Angad Kalaan, Sunjay Kapur).   Rajnigandha Achievers 9 (Padmanabh Singh 3, Daniel Otamendi 3, Kuldeep Singh Rathore 2, Gaurav Sahgal) bt Cavalry-Velocity-48 1 1/2 (Arjun Patil, handicap 1/2).
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Stay strong and patient: Shastri tells Suryakumar||Indian team coach Ravi Shastri has urged Suryakumar Yadav to “stay strong and patient” after the Mumbai Indians batsman impressed against Royal Challengers Bangaore despite the heartbreak of being ignored for India’s tour of Australia. “Surya namaskar. Stay strong and patient @surya_14kumar #MIvsRCB,” tweeted Shastri. His innings earned praise from several former stars with ex Indian opener Virender Sehwag saying it won’t be long before Suryakumar dons the Indian jersey. “Bandey mein hai Dum. Jaldi number aayega no doubt. 3 blockbuster seasons in a row. Brilliant innings from Suryakumar Yadav and a wonderful win for Mumbai. #MIvsRCB” Sehwag tweeted. “What a knock by @surya_14kumar! Don’t know what else he can do to wear the national colours! Brilliant knock a treat to watch and hope to see you do the same in the Indian colours soon! #MIvsRCB #IPL,” former chairman of selectors Kris Srikkanth tweeted. “Important win for @mipaltan. Fantastic innings by @surya_14kumar. Calm and composed as ever. Way to go!,” Sachin Tendulkar said in his tweet.
30 October 2020||Abu Dhabi,||Morris and Hardik reprimanded||Royal Challengers Bangalore all-rounder Chris Morris and Mumbai Indians’ Hardik Pandya have been reprimanded for a verbal altercation during their teams’ IPL clash here on Wednesday. The incident happened in the 19th over of MI’s chase when Hardik struck Morris for a massive six and gestured towards the South African. Morris got his revenge when he dismissed Hardik off the fifth ball of the over and gave him a send-off. A press release from the IPL said both had admitted to a breach of the Code of Conduct.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 08:59 IST,||Sudoku - October 30, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Aflame, eternally||It’s autumn all over Europe and America now. Everywhere you look on social media: Instagram, Facebook, Nature photography blogs, the grandeur and glory of autumn leaves stare you in the face. “I am so glad I live in a world where there are Octobers” writes LM Montgomery in Anne of Green Gables . October is the most acclaimed season of the year in certain countries because of the ubiquitous fall colours of red, maroon, pink, orange, yellow and gold. Chennai may not have a set autumn October but the hues of many tree species growing in the city usher in the feeling of Fall almost throughout the year. Certain plants produce more red pigments that mask the usual green foliage colour. These plants in the path of powerful sunlight develop vivid colours, which is the normal principle behind the blooming of bright flowers. In the city, these flame colours are visible in both common avenue trees and rare plants locked up within private gardens. The most familiar ones that put forth leaves of autumn hues are mango, country almond and peepal. While the red shining foliage turns back to green in mango and peepal, the bright leaves in the country almond senesce from green to rich red shades and litter the ground beneath. The swaying of the copper-tinged young peepal leaves is a sight to behold. Given their commonality and richness of the coloured pigments, it often makes me wonder whether natural dyes or food colouring can be extracted from these leaves! A small tree often hidden as a rare exotic in home gardens is Surinam cherry. Its leaves, when young and sprouting, display a thorough red sheen. Similarly, the first sight of life in the shaving brush tree are young maroon leaves, on what would erstwhile be stripped branches resembling rotten wood. The trees are found in a few private gardens in Nungambakkam, Cathedral Road and Adyar. When in Adyar, you can also spot the red barringtonia, a freshwater mangrove tree. Also found in Luz and Vedanthangal, these trees produce young flushed red leaves that mark the beginning of a new season, generally in October and April. The Malabar ebony in Guindy and Saidapet also burst forth brilliant red young leaves. If you wish to enjoy an exclusive autumn in your own backyard, try planting the cannon ball tree, a species quite common in the city. But the most classic of them all is the rare, visually-striking, deciduous lac tree ( kusum ) found in very few places in Chennai including Adyar and the Botanical Garden on Cathedral Road. The canopy it provides is straight out of a painting, with diverse hues of red and orange. Amidst an unforeseen pandemic of this magnitude, these colours bring hope, reminding us of the permanence of change. As Robert Frost once wrote, ‘Sing a song of seasons! Something bright in all! Flowers in the summer, Fires in the fall!’
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Sturdy, sustainable sips||October 3, 2017 was a special day for Professor Saji Varghese, who teaches English, Design Thinking, Innovation and Social Entrepreneurship at Christ University in Bengaluru. As he walked around his campus, he noticed a few fallen coconut leaves. What struck him was a unique curl to the withered leaf, almost resembling a drinking straw. That eureka moment led to three years of research and design, and birthed Sunbird Straws, the first multi-layered coconut straws to hit the market. “We sent samples of these straws to 10 countries during the last one year and now have potential orders of 25 million straws. We have one operational centre in a village near Madurai, employing six women, but are looking to expand to eight centres in three months, employing 121 women across coastal India,” explains Saji. Meanwhile, at Bengaluru-based startup Evlogia Ecocare. Founder, Manigandan Kumarappan, says proudly, “We started production in January 2019 with three employees producing 150 straws a day. Now we have grown to produce more than 10,000 straws a day with 15 staff members.” Raw materials are organised at centres in Madurai, Palani and Dindigul where women self-help groups are supported by the TVS Arogya Trust and other NGOs. Over 90% of their straws are exported to the US, Canada, the UK, Australia, and Germany. Grounded in method Both these startups make it a point to ensure that all their straws are made from fallen — not plucked — coconut leaves. It is a meticulous, multi-step, mechanised process, supervised by the staff, explains Saji. First, the leaves undergo a three-stage cleaning process. They are then cut according to specific width — regular straws with 4 mm diameter; bubble tea straws 12 mm in diameter and so on. The leaves are scraped and rendered into spools, fed into long, spiral rolling devices to make the multi-layered straws, and then cut into standard and customised lengths. Then, they go through a sterilisation process and are packed for sale. Adds Saji, “A wax bursting system preserves the natural wax of the straws, rendering them waterproof, and they have a natural outer and inner anti-fungal wall. This enhances shelf life to nine months and they stay steady in beverages for six hours.” Though these straws are not that common a sight in the market yet, they are raking in laurels already. For both of them, 2020 has been a good year. Sunbird Straws has been selected under the PACE incubator programme, powered by the RKVY-RAFTAAR scheme, of the Ministry of Agriculture and Family Welfare, receiving a grant up to Rs. 25 lakh. It has also been chosen for the Shine programme by Swiss Re for 2020, which entails a six-month mentoring programme and a non- equity grant of Rs. 15 lakh. Evlogia emerged winner at the Circular Innovation Jam 2020 and won plaudits for Best Business plan at the Big Leap 2020 event as well. Receiver’s end Evlogia is partnering with a Noida-based business to provide leafy straws to coconut vendors, making the thirst-quenching experience an environmentally-responsible one as well. In Bengaluru, zero-waste juice shop Eat Raja offers most of its juices in fruit cups, with no straws. But founder Anand Raj says Evlogia’s leafy straws won him over. “A friend supplies these single-layer coconut straws that most of our patrons love. They are good for tender coconuts and great for the planet.” Neena Gupta, founder of Karmic Seed, an online distributor of sustainable tableware, is happy that she found Sunbird Straws, “I fell in love with these straws when I first used them. They are durable and don’t get soggy like paper straws. The fact that they are made from agri-waste makes me happy, since valuable resources are not being over utilised.” Saji has also secured orders from five-star hotels within India and beverage chains with operations overseas. The next stop is retail, across e-commerce websites. To Saji, the most important contribution of Sunbird Straws is the intersection of sustainability and rural development, “Using agri-waste, we prevent combustion of these dry leaves, that release harmful gases into the air, and once used, the straws are compostable. We employ people who live off the land, and impart technological and operational training, while incorporating soft skills, financial literacy, and engaging the employees in programmes of physical, mental and emotional well being, through interventions from experts and interns from relevant departments of Christ University.” For Evlogia, the next stop is production of airtight take-away boxes fashioned out of areca sheets, and banana fibre cups, all with the two-pronged focus of replacing plastic and supporting the rural economy.  For details, visit https://evlogiaeco.com or send an email to info@sunbirdstraws.com.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Dress up the stars||Chaitanya Rao has a grouse. Most people know him as a designer. “But only few know me as a costume designer,” says Chaitanya who has just finished working on Reunion , one of the stories in the recently-released Putham Pudhu Kalai , a collection of five short films on Amazon Prime.Reunionsaw him working with Leela Samson, Andrea Jeremiah and Sikkil Gurucharan. Since it was shot during various stages of lockdown, sourcing garments was a challenge. “Everything was shut. Luckily, I had managed to get a few options from Hyderabad and the rest were borrowed out of Andrea and Leela mam’s wardrobe,” he laughs. This particular short was directed by Rajiv Menon. “I felt like life had come a full circle because I first started out as an assistant costume designer for Minsara Kannavu , which was also directed by Rajiv,” says Chaitanya, who wants to work on a period film someday. With 50-plus movies to his credit, the city-based designer has done it all; from fixing a garment in a few hours to redoing an entire look for a song in one night. “When it comes to creating your own fashion line, you have the luxury of taking three to four months to design a collection. The whole dynamic changes when you are working on a film,” he says. He feels that it is important to remember to not use the entire collection on an actor just because one is the costume designer for a film. “What you create should incorporate the brief of the director while keeping in mind the actor, choreographer and your aesthetics,” he explains. The time factor is also a major difference between the two worlds he straddles. “Fashion is what you want to showcase: you are looking at one season ahead. But for films, it is important to create a timeless look because sometimes they can take up to two years to get completed,” he says. With a crop of newcomers entering the world of styling, the experienced designer has a word of caution: With a lot of brands now available in the city, it might be easier to source clothes and accessories but make sure the look you put together doesn’t look like something you’ve picked off a store.” Despite being part of the fashion and film industry for nearly two decades and having worked with popular actors like Trisha, Asin, Simran, Madhavan and Mahesh Babu, Chaitanya believes there is no room for complacency. “You have to constantly make sure there is a freshness to their look. They can’t end up looking like clones,” says the costume designer, who is currently on the Nayanthara-starrer Netrikann and an untitled project with Jayam Ravi and Taapsee Pannu. In Netrikann , Nayanthara plays a visually challenged girl, so her clothes had to be practical. “In movies, we usually use a lot of fitted outfits with zips at the back and other such details but here these had to be clothes that are easy to slip on and are fluid,” he explains. Even little details like the wristwatch worn by Nayanthara had to be researched; Chaitanya sourced an easy-to-slip-on watch from the US. “It has a button that opens the glass on top so the wearer can touch and feel the time. These are things we don’t realise and take for granted. Hopefully, after the film releases, it’ll make a difference for the visually challenged here,” he adds. His calender is packed. Juggling a couple of films at the same time plus attending to clients is demanding, he confesses, adding, “I do not want to let any of them down, even if it means working from 4 am to 9 pm everyday, which is my current operating schedule.”
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A pal in need||Growing up in a farming family in Ahmednagar district, Maharashtra, Karan Hon has personally experienced the travails of Indian agriculture. “There was a lot of poverty in my village, because farmers used expensive traditional practices for cultivation, but never got the right price for their crop. There was no transparency in the wholesale market’s pricing. I found that disappointing,” says Hon over phone. So in 2017, Hon, who graduated in Mechanical Engineering, decided to quit his 20-year career in leading corporate companies and co-founded FarmPal Technologi in Pimpri-Chinchwad, Maharashtra, with Puneet Sethi and Ganesh Hon. Their aim: making agriculture beneficial for both farmer and consumer. Supplying fruits and vegetables to Pune and Mumbai, besides supermarkets in Karnataka, FarmPal wants to bring a more level playing field for growers, sellers and consumers. “In the traditional market and supply chain model, middlemen are taking away all the benefits. Farmers don’t get even one-third of what the consumer is actually paying for the produce. This is where agri-tech startups can help,” he says. Payments are made electronically to the farmer, ensuring financial security. FarmPal used the lockdown to create employment opportunities as well. “When our regular employees got stranded in their hometowns, we found a solution by asking construction workers nearby to join us as helpers for sorting, grading and delivery,” Hon says. The other step was to get the public involved in distribution. “We reached out to apartments and building societies, and formed partnerships with residents to collect orders from their building and pass them on to us. We make a contact-less dispatch to the tenant partner, who would then be responsible for last-mile delivery,” he says. With no investment required by the distributors, this model has helped partners, mostly homemakers, senior citizens and the newly unemployed during lockdown, earn Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 25,000 in shared revenue with FarmPal. Over 1,000 families in Pune have been covered by the project, which is being also tested in Mumbai.  Even before the lockdown, agri-tech companies had begun streamlining fresh produce procurement and sales in the country. According to a 2019 NASSCOM report, India has more than 450 agri-tech start-ups growing at a rate of 25% annually. These companies have boomed during the lockdown as they have been able to quickly step into the breach created by the dismantling of the traditional market-supply chain. FarmPal’s business has grown at 50% year-on-year, with a network of over 2,000 farmers and produce sourced from western Maharashtra and central Madhya Pradesh. “We had some problems soon after the lockdown’s announcement in March, but eventually, since we already had the technology, we were able to deal with the disruption. We called up the farmers and reassured them that we would take their produce to the consumer even though the markets were closed,” says Hon. Besides fulfilling orders in Pune and Mumbai, FarmPal also managed to export fresh produce to West Asian countries during critical periods of the lockdown. “Before COVID, we used to sell 15 to 20 tonnes of fruits and vegetables daily. In the early stages of lockdown, it dropped to 10-12 tonnes. Now we are returning to our earlier range,” says Hon. Changing ethos Hon says the pandemic has brought about a sea change in the attitudes of both growers and consumers. “Consumers are now accustomed to expecting high levels of hygiene and nutrition in their food. This means that the amount of chemical fertilisers and pesticides used in agriculture should be controlled,” he says. Technology will help track the life cycle of crops, from planting to harvest, hopefully making it easier to gauge its safety, says Hon. “We are working on collecting the data and explaining it to the consumer. The pandemic has taught us that we have to change the way we eat.”
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Heritage, alone no more||Historical hubs around the country have been quiet through most of 2020. With the lockdown to combat COVID-19 on, no curious visitors or researchers ambled through hallways. Though Unlock 5 saw the opening of tourist sites, including museums, footfall numbers are controlled. Yet, museums are more on the pulse than ever before; many have shifted their archives online to a multimedia format. One of the proponents for this shift is Google Arts & Culture (GAC), which showcases a few of Salar Jung Museum’s exhibits, such as ‘1601 — 1900: Textile Treasures: Shawls and Sarees’ and ‘501 AD — 2019: A Game of Thrones — How Chess Conquered the World.’ Nagender Reddy, director, Salar Jung Museum , Hyderabad, explains that from June to August, they got an average of 500 online visits per day. Before the lockdowns, each day would observe single-digit views. In another exhibit, a crowded canvas shows a bustling Indian marketplace where soldiers gather in front of a hookah stall. Online, the commotion, takes the form of an auditory experience as one sweeps the cursor across the work. Everything from overlapping voices of loud vendors to the ambient hue and cry of the crowd is heard. Elements — like detailing on the face of a woman at the stall — can be magnified on screen and through speakers. Soldiers in the Hookah Stall and Commotion in the Bazaar, dated between 1775 and 1800 and believed to have been from the school of the famous artist Nainsukh, is one of many from the impressive collection of National Museum, Delhi, that Google Arts and Culture makes easily accessible. In its recently launched Life in Miniature exhibition, commendable — yet otherwise unnoticeable — detailing in Indian miniature paintings comes alive through Artificial Intelligence and Augmented Reality. The National Museum houses one of the largest collections of miniature paintings in India. Says Simon Rein, program manager, Google Arts and Culture, “When we saw the miniature paintings at the National Museum, we were amazed at the level of detail and precision, despite their size. We thought it would be fantastic to use technology, like ultra-high-definition robotic cameras, to help people everywhere appreciate flourishes that you wouldn’t be able to see well with the naked eye.” Google uses machine learning to detect minute details such as horses, earrings and flowers, from the database of miniature paintings. “With these details, we are able to find connections among artworks that are hundreds of years apart,” says Simon, adding, “You can immerse yourself in Indian Miniatures while hearing classical music or sounds related to the scenes.” The team has been curious to explore what machine learning can do as a tool in the hands of artists, museums or curators. “We invited creative coders — think of someone between a software engineer and an artist — to experiment together at our lab in Paris,” says Simon. Google also runs Poly, a 3D object rendering suite, that was used by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya, Mumbai for virtual exhibition Kashti Kinara  on India’s coastal communities and boat makers. Cleverly, the museum’s interiors are featured prominently, and the walkthrough is VR-ready, provided the viewer has a VR set. When museums come together Some entities have always been online, like the Virtual Museum of Images and Sound (VMIS). Headed by Pradeep Mehendiratta and Purnima Mehta, the eight-year-old Gurugram-based online museum is supported by the Ministry of Culture, and comprises the diverse resources of two image and sound archives of American Institute of Indian Studies — Center for Art and Archaeology (CAA) and Archives and Research Center for Ethnomusicology (ARCE). This combined infrastructure enables collaborations with more international historians and audiences. One of their more striking audiovisual collections is Mapping Music. Essentially a Google Maps of India, it has interactive music notes distinguishing a given area’s signature music — Sufiana Qalam of Kashmir, Mand court music of Rajasthan, Jatra of Odisha, and Chaudike Pada of Karnataka. VMIS continues to gather more sounds. This exhibit is a reminder that — investing power into AI and VR of organisations such as GAC aside — something as simple as a modified map can offer swathes of learning. VMIS also dabbles in 3D rendering technologies. They have a YouTube channel where people can ‘visit’ places. Another virtual walkthrough is of the 10th-Century Ambika Temple, Rajasthan. The animation was created by the architectural documentation team of the CAA. The design is minimalist, with animated emphasis on North Indian architecture vernacular like antarala (space in front of the sanctum door) and mukhacatuski (entry porch). Big investments That said, websites need to be supported by a vigilant back-end team as more layers of technology are added, says Ankit Vohra, a website developer who has worked with the Tate Modern in London. “As websites see more traffic, the UX [User Experience] is then compounded by ads so that the museum makes a profit, therefore the marketing of the museum becomes more digital. Museums have to consider the investment into security for these websites, not only to protect the visitor but to also ensure that valuable data is not stolen or downloaded illegally.” Offering a nod to this transition, Nagender points out that Salar Jung’s priority is to keep people informed of what is at the museum, and not forget that museums at these points in time are very relevant, especially during a pandemic — also a historic event.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||In the prison called memory||Each time period bears multiple distinct strands of history. Mid-19th Century Tamil Nadu that saw a people who spoke a language unknown to the locals, is no different. When Joe Thomas Karackattu, Assistant Professor at IIT-Madras and faculty in-charge of the China Studies Centre there, went on a trail spanning three countries, namely India, Hong Kong and Malaysia, this particular strand is what he followed: the Chinese inflow into the South of the Vindhyas. And the starting point of it all was tea. The Nilgiris, now a geographical indicator for tea, has an important connection with the Chinese. By visually documenting the lives of those Chinese who travelled to South India, and later made India their home, Joe puts his academic research into a documentary titled Those 4 Years . The narration is initially built around the arrival of Robert Fortune, the Scottish botanist known for introducing plants from China and Japan into British gardens. He had brought with him eight workers from Shanghai to teach native farmers in East Garhwal to grow tea, owing to the high demand around the time. Then, the narrative takes a different course. Remnants of the past  Some of those tea manufacturers are believed to have stayed back after their three-year contracts... Joe’s voice-over echoes over a montage of maps and tea plantations. The documentary, interspersed with interviews and montages of yellowing, old documents, starts with the Ajoo family recounting tales about their forefathers, who were involved in tea plantations in the South. However, that is not the only thread the researcher follows. A story that runs in parallel is that of the Chinese convicts who were brought to the Nilgiris from the Strait Settlements, as labourers. “There were many other accounts relating to South India that were yet to be explored. A lot of people have done work on the history of tea in general... how it came to parts of northern Assam, and then to South India, and how coffee got wiped out… But there was very little work tracing the Chinese connections we had,” says Joe. While the arrival of tea and the British movement of penal labour to different sites in India are points of interest, exploring the specifics of it, Joe thought, would be a valuable contribution. And for this, he had to “burrow deep into the archives”. “People do have anecdotal references [to share],” says Joe. For instance, at one point in the movie, while debating whether the Chinese had a hand in the production of Lawrence School, Udhagamandalam, a faculty member mentions that when he was a student there, he was often given Chinese coins as pocket money to use in tuck shops. “But, I wanted to go threadbare into where these stories fit in the archives. That’s when I started this journey,” says Joe. Conceptualising a research product into visual representation is what constituted the three years; the reading that went to it, took longer, adds Joe. “I think, as a researcher, especially as one based in South India, it is very important to tell the stories that have not been told.” Negotiating tough terrains and unprecedented logistical challenges — even stopping for food at a tea shop and getting bits of unanticipated information — gives one life lessons to remain “levelled”. The contrast between the difficult mountain ways of the Nilgiris and the fanciful, opulent Hong Kong skyline, served this purpose. The second half of the movie in which Joe sets off on a journey to dig out documentary evidence to show the inflow of Chinese convicts from the Strait Settlements, further solidifies all anecdotal references. “For any researcher, that is the thrill!” However, locating these convicts’ descendants and jogging their memory was a challenge. “It is unfair of us to expect them to give us any material information about their fourth or fifth generation ancestors,” says Joe. It is then a researcher’s task to make sense of their powerful oral history through concrete evidence.  The film will be screened at Hong Kong Baptist University in 2021. Visit the page Those4Years on Facebook to get updates.   A story that runs in parallel is of the Chinese convicts brought to the Nilgiris from the Strait Settlements, as labourers
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Masterchef paati||In 1955, a young Shantha Ragavan from Thanjavur visited her grandmother in Madras and learnt to cook. Her grandmother oversaw her roasting a small pumpkin on the stove, which was then immersed in water to remove the skin. On an ammi (a traditional stone slab used for grinding) she ground sautéed dried red chillis, a ball of tamarind and salt. She added the peeled pumpkin and ground again, thus making her first-ever dish — pumpkin thogayal . Her father-in-law dotingly named her vaathiyar (master) for her cooking prowess with dishes like kondakadalai kozhambu (chickpeas), arisi vadai (rice vada s)  and pongal . Sixty-five years later, Shantha has made her YouTube debut with her grandson, 24-year-old singer RP Shravan, to document the recipes she learnt in her early life. Their channel is called Shantha Paati Samayal, and Shravan curates, shoots and edits on his smartphone. An ardent singer, first runner-up in Super Singer Season 2 and among the top seven in Indian Idol Season 9 , he sings popular devotional songs for his grandmother’s videos, amalgamating the music with her recipes. From 2,000 subscribers in 2019, the channel has 88,000 subscribers now, drawn in by 34 videos that detail out not only recipes but also other kitchen tasks. The most watched video, with over 7.6 lakh views, is on How To Cut Cabbage. Shantha  uses lucid and conversational Tamil while explaining the recipes (there are subtitles for those who do not understand), and Shravan clears doubts from the background. He says, “I try to figure out possible doubts and spontaneously ask paati , for the benefit of newbies watching the videos, who may have similar questions.” Camera savvy Shantha  finishes her shot in one take, without any script. She says she owes it to her acting experience, as the heroine’s grandmother in Tamil film Thirumanam Ennum Nikkah .  In every video, she insists on one important aspect — zero wastage. When making arisi vadai , buttermilk invariably remains as a leftover. She urges her viewers to soak chopped banana stem in that buttermilk, to retain their colour, instead of throwing it away. She also narrates a life experience with every dish. Many comments read, “Watching paati gives us immense pleasure, like seeing our own.”  Says Shravan, “Festivals are classified based on gender, like Navratri being a women-centred one. To break that stereotype, I am cooking in this series.” Shantha is proud of her grandson’s finesse in cooking: “Shravan learns the recipes just by observation. The house is filled with the aroma of the rasam he makes.” Shravan adds, “Before learning music, I used to play with cooking vessels as a toddler, and peek at my grandmother’s cooking in the kitchen.” Shravan and hispaatiare now chalking out a Deepavali series, where they will be making sweets and savouries. Before that, they plan to post a video on puliyodarai , which is repeatedly requested by viewers. The project takes effort, but Shantha is clearly enjoying the process. She says, “When I saw the first video of my recipe, I became so excited that I felt my age reverse to 18 from 81.”
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A thought for your pennies||For Chetan Dube and his family from Delhi, weekends meant catching the latest Bollywood release at the multiplex followed by a lavish dinner at their favourite restaurant. “This used to be a routine of sorts. After a week’s work, it was time to blow up some money and unwind,” he says. Then came the lockdown. The enforced lifestyle change brought extra savings that Chetan has resolved to “invest creatively”. His new-found love is indoor gardening, something his two young children have also taken a liking for. “After all, isn’t pleasant home décor way more satisfying than fast food?” he asks. With the pandemic clipping our wings, spending and savings patterns have changed. People are now embracing the idea of saving for the future by making smart investments out of the unexpected gain. There are no more impulse outings or shopping trips now for Maris Urumeese from Mangaluru. “Since March, I have spent zero money on new clothes. My husband Robin Jose and I have begun to experiment more with cooking at home,” says the dental college lecturer. She does not mind shelling out a bit of extra cash on some fancy vegetables or an exotic fruit at the supermarket, since their monthly expenses have come down. “I have also opened a recurring deposit from the additional savings I make,” she adds. Kitchen is where the heart is for Shuvaranjan Sinhababu from Kolkata as well. However, he calls for the need for a “nest egg” during the pandemic. “There’s anxiety about having to save for any potential medical expenses. Recently, I heard about a family that ran up debts after treatment for COVID,” he adds. The pandemic has been harsher to those whose livelihood took a beating. Anticipating a slump in business, AL Senthil Kumar from Chennai, who runs a graphic design studio, has started investing in online gold trading. “You may call this a side business, but it has helped me through,” he says. Senthil keeps himself updated on market trends thanks to investment apps. “There is of course a potential risk but if you are aware of the market behaviour and invest judiciously, you can reap dividends,” he says. After a rather “quiet” few months, he is gearing up for some grand online shopping for Deepavali.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A piece of the city, in motion||The window bars arrange themselves into a geometrically satisfying grid as two heads pop out, anticipating an update on why the train has halted. A regular sight captured on a whim during a train ride to Gokarna, this is one of Shruti Parthasarathy’s most cherished photographs. A mixed media frame, on the other hand, shows the Chennai GPO towering behind the illustration of an auto-rickshaw by Shiva Kumar. Such unique frames confirm that the most missed aspect in the ‘new normal’ is the hustle and bustle of public transport. Chennai Photo Biennale’s arts learning initiative CPB Prism (@cpbprism) recently launched a hashtag-led open call on Instagram #TicketToRide, in collaboration with Storytrails, to encourage people to look back and reminisce. Though they have closed the campaign, the 50-odd entries received had interesting stories (from Lisbon to Chennai) to tell. For instance, Sneha’s frame of a lady, her hair adorned with flowers, in a moving bus invokes a sense of nostalgia for those days when all of us were scrambling for time in a busy world. “We wanted to initiate something positive,” says Sakshi Shraddha, education programme coordinator at CPB Prism, adding, “We realised that everybody has been missing public transport.” During the lockdowns, its importance was appreciated more as many struggled to get to their workplaces or move about. Apart from that, buses and trains are meeting spots for friends everyday. “Now, we know how much we actually need them and what happens when we don’t have them,” says Sakshi. Since it is still not entirely safe to use public transport now, they encouraged people to send photographs from their archives. “We also wanted them to tell the story behind the pictures. When they look back at these images, the memories come rushing back,” adds Sakshi. In addition to personal stories, historical trivia on the location dug up by Storytrails, is also featured.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping it simple||When the lockdown started, Aswini Ramesh, a final year student at the School of Excellence in Law, Taramani, noticed that a lot of people were looking up information pertaining to law, online. “There was an increase in demand for details on family and property law, will or testament, and on court proceedings,” says the 22-year-old, over phone from Chennai. She then realised that there are very few reliable resources on law online. Which is why she decided to launch lawrewired.in, a website that aims at simplifying legal concepts. “The idea is to make people aware of their duties and remedies, so that they do not suffer at a later point in time,” says Aswini. “Once, a well-educated person who held a position of authority, asked me about divorce alimony; another wanted information on a joint will since their grandfather was unwell; a friend’s brother, who was the family’s sole breadwinner, passed away in an accident and they had no idea about third party insurance claim,” she says. The website, launched this August, has 22 law students behind it, with a core team of four, all of whom worked from home during the lockdown to build it. “The research is guided by an advisory board that consists of seven people that includes academicians and lawyers,” she says, adding: “We are not-for-profit, and do not have plans to monetise our initiative for now.” Aswini points out that her team has kept the language on the website simple, so that people from all walks of life can understand law as well as their rights. She hopes that her portal empowers people. “When, as a victim, I have nowhere to go, I need to know what I can avail to save myself.”  For details, visit www.lawrewired.in
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Homing in||This one gives freshness to life itself. It has comedy, it is about travel, friends, reunion and of course a beautiful love story at the centre. Javed saab and Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy gave the joy of their poetry and music. For me, the movie is wholly entertaining, I don’t care about what I take back from it.   This movie brings out positivity in you. I love all Rajkumar Hirani’s films and my favourite scene from this film is when Chatur reads the letter... comedy loses its essence after a few times, but this one is so brilliantly shot that even when you watch it many times, you find there is still some humour hidden in it. 3 Idiots is something I don’t mind revisiting multiple times.   I am a huge fan of action thrillers and there are many I have seen, but as a big fan of Denzel Washington, I caught up with Safe House during the lockdown and enjoyed it. Even the music by Ramin Djawad is so beautiful and the story, is very captivating.   I would have seen Welcome some 15-20 times and love watching it again. For me, films become favourites when I watch them again and again. This film is a favourite also because my daughter used to love watching this film...she did not understand at that point probably but she used to watch. Even now we all watch this film as a family and we know the scenes and dialogues by heart.   It brings back childhood memories. Apart from the fact that this movie has comedy, action and the legendary icon Amitabh Bachchan ji and Hema Malini ji , for me, the songs ‘Dilbar Mere’ and ‘Pyar Hamein Kis Mod Pe...’ had a strong impact. I would always repeat ‘Hai’ at the line ‘Ke dil kare haye…’ Those days families were full of brothers and sisters and there was some reliability even from that angle.   This movie is bursting with positivity. I love all Rajkumar Hirani’s films. My favourite scene from this film is when Chatur reads the letter. Comedy may lose its essence after a few times, but this one is so brilliantly shot that even when you watch it repeatedly, you find there is still some humour in it. 3 Idiots is something I don’t mind revisiting multiple times.   This one brings about freshness. It revolves around travel, friends, reunion and has comedy and a beautiful love story at the centre. Javed saab and Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy provide us with the joy of their poetry and music. For me, the movie is wholly entertaining, I don’t care about what I take back from it.   It brings back childhood memories. Apart from the fact that this movie has comedy, action and legendary icons like Amitabh Bachchan  ji  and Hema Malini  ji  , for me, the songs ‘Dilbar Mere’ and ‘Pyar Hamein Kis Mod Pe...’ had a strong impact. I would always repeat ‘Hai’ at the end of this line ‘Ke dil kare hai…’   I am a huge fan of action thrillers and there are many I have seen, but as a fan of Denzel Washington, I caught up with Safe House during the lockdown and enjoyed it. The story is captivating. Even the music by Ramin Djawad is beautiful.   I have watched Welcome 15-20 times and love revisiting it. For me, films become favourites when I watch them repeatedly. This film is also a favourite because my daughter used to love it, though she did not understand much at that point. Even now, we watch this film together as a family and we know the scenes and dialogues by heart. We would love to know how you are keeping busy at home. Tell us what you are tuning in to, at metro@thehindu.co.in.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Take Me Home||Just last week, their very existence was threatened until they were rescued and taken to safety. Today, Bun and Bagel are enjoying the comforts, playtime and the wholesome love they are getting in their foster home. This brother-sister duo is six weeks old and ideally to be adopted as a pair. Call9840615209.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Sturdy, sustainable sips||October 3, 2017 was a special day for Professor Saji Varghese, who teaches English, Design Thinking, Innovation and Social Entrepreneurship at Christ University in Bengaluru. As he walked around his campus, he noticed a few fallen coconut leaves. What struck him was a unique curl to the withered leaf, almost resembling a drinking straw. That eureka moment led to three years of research and design, and birthed Sunbird Straws, the first multi-layered coconut straws to hit the market. “We sent samples of these straws to 10 countries during the last one year and now have potential orders of 25 million straws. We have one operational centre in a village near Madurai, employing six women, but are looking to expand to eight centres in three months, employing 121 women across coastal India,” explains Saji. Meanwhile, at Bengaluru-based startup Evlogia Ecocare. Founder, Manigandan Kumarappan, says proudly, “We started production in January 2019 with three employees producing 150 straws a day. Now we have grown to produce more than 10,000 straws a day with 15 staff members.” Raw materials are organised at centres in Madurai, Palani and Dindigul where women self-help groups are supported by the TVS Arogya Trust and other NGOs. Over 90% of their straws are exported to the US, Canada, the UK, Australia, and Germany. Grounded in method Both these startups make it a point to ensure that all their straws are made from fallen — not plucked — coconut leaves. It is a meticulous, multi-step, mechanised process, supervised by the staff, explains Saji. First, the leaves undergo a three-stage cleaning process. They are then cut according to specific width — regular straws with 4 mm diameter; bubble tea straws 12 mm in diameter and so on. The leaves are scraped and rendered into spools, fed into long, spiral rolling devices to make the multi-layered straws, and then cut into standard and customised lengths. Then, they go through a sterilisation process and are packed for sale. Adds Saji, “A wax bursting system preserves the natural wax of the straws, rendering them waterproof, and they have a natural outer and inner anti-fungal wall. This enhances shelf life to nine months and they stay steady in beverages for six hours.” Though these straws are not that common a sight in the market yet, they are raking in laurels already. For both of them, 2020 has been a good year. Sunbird Straws has been selected under the PACE incubator programme, powered by the RKVY-RAFTAAR scheme, of the Ministry of Agriculture and Family Welfare, receiving a grant up to Rs. 25 lakh. It has also been chosen for the Shine programme by Swiss Re for 2020, which entails a six-month mentoring programme and a non- equity grant of Rs. 15 lakh. Evlogia emerged winner at the Circular Innovation Jam 2020 and won plaudits for Best Business plan at the Big Leap 2020 event as well. Receiver’s end Evlogia is partnering with a Noida-based business to provide leafy straws to coconut vendors, making the thirst-quenching experience an environmentally-responsible one as well. In Bengaluru, zero-waste juice shop Eat Raja offers most of its juices in fruit cups, with no straws. But founder Anand Raj says Evlogia’s leafy straws won him over. “A friend supplies these single-layer coconut straws that most of our patrons love. They are good for tender coconuts and great for the planet.” Neena Gupta, founder of Karmic Seed, an online distributor of sustainable tableware, is happy that she found Sunbird Straws, “I fell in love with these straws when I first used them. They are durable and don’t get soggy like paper straws. The fact that they are made from agri-waste makes me happy, since valuable resources are not being over utilised.” Saji has also secured orders from five-star hotels within India and beverage chains with operations overseas. The next stop is retail, across e-commerce websites. To Saji, the most important contribution of Sunbird Straws is the intersection of sustainability and rural development, “Using agri-waste, we prevent combustion of these dry leaves, that release harmful gases into the air, and once used, the straws are compostable. We employ people who live off the land, and impart technological and operational training, while incorporating soft skills, financial literacy, and engaging the employees in programmes of physical, mental and emotional well being, through interventions from experts and interns from relevant departments of Christ University.” For Evlogia, the next stop is production of airtight take-away boxes fashioned out of areca sheets, and banana fibre cups, all with the two-pronged focus of replacing plastic and supporting the rural economy.  For details, visit https://evlogiaeco.com or send an email to info@sunbirdstraws.com.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A pal in need||Growing up in a farming family in Ahmednagar district, Maharashtra, Karan Hon has personally experienced the travails of Indian agriculture. “There was a lot of poverty in my village, because farmers used expensive traditional practices for cultivation, but never got the right price for their crop. There was no transparency in the wholesale market’s pricing. I found that disappointing,” says Hon over phone. So in 2017, Hon, who graduated in Mechanical Engineering, decided to quit his 20-year career in leading corporate companies and co-founded FarmPal Technologi in Pimpri-Chinchwad, Maharashtra, with Puneet Sethi and Ganesh Hon. Their aim: making agriculture beneficial for both farmer and consumer. Supplying fruits and vegetables to Pune and Mumbai, besides supermarkets in Karnataka, FarmPal wants to bring a more level playing field for growers, sellers and consumers. “In the traditional market and supply chain model, middlemen are taking away all the benefits. Farmers don’t get even one-third of what the consumer is actually paying for the produce. This is where agri-tech startups can help,” he says. Payments are made electronically to the farmer, ensuring financial security. FarmPal used the lockdown to create employment opportunities as well. “When our regular employees got stranded in their hometowns, we found a solution by asking construction workers nearby to join us as helpers for sorting, grading and delivery,” Hon says. The other step was to get the public involved in distribution. “We reached out to apartments and building societies, and formed partnerships with residents to collect orders from their building and pass them on to us. We make a contact-less dispatch to the tenant partner, who would then be responsible for last-mile delivery,” he says. With no investment required by the distributors, this model has helped partners, mostly homemakers, senior citizens and the newly unemployed during lockdown, earn Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 25,000 in shared revenue with FarmPal. Over 1,000 families in Pune have been covered by the project, which is being also tested in Mumbai.  Even before the lockdown, agri-tech companies had begun streamlining fresh produce procurement and sales in the country. According to a 2019 NASSCOM report, India has more than 450 agri-tech start-ups growing at a rate of 25% annually. These companies have boomed during the lockdown as they have been able to quickly step into the breach created by the dismantling of the traditional market-supply chain. FarmPal’s business has grown at 50% year-on-year, with a network of over 2,000 farmers and produce sourced from western Maharashtra and central Madhya Pradesh. “We had some problems soon after the lockdown’s announcement in March, but eventually, since we already had the technology, we were able to deal with the disruption. We called up the farmers and reassured them that we would take their produce to the consumer even though the markets were closed,” says Hon. Besides fulfilling orders in Pune and Mumbai, FarmPal also managed to export fresh produce to West Asian countries during critical periods of the lockdown. “Before COVID, we used to sell 15 to 20 tonnes of fruits and vegetables daily. In the early stages of lockdown, it dropped to 10-12 tonnes. Now we are returning to our earlier range,” says Hon. Changing ethos Hon says the pandemic has brought about a sea change in the attitudes of both growers and consumers. “Consumers are now accustomed to expecting high levels of hygiene and nutrition in their food. This means that the amount of chemical fertilisers and pesticides used in agriculture should be controlled,” he says. Technology will help track the life cycle of crops, from planting to harvest, hopefully making it easier to gauge its safety, says Hon. “We are working on collecting the data and explaining it to the consumer. The pandemic has taught us that we have to change the way we eat.”
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Brace yourselves!||A global pandemic, online school, lockdowns with your pesky brother, fires in the Amazon, floods, and fights along our border… 2020 is on a roll, and the year isn’t even over yet. I am all set to cast my vote in favour of 2020 being the suckiest year in the history of humankind. I mean, find me a year worse than 2020 and I’ll give you my pesky brother. Don’t want him, you say? Well, I thought it was worth a shot. Well, apparently there have been worse years in the history of history. For example, if you had been alive during 536 CE, you would have been witness to two massive volcanic eruptions that covered the Earth in a super-dense fog that blocked out the sun. This led to an off-the-charts temperature drop, and it was so cold that it apparently snowed during the summer. Also, because the weather was so bad and so cold, the planet didn’t produce enough crops to feed everyone. Oh, and all this was the precursor to the Justinian plague that lasted for about 20 years. (Universe, if you’re listening, PLEASE don’t let COVID-19 last that long. I beg you.) More in store It only makes me wonder: what does 2020 have in store for us over the next few months? Do you think things are going worsen? What could possibly be worse than what we’ve been living through, for the last seven months? A giant, planet-eating asteroid hits the Earth? We are attacked by alien overlords who are way smarter than the aliens in Hollywood movies and we all end up becoming worker drones for them in their giant intergalactic hive? Or maybe, COVID-19’s big sister pays us all a visit? The possibilities are endless, and each is potentially worse than the other! I was getting pretty worked up thinking of all the terrible things that could happen to us between now and January 2021. And it was not good for me. It was so bad that I actually did my Physics homework to distract myself. Yeah, it was that bad. I wish I could say the distraction worked, but it only stressed me out about how little attention I’d been paying during Physics class. What’s worse? Failing your Physics midterm, or being swallowed by a giant, planet-eating asteroid? Ooh! Maybe if a giant, planet-eating asteroid swallowed us before the Physics mid-term, I’d have a way out. Well, kind of! Think happy thoughts, people. There’s really no point in thinking awful ones. Trust me.  I cast my vote in favour of 2020 being the suckiest year in the history of humankind.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Ghosts Use Facebook Meet the ghost||The story so far: Nana will meet the children in his own bedroom, which is the site of strange happenings. What will they find when they go inside?  “I see you’ve brought Fuzz a treat!” Maya giggled, as Rocky retrieved Mickey. “Mean Maya,” said a cross Rocky. “Then, why bring Mickey along?” “Mummy’s going out too. Mickey can’t stay alone with hungry cats prowling around the neighbourhood!” At six, the doorbell rang. “Maya,” whispered Rocky, his face stuck in a pillow. “Why would Nana ring the doorbell?” “Why would he use a door?” hissed Konica. Maya poked her head out of the door and saw her mother speaking to Rocky’s mother. “She must have come to tell aunty something before leaving for the market,” sighed Rocky. Then they heard the front door click. “She’s gone!” whispered Rocky. Maya’s mother had disappeared too. “Perfect!” Konica stood up. “Let’s get into Nana’s bedroom. You say ‘hi’ to him, I’ll get a selfie with him, and, Rocky, be quick with your alien questions.” Maya tapped the door. “What do you expect, Maya?” Konica grunted. “Nana to say ‘come in’!”  Come inside, children.  Spooked out They felt their innards twist. When they went in, Maya and Rocky stared in disbelief at their mothers seated on Nana’s bed. “Didn’t I say, no Facebook?” Mrs. Sharma said. Since Maya had earlier operated Nana’s Facebook account from her mother’s device, the notifications showed up. All along it had been Maya’s mother responding in Nana’s name. “See? Didn’t I tell you both that there was no ghost? But no! You all wouldn’t believe me,” grunted Konica. “But, aunty, I still don’t understand. Maya told us you brought a glass of milk for Nana.” “Why do you keep this room always locked?” Maya spoke, finally. Mrs. Sharma laughed. “All the answers are under Nana’s bed.” Hesitantly, the children bent down for a look. “Kittens!” they squealed. Konica dragged the cardboard box out. Inside was Fuzz, curled with three white-and-black fuzz balls. “Fuzz had kittens on Nana’s bed. I didn’t want you to disturb them until they were older, so I kept the door locked,” explained Mrs. Sharma. “And you cuties have been drinking a lot of milk,” said Maya. Once everyone had left, Maya expected her mother to scold her, but she was surprised. “No computer classes, Maya!” “Really?!” Maya hugged her. “And we’ll spend evenings together. Doing things you enjoy. Like you and Nana did together.” “Nana and I did Facebook together!” she squealed.  The End.   Maya tapped the door. “What do you expect, Maya?” Konica grunted.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A harmonious meal||When in Japan eat like the Japanese. This means, you need to taste their centuries-old traditional, simple and healthy meal — Washoku, which means ‘Japanese cuisine’. Interestingly, the Chinese character that denotes ‘Japanese’ also means ‘harmony’, which is the basic principle behind Washoku. Harmony of ingredients, nutrition, presentation and traditional knowledge. A washoku meal follows the principle of “ichi ju san sai” — “one soup, three side dishes”. So, the meal consists of a bowl of rice, accompanied by miso soup — produced by fermenting soya beans, salt and other spices — and side dishes made with a variety of seasonal ingredients. Initially, due to the Buddhist influence0, meat was forbidden but later the Japanese embraced sea food, and more recently beef and pork. On the menu Washoku included vegetables and seafood dipped in a light batter and deep fried, famously known as tempura. Noodles — like soba (long, thin noodles made with buckwheat flour) and udon (thick and chewy white flour noodles) served in fish broth known as oden — are an inherent part of the meal. Nikujaga (meat and potatoes), kabocha no nimono (pumpkin in soy sauce and dashi broth), and buri daikon are some of the dishes made using a slow-cooking technique called nimono. Other popular dishes include Sashimi (thinly sliced raw fish, sushi, tsukemono), pickled vegetables, and Yakizakana or grilled fish. Japanese cuisine avoids oil and fat, paving the way for a healthy lifestyle. Social significance Besides food, Washoku is also about the traditions and practice including the structure of the menu, plating, and the use of traditional cutlery. Most importantly, the meals are served with omotenashi, the country’s renowned hospitality rules. The rice is served in a small bowl called the chawan. Each item of the main course is served in tiny plates known as sara or in a bowl known as hachi. Etiquette demands that the side dishes must be in individual plates or partitioned on a plate by leaves. Washoku survived the radical political, social and economic changes in Japan and made it to UNESCO’s List of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity in 2013. Fun fact: Fugu, the Japanese pufferfish, contains one of the world’s most potent toxins. Fugu chefs must be licensed to remove the potentially deadly organs. Despite the risk, around 10,000 tons of fugu is eaten annually in Japan, where it is considered a winter delicacy.  Japanese cuisine avoids oil and fat, paving the way for a healthy lifestyle
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The lazy dragon||“Get up, Slothy. Don’t you want to join your siblings in learning how to breathe fire?” wondered the mother dragon. “Please, mummy, let me sleep in just a little more. I know how to breathe fire,” muttered Slothy, turning the other way. Slothy loved to sleep, watch television, and play games on his mobile phone. What he did not enjoy was learning anything: from breathing fire, to building stamina to fly fast and far. Slothy’s parents encouraged and motivated him, but he was a little couch potato. One day, Slothy’s mother pushed him to go outdoors to get some fruit from the forest. Reluctantly, he agreed. The trees were dense, the flowers were pretty, the birds were chirping and the earthy smells were refreshing. But Slothy just wanted to get back to his TV show. At the campfire Plodding through, he arrived at a clearing, where some children were enjoying themselves around the campfire. “Wow, a dragon! Are you a real dragon?” they called. “Of course. I am a fire-breathing dragon,” said Slothy proudly. “We’ll believe you when you blow out fire for us,” said one child disbelievingly. “Here you go,” and Slothy puffed. But nothing happened. He tried again, but again, no fire. “You’re not a real dragon,” the children taunted him. “But, see, I can fly.” Slothy flapped his wings and lifted himself just a little above the ground. Plonk, he fell right down. “Little dragon, don’t fool us. Learn to blow fire and fly, and then come back to us,” the children chuckled. With tears rolling down his cheeks, Slothy returned home and locked himself in his room. He felt humiliated. He decided that he would learn to be a real fire-blowing and flying dragon. From that day, he diligently learnt all that his father taught his siblings and practised hard. In the beginning, he couldn’t breathe fire, but his father reminded him that only with regular practice would he learn to breathe fire, and soar high and fast. Sometimes, he made mistakes or failed at a task, but he continued to try repeatedly. One day, while collecting fruits for his family, Slothy reached the same camp site. This time, there were two families who looked upset. Slothy went closer to see what the matter was. A little girl yelled out “Look, a fire-breathing dragon. He could help us!” They had forgotten to bring their matches and couldn’t cook on the campfire. Help at hand Slothy said that he could surely help. He mustered up his strength and puffed once. There was a spark but not quite enough. Slothy remembered his father’s teachings and took a moment to collect his thoughts and focus on the task. This time, when he puffed, he blew out a hot stream of fire on the logs and lit the camp fire. The little girl and other campers thanked Slothy. They roasted their marshmallows and had a great time. Seeing them so happy, Slothy was elated. Waving goodbye, he soared high in the sky, realising that practice indeed makes perfect.  He did not enjoy learning anything: from breathing fire, to building stamina, to flying fast and far.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Nothing ordinary about them||Film: The Addams Family (2019)   Genre: Animation, Family  Families may be very different from each other, but the mysterious Addams family is certainly not like any other family. On the night of Morticia and Gomez’s wedding, an angry mob tries to ruin the ceremony of people it sees as freaks. The couple run away as soon as the wedding is over and move to New Jersey to hide from society. Thirteen years later, Morticia and Gomez are the parents of Wednesday and Pugsley and now live in isolation in a mansion atop a hill that is surrounded by a marsh and a fog that keeps them hidden. As Gomez prepares Pugsley for his upcoming Mazurka, a rite of passage every Addams family member undergoes, Morticia struggles to keep Wednesday from wanting to experience the outside world, as the fog around their home begins to clear, thereby exposing them to the world. Trouble trouble TV show host Margaux Needler — who stars in her own home makeover show and is responsible for designing the town of Assimilation, which prides itself on being a perfect town located very near the Addams residence — discovers the Addams’ home. When she realises that their eerie hilltop mansion is standing in the way of her dream to sell all the houses in the town, she determines to get rid of them. What becomes of Margaux’s schemes and plans, as the rest of the Addams’ family from around the world are set to visit them for Pugsley’s ceremony? Does Wednesday’s curiosity lead her into trouble? Trivia: The movie ends with an animated recreation of the intro of the original 1964 TV show of the same name.  Wednesday has a pet octopus named Socrates, which was called Aristotle in the original show and was owned by Pugsley.  The coming-of-age ceremony Mazurka is named after a lively Polish folk dance.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Animal lives||Would anyone want a crocodile as a pet? Arun does. And when he does get one, it eats up all his butter chicken. Now, what’s he to do? Another weird pet lover is Karthik, who loves all birds of prey and is thrilled to get a kite as a birthday present. Which kite is it? When a leopard chases and kills a zebra in LiveFree, where the animals live in perfect harmony, it causes trouble for the two friends Leo and Zero. Meet animals and humans of all shapes and sizes in The Crocodile Who Ate Butter Chicken for Breakfast and Other Stories by Khyrunnisa A. This collection of stories of animals and people, their exciting lives and funny antics is humorous and perfect for all readers, including animal lovers.  GETLUCKY  Here’s a chance to win a a copy of the book. Answer this question and the first five correct answers will get a copy of The Crocodile Who Ate Butter Chicken for Breakfast and Other Stories by Khyrunnisa A.  The crocodile in the title story is a mugger, which is one of the crocodiles found in India. Can you name the two other kinds of crocodiles found in the country?  Mail your answers to youngworld@thehindu.co.in and don’t forget to include your name, class, school, city, and parent’s contact details. The entry has to reach us before November 18. The contest is open to kids between std. II and VIII.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Into the deep blue sea||The ocean is considered our life support system, as it regulates our climate, absorbs the dangerous carbon dioxide, and generates the oxygen we need to breathe Did you know that oceans too have boundaries? The official border of the Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean is at Cape Agulhasin, South Africa. The Indian Ocean meets the Pacific Ocean off the islands in Indonesia and to the South of Tasmanian Australia. The Pacific Ocean meets the Atlantic waters south of Cape Horn, which is the southernmost tip of Tierra del Fuego in South America. The deepest ocean area is found in the Mariana Trench in the western Pacific Ocean near Guam. It has a depth of 35,827 ft! The Deep Sea starts about below 656 ft below sea level where the sunlight fades away. Did you know that about 84% of all ocean water is part of the Deep Sea? About 243,000 animal species live in the world’s oceans and account for roughly 16% of all the species discovered so far on our planet. Coral reefs are referred to as the nurseries of the oceans, as they are hotspots of biodiversity. The highest biodiversity is found in the Pacific Ocean. The biggest ocean island is Greenland. The Pacific Ocean houses 25,000 islands, which can be divided into three main groups: Micronesia, Melanesia and Polynesia. The ocean has rivers and lakes in it. In fact, Denmark Strait’s waterfall is below the Atlantic Ocean at 11,500 feet under. The Strait’s cold water on the eastern side is more dense than the warm fluid coming from the west. When the two mix, the colder supply sinks, creating a waterfall. Up to 80% of volcanic eruptions go unnoticed, as they happen underwater. More than one million volcanoes — some extinct and some very active — spew molten hot lava beneath the surface of the ocean. Dead zones are areas in the ocean that cannot sustain any sea life, as they are low in oxygen. They are naturally occurring and are referred to as hypoxic.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Spooky special||Across  1. Soul, psyche (6) 6. Spewed out of a volcano (4) 7. Turns orange in autumn (4) 8. No longer alive (4) 10. Mischievous devil (3) 11. The Egyptians believed in the ____life (5) 13. Loud, frightening sound made by an animal (4) 15. Ashen (4) 17. ____stein: the monster that came to life (6) 18. Creepy (5) 19. Apparition (5)  Down  1. Builds webs (6) 2. A great new thought (4) 3. “Trick or ____?” (5) 4. Has pointy ears (3) 5. Drinks blood (7) 9. When the light goes out (8) 12. Written on tombstones (3) 14. The ____wolf appears on a full moon night (4) 16. Topmost room in the house (5) 17. An animal’s curved tooth (4)
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Why do they add alcohol to sanitiser?  A sanitiser contains water, which acts as a carrier for the other ingredients like an emolient that keeps the skin from drying out; a polyacrylate that blends with water to form a gel; a fragrance; and at least 70% alcohol because it is an effective antiseptic and breaks the fat-based covering of some bacteria and viruses killing them. The efficiency of alcohol against germs has been known from the 14th century, when good-quality liquor was used to clean wounds. Alcohol used in sanitisers is called rubbing alcohol and such sanitisers have been included in the World Health Organization’s List of Essential Medicines.  How does an avalanche occur?  An avalanche is also called a snow slide. As the name suggests, a layer of snow falls and slips down the slope of the mountain, gathering with it snow, ice, stones and other material on the way. There are many triggers for an avalanche: natural factors like high wind, warm temperature, heavy rain, earthquakes and also human ones like the vibration from machinery or vehicles like snow mobiles, loud calls, and snow sports. A steep slope, heavy snow cover, a weak layer in the snow and a trigger are the main causes. The steeper the slope, the worse the avalanche. An avalanche can slide downhill at a speed of up to 90 km per hour.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Design Young World Cover||Are you a budding artist? Do you like to draw, colour and paint? Then this is your chance to be a part of our Special issue for Diwali and Children's Day. Express yourself through your art. Create one cover that best expresses both the celebrations. The best work will be the cover for the November 14 issue! Students from Std II to Std VIII are eligible to take part. A few other best entries will also be featured. Dimensions:Width: 24 cm Height: 23 cm Last date:October 31 Size and quality:300dpi Subject:Mention ‘Young World Cover’ in the subject line  Send your entries to  youngworld@thehindu.co.in
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Bharatanatyam and the Bhonsle connect||Sucheta Bhide Chapekar was just another Maharashtrian Bharatanatyam aspirant in Bombay in the 1960s, when her guru Acharya Parvati Kumar discovered to his delight a book of Marathi songs, Korvaiyache Sahithyache Jinnas, written by King Serfoji II. The songs were composed in Carnatic style, but without notation. In her teens then, Sucheta recollects being part of this excitement. During her arangetram, two pieces, alarippu and jatiswaram, were from different nirupanas in the book. She learnt about 30 songs from her guru. “In 1969, we presented all 18 pieces of a Nirupana for the first time in Bombay, and in 1972 we were invited to the Music Academy Sadas by Dr. V. Raghavan. Journalist V.V. Prasad and NCPA’s Dr. Narayanan Menon were of great support,” says Sucheta. Drawn to delve deeper into this sahitya, Sucheta says that while everyone knew the war history, no one knew the cultural history of the Bhonsle kings, who ruled 300 years ago in Thanjavur. In 1972, she received a grant and went to the Saraswathi Mahal Library, Thanjavur, a treasure house of manuscripts, to study further. “I took up King Shahaji II’s compositions; I found palm-leaf and paper manuscripts of independent compositions and prabandhas, a dance opera like Yakshagana, with different kinds of darus and padas in Marathi, but all were not in Devanagari script. The palm-leaf manuscripts were in Telugu.” The dancer had to learn the Telugu script, but luckily there were Telugu pandits there to help. “I sat for such long hours there I still remember the smell of the library,” she says. Compositions like the Salamu Daru in praise of different deities had information on the swara prayogas of ragas popular at that time (Soratha, Ghantarava, etc). It was also evident that these were performed in temples as ritualistic dances. King Shahaji’s darus were rhythmic musical compositions, with sollus, swaras and sahitya. The padas only had lyrics — shringara padas, bhakti padas, vairagya padas, etc.; and the language used was old Marathi, along with Sanskrit and Tamil. Unique line up “I needed someone with an authentic knowledge of vintage compositions and ragas to help me compose the pieces. I had met the revered Guru Kittappa Pillai, a musicologist and a descendent of the Thanjavur Quartet, at Acharya Parvathi’s house. When I approached him, he readily agreed to help.” Hailing from Thanjavur, Kittappa Pillai knew traditional dance pieces and rare ragas, and was even aware of the existence of a Marathi repertoire. “He composed the nritta part of the Shahaji pieces; the sahitya part he left to me,” says Sucheta. “I have retained his nritta compositions in the abhinaya darus, jakkini darus, theermanams, etc. He was a great proponent of the vilamba kala nritta; I have adapted that into my style, as I understood the beauty of lines unfolding gradually.” Dr. Raghavan introduced the dancer to Sangita Saramrutha, written by Shahaji’s brother Tulaja, which mentions the adavu sampradaya, establishing its existence 300 years ago. In 1974, Sucheta performed at the Music Academy. She included eight compositions from Shahaji’s Thanjavur Nritya Prabandha.  After marriage, Sucheta moved to Pune and performed in small towns across Maharashtra, where she found that no one had even heard of Bharatanatyam. The use of Marathi songs did not help as they were rendered in the Carnatic style. “To make my art accessible, I started performing Natya Sangeet songs from Marathi theatre,” she says. The first song she choreographed was ‘Tandav Nrutya Kari Gajaanana,’ a Marathi invocation. In 1985, Sucheta also choreographed Bharatanatyam pieces set to Hindustani music, calling them Nritya Ganga. It was to teach these pieces that she set up Kalavardhini with like-minded artistes. Sucheta believes in artistic individuality rather than categorising classical as traditional and contemporary as creative. “Classical can allow you to be at your creative best while sometimes the contemporary can be mundane. You need to understand aesthetic values according to the time and space,” she says.  The Chennai-based author writes on classical dance.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Musical landscape||Emperor Ashoka’s rock edicts are the inspiration for T.M. Krishna’s latest work. Though the inspiration is epigraphical and not architectural, ‘The Edict Project’ obliquely recalled for me the long and intertwined history of music and architecture. While the musicality of Krishna’s project seems forced, architecture and music have long inspired and informed one another in myriad ways, linked as they are by rhythm, proportion, harmony, and the emotional effects they have on their audience. Indeed, terms and disciplines like ‘sound architecture’ and ‘music archaeology’ are ample proof of their overlap and mutuality. Their correlation is best enshrined in a dictum attributed to Johann Wolfgang von Goethe: ‘Music is liquid architecture; architecture is frozen music’. But the affair goes back way beyond Goethe. In fact, the first interconnections can be traced back to ancient Greece, where Greek temples and coliseums were designed to proportional principles that would not only create supreme architectural beauty but also reveal ‘the music of the heavenly spheres’. Often built around musical performances, these ancient Greek structures were created with the best acoustic environments. Similar traditions followed in grand European cathedrals such as the one at Notre Dame in Paris. The ceremonial architecture was intended to mirror and complement the liturgical activities of the Christian church, and also reflect its power. Medieval Europe was full of instances of what may be called architectural polyphony. In fact, Greek philosophers were already wondering if the ‘colours’ of music could be quantified. And Isaac Newton suggested that musical notes and the tones of colour might share common frequencies, something Goethe too discussed in his book, Theory of Colours.  Closer home, the stone masons and sthapatis of ancient India created some glorious examples of the congruence of the two arts. Many ancient south Indian temples such as the Vijaya Vittala temple in Hampi, Karnataka; Lepakshi temple in Andhra Pradesh; and Nellaiappar temple, Alwarthirunagari temple, and Adi Kumbeswarar temple in Tamil Nadu have extraordinary stone pillars that emit musical notes when struck. In fact, the Indian sculptural traditions use the cchanda (poetic meter) principle of scaling while many forms of Indian music have the meru (vertical elevation) principle of scaling, showing how these disciplines often mirror each other. Like most histories, those of music and architecture also start against sacred backgrounds. Before the secularisation of music, most of it was created for religious purposes to be performed in religious spaces. However, both arts have long transcended those boundaries and are now found in ordinary and everyday contexts. And when architecture and music are used in tandem, some remarkable works of art are born. In the picturisation of the song ‘Let it go’ from the animated film Frozen (2013), Elsa builds a magical ice castle to the tune of her song, raising a wall, a column, a spire with every note of her voice.  Music and space are intertwined in many such examples from pop music such as ‘Brick by Brick’ by Train (2009), and ‘Palaces’ by Nelly Furtado (2017), to name a couple. Last year, the German indie rock band, LIONLION, released a music video for their song ‘Oceans Rise’, which was inspired by the Bauhaus style of architecture. The reduced, minimalistic design vocabulary of the video reflects the famous German school that celebrated its centenary in 2019. In 1995, Grammy-winning American blues performer Henry Saint Claire Fredericks, whose stage name is Taj Mahal, teamed with Vishwa Mohan Bhatt on the mohan veena and N. Ravikiran on the chitravina to record the album titled ‘Mumtaz Mahal’. For Chicago’s Access Contemporary Music company, architecture-inspired music is serious, regular business. Each year, they commission composers to create works based on the city’s most remarkable spaces such as the Carr Chapel, the Union Station, International Museum of Surgical Science, Sedgwick Studio, and the Elks National Memorial. The commissioned works are collated for a performance during Open House Chicago, an annual weekend where citizens tour those buildings while listening to the music pieces that inspired them. Such collaborations come closest to that perceptual phenomenon called synaesthesia, where one “sees” a note or “hears” a colour. And the rich permutations from such intersections can be endless if we keep our minds open to the possibilities.  The author is a culture writer and   an Interfaith Studies scholar.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Composer of our times||It is 25 years since the Hindi film Rangeela released. It also marks 25 years of composer A.R. Rahman’s association with the Hindi film industry. Bollywood, known for its pomp and show, was stumped by this quiet and diminutive composer, who worked out of a small and unpretentious studio in Chennai. He hardly spoke, and unlike most other debutant composers, made no grand presentation of his tunes. In fact, by his own admission he watched too much television and even missed the deadline to turn in his songs. He was unusual in more ways than one. Asha meets Rahman Recollecting her first meeting with Rahman during the recording of the ‘Rangeela’ song, veteran singer Asha Bhosle says: “In that dark, small studio, the lyrics were handed to me and the composer sang the tune. I decided not to disappoint the youngster. So, I dressed up the tune and we recorded the song. There was no objection to any of the improvisations I made. He thanked me, and I left.” Months later, when Ashaji listened to the song, “I couldn’t believe my ears. What he had done with it was stunning. I thought here was a composer who could imagine a song not just musically, but also technologically.” The Roja moment The late S.P. Balasubrahmanyam felt the same after the recording of ‘Kadhal Rojave,’ the song from Rahman’s first independent assignment, the Tamil film Roja (1992). “How can a cinematic song be produced in this studio?” SPB had wondered on seeing the cubicle-like space. Like Asha, he eventually admitted that this composer could transform the very sound of a song. In the early part of 1995, the dubbed Hindi versions of Roja and Bombay had already set the stage for Rahman, but Rangeela defined him in a big way. He radicalised an industry that had quite definitively fixed its aural idiom. He yoked seemingly opposing musical syntaxes, different styles and worldviews, clearly establishing himself as unique from the beginning. Rahman defied categories of pathos, joy and romance and wove multiple moods into a song. Having worked in the southern film industry for several years, he was aware of the film music tradition, but was under no compulsion to stick to convention. Instead of catering to the market, he created a new one.  Rangeela is clearly among Rahman’s best even after 25 years. The sheer variety of compositions is remarkable. Rahman’s strategy was wonderful: to rope in all the top singers — Asha Bhosle, Kavitha Krishnamurthy, Suresh Wadkar, Chitra, Udit Narayan and Hariharan. Just as what he had done with ‘Chinna Chinna Aasai’ ( Roja ) with the singer Minmini, he introduced relatively lesser-known voices like that of Shweta Shetty and Swarnalatha. He also broke standard narratives. If you listen carefully to the introductory passage of ‘Mangta Hai Kya,’ you will recognise it is tonally different from the rest of the song. In fact, the song works in different scales, registers and styles, giving us a glimpse of what Rahman would do in the future. The rap bit popped in as a surprise in the peppy ‘Rangeela’ song. Rahman packed such unanticipated moments into every song of the film. Striking a balance Rahman was clearly carving out his space, but he did not dissociate himself from the melodic tradition. For instance, in ‘Tanha Tanha’ (Asha Bhosle), a song with a new age tune, he suddenly introduces a Carnatic grace. The operatic style of violins contrasted with the flute and violin overlays before the first antara; or the lush violin passages before the second, are clear indications of Rahman placing himself in the tradition. He does something similar with ‘Hai Rama’ (Hariharan and Swarnalatha) — the song opens to the tanpura drone, with faint strains of the Purya Dhanashri bandish, ‘Payaliya Jhankar’. Drawing intensity from both the bandish and the raga, Rahman gives a sensual texture to the song. ‘Pyaar ye jaane kaisa hai’ (Kavitha Krishnamurthy and Suresh Wadkar) strikes you for its absence of rhythm. It has a seamlessly flowing melody with brilliant solo violin passages. The sitar and wistful alaap juxtapositions are unforgettable. But just as one gets familiar with his style, Rahman departs from it and throws in a surprise. Striking a balance between innovation and tradition, Rangeela sets the stage for everything that in the later years came to be known as quintessential Rahman. He overwhelmed you with style and sound, and captured the aspiration of India’s new music audience. It is another story how this avant garde musician changed not only how music was conceived, but also its practices. Two years after Rangeela came Rahman’s independent album, Vande Mataram . In its techno-pop avatar, Rahman fuelled the idea of a modern India, global in its ambition.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Breathing life into Sanghakkali||Sanghakkali, traditionally performed by the Namboodiris as a ritual, is one among several rare art forms of Kerala that is fast vanishing. Of the 32 groups that used to perform it not so long ago, today there remains just one. To save the art from extinction, a team of youngsters created the Kizhiviri Chathira Sangham of Anjoor in Thrissur district. Says Poongad Narayanan Namboodiri, one of the group’s functionaries, “Many veteran practitioners of the art form are no more. Hence, we started this organisation to preserve this tradition.” Trained in Carnatic music at the Chembai Music College, Palakkad, Narayanan is assisted by his cousin Cherumittam Prasanth, a theatre activist. They have a advisor in Dr. P. Sankaranarayanan, former principal of Sree Krishna College, Guruvayur, who was the first to be awarded a Ph.D for his thesis on Sanghakkali in 1992 by the Calicut University. Family rites Sanghakkali was performed in Namboodiri homes during the ‘shodasa kriyas’(16 rites) as well as in Shiva temples. The ritual begins with kottichakam pookal , the traditional welcome extended to the team by the head of the family. After a short invocation, keli , a traditional announcement by a percussion ensemble, is presented along the lines of Kathakali. Next is pathram kotti aarkkal , literally meaning ‘shouting along with drumming on a vessel’. A vatta chembu (large circular copper vessel) is placed on the floor upside down and the performers strike it with their bare hands. Plantain leaves are placed on the base to avoid soot stains on the drummers’ hands. As the drumming continues, two artistes armed with long wooden ladles move in parallel lines on either side of the vessel in sync with the rhythm even as invocatory verses are sung.  Legend has it that naalu padam (four lines), the segment staged next, was a mantra given to the Namboodiris by sage Jangama, enabling them to win a contest organised by Pallibhana Perumal, a ruler of Kerala who had embraced Buddhism. The mantra is believed to be the gist of the four Vedas. This is followed by a sadya or feast, accompanied by the chanting of ‘curry slokas’ describing the various dishes. Elements of humour are introduced by shouting out for delicacies that are not on the menu. Feast over, the performers go to the pond to wash their hands and as they return, they sing the traditional vanchi pattu.Next is the paana , with meaningful slokas recited to a variety of rhythms such as adantha, mudiyadantha, tripuda etc., as the troupe sits on the stage. At this time, Ithikkandappan, a jester, makes an entry. He symbolises Kaimal, the local ruler. Flanked by torches and armed with sword and shield, he begins a wordy duel with the group of singers, in an effort to destroy the spiritual ambience. To nullify the negative effect caused in this segment, the bali uzhichil , a dance by Parvati in the guise of a gypsy, is presented next. A host of funny characters including a drunkard, a grandmother and a fish vendor, make cameo appearances. This may appear paradoxical since fish is taboo for the Namboodiris, but impromptu slokas interpreting the virtues of fish and connecting it cleverly to contemporary events is an occasion for much literary dexterity. As of now, a team of ten youngsters is being groomed by Narayanan and Prasanth. They have already presented Sanghakkali at many events including at the Soorya festival and on television. According to Sankaranarayanan, a serious study of this art form can throw much light on the political and cultural history of Kerala.e The writer and culture critic is a trained musician.
30 October 2020||October 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Tribute to a celebrated guru||K.P. Kittappa Pillai, a seventh generation scion of the Thanjavur Quartet, was a name to reckon with in the field of Bharatanatyam. A much revered guru, Kittappa Pillai passed away on October 30, 1999, and every year on this day a dance festival is organised in his memory by his son, K.P.K. Chandrasekaran. The event is supported by the Ministry of Culture. This year, the festival will be conducted at the house of Thanjavur Quartet, this evening at 6 p.m., and can be watched live on the Facebook page of Chandrasekaran. The evening will feature dance performances by the students of Kittappa Nattiyalaya. The event will begin with the performance of Charumathi Chandrasekaran, grand-daughter of Kittappa Pillai. She will present ‘Sateelani’, one of the nine compositions (Navaratnamala keertana) of the Thanjavur Quartet. The other pieces are Murugan kavuthuvam, Varuna Santhi kavuthuvam, Varnam and Javali. The event will conclude with a few traditional jatis. The evening will also feature the dance performances of Jayapragathy, Subashree and Mani. Nattuvangam is by K.P.K. Chandrasekaran and mridangam by Thanjai. C. Sabapathy Chandrasekaran, disciple of R. Mohanakrishnan and grandson of Kittappa Pillai.
30 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab parties criticise Centre’s move to withhold rural fund||Political parties in Punjab — the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party — have hit out at the BJP-led Central government for its decision to withhold the State’s Rural Development Fund (RDF). While the ruling Congress termed the decision ‘unfortunate’, AAP described it as a revengeful act on the part of the Centre. The Shiromani Akali Dal accused it of resorting to ‘victimisation’ of farmers. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged the Centre to review the decision as the move would badly impact rural development works in the State as he termed the move ‘unfortunate’. The Chief Minister said there was no precedent not to release the RDF that was due to the State during scrutiny of utilisation of previous funds. He said the State government will submit all utilisation details as sought by the Centre, as it had done in the past too. “While this was not the first time the Government of India had gone for a scrutiny of utilisation of funds, this was, however, a first as far as non-release of RDF was concerned,” he said, expressing serious concern over the development. The Chief Minister said doubts were being raised in several quarters about the timing of the Union Cabinet’s decision not to release RDF funds to the tune of more than Rs. 1,000 crore at the present juncture, amid the controversy over Centre’s farm laws. “The timing is suspect and points to dubious motivation behind the move,” he said, urging the Centre to immediately reconsider and give the State’s dues against RDF while the scrutiny continues, as has been the case in the past. Leader of the Opposition and AAP MLA Harpal Cheema said, “The move is an assault on the federal structure of the country and an attempt to implement the black laws on agriculture, which AAP vehemently opposes.” ‘White paper’ sought Mr. Cheema demanded that the Chief Minister immediately issue a “white paper” not only on the RDF used during his own tenure but also the previous SAD-BJP government’s tenure. Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal accused the Union government of resorting to victimisation of farmers and said that with the Centre not making any provision for RDF in the cash credit limit, it would adversely affect the food grain procurement system in Punjab.
30 October 2020||Guwahati,||Fresh unrest on Assam-Mizoram border||The boundary dispute between Assam and Mizoram has flared up again after a brief lull. Locals in southern Assam’s Cachar and Karimganj districts on Wednesday blocked the roads to Mizoram to leave more than 100 goods-laden trucks stranded. The blockade to protest the alleged refusal of Mizoram Police personnel to withdraw from Assam’s territory continued on Thursday. Officials in Assam said people of Mizoram, allegedly backed by local authorities and NGOs, have encroached upon large swathes of area in Cachar and Karimganj districts. The two States share a 164.6 km border. “We are trying to defuse the tension after locals made the non-withdrawal of Mizoram Police from Assam territory an issue. Our officials are on the job trying to convince them,” Cachar’s Deputy Commissioner Keerthi Jalli said. Officials in southern Assam said the Mizoram Police had promised to withdraw a week ago, following which trucks carrying essentials started moving on National Highway 306, the lifeline of Mizoram. The fresh unrest made Assam’s Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) G.P. Singh visit the border area on Wednesday. He discussed ways to de-escalate tension with the local authorities on either side of the border, including Vanlalfaka Ralte, the Superintendent of Police of Mizoram’s Kolasib district adjoining Assam. “Our investigation shows miscreants from Mizoram could be involved in the violence and arson along the border. Since the cases are under the purview of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, we have decided to transfer the probe to a Central agency,” he said.  Move to ensure peace Officials in Mizoram said the governments of the two States were trying to find a way to ensure peace along the border. The situation on the border took an ugly turn on October 17 after some 20 shops and houses were burnt and more than 50 people injured in attacks and counter-attacks by people on either side. Meanwhile, the indefinite economic blockade from Thursday, called by traders, transporters and local NGOs in Assam against Meghalaya, has been called off. This followed a meeting between the Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police of western Assam’s Goalpara and Meghayala’s North Garo Hills district on Wednesday. “We called off the blockade after Meghalaya officials informed us about the revised standard operating procedures and easing of travel restrictions for people from Assam and other States if COVID-19 protocols are adhered to,” a leader of the local unit of the All Assam Students’ Union said.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. changes land use of plot for V-P’s residence||The Centre this week approved the change in land-use of a 15-acre plot near Rashtrapati Bhavan for the construction of a new residential complex for the Vice-President as a part of the Central Vista redevelopment project. The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on Wednesday notified the change in land-use of the plot on Church Road, near the Delhi Transport Corporation’s Central Secretariat Bus Terminal, from “transportation (bus terminal/parking) and government (President Estate and Parliament House)” to “residential” in the Master Plan for Delhi-2021. In the Zonal Development Plan, the land-use was changed from transportation and recreational (neighbourhood play area) to residential. The plot is located with Church Road to its north, Rashtrapati Bhavan and North Block to its south, part of North Block to its east, and Rashtrapati Bhavan to its west. The notification said a public notice was published on March 4 to seek objections and suggestions for a period of 30 days and 90 such submissions were received. It added that the Delhi Development Authority’s (DDA) Board of Enquiry had considered the objections. It said the Central government had decided to modify the Master Plan and Zonal Plan “after carefully considering all aspects of the matter”. While the notification does not mention what the plot will be used for, sources involved with the Central Vista project, which includes the construction of a new Parliament building, Prime Minister’s residence and 10 new office buildings for Ministries, said it will house the Vice-President’s Enclave. In March this year, the Centre had approved the change in land-use for plots for the new Parliament, Prime Minister’s residence and government offices.
30 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||I will quit politics if MSP scheme ever ends: CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal, addressing a rally at election-bound Baroda Assembly segment in Sonipat, on Thursday said he would quit politics if the Minimum Support Price scheme ever ended, adding that Congress had a habit of misleading people by telling lies. He also accused the grand old party of being “status-quoist” and averse to bringing changes. In his first election rally for the Baroda bypoll, Mr. Lal, addressing a gathering at Kathura village, assured farmers that the MSP scheme would continue to stay and never end. “If the MSP scheme ever ends, I will quit politics,” announced Mr. Lal, in an election being fought in the backdrop of large-scale protests in the State over farm legislations and Baroda being predominantly a rural segment. Allaying the fears of the farmers, Mr. Lal said the mandis would stay. He said the farmers earlier had only one shop to sell their produce, but now they have two. “They can sell at the government shop (the mandis ) or the private shop (outside the mandis ),” said Mr. Lal, attacking Congress for misleading people by spreading lies on mandis and the MSP scheme. He said Congress was in habit of telling lies and the party tried to spread misinformation on amendments to Article 370 and enactment of Citizenship Amendment Act as well. Enlisting the initiatives taken by his government, including providing government jobs on merit, Mr. Lal said his party in Haryana was working to change the system, but Congress was “status-quoist” and was pained at bringing changes. Hinting at factionalism at Congress, Mr. Lal said members from both Bharatiya Janata Party and the Jannayak Janta Party were present in the rally, but in Congress only the father-son duo (former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his Rajya Sabha MP son Deepender Hooda) were canvassing. He said the Congress had fielded a “dummy candidate” and no one knew him before he was made the party’s nominee. Baroda being a Jat-dominant Assembly seat, Mr. Lal, subtly addressing the concerns of voting along caste lines, alluded how his party candidate Yogeshwar Dutt, a Brahmin, trained a Jhajjar-based Jat wrestler Bajrang Punia to bring home the point that his party did not believe in caste.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||Court closes defamation case against Kapil Mishra after apology||Following an unconditional apology tendered by BJP leader Kapil Mishra to AAP leader and Health Minister Satyendar Jain, a Delhi Court has closed a criminal defamation case against him. The case stems from a complaint filed by Mr. Jain against the BJP leader in 2017 for his defamatory statements against him and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Vishal Pahuja recorded the statement of Mr. Mishra that he was willing to tender the unconditional apology. After recording the statement of Mr. Mishra, and Mr. Jain, the court disposed of the defamation complaint as withdrawn. “It is submitted by the accused [Mr. Mishra] that he is ready to make a statement before the court tendering unconditional apology. Complainant [Mr. Jain] also submitted that in case the accused gives his statement before the court, he shall withdraw the present complaint,” the court noted. AAP’s response Reacting to the development, Mr. Jain said the accusations made were extremely offensive which left him completely distressed. “His unconditional apology exposes the reality that he had no ground to such allegations and did that with a political purpose,” Mr Jain added. AAP leader Saurabh Bhardwaj said, “This whole incident proves that the BJP was behind the comments of Kapil Mishra.”
30 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Woman alleges rape inside hospital||A 21-year-old woman, who was undergoing treatment for tuberculosis, was allegedly raped inside Fortis Memorial Research Hospital in Sector 44 here. The police have registered a case, but the culprit is yet to be identified. The woman, a resident of Mahendragarh, was brought to the hospital on October 21 for the treatment and was admitted to the ICU. On Tuesday, the woman, in a semi-conscious state, scribbled on a piece of paper about the alleged incident to her father. The matter was then reported to the police and an FIR was registered at Sushant Lok police station on charge of rape.
30 October 2020||New Delhi,||Two instances of mobile phone snatching reported||In two separate cases of snatching, bike-borne miscreants shot at people in Dayalpur and Karawal Nagar area of north-east Delhi. The police said the incident took place on Tuesday night in north-east Delhi’s Dayalpur. When the victim, identified as Mois, was sitting outside his house, around 1 a.m, three men wearing masks came on a two-wheeler. The men tried to rob his mobile phone, but when he resisted, one of them opened fire at the 22-year-old. The trio, however, managed to rob his mobile phone and fled from the spot. The victim is a resident of Old Mustafabad and works at a barber shop in the area which is run by his relatives, the police said. The injured man suffered a bullet injury in his stomach and was rushed to a nearby hospital where he is undergoing treatment. He is stated to be stable and will be discharged soon, a senior police officer said. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC, the officer said. The police saidthey are trying to identify the accused. In another case, reported in Karawal Nagar area, a bike-borne man was targeted by two miscreants on another motorcycle. The goons attempted to snatch his mobile phone and when the victim resisted they opened fire. The victim was rushed to a hospital and is out of danger.
30 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jamia Millia celebrates centenary||Jamia Millia Islamia on Thursday celebrated its Centenary Foundation Day with limited guests at the University’s M.A. Ansari Auditorium. The university was founded at Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh on October 29, 1920. Vice-Chancellor Najma Akhtar said that Jamia Millia Islamia is a unique institution as it believes in the philosophy of action and casts sloth and laziness aside. She said that the university has embraced the idea of co-education and growth of both genders together. She also announced that the UGC has granted the university permission to open four departments in the newly emergent areas of foreign languages, hospital management and hospice studies, design and innovation and environmental sciences.
30 October 2020||Bhubaneswar,||NHRC seeks report on rehabilitation||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the Odisha government to submit a report on non-receipt of compensation by people who were displaced by the Hirakud Dam project — one of the oldest unresolved problems of displacement in the country. The rights panel asked the Chief Secretary to submit the report by December 7.  ‘Incomplete process’ Human rights lawyer Radhakanta Tripathy had moved the NHRC drawing its attention to incomplete rehabilitation of 26,561 families displaced for construction of the Hirakud Dam project. The land for the mega project was acquired during 1952-53. After the NHRC’s intervention, the Revenue Divisional Commissioner, Northern Division of Odisha, submitted that steps were taken from time to time to redress grievances of the displaced families who belonged to four districts — Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Bargarh and Subarnapur.
30 October 2020||FARIDABAD,||Nikita murder case: third accused held||Another accused has been arrested by the Faridabad police in the Nikita murder case for allegedly supplying a pistol used in commission of crime, the police said. This is the third arrest in the case. The 20-year-old was shot point-blank outside her college by a stalker and his friend on Monday. The third accused, Azru, was arrested from Nuh late on Wednesday. Haryana Home Minister Anik Vij said that the trial for the case will be conducted in a fast track court. The police have been asked to file the chargesheet at the earliest. A senior police officer said that Tausheef, the prime accused, had come in contact with Azru through his maternal uncle Islamuddin, who has criminal antecedents. “Azru provided a countrymade pistol to Tausheef for the murder,” said the officer. Azru was arrested from Nuh after raids at a dozen places, said a tweet by Faridabad Police. Tausheef and Azru were both produced in the court during the day and remanded to judicial custody. Tausheef and his friend Rehan were arrested within 24 hours of the murder.
30 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Test rates cut||The Haryana government on Thursday reduced the rates for RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen tests for private laboratories to Rs. 900 and Rs. 500 respectively.
