31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.K. approves Oxford vaccine||The COVID-19 vaccine by Oxford Universty and AstraZeneca has been approved for emergency supply in the U.K., with the first doses being released on Wednesday so that vaccinations may begin early in the New Year, the company said in a statement on Wednesday. This is significant for India, as the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has tied up with AstraZeneca to deploy the vaccine in the country. “This is a great and encouraging news. We will wait for the final approval from Indian regulators,” Adar Poonawala, CEO, SII, said. India’s drug regulators, in a meeting convened just hours after the approval accorded to AstraZeneca, reviewed an application by the SII for “emergency use authorisation” (EUA). However, the Health Ministry, in a statement, said the subject expert committee of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) was still analysing “additional data” and would reconvene on Friday. The applications of Bharat Biotech, which is testing its “Covaxin” vaccine candidate; and Pfizer, with its m-RNA vaccine, were also reviewed. The EUA is for active immunisation of individuals of 18 years or older and recommends two doses with an interval of between four and 12 weeks.
31 December 2020||Kolkata,||2020, a year that delivered multiple blows to the city of celebrations||On Wednesday morning, when a member of a WhatsApp group of Kolkata-based doctors shared information about the city recording its first case of the U.K. strain of COVID-19, another participant made a joke: “Finally, Kolkata has turned into London!” The reference was to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s old promise of transforming Kolkata into another London. The exchange summed up the mood in Kolkata as 2020 prepared to bow out after delivering multiple blows to the city. On one hand there was anxiety and on the other acceptance — that life must go on, with the trademark Bengali humour intact. Kolkata began 2020 under the shadow of countrywide protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). On January 7, a group of Muslim women led by homemaker Asmat Jamil began a round-the-clock sit-in at the Park Circus Maidan, turning it into Kolkata’s own Shaheen Bagh. As the number of protesters began to grow by the day, they began to call it Freedom Struggle 2.0. Ms. Banerjee, a highly vocal critic of CAA, held a march and organised an art exhibition. Critics of the CAA also made their presence felt at the annual Kolkata Book Fair, which, with some 600 stalls, drew nearly 2.5 million people. By then, COVID-19 cases had begun to be reported in India but the number was too low to cause alarm. It wasn’t until March 17 that the city recorded its first case — the U.K.-returned 18-year-old son of a bureaucrat. By then all educational institutions and cinema halls in the State had been closed. On March 23, West Bengal was placed under lockdown for a week, but then, on the following day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown for a three-week period, which went on to be extended. A city accustomed to round-the-year festivities and evening adda s was suddenly forced indoors: fear and silence prevailed in neighbourhoods. The prolonged lockdown saw the emergence of Good Samaritans who helped the elderly stranded at home. They included those who were themselves suddenly out of work but now had all the time in the world. Cyclone Amphan On May 20, a city living under fear and lockdown was struck by Cyclone Amphan. Some 20 people died in Kolkata alone; nearly 10,000 trees were uprooted and 4,000 electric poles felled. Parts of the city never looked the same again: several green patches had transformed into bald patches. In rural pockets surrounding the city, numerous families lost everything they had. The Botanical Garden lost all its precious trees. By middle of the year, the fear of COVID-19 had subsided to some extent even though the risk had gone up, with the entire State recording nearly 3,000 cases on a daily basis. By Durga Puja, the public disregard for safety protocols had become so pronounced that the Calcutta High Court had to restrict celebrations. During Durga Puja, one of Bengal’s biggest icons, actor Soumitra Chatterjee, lay in hospital, fighting post-COVID-19 complications. He died on November 15 — a day after Deepavali — aged 85, after spending 40 days in hospital. Kolkata’s cultural landscape lost one of its biggest banyans. Today, life in the City of Joy is almost back to normal. If you discount the masks, one would hardly suspect that it is still in the grip of the coronavirus pandemic. So, how would 2021 be for the city: would it be a rerun of 2020, considering that the highly-contagious U.K. strain of COVID-19 has already found its way in? While that’s hard to predict, Kolkata will seek its moments of joy, even if it is derived from cracking a joke.
31 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Dharwad district has 10 more returnees from the U.K.||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has said that the district administration had received information on 10 more persons who had returned to the district from the United Kingdom. Steps were being taken to get them tested for the new variant of the pandemic. Speaking to presspersons in Hubballi on Wednesday, Mr. Nitesh Patil said that initially they had received information on 38 persons arriving here from the United Kingdom. “Already, we have got COVID-19 tests done on 36 persons. One person has gone to Kalaburagi and we have informed the Kalaburagi district administration to get the test done there for thim. Attempts are on to trace the other one,” he said. Mr. Patil said that out of the 10 new names sent to them they had already traced seven persons and arrangements for tests had been made. The mobile phones of the remaining three were switched off and steps had been taken to trace them through their passport details, he said. The Deputy Commissioner also clarified that if anyone gave false information or did not cooperate with the administration in this regard, legal action would be taken against them. No group celebration To a query, Mr. Patil clarified that no permission had been given for group celebration of the New Year due to the COVID-19 situation. “Already, we have held meetings with hotel owners and have told them clearly that no New Year party or programmes accompanied by DJ music is allowed,” he said. He also clarified that there was no restriction on tourist spots. “However, no tourist spot would be kept open at night. No group celebration is permitted. Although we have not imposed any night curfew, group celebration will not be allowed,” he said.  We have already traced seven of the 10 persons and arrangements are being made to carry out tests for them, says Deputy Commissioner
31 December 2020||HUBBALLI/BENGALURU,||Counting continues late into night||Counting of votes polled in the elections to 670 wards in 136 gram panchayats of Dharwad district which began early morning on Wednesday continued late into the night without any reports of technical issues. At the time of going to print, results of two third of the total seats had been announced. Counting began at the right time and sailed off smoothly without any hassles. Despite the COVID-19 advisory, candidates came to the counting centres in groups and the counting centres were jam-packed mainly because of the good number of candidates in each ward. At all the taluk centres, elaborate arrangements had been made at the counting centres and necessary precautions as per COVID-19 advisory had been taken. Even as candidates and their agents were allowed inside the counting centres, a large number of supporters and well-wishers gathered around the centres. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil, Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant visited various counting centres to oversee the process. Dharwad district witnessed an instance of a winner being decided by lottery. In Ward No 5 of Sulla Gram Panchayat Manjunath Naikar and Bhimappa Shiragannavar had secured 209 votes each. The winner was decided through lottery and Manjunath Naikar was elected.  EC statement According to officials in the State Election Commission, data on victories and others would be released only after the counting is completed. The final result of 5,728 gram panchayats that went to the polls on December 22 and December 27, will be out by Thursday morning. A note said that results for 54,041 seats had been declared since counting commenced on Wednesday morning. The results of 36,781 seats would be available by the early hours of Thursday. Barring Bidar district where the State Election Commission had deployed Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs), the rest of the State had seen ballot paper being used. In Bidar, counting had been completed in less than six hours.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers, Centre reach agreement on two issues||The protesting farmers and the Union Ministers on Wednesday reached an agreement on the decriminalisation of stubble burning and the safeguarding of power subsidies — two of the four issues on the negotiating table — during their final round of talks for the year. However, deadlock continued on the two biggest demands — repeal of the three farm market reform laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm produce. Further discussion on these issues will be held at the next meeting on January 4. “We have resolved 50% of the issues. The meeting was conducted in a cordial atmosphere and concluded on a positive note,” Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told mediapersons after the meeting. In a show of goodwill, Mr. Tomar, along with colleagues Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash, joined the farmers’ langar lunch for the first time during the series of negotiations.
31 December 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata reports mutant strain of virus||The first case of the mutant strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus was reported in Kolkata on Wednesday in a youth who returned recently from the U.K. He is presently under isolation at the Calcutta Medical College. The State Health Department has advised all who have come in contact with him to remain in isolation. Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay held a high-level meeting directing the police to remain vigilant and people to exercise restraint ahead of New Year festivities. Mr. Bandyopadhyay ruled out extreme steps like night curfew but added that people should not mingle without masks. The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday had urged the State government to step up measures to avoid any crowding during New Year celebrations. Meanwhile, West Bengal recorded 1,178 new cases of COVID-19 infections in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases in the State to 5,50,893. The State recorded 28 deaths during the day, taking the total deaths due to the contagious viral infection to 9,683. The discharge rate in the State increased to 95.99%, and the active cases dropped to 12,381. In another development, the second dose of the third phase trial of Bharat Biotech’s COVID-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’ was administered to State’s Urban Development Minister and former Kolkata Mayor Firhad Hakim at NICED, a Central government facility in the city.
31 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Four from Gram Bharat elected in Sullia||As many as four candidates from the Nagarika Horata Kriya Samiti’s Gram Bharat were elected to the Guthigar Gram Panchayat in Sullia taluk, Dakshina Kannada, on Wednesday. They were elected from Ward No 1 of the panchayat, which is a stronghold of the Bharatiya Janata Party. The candidates, Bharat K.V., M. K. Sharada, Lata Kumari and Vasanth Mogra, defeated candidates backed by the BJP and the Congress in the ward. Ms. Sharada secured 596 votes, followed by Mr. Mogra with 561, Ms. Kumari 558 and Mr. Bharath with 517. The samiti has been fighting for the improvement of road, health, drinking water and basic amenities in Mogra, Ballakka and Kamila areas of the panchayat. Top on the samiti's agenda was asphalting of the Balpa-Guthigar link road, which connected Kukke Subrahmanya-Puttur Road with Kukke Subrahmanya-Sullia Road, which is in poor condition. The other was the building of a bridge across a rivulet, connecting Mogra with Kamila. “Despite the number of protests and demonstrations, elected representatives and district administration failed to do it. Our protests were branded as a gimmick and elected representatives, including MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, ignored us,” said Mahesh Puchhapady, a member of the samiti. “This attitude forced us to form Gram Bharat and enter the election fray,” he added. Apart from the poor road condition and the delay in the construction of the bridge, the Gram Bharat candidates highlighted during campaigning the poor condition of the government school, primary health centre and poor water supply. “People have reposed faith in us and voted for our candidates,” Mr. Puchhapady said. The samiti has formed committees to work on making improvements to road, health facilities and the school.
31 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Gatherings on roads, beaches, other public places barred||Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash on Wednesday issued orders prohibiting gatherings on roads, beaches, public places and other open areas between 6 p.m. on Thursday and 6 a.m. on Friday during the New Year celebrations. In the notification issued under Section 144 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Code, Mr. Vikash said that gathering of five or more persons and New Year celebrations at public places were barred during the period. There will be no New Year celebrations of any type that involved gathering of large number of people in open areas. However, in-house celebrations in residential complexes and private clubs can be held for their residents and members without organising any special events. Hotels, malls, restaurants, clubs, pubs, club houses and similar establishments cannot have any special DJ shows, programmes, musical nights and dance programmes. They are, however, permitted to carry out regular business activities, including playing of music within the permitted decibel levels. Apart from taking precautionary measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the establishments should follow guidelines laid down by the police, the Fire and Emergency Servcies, pollution control board and other civic bodies. It was incumbent upon establishments to ensure that there is no crowd waiting outside their premises. Any person violating the guidelines will be liable for prosecution under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, the Epidemic Diseases Act, Indian Penal Code and other laws. A person adversely affected by the order can submit a petition to him or to the government for modification or cancellation of the order, Mr. Vikash said in the notification.
31 December 2020||Ghaziabad,||Kapil Gujjar’s BJP stint ends in few hours||In a dramatic turn of events, Kapil Gujjar, who allegedly fired shots in the air in Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh in February this year to oppose the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protest, joined the BJP on Wednesday at the party’s Ghaziabad office. However, hours later his membership was revoked. Sanjeev Sharma, district president of the BJP, told The Hindu that he did not have any information about Mr. Gujjar’s past. “He came with supporters to join the party. We didn’t know about his criminal antecedents. As soon as we realised, we cancelled his membership,” said Mr. Sharma, who could be seen draping Mr. Gujjar with a saffron stole in photographs. In videos of the February 1 incident, which went viral on social media, Mr. Gujjar could be heard saying, “In our country, only Hindus will prevail, none else.” He fired two-three shots in the air before being nabbed by the police. He is out on bail. After joining the BJP, Mr. Gujjar told reporters that the party was working for “strengthening (the ideology) of Hindutva and that’s why he had joined it”. When his shooting videos had first emerged, the BJP had said Mr. Gujjar’s family had links with the Aam Aadmi Party. AAP on Wednesday said Mr. Gujjar’s induction into the BJP clearly exposed that “the party’s plan was to create a riot in Delhi”. AAP questions BJP “Just 72 hours before the election, when the model code of conduct was in place, the then Delhi Police DCP said that Kapil Gujjar had an association with the Aam Aadmi Party. Thereafter, BJP president J.P. Nadda said Kapil Gujjar was a terrorist and AAP was giving shelter to such terrorists. Today, on behalf of AAP, I want to ask the BJP why a terrorist is joining their party,” said AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj.  (With inputs from Delhi reporter)
31 December 2020||MYSURU,||School reopening: Mysuru DC reaches out to parents||Ahead of reopening of schools and PU colleges amid the pandemic, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on Wednesday made an appeal to parents to send their children to schools and colleges as all measures had been taken for restarting academic activities under safety. Under the direct supervision of the district administration, the Vidyagama programme is being launched for students of classes 6 to 9 and the academic session for class 10 and second PU students is being commenced. Officials at the district and taluk levels have been asked to ensure the success of academic activities that were hit by COVID-19, which forced children to remain confined to homes and take up online learning. 2,290 schools In Mysuru district, there are 2,290 schools with students in classes 6 to 10. Government, aided, and unaided schools have about 2,08,605 students and 20,088 teachers. A total of 956 government schools run classes for standards 6 to 8 and 232 schools have students studying in classes 9 and 10. In the schools, including aided and unaided, 1,68,495 students are in classes 6 to 9 and 40,110 students are in class 10. Meanwhile, school and college campuses are being sanitised ahead of the reopening. Gram panchayats have been told to provide thermal scanners to schools. The Health and other key departments have been asked to monitor strict implementation of COVID-19 guidelines in schools and colleges and the precautions taken on the directions of the government. Schools and colleges have been told to designate a classroom as an “isolation room” for symptomatic students and teachers have been asked to monitor the health of each child and take them to hospital for a check-up if necessary. Despite the reopening of schools, distribution of foodgrains to students, instead of cooked food as part of midday meal programme, will continue. Ms. Sindhuri has told schools and colleges to ensure hygiene on the premises and constitute groups of 15 to 20 students for running the classes. Free tests Many students lined up in front of Chikkagadiyara, near Devaraja Market, to give their swab samples for the RT-PCR test. Free tests are being conducted by the Health Department. Free RT-PCR tests will be conducted till Friday at J.K. Grounds. Swabs are collected by health workers and the samples sent to the lab of MMCRI here. Swab collection centres function at various places in the city and students have been asked to visit other centres as well instead of thronging one or two centres. Nearly 3,500 to 4,000 RT-PCR tests are being done at the lab. “The upsurge in testing has helped us to contain the spread of the pandemic,” said MMCRI dean and director C.P. Nanjaraj, adding that the number of tests may touch 5,000 in the days ahead.
31 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Three of a family killed as car collides with truck in Dharwad||Three persons belonging to a family were killed on the spot when the car they were travelling in collided with a sugarcane-laden truck near Aminabhavi in Dharwad district on Wednesday. According to the police, the accident occurred near Aminabhavi on Dharwad-Saundatti Road, 15 km away from Dharwad, when the driver of the car tried to overtake another vehicle and collided with the truck coming from the opposite direction. The deceased have been identified as Revanasiddheshwar Ichhangi (44), his wife, Vijaya (42), and his brother, Nagaraj (42), all residents of Saundatti. They were travelling from Saundatti to a private hospital in Hubballi for treatment. Revanasiddheshwara Ichhangi, who owns a photo studio in Saundatti, was suffering from kidney-related ailment and was being taken by his wife and his brother to Hubballi for dialysis, the police said. While the couple sat in the back seat, Nagaraj was driving the car. As the front portion of the car was stuck beneath the truck, the police had a difficult time removing the bodies from the mangled car. The accident disrupted vehicular traffic on the busy road for some time. The Dharwad Rural Police have registered a case.
31 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||HC rejects plea for recusal of Judge from hearing petitions on Mission Build AP||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Wednesday rejected a prayer for recusal of Justice Rakesh Kumar from hearing petitions filed against the proposed sale of government lands in Guntur and Visakhapatnam districts under “Mission Build AP” and posted the batch of writ petitions to the second week of February 2021. The court directed its Registrar-General to lodge a complaint of criminal prosecution against Mission Build A.P. Director Pravin Kumar for making a false statement in a sworn affidavit filed in the matter. The court ordered Mr. Pravin Kumar to show cause why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him for making the false statement that amounted to perjury, within six weeks. Mr. Pravin Kumar stated in his affidavit that there was a likelihood of bias as Justice Rakesh Kumar had allegedly prejudged the case even before hearing it, hence the plea for his recusal. ‘Not frightened’ In Wednesday's order, the court asserted that if such petitions were entertained, it might not be allowed to dispense justice, but it would not be frightened by such actions of the State. The court further commented that the State government had first attacked the Legislative Council, then the State Election Commission and now the High Court and even the Supreme Court was under attack by persons in power. Jagan’s letter Referring to the alleged bias in judgments by the High Court in various matters concerning the State, the court said the act of sending the “unceremonious letter” to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy might have given him an undue advantage, and people could draw an inference that the Chief Justices of the High Courts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana were transferred in the wake of the Chief Minister’s letter to the Chief Justice of India. Now, it was possible that the cases pending against the Chief Minister and others in the Central Bureau of Investigation special court in Hyderabad might be delayed and monitoring of the same by the apex court could be hampered. The transfer of Andhra Pradesh High Court Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari could give an undue benefit to the State government with regard to the hearing of the petitions that challenged the validity of the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts, as they were in the process of final hearing by a full Bench headed by the Chief Justice. While claiming that it was not questioning the transfer of Chief Justices, the High Court said it was constrained to observe that such transfers “may reflect some transparency for betterment or upliftment of administration of justice”.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||14 more persons test positive for new variant of coronavirus||Fourteen more persons have tested positive for the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 first reported in the U.K., the Health Ministry said on Wednesday. This takes the overall tally to 20. Six cases were reported on Tuesday (three in NIMHANS, Bengaluru; two in CCMB, Hyderabad; and one in NIV, Pune). In all, 107 samples were tested. “The government has constituted the INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium), comprising 10 labs for genome sequencing. The situation is under careful watch, and regular advice is being provided to the States for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to the INSACOG labs,” the Health Ministry said.
31 December 2020||Pune,||Pune trying to trace 109 missing returnees from Europe||Maharashtra’s recoveries continued apace on Wednesday, with 4,913 patients being discharged as against 3,537 new COVID-19 cases. As per State Health Department figures, the active case tally has declined to 53,066 while the case tally stands at 19,28,603. With 90 fatalities — of whom 20 were updated following due reconciliation — took the death toll to 49,463. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 18,24,934. The State’s recovery rate has risen to 94.62%. “Of a total 1,26,72,259 laboratory samples tested thus far, 19,28,603 (with the case positivity rate down to 15.22%) have returned positive with over 72,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality stood at 2.56%. Pune district reported over 600 new cases to take its case tally to 3,72,103 while seven deaths took its total death toll to 7,760. As per district administration figures, the active case tally has dipped below the 6,500-mark to reach 6,348 while the district’s recovery rate has gone up to 95.84%. Appeal to passengers Pune city’s active case tally has dipped below 3,500. However, as per the Pune civic body administration, the RT-PCR tests on 109 passengers recently returned from Europe are pending owing to incomplete information or wrong mobile numbers submitted by those who returned to Pune before December 22. The authorities have appealed to these passengers to come forward and get themselves tested. Mumbai city reported a high surge of 714 new cases to take its case tally to 2,92,722, of whom 9,049 are active. Thirteen fatalities saw the city’s death toll reach 11,107. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported nearly 349 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,24,881 of whom 4,166 are currently active. Three deaths saw the total death toll remain constant at 3,200. Districts in western Maharashtra continued to report fewer cases and fatalities. Satara did not report any fatalities on Wednesday as its cumulative death toll remained at 1,755 while 47 fresh cases saw the case tally rise to 54,438 of whom 755 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 29 cases and two deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 50,126 of whom only 352 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,765. Kolhapur reported 15 cases and a single fatality as its case tally reached 49,121 of whom 494 are active. Dr. Awate said 2,80,682 people in the State were in home quarantine and 3,127 in institutional quarantine.
31 December 2020||KOCHI,||Govt. open to people’s viable proposals: CM||The State government will consider proposals that came up during public interactions, such as setting up a separate department and a Minister for promoting Artificial Intelligence (AI), putting up more public toilets, and exploring the possibility of developing medicines from the rain forests of the State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Responding to the suggestions at an interaction here on Wednesday, Mr. Vijayan said viable proposals would be included in the election manifesto of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) for the upcoming Assembly polls. While the suggestion regarding AI came from Muralee Thummarukudy, disaster management expert, writer K.L. Mohana Varma suggested organising water Olympics in Kerala by making good use of the wide network of rivers and waterbodies here. Secular lessons Referring to the suggestion of Poet Balachandran Chullikad for the introduction of lessons on Left secular values in the school curriculum for strengthening the State’s secular credentials, the Chief Minister said time had come for reinforcing such values. Some sections of society were out with campaigns to spread hatred and discord among people, he said. The high speed rail corridor project proposed by the State government would address the travel needs of people. Increasing the speed of the trains currently operating in the State was not a viable proposal, he said. Expressing doubts over the feasibility of a proposal for the State to come up with its own industrial policy, Mr. Vijayan said the more industrial parks needed to be established. Kerala had adopted a policy for setting up private industrial estates, he said. The suggestion for opening shared work spaces at local bodies for accommodating those who returned to the State following the COVID 19 lockdown would be put up for discussions, he said. The Chief Minister turned down the suggestion for creating a new district in the State with Muvattupuzha as its headquarters. Those who presented suggestions at the meeting include writer N.S. Madhavan, doctor Jose Chacko Periyapuram, Swami Shivaswaroopananda, Bishop Mar Gregarious, Bishop Theodosius, hotelier Jose Dominic, K. Harikumar, Managing Director, Travancore Cochin Chemicals, Deepak L. Aswani of FICCI, Prasad Panicker, Muse Mary George, former judge Narayana Kurup and CUSAT Vice Chancellor K.N. Madhusoodanan. Alappuzha Staff Reporter writes: The government’s vision is overall development based on social justice, Mr. Vijayan said. He was interacting with representatives of different sectors in Alappuzha as part of the last leg of his Kerala tour on Wednesday. Four missions Mr. Vijayan said four missions including Pothuvidyabhyasa Samrakshana Yajnam' (General Education Protection Mission) and Mission Aardram of the State government had played an important role in ensuring social development. Mr. Vijayan said the government had brought fundamental changes in the industrial sector of the State. The government had revamped the coir, cashew and handloom sectors, he added.
31 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||District panchayats elect president, vice president||The newly elected district panchayat committees elected nominees to the post of president and vice president on Wednesday. The election process was largely uneventful except in Wayanad where a hung council necessitated a draw of lots to decide the president. The United Democratic Front emerged the winner. D.Sureshkumar of the Left Democratic Front was elected president of the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat. He was elected unopposed as the UDF had no SC candidate among its contingent of six members in the council. Sam K.Daniel from the Chadayamangalam division was elected the 12th president of the Kollam district panchayat on Wednesday. CPI(M) leader Omallur Shankaran and Raji P. Rajappan of the CPI were elected president and vice president of the Pathanamthitta district panchayat. Ullas Thomas of the United Democratic Front (UDF) was sworn in as the new president of the 27-member Ernakulam district panchayat. P.K.David Master was elected president and Sheena Parangattil vice president of the Thrissur district panchayat. K. Binumol and C.K. Chamunni of the LDF were elected president and vice president respectively of the Palakkad district panchayat. M.K. Rafeeka of the IUML was elected president of the Malappuram district panchayat. Ms. Rafeeka bagged 26 of the 32 votes. Kanathil Jameela of CPI(M) and M.P.Sivanandan of the LJD were sworn in as president and vice president of the Kozhikode district panchayat. Samshad Marakkar of the Congress was elected Wayanad district panchayat president after a draw of lots. The LDF and the UDF had a neck and neck fight in Wayanad district panchayat election after both the fronts obtained eight votes each in the 16-member civic body. Mr. Marakkar defeated Suresh Thaloor of the CPI(M) through the draw. P.P. Divya of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) was elected Kannur district panchayat president. Divya defeated Lizzie Thomas of the Congress by 16 votes to seven. Baby Balakrishnan was elected president of the Kasaragod district panchayat. Shanavas Padur was elected vice president. The newly elected functionaries were later sworn in.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||On a mission to save the life of COVID patients||Infusing plasma to a mild to moderate COVID-19 positive case has been one of the therapies for cure for the virus. But finding a plasma donor has been an issue for the medical fraternity as well as the family members of the affected person. In a such a scenario, Sudarshan Lotla (27) has donated plasma six times since August. And as per the blood banks in the city, he could be the only person in the State who has donated plasma six times, within a span of five months. The difficult aspect to find a plasma donor is because the donor should have been affected with coronavirus, and he or she can donate only after completing the mandatory 28-day recovery period. In general, it has been seen that persons once affected with COVID do not come forward to donate plasma, as they feel that by donating plasma they might become weak and suffer from lack of immunity. But this is a wrong perception, says Mr. Sudarshan. Mr. Sudarshan was diagnosed with COVID-19 in mid-August and after recovery, from September, he donated plasma six times. A graduated in computer science, Mr. Sudarshan is associated with Vizag Volunteers, a voluntary organisation which was formed by a group of youth to distribute food and other essentials to the poor and migrants, during the COVID lockdown period. “Since March, we have been serving food to the poor and the migrants who have been passing through the city, post the lockdown period. It was during one such event, I was exposed to the virus. But later, while recovering, I decided that something more needs to be done and that was when Vizag Volunteers took up the work for finding possible plasma donors and I volunteered to do so,” he says. According to him, if the antibodies are above 40, one can easily donate multiple times, if they lead a healthy lifestyle. While this is just the beginning, he says that as long as the antibodies levels were good enough for donating, he would continue to do so. “One can donate within a span of 15 days, as plasma recovers in the blood very fast,” he says.
31 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Sedition case against SDPI for raising pro-Pakistan slogans in Ujire||The Belthangady Police in Dakshina Kannada registered a case, including the charge of sedition, against a group of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) activists on the charge of raising pro-Pakistan slogans outside the counting centre in Ujire on Wednesday. A 54-second video clip showing a group of people carrying flags of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and raising pro-Pakistan slogans went viral in the social media in the afternoon. The slogans in support of Pakistan are heard amid the counting centre authorities making announcements regarding counting of votes related to Mundaje Gram Panchayat in Belthangady taluk. In a statement, Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad said that the police have taken cognisance of the video clip. A case was registered against 15 SDPI activists for offences under Sections 124 (A) (sedition) and 143 (unlawful assembly) of Indian Penal Code. He has asked people to provide to the Police Control Room (9480805300) the videos that will help them in the investigation of the case. Denying the charge, Hyder Ali, president of SDPI Belthangady Assembly unit, said that like other political parties, the SDPI activists raised slogans in support of the party on the victory of candidates supported by the party. “The activists shouted SDPI zindabad and not Pakistan Zindabad,” he said. Mr. Ali said that like the Quran, SDPI activists love their motherland and there was no question of raising slogans in support of an enemy country.  The slogans in support of Pakistan are heard amid the counting centre authorities making announcements regarding counting of votes related to Mundaje Gram Panchayat in Belthangady taluk
31 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Guidelines for election of panel heads||The State Election Commission (SEC) has published guidelines for the election of chairpersons of standing committees in the newly-elected councils of the local bodies. The chairpersons can be elected on any convenient day on January 7, 8, 11 or 12, the Commission said. Grama panchayats and block panchayats have four committees each while the district panchayats have five. Municipal councils have six standing committees and the corporations, eight.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||One more U.K. returnee tests positive||A seven-year-old boy, who returned from the United Kingdom along with his parents to Visakhapatnam district recently, tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. Officials from the Health Department have collected his samples and sent them to CCMB, Hyderabad, to ascertain whether it was the new mutant virus strain or not. According to District Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC) P.V. Sudhakar, the boy tested COVID-19 positive on Tuesday, while his parents tested negative. “We have already conducted tests on all his close contacts and they too tested negative,” he said. This is the first case of U.K. returnee testing positive in Visakhapatnam district, after the new mutant strain was discovered. Between November 28 and December 25, 216 persons arrived in Visakhapatnam district from the U.K. Among them, 209 were identified and COVID-19 tests were conducted. Of the 209 U.K returnees who got tested by Tuesday, the health department received results of 192 persons. All of them tested negative. Of the other 17 results, one tested COVID-19 positive on Wednesday. The officials also conducted tests on 580 close contacts of the U.K returnees. Of them, 390 tested negative, while results of 190 more persons are awaited.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Beware of ‘super spreader’ events, States warned||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday asked the States and the Union Territories to keep a strict vigil on all events that could be potential “super spreaders” of COVID-19 and to curb crowding during the New Year celebrations and various events associated with it and the winter season. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a letter, urged the States to promptly assess the local situations and consider imposing appropriate restrictions on December 30, 31 and January 1. The Health Ministry reiterated the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi R-Day tableau on Chandni Chowk||After three years, a tableau proposed by the Delhi government — depicting a redeveloped Chandni Chowk — is likely to roll down Rajpath during the Republic Day celebrations. Though a Delhi tableau was included in the celebrations last year too, it was a part of a contingent of 22 others depicting different facets from the life of the Mahatma Gandhi. This time, sources said, the Delhi tableau will showcase the city government’s accomplishment.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||India-U.K. flights to remain suspended till January 7||Passenger flights between the U.K. and India will remain suspended till January 7, Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri said on Wednesday. “Thereafter, strictly regulated resumption will take place for which details will be announced shortly,” Mr. Puri tweeted. The Director General of Civil Aviation also extended the travel and visa restrictions regarding the scheduled international commercial passenger services to/from India till January 31.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rs. 4,837-crore fraud: CBI registers case against IVRCL||Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials on Wednesday registered a case against Hyderabad-based leading infrastructure company IVRCL Limited and others. The case was registered based on a complaint lodged by State Bank of India-Hyderabad against the company’s managing director E. Sudhir Reddy and joint managing director R. Balarami Reddy along with some unidentified public servants. The bank alleged that the company, with the connivance of some government officials (who are yet to be identified), defrauded a consortium of public sector banks to the tune of Rs. 4,837 crore. The consortium included SBI, IDBI bank, Canara Bank, Andhra Bank, Corporation Bank, EXIM Bank, Punjab and Sind Bank and Union Bank of India. The bank charged that the company represented by its MD and JMD secured credit limits form the consortium of public sector banks and cheated it by defaulting the payments. The bank said that, according to Forensic Audit Report, the company made payments to some parties through Letters of Credit ensuring the purchase transactions were not recorded in the books. The funds were routed to the company and thus misappropriated the bank funds, a statement from the CBI said.  The company, with the connivance of some government officials, defrauded a consortium of public sector banks. State Bank of India
31 December 2020||Kolkata,||Training begins for vaccinators||The West Bengal government has started a training programme for around 20,000 vaccinators to impart knowledge of handling COVID-19 vaccines ahead of its rollout, a senior health department official said on Wednesday. After training, these vaccinators who have earlier been involved in administering polio and BCG vaccines, will be responsible for giving the COVID-19 vaccine to people.
31 December 2020||Mumbai,||Full Mumbai train services depend on virus: Tope||A decision on allowing general commuters to board suburban trains in Mumbai will be taken after considering the trend of COVID-19 cases in the new year, Maharashtra Health Minister RajeshTope said on Wednesday. Currently, only certain categories of commuters, including those providing essential services, and women, can travel by local trains in the Mumbai region after obtaining special pass. “If cases are not spiralling, a decision on resumption of services (for all) will be taken. The government is keeping a close watch on the situation,” he said. “A decision will be taken after considering the rise in cases,” Mr. Tope said.
31 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||Four held for defrauding Ram Mandir trust of Rs. 6 lakh||The Uttar Pradesh police have arrested four persons, all residents of Mumbai and Thane in Maharashtra, on charges of allegedly using cloned cheques to withdraw around Rs. 6 lakh from the bank account of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust in Ayodhya. The fraud took place in September and an FIR was lodged under Sections 471, 468, 467, 420 and 419 of the Indian Penal Code. The Trust is entrusted with the construction of the Ram Mandir and the bank account was meant for collection of funds for the temple. The four arrested persons were identified as Prashant Mahawal Shetty, Shankar Sitaram Gopale, Sanjay Tezraj and Vimal Lalla, said the police. They were nabbed from the Ram ki Paidi area in Ayodhya on December 28. Cloned cheques Senior Superintendent of Police, Ayodhya, Deepak Kumar said the four hatched a conspiracy and cloned cheques. “They opened a bank account... and would receive funds into their accounts through cloning of cheques and get it cleared.” Mr. Kumar said the investigation into the case would continue as the police are still searching for other accused. On September 9, Champat Rai, the general secretary of the Trust, submitted a complaint to the police that around Rs. 6 lakh was withdrawn from its account through fraudulent cheques. The transactions happened even though the named cheque slips were still found in the Trust’s cheque book, he said.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Avoid NY celebrations, pay condolences to health workers’||Telangana’s Director of Public Health (DPH) Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao has requested people to avoid new year celebrations and pay condolences to people who died of COVID-19 including frontline workers. From March 2 to December 29, 36 employees from the State Health department are among the 1538 people from the State who died of COVID-19. Frontline workers Police personnel and employees of other Health departments too who were in the front line of the COVID-19 management contracted the infectious disease and died. As a vaccine against coronavirus is expected in January, the senior official has urged people to maintain COVID-19 precautions for a few more weeks. On the whole, over 3,000 employees of the Health department contracted COVID-19. And 36 of them have died while Rs. 50 lakh insurance by Central government is approved to family members of 21 who died. Dr. Srinivasa said that they included doctors, nurses, driver, receptionist and others. Out of the 21, family members of 15 have already received the amount.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Gunfight in Valley||
31 December 2020||Thane,||Key flyovers to be shut on New Year’s eve||The Thane police have decided to shut several key flyovers during the New Year celebrations to curb accidents due to rash or drunken driving, an official said on Wednesday. The police have also instructed housing societies to keep terraces of buildings shut and avoid any public celebration on New Year’s eve. “The police have urged the people to celebrate the New Year in a simple manner. People have been asked to avoid going out and crowding. We have decided to keep several important flyovers in the city from late Thursday night till the early hours of Friday,” the official said. There will be heavy bandobast in Thane, and the police will also keep a vigil outside bars, restaurants and other such places.
31 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Timings of prohibitory orders revised||The police have revised the timings of prohibitory orders on the New Year's Eve. Instead of 6 p.m. on Thursday, it will now begin at noon, and extend into the morning of January 1 till 6 a.m. As many as 191 nakabandis have been set up at strategic locations to check traffic violations.
31 December 2020||BENGALURU,||New strain: ‘Surge unlikely in State’||Although seven of the U.K. returnees have been found to be positive for the new variant of SARS-CoV-2, Karnataka is unlikely to witness a surge beyond what it has already witnessed, according to experts. This is mainly because nearly half of the population in the State has already been exposed to COVID-19 by now and has developed immunity.
31 December 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha sets up special wing to probe crimes||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday announced the creation of a special wing in the State police to deal with offences against women and children. Addressing the valedictory session of the 62nd senior police commissioners’ conference, Mr. Patnaik said, “crime against women and children remains our focus area. I announce the creation of a special wing in Odisha Police to look after offences against women and children.” Mr. Patnaik said with these initiatives, quality services could be provided to women and children.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sushant case: CBI responds to Swamy||The CBI on Wednesday informed senior BJP MP Subramanian Swamy that all aspects in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case were being looked at and nothing had been ruled out as on date. The agency’s letter to Dr. Swamy was in response to his representation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 30. “The CBI is conducting investigation in a thorough and professional manner using latest scientific techniques,” the letter said.
31 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||4 from Mumbai held for defrauding Mandir trust||The police have arrested four people, all residents of Mumbai and Thane, on charges of allegedly using cloned cheques to withdraw around Rs. 6 lakh from the bank account of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust in Ayodhya. The fraud took place in September and an FIR was lodged under Sections 471, 468, 467, 420 and 419 of the Indian Penal Code. The Trust is entrusted with the construction of the Ram Mandir, and the bank account was meant for collection of funds for the temple.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sushant Rajput case: CBI responds to Swamy||The CBI on Wednesday informed senior BJP MP Subramanian Swamy that all aspects in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case were being looked at and nothing had been ruled out. The agency’s letter to Dr. Swamy was in response to his representation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 30.“The CBI is conducting investigation in a thorough and professional manner using latest scientific techniques. All aspects are being looked at,” the letter said.
31 December 2020||BENGALURU,||P. Ravi Kumar is new Chief Secretary||Going by seniority, the State government on Wednesday appointed Additional Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, a 1984 batch IAS officer, as the new Chief Secretary of Karnataka. The incumbent Chief Secretary, T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, will retire on Thursday, according to a notification issued by the government. Mr. Bhaskar took over the reigns of the administration in July 2018 following the retirement of the then Chief Secretary Ratna Prabha.
31 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Cong., BJP win 1 seat each in Haryana mayoral poll||The Congress and the BJP on Wednesday won the mayoral election for Sonipat and Panchkula municipal corporations respectively. Former Union Minister Venod Sharma’s Haryana Jan Chetna Party (V) candidate and his wife Shakti Rani was elected the mayor of Ambala.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||New Year plan: blood test, not alcometer||For the safety of people during New Year celebrations, Delhi Traffic Police has decided not to use alcometers due to the COVID-19 pandemic, but they will get blood tests done to check cases of drunk driving. The traffic advisory for New Year’s Eve will come into effect from 8 p.m. on Thursday.
31 December 2020||chandigarh,||Punjab to lift night curfew from January 1||The Punjab government on Wednesday decided to lift the night curfew from January 1, 2021 and advised the public to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. An official statement said the night curfew restrictions would remain in force till December 31, 2020.
31 December 2020||Bengaluru,||New strain: Surge unlikely in State||Although seven of the U.K. returnees have been found to be positive for the new variant of SARS-CoV-2, Karnataka is unlikely to witness a surge beyond what it has already witnessed, according to experts. This is mainly because nearly half of the population in the State has already been exposed to COVID-19 by now and has developed immunity.
31 December 2020||Mysuru,||Water tariff hiked for non-domestic consumers||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has hiked the water tariff for commercial and industrial consumers coming under its jurisdiction with effect from January 1, 2021. The MCC notification has evoked a sharp response from the industrial sector.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,||DMK moves HC over Pongal gift distribution||The DMK on Wednesday moved an urgent writ petition before the Madras High Court, seeking a direc- tion to the government to distribute Pongal cash gift of Rs. 2,500 to ration cardholders without accepting tokens containing the AIADMK flag colours, among other things.
31 December 2020||TIRUCHI,||Save your party first, CM tells Stalin||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday chided DMK president M.K. Stalin for claiming that the AIADMK was headed towards a split and advised him to “stop dreaming and save his party first”. The Chief Minister was campaigning at Thottiyam in Tiruchi district.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,||NDA panel will name CM candidate: BJP||The NDA coordination committee will announce the chief ministerial candidate of the AIADMK-led alliance in Tamil Nadu once the election is announced. The candidate will be from the largest constituent — the AIADMK, C.T. Ravi, BJP general secretary in charge of Tamil Nadu, said.
31 December 2020||Hyderabad,||TS takes decision to dovetail Arogyasri with Ayushman Bharat||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had taken a decision to dovetail Arogyasri scheme of State government with Ayushman Bharat scheme of Government of India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi today held a video conference with Chief Secretaries of all the States and reviewed the progress of various infrastructure projects, Ayushman Bharat – Pradhan Manthri Jan Aarogya Yojana, Jal Jeevan Mission etc.
31 December 2020||Bengaluru,||P. Ravi Kumar is new Chief Secretary||Going by seniority, the State government on Wednesday appointed Additional Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, a 1984 batch IAS officer, as the new Chief Secretary of Karnataka.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Cybercrimes go up, murders and dacoities dip in Telangana||Cyber crimes in Telangana doubled while other grave offences such as murders and dacoities dipped in the year 2020 compared to the previous year. The overall crime rate had come down with the reporting of 1,50,922 and 1,60,571 crimes in years 2020 and 2019 respectively, Director-General of Police M. Mahender Reddy said. Economic offences Sharing details of the work executed by the State police department in prevention and detection of crime at the annual press conference, the DGP said even economic offences declined. Eleven Maoists (10 within the State and one outside) got killed in 11 exchanges of fire (EoF) incidents in State’s northern part abutting Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra while 135 left wing extremists were arrested. Twenty-two firearms, including an AK-47 carbine and one 9 mm pistol, were seized along with Rs. 23.66 lakh from them. Cases of murder for gain, rioting, rapes and cheating had gone up in the year 2020 vis-a-vis the previous year. Interestingly, the State police chief preferred to describe the rise as reduction using the parameter of crime rate per lakh population. For example, murders for gain in year 2020 were 44 compared to the previous year’s figure of 41. There is a clear spurt of three cases. Yet, Mr. Reddy said the crime had declined stating that going by the crime rate per lakh population was 0.13 and 0.12 for the years of 2019 and 2020 respectively. The authorities drew this inference apparently by calculating the crime in proportion to population which rises year after year. However, cases of rape and outraging modesty showed an upward graph. In crimes against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, cases of rapes, hurt and those registered under other Indian Penal Code cases too witnessed considerable spurt. A whopping Rs. 613 crore was imposed as fines on traffic rule violators in the State this year. Last year the total amount of fine imposed was Rs. 414 crore. The DGP said number of road accidents had considerably come down from 21,570 in 2019 to 16,866 in 2020. Road accident deaths too declined from 6,954 to 5,821 for the corresponding years.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||Make a fresh start, says Cong.||As the seventh round of talks between the Centre and the farmers’ union got under way, the Congress on Wednesday said the government should accept the demands of the farmers as a new year gift to them. At a press conference, Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja and her Uttarakhand counterpart Pritam Singh said the government should not stand on prestige. “2020 has not been a good year. Whether you talk about the economy or the corona pandemic or our annadataas [food providers] and workers. This government has an opportunity to make a new beginning in the new year,” Ms. Selja told reporters at the All India Congress Committee (AICC) headquarters. She claimed that instead of helping the farmers, the new laws may end up burdening the farmers with taxations as it seeks to regulate through corporatisation. Slamming Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal, the Congress leader said Haryana has seen the deaths of more than 10 farmers and protests across the State. The Khattar government no longer enjoys the support of the people of the State, she said. “Being from a predominantly agricultural State, the Chief Minister should have led a delegation to the Prime Minister as people in high position may not be aware of ground realities.” Questioning the government’s claim of working for the welfare of farmers, Mr. Singh alleged fraudulent practices in identifying some of the beneficiaries of PM-KISAN — a scheme to transfer Rs. 6,000 annually to farmers — in Uttarakhand. He said since the new farm laws allow private mandis for procurement, government-run mandis will be forced to close down after some time.  Later in the day, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Mr. Modi is refusing to repeal the anti-farmer laws because he is: anti-farmers; run by crony-capitalists; Arrogant; All of the above,” Mr. Gandhi asked in a Twitter poll on the social media platform. Until 8:30 p.m., the poll had generated over 70,000 votes.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||CCEA nod for 3 infra projects||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) on Tuesday approved three infrastructure proposals estimated at Rs. 7,725 crore for setting up greenfield industrial cities with connectivity to major transportation corridors such as the eastern and western dedicated freight corridors, expressways and National highways. The three projects, proposed by the Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, include construction of various trunk infrastructure components for the Krishnapatnam Industrial Area in Andhra Pradesh at an estimated cost of Rs. 2,139.44 crore; the Tumakuru Industrial Area in Karnataka at Rs. 1,701.81 crore; and a multi-modal logistics hub (MMLH) and multi-modal transport hub (MMTH) at Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh at Rs. 3,883.8 crore. “Envisioned on the backbone of major transportation corridors like Eastern & Western Dedicated Freight Corridors, Expressways and National Highways, proximity to ports, airports, etc., the objective of the Industrial Corridor Programme is the creation of greenfield industrial cities with sustainable, ‘plug n play’, ICT enabled utilities to facilitate the manufacturing investments into the country,” an official statement said. The developed land parcels in these cities will be ready for immediate allotment to attract investments into manufacturing and position India as a strong player in the global value chain, it said. These projects will generate ample employment opportunities through industrialisation. For the Krishnapatnam node, estimated employment projection on the completion of the first phase of development is likely to be around 98,000 persons, of which about 58,000 persons are likely to be employed at the site, the statement said. Job opportunities For the Tumakuru node, employment of about 88,500 persons is estimated, out of which 17,700 persons will be from service industries such as retail, offices and other commercial opportunities in the initial development phase, it added. The MMLH at Greater Noida will be developed as a world-class facility that will provide efficient storage/transitioning of goods to/from dedicated freight corridors, and offer a one-stop destination to freight companies and customers. Likewise, the MMTH located near the already existing railway station of Boraki will act as a transport hub with provisioning of rail and road. It will have space for an inter-State bus terminal, a local bus terminal, a Metro transit system, commercial, retail and hotel space, and green open spaces. “The project will provide world-class passenger movement facilities for the growing population of the catchment zone catering to upcoming developments in the U.P. sub-region of NCR (National Capital Region) and thus, decongest Delhi,” the statement said.
31 December 2020||TIRUPATI,||Novel bouquets for New Year||When COVID-19 has changed the way greetings are extended from a ‘safe distance’, why not make it an organised business? The idea of extending safe and healthy ‘New Year’ wishes germinated perhaps at this point. Here is a novel concept of gifting bouquets and fruit baskets with face masks and hand sanitisers, which makes the gift not only relevant in the contemporary pandemic situation, but also means how one cares for the other. Array of options Blue Petals, the Tirupati-based florist who regularly introduces novel products into the market, has come up with an array of gifting options where the floral decoration gets a value addition in the form of N95 face masks, hand sanitisers, pulse oximeter and surface wiping tissues. “By gifting our products, one can convey that he/she cares for the health of the other,” says its managing director C.B.V. Saikumar Reddy. By all means, the bouquets will now have an increased shelf life. Designer masks Eyeing a huge market in the form of women buyers, the firm has also introduced the concept of ‘designer masks’ this year to suit the sari colour and design pattern, which of course can be prepared on advance notice. Similarly, exotic flowers from Bengaluru, Udhagamandalam and other locations from the country and abroad are brought ahead of the New Year’s eve. With the concept of indoor gardening picking up, bonsai plants and table-top bamboo plants are made available to encourage greenery promotion. Though the input cost has skyrocketed due to the lockdown situation, the buck seems to stop here. “We have incurred a huge expenditure in procuring the flowers this year, but will not pass on the cost to consumers,” says Mr. Reddy. As the flowers are sanitised ahead of making the bouquet and the delivery is contactless, people can exchange pleasantries without any fear.
31 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Law and order hit in Punjab, say BJP leaders||Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ashwani Sharma on Wednesday said the law and order situation in the State was deteriorating and elections for civic bodies should not be held unless there was a conducive environment. State BJP leaders met Punjab Governor V.P. Singh Badnore here and submitted a memorandum saying that Municipal Corporation elections in the State should be held only when the State had a conducive and peaceful atmosphere so that fair elections could be ensured. ‘Miscreants at work’ Mr. Sharma said the ruling Congress party was responsible for the highly precarious situation in the State. “We fear that some miscreant forces are at work and the peaceful atmosphere of this land of five rivers is being disturbed,” he said. The delegation demanded that the agitators protesting outside the houses of BJP leaders and workers be removed and a venue be designated for them for their protest. “We believe and practise democratic rights. The voice of dissent is welcome and the BJP respects that but party workers should not be victimised. The Congress government is creating havoc and is out to destroy the economy and harmony in the State,” Mr. Sharma said.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||‘To protect our Constitution, the Opposition must get together’||Attributing the Left’s recent electoral victories in Kerala and Kashmir to the party’s consistent support of people’s interests, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury   underlined the need for Opposition unity and fresh faces in leadership positions within the party.  The CPI(M) recently had electoral victories in Kerala and Kashmir. What do you think contributed to these victories? The reasons for victories in both the States are widely different, though the basic factor is that the Left is being seen as the most consistent champion of people’s interests. And this has paid a lot of dividends, especially in local body elections. In Kerala, the work done by the local bodies in providing relief to the people during the past five years, whether during the floods or the COVID-19 pandemic, the migrant crisis during the extended lockdown and so on, has contributed to our victory. All the campaigns against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, which were done by the BJP working in tandem with Congress-led UDF, did not cut ice with voters. In Jammu and Kashmir, the Left was seen as championing the rights of Jammu and Kashmiris. The fact that I managed to be the first political leader to cross the “iron-curtain” to enter Srinagar increased our credibility. I have always said any measure of the relevance of the Left is not only electoral performance. The electoral performance is important, nobody is disputing that, but the Left’s strength is measured by its capacity to lead popular struggles. Why aren’t we hearing similar positive reports about the Left from West Bengal? The problem in Bengal mainly has been the fact that elections are not held in a proper way. It has been more of an electoral malpractice rather than a reflection of people’s desire. Now, apparently the Congress has taken a decision to formally ally with the Left, so let us see what it holds for the future. Talks are going on at the State level. Our emphasis in these talks will be that more than the seat adjustment, is important to have joint movements. How come with significant presence of the Left and the Congress, it is the BJP which is emerging as the bigger challenge for the Trinamool Congress in the State? The main reason for that is the anti-incumbency against the TMC grew sharply. Who will benefit from this anti-incumbency? The division between the Left and the Congress meant that the BJP appeared to be the only alternative. It has got a lot to do with media hype too. There has been a deliberate media campaign of projecting a bipolarity, PM vs CM, Centre vs State. There has also been a deep communal polarisation. Bengal has a very sizeable minority population. The TMC and BJP are basically feeding on each other. The Left and the Congress, now coming to some sort of electoral understanding, will present a viable alternative which will dent the BJP. The farmers’ agitation has been going on for more than a month, with the government showing no signs of backing off. What will be the role of the Opposition if the government does not relent? It is not a political party’s movement, neither have we launched it nor sponsoring it. It is a kisan (farmers) movement and work for this has been going for the last two years. More than 200 organisations have come together under the umbrella of All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee. The protests started way back [in September] when the government came up with the ordinances. And we have all seen how these Bills were bulldozed in Parliament; this angered the farmers. It is their lives and future at stake. India’s food security is at stake here. The entire Indian agriculture is at stake here. The kisans are determined, even when nearly 40 of them have died, out of which five committed suicide. It is unfortunate that the PM is completely oblivious to this. When he speaks, he either makes reckless charges against the Opposition or he completely ignores this issue. Now the talks are on, we will wait and see. We hope some solution comes out of these talks. As far as the Opposition is concerned, 11 parties have come together, we met the President of India. We are only saying that repeal these laws, then sit with all stakeholders, the kisans and let your corporate friends also come, have a discussion. On the basis of this discussion, you formulate new Bills. This is the most reasonable and democratic way of going about it. If these talks fail, then the Opposition parties will have to meet and consult each other to take it forward. We have seen the CPI(M) playing a key role in bringing the Opposition parties together. Recently, Sanjay Raut of the Shiv Sena said the UPA needs to be strengthened and possibly NCP patriarch Sharad Pawar should lead it. Your comments. As far as Sanjay Raut’s statement is concerned, both Mr. Pawar and Mr. Raut have clarified on it. The fact is that the Opposition needs to be strengthened. There is very little dispute about it. Our efforts have been all along on those lines. We have worked to bring the Opposition together not only on the farm laws but also on demonetisation, extended lockdown, government’s handling of pandemic, the economic slowdown and so on. Post 2019 Lok Sabha elections, there has been a new narrative for the Indian Republic. And an open declaration has been made that the character of the Indian Republic is changing. Earlier, there was undermining of Indian Constitution and now it has come down to complete destruction of the Indian Constitution. This accompanied by draconian curtailment of democratic rights. All this with the single aim of sharpening communal polarisation. The government meanwhile is preoccupied with bringing laws on ‘Love Jihad’. To protect our Constitution and character of Indian Republic, the Opposition must get together. Do you agree with the view that the Congress has failed to play the leadership role in the Opposition? It is the single largest Opposition party. In a parliamentary democracy, the leader of the Opposition has to discharge certain responsibility. In that there have been certain shortcomings. The Congress has been beset with internal squabbling, dissensions and defections, which too has created a problem. In the current situation, that cannot and should not dilute the efforts to try and safeguard our Republic and the Constitution right now. 21-year-old CPI(M) leader Arya Rajendran’s election to the Thiruvananthapuram Mayor’s post has led many to ask when will we see younger faces in the decision-making bodies of the CPI(M), including its Polit Bureau? In any political party, there can be no imposition from the top. It has to happen from the bottom. It is not only Ms. Rajendran, there are many instances in Kerala of young candidates being elected as Panchayat Presidents. What you are seeing is the process of bringing in the young blood. My personal refrain has always been that, if we are going to be a party of Indian people, the average age in India is 40, the average age in our leadership bodies is 60. This mismatch cannot continue. This has to be overcome and it will be overcome.  The Left’s strength is measured by its capacity to lead popular struggles
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Health staff traces majority of the 156 UK returnees||Most of the 156 people, who had arrived in Telangana from the United Kingdom and remained untraceable, were finally tracked down by Health department staff with the help of police. They could be not be traced earlier as their addresses and phone numbers were incorrect. The foreign returnees had shifted from the addresses mentioned in their passport, or had given UK phone numbers, wrong phone numbers or kept their phones switched off. However, struggles of the staff did not end after tracing the UK returnees. Some of the people refused to undergo COVID-19 tests and demanded the staff to show orders from government mandating them to get examined. The staff were desperately trying to trace them as one person with the new variant of coronavirus and asymptomatic could spread it widely. Deputy District Medical and Health Officer of Medchal-Malkajgiri, N. Narayana Rao said when they went to the addresses mentioned by the foreign returnee, the location was a school in one case, and an open plot in another case. They managed to find 19 out of 27 untraceable returnees. “We managed to trace them with the help of police. In a few cases, our staff went to the old address mentioned in the passport, enquired with neighbours about new address, and manager to find the returnees,” said J. Venkati, Hyderabad’s DMHO. Hesitation over test When some of them refused to get tested, Dr Venkati said he explained to them the importance of getting tested, and how one asymptomatic coronavirus carrier could spread the virus to several people. Threat of an asymptotic carrier to hundreds of people was emphasised. Health officials said the exercise of tracing the returnees has stretched thin the staff who are already exhausted with the pandemic management.
31 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||Four arrested for defrauding Ram Mandir Trust of Rs. 6 lakh||The police have arrested four persons, residents of Mumbai and Thane in Maharashtra, on charges of allegedly using cloned cheques to withdraw around Rs. 6 lakh from the bank account of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust in Ayodhya. The fraud took place in September and an FIR was lodged under Sections 471, 468, 467, 420 and 419 of the Indian Penal Code. The Trust is entrusted with the construction of the Ram Mandir, and the bank account was meant for collection of funds for the temple. The four arrested persons were identified as Prashant Mahawal Shetty, Shankar Sitaram Gopale, Sanjay Tezraj and Vimal Lalla, the police said. They were arrested from the the Ram ki Paidi area in Ayodhya on December 28, the police added. Senior Superintendent of Police, Ayodhya, Deepak Kumar, said the four hatched a conspiracy and cloned cheques. “They opened a bank account ... and would receive funds into their accounts through cloning of cheques and get it cleared,” the officer said. Mr. Kumar said the police were still searching for other accused. On September 9, Champat Rai, general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, submitted an application to the police saying that around Rs. 6 lakh were withdrawn from the Trust’s account through fraudulent cheques. The matter relates to an account in the State Bank of India branch in Nayaghat, Ayodhya. The cheques for the account carry the signatures of Mr. Rai and and another member, Anil Mishra.
31 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Counting for gram panchayat election in Karnataka still on||From contests that were decided by a toss to one-vote margin victories, the much-awaited gram panchayat (GP) election result day remained action packed in rural areas of Karnataka on Wednesday. Keenly fought, the elections saw close family members fighting against each other. Many wards had seen siblings, father/son and mother-in-law/daughter-in-law, among others, in the fray. It remained a mixed verdict for many families on Wednesday. By night, in many wards, results had been declared, bringing much relief to the contestants, while in some other wards, counting was still in progress. According to officials in the State Election Commission, the data on victories and others would be released only after the counting is completed. The counting was still in progress by late Wednesday night. The final result of 5,728 gram panchayats that went to polls on December 22 and December 27, will be out by Thursday morning. A note from State Election Commission (SEC) said that results for 54,041 seats had been declared since the counting of ballots commenced on Wednesday morning. The results of 36,781 seats would be available by the early hours of Thursday. Barring Bidar district, where the SEC had deployed Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs), the rest of the State voted with ballot paper. In Bidar, counting was completed in less than six hours. Over 80% turnout The lowest rung in the panchayat raj system, gram panchayat elections are seen as a barometer to test the popularity of party members though the elections are not fought on party symbols. The polls registered a turnout of 82.13% on December 22 and 80.71% on December 27. In many wards, many candidates were declared elected unopposed.
31 December 2020||S. Anil RadhakrishnanTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||In Kerala, ecotourism centres witness heavy footfall||The 60-odd ecotourism centres across the State which were thrown open to visitors after remaining closed for eight months due to the pandemic are witnessing heavy footfall. Though the visitors cannot stroll freely as during the pre-COVID-19 days and have to follow the physical distancing norms, the ecotourism centres have emerged as favourite places for domestic tourists to unwind after remaining confined to homes for months. Restrictions such as limiting the stay to one-and-a-half hours at centres such as Ponmudi and Athirappilly have not discouraged the visitors. Limited choice of travel due to the pandemic, preference to drivable locations nearby, holiday season due to Christmas and New Year and the forthcoming reopening of the educational institutions are cited as the reasons for the surge in visitors. Back to normal “It is back to normal at the 60-odd ecotourism centres. Only the ecotourism centres at Kuruva, Chembra, Soochipara and Meenmutty in Wayanad remain to be opened,” Director of Ecotourism Vinod Kumar D.K. told The Hindu . The carrying capacity studies in these four ecotourism centres in Wayanad had been completed and the report had been submitted to the Forest Department. Hundreds of workers engaged by the Eco Development Committees (EDC) and the Vana Samrakshana Samithi (VSS) at these centres are back to work again. The 60 ecotourism centres together employ over 5,000 persons. Tourism has again become the livelihood means for them with the centres opening up and local residents arriving in good numbers. Local bodies such as Kumily, Munnar and Sultan Bathery have also benefited as they depend on revenue from the ecotourism centres in their area. Boost to economy The spin-off effect is being reflected in the local economy and traders, hoteliers and tourist vehicle operators also have benefited. “We are using the services of EDC and VSS personnel to keep a close watch on the visitors. People are being warned to avoid adventurous outing and to take proper care and to follow the rules and regulations,” Mr. Vinod Kumar said.
31 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Telangana protests intensify||The agitation launched against the agricultural laws brought out by the Centre is picking up momentum in Telangana too. The Chalo Hyderabad call given by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee evoked good response from farmers in different parts of the State. According to the committee, over a thousand farmers managed to reach the city braving the arrests by police in the districts. The civil society too joined forces with the agitating farmers and expressed solidarity with them by participating in the demonstration at the Dharna Chowk here on Wednesday. The protesters were demanding repeal of the three "anti-farmer" laws as also the new Electricity Bill mandating meters to all farm connections and privatisation of the distribution companies. The participants denounced the State government's action in deploying police to foil the protest. They demanded that the State government ensure minimum support price for all crops and pass a resolution through the Legislature opposing the Central Acts. The government should make amendments to the relevant legislations governing agriculture and marketing sectors to negate the Central Acts, they said. Demanding that the government continue local procurement of crops ensuring MSP, they urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao against making a "u-turn" on the vehement opposition he voiced against the Central laws. They criticized the "undemocratic" attempts of the police to prevent the farmers from holding the protest meeting peacefully. The police, they alleged, took a u-turn after indicating that permission was accorded for the meeting. They lamented that several leaders were detained in the districts and farmers' groups were stopped in Suryapet, Khammam, Mulugu and other districts from coming to Hyderabad. The AIKSCC leaders wondered how the Chief Minister changed his stance on the farm laws. The ruling party which supported the bandh on December 8 with TRS working president K. T. Rama Rao himself joining the protest was now obstructing the protest launched by the farmers. “Has Mr. Rao made a deal with PM Modi in Delhi to support the Acts which he has denounced several times as anti-farmer?” they questioned. They were critical of the government's announcement that procurement would be stopped forthwith and farmers should depend only on the market for better prices. Satbir Singh, a farmer leader from Punjab, who came from Singhu Border, shared the intensity of the movement in Punjab, which expanded to every section of the society.
31 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Telangana for fast-track court to try schoolgirls’ abuse case||The State government will move the High Court seeking constitution of a fast-track special court for speedy trial in the horrific case of sexual abuse of five girl students allegedly by a headmaster of the Mandal Parishad Primary School (MPPS) at Chintavarre village in Laxmidevipalli mandal to ensure harshest punishment to the accused swiftly, said Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar. The Women and Child Welfare Department will approach the High Court with a request for setting up of a fast-track court for speedy trial of the case, he added. Mr Ajay along with ST Welfare, Women & Child Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod handed over cheques for Rs. 2 lakh each to the families of five victims of sexual abuse at the Collectorate in Kothagudem on Wednesday. Mr Ajay, Government Whip Rega Kantha Rao, the former Khammam MP Ponguleti Srinivas Reddy and others donated some amount individually to the five poor families. ‘Serial sexual abuse’ It may be mentioned that the shocking incident of "serial sexual abuse" of the five girl students of the State-run school, all aged below 12 years, allegedly by the headmaster Sunil sparked widespread anguish and protests at Chintavarre and Kothagudem a fortnight ago. The accused allegedly preyed on innocent children from impoverished families and resorted to the savage act on the pretext of assisting in online instruction. The ghastly incident triggered demands from women's organisations for invoking the Preventive Detention (PD) Act against the accused and exemplary punishment to the latter terming him a "sexual predator." Acting on a complaint lodged by the parents of the victims, the Laxmidevipalli police arrested Sunil under Section 376AB, 376C of the IPC and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on December 16. He was suspended from the service on the charges of sexual abuse and five other teachers of the district were also placed under suspension for allegedly trying to "hush up" the "gruesome crime" through "settlement." Speaking to reporters in Kothagudem late on Wednesday afternoon, Mr Ajay said the State government will extend all assistance to the five families of the victims including providing shelter to the five girls in a State-run institution in Hyderabad to enable them to continue their education without any hassles. The Integrated Tribal Development Agency, Bhadrachalam, will provide loans with cent percent subsidy to the five families to support their livelihood as part of relief and rehabilitation measures, he added. Probe panel He said an inquiry committee headed by the Superintendent of Police comprising the officials of the allied departments will be constituted to suggest measures to prevent recurrence of such incidents. Kothagudem MLA Vanama Venkateshwara Rao, Yellandu MLA Haripriya Naik, WD&CW Department Commissioner D Divya, Collector M V Reddy and others were present.
31 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||Ex-civil servants write to Adityanath, call for repeal of conversion law||The new ordinance against unlawful conversion in Uttar Pradesh is being used as a stick to victimise people, especially the Muslim men and women who dare to exercise their freedom of choice, and thus the law is “illegal”, a group of 104 retired civil servants have said. They asked Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to withdraw it. In a letter to Mr. Adityanath, they noted that in recent years, Uttar Pradesh, “once known as the cradle of the Ganga-Jamuna civilisation, has become the epicentre of the politics of hate, division and bigotry and that the institutions of governance are now steeped in communal poison”. The signatories included former National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon; former Foreign Secretary Nirupama Rao; retired IPS officer Julio Ribeiro; T.K.A Nair, former adviser to Prime Minister; former Chief Information Commissioner Wajahat Habibullah; former Special Director of CBI K. Saleem Ali; former OSD on Kashmir, Prime Minister’s Office, A.S. Dular; and former DGP, Bureau of Police Research and Development, Meeran C. Borwankar. They said those who have suffered from the “unconstitutional enforcement” of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, must be compensated. While various High Courts, including the Allahabad High Court, have ruled unequivocally that choosing one’s life partner was a fundamental right guaranteed under the Constitution, Uttar Pradesh was blithely undermining it, the letter said.
31 December 2020||Srinagar,||3 ‘militants’ killed in Srinagar||Three alleged militants, holed up in a multi-storey building, were killed in a 17-hour operation on the outskirts of Srinagar on Wednesday. However, the families of the “militants” said they were “never involved in militancy” and were “innocent civilians”. “For many days, intelligence inputs were pouring in about the movement of militants on the Srinagar-Baramulla highway. We developed leads on Tuesday about militants hiding in a house in Lawaypora in the HMT area. The three militants, killed in the operation, were planning a big strike on the highway to gain publicity,” General Officer Commanding (GoC), Kilo Force, H.S. Sahi, said. “One AK 47 rifle, two pistols and ammunition, besides other incriminating material, were recovered from them. The slain militants’ identities have been established as Ajaz Maqbool Ganie, Ather Mushtaq from Pulwama and Zubair Lone from Shopian,” a police spokesman said.
31 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam CM sets Jan. 31 deadline to rehabilitate national park dwellers||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal has asked the State’s Forest and Revenue departments to permanently rehabilitate the indigenous forest dwellers of the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park within January 31. Rehabilitation of some 10,000 people of Laika and Dodhia villages has been hanging fire since 1999, when the Dibru-Saikhowa Wildlife Sanctuary was upgraded to a national park. The park, home to a few wild horses, had been in focus since May 27 when a blowout at an Oil India Limited gas well in the vicinity posed an ecological threat. On Wednesday, Mr. Sonowal met leaders of the Takam Mising Porin Kebang and some representatives of the villagers who have been demanding proper rehabilitation since December 21. The affected people belong to the Mising community. At least one member of some 1,480 families — the government figure is 1,455 — has been camping outside the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Tinsukia district, about 12 km from the park. “We have been tasked with finding a logical and permanent solution for necessary action by January 31,” said Environment and Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya.    According to the TMPK, the forest dwellers of the 425-sq. km. Dibru-Saikhowa National Park have been denied access to government schemes since 1986 though a notification that year allowed them to continue staying until their shifting to a suitable place.
31 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Pandemic fears return to haunt Sabarimala||With just hours left for the second phase of the annual pilgrim season at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple to begin, the diagnosis of 37 COVID-19 positive cases, including two priests, at Sannidhanam, has once again cast a shadow over the hill shrine. According to the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), head priest (Melsanthi) V.K. Jayaraj Potti and six of his assistants have been sent to quarantine in view of their close interaction with three persons who tested positive recently. A decision to test the Melsanthi and other priests was taken after one of the priests at the Sannidhanam exhibited symptoms. Impact on season “A couple of junior priests and a person who used to cook for him tested positive during a rapid test drive at the Sannidhanam. Hence the Melsanthi and assistants have been asked to remain in quarantine. The pilgrimage will continue as scheduled,” said a TDB spokesperson. The finding, however, has put the Health and Revenue authorities in a dilemma over whether to declare the pilgrimage zone a containment area. “Such a declaration is important when viewed from the public health perspective. We have already received a recommendation to this effect. If implemented, it will have a considerable impact on the pilgrimage,” said a Health Department official. The risk involved The sanctum sanctorum of the temple is an enclosed space and one infected priest may lead to a wider outbreak and put the season in jeopardy. “The Sopanam of the temple, where only priests on duty and the temple manager are permitted to enter, was already converted into a bio-secure bubble. The priests were made to follow the COVID-19 protocol strictly. How they contracted the virus is yet to be ascertained,” he added. Meanwhile, TDB officials sought to allay concerns over the pilgrim season and said the board’s manual included provisions for performing the rituals even in the absence of the Melsanthi. They attributed the pandemic’s spread among the staff to the sharing of common facilities, including toilets and mess hall. ‘No need for declaration’ “Just over 75,000 devotees visited the temple in the first phase of the season that ended on December 26. The situation has been well under control. The devotees are not permitted to spend more than a few hours at the Sannidhanam and have been barred from having close interaction with the employees. Hence, there is no need to declare the area a containment zone,” TDB president N. Vasu said.  Health, Revenue authorities in a dilemma over declaring the area a containment zone
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. nod for missions in Estonia, Paraguay and Dominican Republic||The government on Wednesday announced that it would open three missions in Estonia, Paraguay and the Dominican Republic in 2021, after a Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi cleared the proposal from the Ministry of External Affairs. “The opening of the missions will help expand India’s diplomatic footprint, deepen political relations, enable growth of bilateral trade, investment and economic engagements, facilitate stronger people-to-people contacts, bolster political outreach in multilateral fora and help garner support for the foreign policy objectives,” said an official statement, adding that the move would also help the diaspora members residing in these countries. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said he looked forward to the “early establishment” of the missions. While the government had announced the opening of 18 missions in 2018, not all of them have been established yet, and the opening of the newly announced missions may be further delayed by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu welcomed the decision saying it would strengthen ties in trade and cybersecurity in particular. “We will also serve together in the Security Council next year,” Mr. Reinsalu tweeted. Both Paraguay and the Dominican Republic had set up missions in Delhi in 2006. “This will undoubtedly strengthen and deepen our bonds. Great news,” wrote Foreign Minister of the Dominican Republic Roberto Alvarez, thanking Mr. Jaishankar for the news. “The decision to open these three missions is a forward-looking step in pursuit of our national priority of growth and development or ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’. Enhancement of India’s diplomatic presence will provide market access for companies and bolster exports of goods and services,” the official statement released after the Cabinet meeting stated.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre extends last date to file tax returns||The Centre on Wednesday extended the timelines to file tax returns till January 10. The Finance Ministry said more time was being provided “considering the problems being faced by the tax payers”. The taxpayers, who need to have their accounts audited or furnish details on specific domestic or international transactions, now have time till February 15 to file their returns instead of the earlier January 31 deadline. “The date for furnishing audit reports under the Act including tax audit report and report in respect of international/specified domestic transactions has been further extended to January 15,” the Ministry said. The last date for making declarations under the tax dispute resolution scheme Vivad Se Vishwas has also been extended to January 31 from December 31. But the deadline for passing orders under the scheme has been extended just by a day to January 31 from January 30.
31 December 2020||MYSURUthe,||Varsity may choose khadi for convocation robe||The century-old University of Mysore (UoM) may choose khadi or a handloom fabric for convocation robe and a committee has been constituted to look for a suitable alternative to the western-style ceremonial gown worn during the annual event. The university, one of the country’s oldest centres of higher learning, recently conducted its 100th convocation which was virtually addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Syndicate meeting Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar, who chaired the Syndicate meeting here on Wednesday, told The Hindu that a committee under the Registrar (Evaluation) has been constituted to study the alternatives found to the ceremonial gowns by other universities and make recommendations. “There were suggestions from the UGC on convocation robes. The UGC had advised khadi as the dress code. Some universities have already replaced the gowns with khadi clothing. Ours is an old university and the ceremonial gowns are used as the convocation robes. In view of suggestions for replacing the gowns, suitably with khadi, we thought of doing it now and the Syndicate gave its nod,” he said. The Vice-Chancellor, however, said the university has to bring changes to the statute for replacing the convocation robe and also seek the nod from the government. “Hopefully, by the next convocation, a new outfit for the occasion may take birth.”
31 December 2020||Hyderabad,||CID report on Srisailam hydel plant fire ready||A probe by the Telangana Crime Investigation Department (CID) into the fire at Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station that left nine persons dead has been completed. Any sabotage angle has been ruled out, a CID officer said.and the investigators found that inadequate safety mechanisms led to the fatalities. However, the CID authorities are yet to submit the report to the government. “We are awaiting the report of the technical committee constituted by the government to ascertain scientific reasons that resulted in the accident,” a top CID official told The Hindu on Wednesday. Nine persons, including two private company employees and seven employees of Telangana State Power Generation Company Limited, died in the fire accident reported in the third week of August this year. In addition to the probe by CID, the government constituted a technical committee to find out what triggered the major fire. “Our investigation indicated that short circuit ignited sparks that resulted in massive blazes. Within a very short span of time, flames engulfed the entire area where the workers were on duty,” the CID officer said. Sabotage angle was ruled out and the investigators found that inadequate safety mechanisms led to the fatalities. “From our angle, the report is ready. But we need to see findings of the technical committee to arrive at precise reasons for the fire accident and fix up responsibility,” the top official said.
31 December 2020||KALABURAGI,||Tie in Karnataka forces election through lottery||Gram panchayat members in two wards in Ballari taluk were elected through lottery after they got the same number of votes on Wednesday. There was a tie between candidates in two wards. D. Ramappa and Devendrappa of Moka Gram Panchayat polled 357 votes each, and Nagaraj and Manohar of Chelgurki Gram Panchayat received 319 votes each. As per the guidelines of the Election Commission, the election officials at Moka Gram Panchayat decided D. Ramappa as the winner through lottery. Meanwhile, in Chelgurki Gram Panchayat, recounting was taken up after both the candidates, Nagaraj and Manohar, did not agree to a lottery for electing the winner. When there was a tie even after recounting, a lottery was eventually drawn and Manohar emerged the winner. Counting was peaceful at the counting centre in St. John’s High School in Ballari on Wednesday. Elections were held for 3,612 seats of 231 gram panchayats in Ballari district, with 8,745 candidates contesting. Polling turnout recorded in Ballari district was 81.1%.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||U.K. approves Oxford vaccine||“This regimen was shown in clinical trials to be safe and effective at preventing symptomatic COVID-19, with no severe cases and no hospitalisations more than 14 days after the second dose,” the statement noted. An EUA allows an organisation to launch vaccine without putting it through the full range of tests that a new untested vaccine must usually go through. A scientist connected to the approval process of new vaccines told The Hindu that a nod from regulators in the U.K. or the U.S. “works very favourably” for the SII. Neither company has announced the results of the ongoing Phase-3 trials that test the vaccine candidate in thousands of volunteers in India. Both AstraZeneca and Pfizer have been approved in the U.K. and the U.S. respectively after they publicised data from their ongoing Phase-3 trials. Were Indian regulators to approve, at least 50 million doses of the vaccine would reportedly be available to Indians and would go some way to aid the nearly 300 million priority individuals — healthcare workers, police personnel, those with co-morbid disease conditions — that are expected to be inoculated in the first half of 2021. The U.K. government, in a statement, said it had “accepted” the recommendation from the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) to authorise the Oxford University/AstraZeneca vaccine for use.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers, Centre reach agreement on two issues||“The farm unions were apprehensive about farmers facing fines and jail for stubble burning cases under the ordinance on air quality in the capital. We have agreed to exclude farmers from these penalties. Farmers also felt that amendments to the Electricity Act will harm them, and wanted to ensure the continuance of state power subsidies for irrigation purposes. We have reached an agreement on this also,” he added. With temperatures around the capital dipping closer to zero, he urged farmer leaders to send home the women, children and the elderly among the protesters. Tens of thousands of protesting farmers have been camped on the outskirts of Delhi for 35 days in a row. Farmer leaders also welcomed the resolution of these two issues, but said the protest would not end while the elephant in the room was yet to be dealt with. “There was some progress today, but it was along predictable lines,” said Kavitha Kuruganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikaar Manch, noting that solutions for these two issues had already been envisaged in the Centre’s December 9 proposal. On the more thorny issue of the three contentious farm reform laws, she said the government asked farmers to suggest other options short of repealing the laws. “They wanted us to propose alternatives, but we kept saying there are no alternatives to repeal. This is our key demand and the agitation will continue until the laws are repealed,” she added. With regard to an MSP law, the Centre proposed a small expert committee to examine various implications. “There was a long and detailed discussion on MSP, but no consensus was reached. The Agriculture Minister said a legal guarantee that all farm produce would be bought at a set rate was not financially feasible. He suggested a committee to discuss it further, but we told them to first repeal the three farm laws and then a committee can be set up to look at all these issues together,” said Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh leader Abhimanyu Kohar.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||New dock at Paradip Port||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) on Wednesday approved a Rs. 3,004.63-crore project to enhance the facilities at Paradip Port, including the development of a Western dock to accommodate the larger cape size vessels, a government statement said. The project would be on the build, operate and transfer model under the public-private partnership mode. The cost would be Rs. 2,040 crore and the capital dredging works would cost Rs. 352.13 crore. The project would cater to imports of coal and limestone.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet gives approval for Akash missile export||As part of efforts to boost defence exports,. the Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday approved the export of the indigenously developed and manufactured Akash short-range Surface to Air Missile (SAM) system. It also approved the high-level committee formed to expedite clearance of such exports. Besides Akash, there was interest coming in for other major platforms such as the Coastal Surveillance System, radars and air platforms, the Defence Ministry said. For faster approval of export of such platforms, a committee comprising the Defence Minister, the External Affairs Minister and the National Security Advisor had been created, it stated. “This committee would authorise subsequent exports of major indigenous platforms to various countries. It would also explore various available options, including the government to government route,” it said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Twitter: “The export version of Akash will be different from system currently deployed with Indian armed forces.” Export of big platforms So far, Indian defence exports included parts and components but the export of big platforms was minimal, Mr. Singh noted. “This decision by the Cabinet would help the country to improve its defence products and make them globally competitive.” After its induction in the Services, interest was shown in the Akash missile by many friendly countries during international exhibitions/Def Expo/Aero India, the Ministry said.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||Over 66,000 police on VIP duty in 2019: report||More than 20,000 additional policemen above the sanctioned strength were deployed in VIP protection duty in the year 2019, according to a report prepared by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D), a think tank of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). According to the report, as many as 66,043 policemen were deployed to protect 19,467 ministers, members of Parliament, judges, bureaucrats and other personalities in 2019 compared to 63,061 policemen for similar duty in 2018. The sanctioned strength for the job was 43,566 policemen. The highest number of persons who received police protection in 2019 were in West Bengal — 3,142, followed by Punjab (2,594), Bihar (2,347), Haryana (1,355) and Jharkhand (1,351). The total number of Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) personnel engaged for providing personal protection to various individuals was not included in the report. At 8,182, the Delhi police deputed the highest number of personnel for personal protection of 501 individuals, the report said. The capital city is home to several Union Ministers and other important protected individuals and the sanctioned strength for such duty is 7,294. As per the report, the Population Per Police Person is 511.81, that is one policeman for every 511.81 persons and 3.9 policemen for each VIP. Bihar had the worst ratio with one policeman for 867.57 persons.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Beware of ‘super spreader’ events, States warned||The Health Ministry reiterated the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. “The Ministry of Home Affairs has mandated that the States/UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may impose local restrictions with a view to containing the spread of COVID-19 such as night curfew.” The Home Ministry had also stipulated that there should be no restrictions on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||India-U.K. flights to remain suspended till January 7||However, international flights may be allowed on select routes by the competent authority on case to case basis, the DGCA order said. The Civil Aviation Ministry had last week suspended flights between the U.K. and India till December 31 after a variant of the coronavirus was detected there. The restriction would not apply to international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the DGCA.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||14 more test positive for new variant of coronavirus||In its COVID-19 update, the Ministry said that daily recoveries had outnumbered new cases for 33 days in a row. In the past 24 hours, 20,549 persons were found to be COVID-19 positive across the country. In the same period, 26,572 new recoveries were reported. The cumulative recoveries stood at 98,34,141 — the highest globally. The recovery rate had also reached nearly 96% (95.99%) and the gap between the recoveries and the active cases was consistently widening (95,71,869), the Ministry added. Of the new recovered cases, 78.44% were concentrated in 10 States/Union Territories, with Maharashtra reporting a maximum of 5,572, followed by Kerala (5,029) and Chhattisgarh (1,067). It added that 79.24% of the new cases were from 10 States and UTs. Kerala reported the highest daily new cases (5,887), followed by Maharashtra (3,018) and West Bengal (1,244).
31 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Dattatreya lauds ‘Best Performer’ constable||Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Wednesday appreciated Uppal constable D. Shiva Rani, who was awarded Best Performer by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) for her work in entering the data, usage of Crime and Criminal Tracking Networking System (CCTNS) and Interoperable Criminal Justice System during the last one year. Mr. Bandaru Dattatreya wished her great success in all her endeavours in cracking crime and creating safer environs for people. Malkajgiri ACP N. Shyam Prasad Rao and Uppal Inspector N.C.H. Ranga Swamy were present on the occasion at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday.
31 December 2020||Patna,||‘RJD should keep its own flock together’||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday denied the claim by Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Shyam Rajak that as many as 17 JD(U) MLAs were in touch with the RJD. “There is no such thing. All these claims are baseless,” said Nitish Kumar, when asked by mediapersons about the Opposition leader’s claim. Earlier, Mr. Rajak had stirred a political controversy by claiming that the legislators were in touch with the RJD. “Many JD(U) MLAs are upset with the way BJP has been dominating the ruling alliance in the State and taking decisions,” Mr. Rajak said. However, JD(U) leaders promptly denied the claim. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said, “The RJD should worry about their own MLAs and keep its flock together.”
31 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||BJP sharpens attack on BJD over PMAY||The Odisha unit of the BJP has intensified its campaign against reported branding of the Prime Minister Awas Yojna (PMAY) houses as the Biju Pucca Ghar Yojna. The party accused the BJD government of appropriating Central schemes. The BJP is opposed to the affixing of the BPGY sticker. “It is unfortunate that the Naveen Patnaik government has resorted to cheap publicity tactics,” said party spokesperson Prithivraj Harichandan.
31 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam House clears Bill on madrasas||Amid protests from Opposition members, the 126-member Assam Assembly on Wednesday passed the Assam Repealing Bill, 2020, which seeks to convert State-run madrasas in Assam into regular schools.  The Bill also seeks to convert 97 provincialised Sanskrit tol s (learning centres) into study and research centres affiliated to a university of Sanskrit and ancient studies in Nalbari district in western Assam from January 2022.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Om Birla seeks probe into Gowda’s death||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Wednesday sought a high-level independent inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the death of S.L. Dharme Gowda, Deputy Chairperson of the Karnataka Legislative Council. Taking to Twitter, Mr. Birla said he was “anguished” at the sad news of the demise of Mr. Dharme Gowda. “My condolences to his family. The unfortunate incident in the House, when he was in Chair, is a serious attack on democracy. It is necessary to have a high-level probe through an independent agency into his death,” Mr. Birla said. “It is the duty of all of us to safeguard the prestige of legislative bodies and dignity and freedom of Presiding officers.” Dharme Gowda, 65, was found dead on a railway track on Tuesday.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Boost given for ethanol production||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a modified scheme for interest subvention for ethanol production, expanding the scheme to include grain-based distilleries and not just molasses-based ones. Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the decision would encourage ethanol production from grains like barley, maize, corn and rice. The expenditure on the scheme would be Rs. 8,470 crore, of which Rs. 4,573 crore was approved on Wednesday, he said. Mr. Pradhan said the scheme would boost production and distillation capacity to 1,000 crore litres and help in meeting the goal of 20% ethanol blending with petrol by 2030. “The government would bear interest subvention for five years including one year moratorium against the loan availed by project proponents from banks @ 6% per annum or 50% of the rate of interest charged by banks whichever is lower,” a statement said.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sushant case: CBI responds to Swamy||The CBI on Wednesday informed senior BJP MP Subramanian Swamy that all aspects in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case were being looked at and nothing had been ruled out as on date. The agency’s letter to Dr. Swamy was in response to his representation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 30. “The CBI is conducting investigation in a thorough and professional manner using latest scientific techniques. During investigation, all aspects are being looked at and no aspect has been ruled out as on date,” the letter said. The CBI has used advanced mobile forensic equipment, including latest software packages, to extract and analyse the relevant data available in digital devices and also for the analysis of dump data of cell tower locations related to the case, according to its letter to Dr. Swamy. The agency noted that all witnesses concerned have been examined.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||Labour surveys to start in March||Four separate surveys on migrant workers, domestic workers, employment generated by professionals, and the transport sector, would be started in March 2021 and completed by October, Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said on Wednesday. Mr. Gangwar was speaking at the release of a stamp commemorating the centenary of the Labour Bureau, which will carry out the surveys. A message by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was also played at the event, in which he said the four labour Codes being implemented by the government would protect the workers’ interest and lead to increasing productivity. Mr. Gangwar said the Labour Bureau had conducted the first-of-its-kind Quarterly Employment Surveys of enterprises that would be relaunched in a new format soon. He said authentic data on employment would help in policy-making.
31 December 2020||Srinagar,||Police raid home of PDP youth leader||Officials of Counter Intelligence Kashmir, a wing of the J&K Police, on Wednesday raided the house of the Peoples Democratic Party youth president and recently-elected District Development Council member Waheed-ur-Rehmaan Parra in Pulwama. The team also questioned Mr. Parra’s brother.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sec’bad, Hyd divisions bag awards||South Central Railway (SCR) celebrated the annual ‘Railway Week’, usually celebrated in April but that got put off due to COVID pandemic, on Wednesday by giving away 173 individual awards and 11 group awards to officers and staff. General Manager Gajanan Mallya appreciated his personnel for ‘best performance’ in the last financial year with gross earnings of Rs. 13,771 crore. GM’s overall best performance efficiency shield was jointly presented to Secunderabad and Hyderabad divisions with respective DRMs - Anand Bhatia and N.S.R. Prasad, receiving the award. Another 33 zonal level efficiency shields were also given.
31 December 2020||Bengaluru,||New Chief Secretary for Karnataka||Going by seniority, the State government on Wednesday appointed Additional Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, a 1984 batch IAS officer, as the new Chief Secretary to the State government.
31 December 2020||Hyderabad,||One more Chinese held in loan fraud||A Chinese national who tried to flee the country was arrested by Hyderabad police at Delhi airport in connection with app-based loan fraud. Zhu Wei (27) alias Lambo, hails from Jiangxi of China, and was head of operations for Aglow Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Liufang Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Nabloom Technologies Pvt. Ltd., and Pinprint Technologies Pvt. Ltd., all instant loan app companies, Additional Commissioner of Police (Crimes and SIT) Shikha Goel said. She said that a team of Cyber Crime police intercepted Zhu Wei at Delhi airport. One K. Nagaraju from Kurnool, who played a key role in the operation of call centres, was also arrested. “These volumes of transactions have happened over payment gateways and bank accounts linked to these companies and a large number of international transactions have also happened through bitcoins,” she said, adding that the bulk of transactions have taken place over the last six months. The questioning of the arrested employee revealed that another Chinese national Yuan Yuan alias Sissi alias Jennifer was the person who set up operations in India and is presently abroad.
31 December 2020||Chennai,||Jayalal made IMA president||Laparoscopic surgeon J.A. Jayalal has taken charge as President of the Indian Medical Association for 2020-21. He was installed at IMA’s 95th annual national conference on Monday. Dr. Jayalal said every effort would be taken to negotiate with the Centre not to encourage mixing of various streams of medicine which would be detrimental to unsuspecting people who would be denied the benefits of modern medicine.
31 December 2020||Ahmedabad,||Bharuch MP withdraws resignation from BJP||Mansukh Vasava, Lok Sabha member from Bharuch in Gujarat, on Wednesday retracted his resignation from the BJP after an intervention from the party’s State leadership. On Tuesday, Mr. Vasava resigned from the party. Mr Vasava’s U-turn came after the intervention of State party chief C.R. Paatil and Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. Both assured him that his concerns over the eco-sensitive zone declared in 121 villages in his constituency would be looked into.
31 December 2020||Jaipur,||Azharuddin escapes unhurt in accident||Former Indian cricket team captain and Congress leader Mohammad Azharuddin escaped unhurt in an accident, when his car lost control and crashed into a roadside restaurant in Soorwal town of Rajasthan’s Sawai Madhopur district on Wednesday. Mr. Azharuddin, along with his family, was travelling to the Ranthambhore National Park.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||Sivan gets one-year extension||Sivan K. has been given an one-year extension, till January 14, 2022, as the Secretary, Department of Space. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the extension of tenure of Mr. Sivan K, Secretary, Department of Space, and Chairman, Space Commission, for a period of one year up to January 14, 2022, a Personnel Ministry order said on Wednesday.
31 December 2020||Kolkata,||TMC urges President to remove Bengal Governor||The Trinamool Congress on Wednesday said it had approached the President seeking the removal of West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. Trinamool Rajya Sabha MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said that a memorandum had been sent in this regard. The letter stated that Mr. Dhankhar had been inducing divisive politics.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||AFSPA extended in Nagaland for 6 more months||The Ministry of Home Affairs has declared the entire State of Nagaland as a “disturbed area” for six more months under the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) that empowers security forces to conduct operations anywhere and arrest anyone without prior notice.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||300 city roads to have smart parking||The Greater Chennai Corporation has planned to increase the number of smart parking slots to 12,000. Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani announced this on social media on Wednesday.  The Corporation is planning to introduce premium smart parking spaces on Khadar Nawaz Khan Road with a fee of Rs. 40 an hour. Other roads such as Anna Nagar Second Avenue, Third Avenue and Fourth Avenue will also get smart parking spaces at Rs. 20 an hour. Smart parking spaces will be increased in Besant Nagar, Purasawalkam, T. Nagar and George Town. At present, there are 3,000 smart parking spaces. Roads in the vicinity of NSC Bose Road will get smart parking spaces shortly. At least 300 of 471 bus route roads in Chennai will get smart parking spaces, the officials said. App in the works The Corporation has implemented the parking management system for improving the ‘On Street’ parking in congested neighbourhoods. “Optimum usage of the available parking space enhances the overall functioning of streets in the city. Fatalities and injuries are likely to be brought down with parking discipline,” said an official. Motorists can book a parking slot through the official GCC Smart Parking mobile app before arriving at the lot. The app navigates the user to the particular parking lot through the inbuilt Google Maps. The parking fees can be paid through various e-payment options facilitated by the app. Number plate recognition cameras would capture the vehicle information and automatically generate e-receipts in the user’s mobile. The project focuses on cashless transaction and IT-enabled system with dedicated mobile app, websites and other hybrid IoT facilities to ensure a friendly smart parking experience. Further, the system will be integrated with multi-level car parking and other off-street parking facilities. There will be separate parking lots earmarked for bicycles, officials said. “A prepaid system is on the cards. The system is not aimed at making profits but only to provide quality parking. The service providers would assist in towing and clamping vehicles which violate parking regulations, in concurrence with the Police Department. A dedicated control room for this purpose is functional at Ripon Buildings with necessary video walls and supervisors to monitor the operations,” the official said.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Air fares remain low on New Year’s eve||The same time last year, passengers taking last-minute flights for New Year celebrations had to pay two or three times the regular fare. This year, the fares have not spiked. The fares are affordable due to the pandemic and the ensuing restrictions imposed by the government, travel agents said. A flight from Chennai to Bengaluru costs about Rs. 1,800-Rs. 2,000, a flight to Mumbai could cost from Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 3,800 and to Delhi between Rs. 4,000 and Rs. 4,500. Although air traffic has been improving, most people are still careful and are travelling only for business, emergencies and medical reasons, the travel agents said. Shahul Hameed, part of the Travel Agents Association of India, said one of the predominant reasons was that many State governments had strict rules banning public celebrations on the eve of New Year’s day. In Chennai, for instance, the State government had announced that there would not be any celebrations on the night of December 31 and January 1 at beaches, hotels, clubs and resorts. Even those staying at resorts cannot come together for a gathering and those who had made reservations must check in before 10 p.m. “Apart from this, people are a little more cautious after the emergence of the new strain of COVID-19,” he said. Tushar Jain, a travel agent, said many were resorting to low-key celebrations within the city, fearing COVID-19. “A small fraction of people, who are willing to take a chance and travel, are heading to places like Goa or taking a flight to Bengaluru and driving down to Madikeri,” he said.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘NDA coordination panel will decide on CM candidate’||The NDA coordination committee will announce the chief ministerial candidate of the AIADMK-led alliance in Tamil Nadu once the Assembly election is announced, and the candidate will be from the largest constituent — the AIADMK, a senior BJP leader said on Wednesday. C.T. Ravi, BJP general secretary in charge of Tamil Nadu, made the statement when asked by reporters whether Edappadi K. Palaniswami would be the alliance’s candidate for Chief Minister. ‘Modi heads alliance’ “When we get a majority [after the election], our parliamentary party board, the NDA coordination committee, will decide. At present, Mr. Palaniswami is our Chief Minister. The chief ministerial candidate is always decided by our parliamentary board,” he said. Mr. Ravi said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was heading the alliance and leading the election campaign across the country. When asked repeatedly about the BJP’s stand on the issue, Mr. Ravi said the AIADMK would decide its candidate. “We will ask them [the AIADMK] the question [whom it wants as the Chief Minister]. They will decide. Only when the election notification comes, the NDA partners will decide on their chief ministerial candidate,” he said. He said the AIADMK remained an NDA partner and had supported the Centre on all issues. Murugan’s claim BJP State president L. Murugan sought to know whether the DMK had announced its chief ministerial candidate. “At one place, people are naming Udhayanidhi; at another, they are naming Kanimozhi,” he claimed. He alleged that the DMK was threatening him with legal action over the Murasoli land ownership issue. “Why are you threatening us? Why are you filing a case for Rs. 1 crore? Where will I go for Rs. 1 crore? This means you have something to hide. Instead of threatening us, show us the proof,” he said.  At present, Palaniswami is our Chief Minister. The chief ministerial candidate is always decided by our parliamentary board
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK moves HC over Pongal cash gift||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Wednesday moved an urgent writ petition before the Madras High Court, seeking a direction to the State government to distribute the Pongal cash gift of Rs. 2,500 to ration rice cardholders after ensuring that the tokens don’t contain the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) flag colours, and photographs of the Chief Minister, the Deputy Chief Minister, other Ministers and party office-bearers. Justices R. Mahadevan and Anita Sumanth heard the case at the instance of senior counsel P. Wilson, who displayed photographs and videos of tokens containing ruling party flags and photos of its leaders. He said the tokens were intended to mislead the people when elections were on the anvil and creating an impression as if the cash was being paid from the coffers of the ruling party and not from the public exchequer. A-G’s assurance On the other hand, Advocate General Vijay Narayan, too, displayed tokens issued by the Civil Supplies Department and pointed out that they did not contain any political imagery. Mr. Narayan said some overenthusiastic party cadre might have printed the tokens produced by Mr. Wilson in a couple of districts. The A-G assured the court that the ration shops would only accept the official tokens for the distribution of the cash gift and other Pongal groceries. When the senior judge on the Bench suggested that the Civil Supplies Department could issue a circular to that effect, the A-G accepted the suggestion and told the court that it would be issued by Thursday evening. The Bench also granted liberty to the petitioner party to make a mention before it if no such circular gets issued so that the writ petition could be taken up for hearing once again for passing appropriate orders.   Filing an affidavit on behalf of the party, its organisation secretary R.S. Bharathi said 2.6 crore rice cardholders would benefit from the Pongal cash gift announced by the government this year. “The petitioner’s party absolutely has no grievance to the said distribution at present and in fact during peak time of pandemic, our party’s president M.K. Stalin demanded the government to pay Rs. 5,000 to each family. Without heeding this demand and keeping quiet for many months, the Chief Minister has now announced Rs. 2,500 in the midst of election campaign.” “Keeping in mind the general election to Tamil Nadu State Assembly, the incumbent Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, with hidden agenda, announced the Pongal free gift scheme on December 19 and hurriedly inaugurated it on December 20… I submit that the Pongal gift cash is being distributed from the government fund and not from the ruling party fund,” the affidavit read. Including the Election Commission of India, too, as one of the respondents to the writ petition, the DMK said though the model code of conduct was yet to be enforced in the State, it was not proper on the part of the ruling party to indulge in such misleading activities since it would affect the level-playing field during the ensuing Assembly election in the State.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Part of Medavakkam flyover to be ready soon||Work on one side of the 1.5 km long, three-lane wide Medavakkam uni-directional flyover that will allow traffic from Velachery to Tambaram is likely to be completed by January-end. Construction of the approach ramps and the last of the 31 deck slabs is under progress. On completion, this flyover will allow motorists to cross the Sholinganallur and Mambakkam junctions. Sources in the Highways Department said that once this side was opened for traffic, they would concentrate on finishing the other side, which would be 2.3 km long and allow motorists from Tambaram to Velachery. This flyover would cross three junctions, Sholinganallur-Medavakkam, Medavakkam-Mambakkam and Mount Medavakkam junctions. “Of the 80 deck slabs, 72 have been completed and land acquisition is in an advanced stage for the remaining stretch. This flyover will take another three months to complete,” the source added. The work to build two flyovers on the Velachery-Tambaram road began in 2016 but had been put on hold for quite some time from May 2018 as the contractor wanted to exit the project. Fresh bids were floated and a new contractor began work in March 2019. He was given 21 months to finish the work. The total cost of the project, including land acquisition, is Rs. 300 crore.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work on ECR-OMR link road to commence by February||Work to form a six-lane road connecting the Thoraipakkam-Pallavaram Radial Road with the East Coast Road (ECR) is likely to commence by February 2021. The project will help divert some traffic from Rajiv Gandhi Salai, popularly known as the Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR). In the first phase, the Highways Department will construct a 750 m-long stretch that will take off from the OMR and end near the Canal Bank Road, running along the Buckingham Canal that is parallel to both the OMR and the ECR. The Canal Bank Road would be widened into two lanes and connectivity would be provided to the existing bridges across the canal. Land acquisition for the first phase had been completed, the official explained. Tenders had already been floated for the Rs. 15 crore work. The total cost of the project would be Rs. 204 crore, of which land acquisition alone amounts to Rs. 189 crore. The Department has written to the Public Works Department requesting it to remove encroachments along the canal. The design for the 1.5 km-long-road is being presently finalised. K. Natarajan, a resident of Kandanchavadi, said the link project was a welcome move. “There is no proper link between the two roads between Thiruvanmiyur and Sholinganallur junction. A six-lane road will really help, especially in case of traffic jams on the OMR. More such roads should be created to help in cases of emergency,” Mr. Natarajan said.  There is no proper link between Thiruvanmiyur and Sholinganallur junction. A six-lane road will really help, especially in case of traffic jams on the OMR K. Natarajan Kandanchavadi resident
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fleet of mobile tea outlets in electric vehicles flagged off||M. Princy, 18, who quietly whips up a tea or a milkshake, is excited as she will happily whiz past the neighbourhoods of Kodambakkam, T. Nagar, Vadapalani and Saligramam, getting new customers to try her tea. As part of Gilli Chai’s new venture, a fleet of mobile chai outlets in electric vehicles of MAuto, a private autorickshaw service provider, operated by women, were flagged off at the Saidapet Metro Rail station. These vehicles will go around some of the localities in the city, serving up everything from Sulaimani chai to chocolate chip cookies to people. “Many commuters waiting at a bus stop may not have the time to walk to a nearest tea shop to grab a bite of cookies or medhu vada or even a chai. For them, this will help. Also, for senior citizens staying home, it will be a refreshing change to buy when we travel past their residence,” she also says. Quality food Mohamed Rahamathullah, of Gilli Chai, says a new stall has also been opened at the Saidapet Metro Rail station for the commuters. “The idea of this mobile shop is to serve quality food to commuters. These vehicles will take predefined routes and stop at predefined destinations,” he adds. Minister for Industries M.C. Sampath said that since Chennai Metro was quickly expanding from phase I to phase I extension and then phase II, the patronage would significantly increase, and such outlets would serve a lot of people.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ahead of polls, relief sought for MSMEs||The Consortium of Indian Associations (CIA) has urged all parties in the State to consider a range of relief measures for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), ahead of the upcoming Assembly election next year. “Efforts are being made by the present government to bring new business entities from other States and countries into Tamil Nadu but much more needs to be done for MSMEs/entrepreneurs based in the State,” according to a statement issued by K.E. Raghunathan, convenor, CIA. COVID-19 has affected Tamil Nadu the most and it was the only State that implemented strict lockdown guidelines. Public transport, too, was not allowed to function, he said. Most entrepreneurs based in the State, be it in the service, trading, manufacturing or export sectors, could not commence operations, and lost work for almost six months. In fact, only a few could do well in September and October due to the festival season, Mr. Raghunathan said. He estimated that over 35% MSMEs in the State were struggling to survive, and could not avail any stimulus extended by the Centre, which was predominantly for long-term benefits. Warning that the State would face severe unemployment problems and closure of many units if the current trend continued, the consortium urged all parties to consider a slew of relief measures in their manifestos. The measures sought included waiving of taxes such as property tax, water tax and professional tax for the next two years; mandating procurement from local companies in the State for up to Rs. 100 crore; additional loans by the State government for MSMEs, with guarantees, and abolition of fixed tariff on electricity connections, among others.  The measures sought included waiving of all taxes such as property tax, water tax and profession tax for the next two years
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One more U.K. returnee, 4 contacts test positive||One more person who returned from the United Kingdom and four more contacts of returnees have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. With this, 20 returnees from the U.K. and 20 of their contacts have tested positive for the infection, health officials said. The State government has thus far traced and tested 1,895 of the 2,300 passengers who had travelled here from the U.K. between November 25 and the forenoon of December 23. As many as 1,708 persons have tested negative, and the results in respect of 167 persons are awaited. Health officials said they were tracing the rest of the passengers. All the U.K. returnees and their contacts who have tested positive are in separate isolation wards, officials said. With 945 more persons testing positive since Tuesday, including a passenger each from West Bengal, Rajasthan and Telangana, the total number of active cases on Wednesday was 8, 615. So far, 8,17,077 persons have tested positive. As many as 1,060 persons were discharged after treatment. This took the total number of those discharged to 7,96,353. The State reported 17 deaths, taking the toll to 12,109. Chennai continued to record a higher number of cases, with 275 testing positive. The district also recorded seven deaths and the discharge of 320 persons. As many as 2,678 persons are under treatment or in home quarantine. Coimbatore recorded 91 fresh infections and four deaths. Chengalpattu recorded 48 cases, Erode, Kancheepuram, Namakkal, Tiruvallur and Tiruppur districts recorded fewer than 40 cases each. Ariyalur, Perambalur and Kallakurichi each recorded just one case. Of the 17 deaths, three died of the infection while 14 had pre-existing conditions which led to death, according to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. While eight deaths occurred at private hospitals, nine persons died at government hospitals. The Health Department has permitted one more private laboratory in Tiruchi to test for COVID-19. The State now has 236 testing facilities, including 67 in the government sector and 169 in the private sector.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bars and hotels ordered to close by 10 p.m. today||Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Wednesday said the movement of people will be curtailed on roads and beaches on Thursday night ahead of New Year and over 10,000 police personnel will be deployed across the city. Mr. Aggarwal said, “There will be additional deployment of police personnel. We will have additional check points. We will regulate movement of vehicles on Kamarajar Road and East Coast Road since celebration is prohibited on beaches or roads. We will curtail the movement of public in these areas after 10 p.m. Once normal traffic is over on roads, we will close them by putting up iron barricades. We will not allow the roads to be used for any celebration. We have asked all hotels, restaurants, and bars to close by 10 p.m. and not to have any programme after that. They have been told not to organise any party. There are standard protocols for the operation of hotels and restaurants. We will be enforcing them,” he said. Police warned against organising parties in beach houses, resorts and hotels and warned of appropriate legal action against those who violate the government order.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Steady flow of Krishna water boosts storage in reservoirs in Chennai||The Water Resources Department is building storage in other city reservoirs as the waterbody in Poondi continues to get inflow from its catchment areas and from Krishna water released by Andhra Pradesh. The shutters of Poondi reservoir, which remained open for about a month, were closed on Tuesday evening as the inflow from the catchment areas had decreased. On Wednesday, the reservoir got inflow of 594 cusecs (cubic feet per second) and of this, nearly 70 cusecs were from catchment areas and the remaining from Andhra Pradesh. The five reservoirs, including the newly formed one at Kannankottai Thervoykandigai, are filled to nearly 92% of their combined capacity of 11.75 tmcft. The department is diverting water from Poondi to other reservoirs, including Red Hills and Chembarambakkam, to shore up their storage to full level for city water distribution. Officials said the reservoirs still had space for more water. For instance, the water level in Red Hills reservoir is at 20.5 feet and storage can be built to its full level of 21.2 feet. “We expect Poondi reservoir to get inflow from catchment areas till Pongal. Unlike other reservoirs, the one in Poondi, built across Kosasthalaiyar river, has a large catchment area. It receives water from Andhra Pradesh and also Nandiyar. We plan to use the water for building storage and maintaining city water supply,” said an official. Nearly 6 tmcft of water was discharged from Poondi reservoir between November 27 to Tuesday. However, half of the water was saved by diverting it to other waterbodies and check dams, officials added. The Poondi reservoir has been continuously getting Krishna water since September 20. This was a significant lifeline to boost storage in reservoirs. Officials said the Andhra Pradesh authorities had decreased discharge. But the Krishna water’s entry point in Tamil Nadu at Kandaleru-Poondi canal in Tiruvallur district had received 626 cusecs on Tuesday. “We have so far received 5.13 tmcft of Krishna water. This is the highest amount released in a single spell since 2011. We are assessing the water situation and plan to request them to stop discharge after all reservoirs attain full level,” said an official. Tourist spots As the major reservoirs are brimming with water after a gap of five years, people have been flocking to the lakes and the Tamaraipakkam check-dam. “Our staff members and police regulate the crowd. We cannot close movement over Satyamurthy Sagar dam, Poondi, as it links villages. We are taking steps to restrict visitors during the New Year and Pongal festival along with the district administration,” said an official.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Couple electrocuted||A 30-year-old woman and her husband, who attempted to save her, were electrocuted after they came in contact with an electric water heater on Wednesday afternoon in Ayapakkam, near Thirumullaivoyal. Police said the couple was living with two children at Marutham block of the Tamil Nadu Housing Board Quarters, Ayapakkam. The names of the dead were given as Vijayakumar, 38, who was working in a private firm in Ambattur, and his wife Sasikala, 30. On Wednesday afternoon, Sasikala went into the bathroom to check water in the bucket. While removing the immersion rod, she suffered an electric shock. When she did not respond, her husband went to the bathroom to check on her. But he, too, got electrocuted. Both died before help could arrive.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Upgraded postgraduate course made candidates ineligible for jobs: TNIC||Students who passed out of the University of Madras remain disqualified for the post of Assistant Superintendent for Vigilance Institutions in the Department of Social Defence, for which recruitment is done by the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC), even two decades after the upgradation of the M.A. (Criminology) course to M.A. (Criminology & Criminal Justice Administration) and then to M.Sc. (Criminology & Criminal Justice Science), as the University has not received the “equivalence of qualification” status from the competent authorities. While TNPSC continues to not treat the upgraded courses as equivalent to M.A. (Criminology) and reject applicants from the University of Madras and other universities with upgraded courses, candidates from institutions like the University of Delhi, that still offer the M.A (Criminology) course, have been offered jobs in the Tamil Nadu State services. Passing orders on a Right to Information (RTI) Act petition moved by candidate S. Nishanti from Chennai, whose application for the post was rejected on the same grounds, the Tamil Nadu Information Commission (TNIC) came down on the University of Madras and the TNPSC for the lack of coordination despite the issue being flagged three years ago. State Information Commissioner S. Muthuraj said the University authorities had written to the TNPSC and the Department of Social Defence, urging that the upgraded courses, which incorporated latest advancements in criminal justice administration and criminal justice science, be treated as an equivalent to M.A (Criminology). The course syllabus was upgraded keeping in mind the advancements in the field of education concerned. Though the issue was flagged in 2017 by another candidate, Raj Kapil, whose application for the post was rejected, the TNPSC, being a constitutional body, should have effectively dealt with the matter to prevent the recurrence of such issues, he said. “The University should write to the Department of Social Defence and the other authorities concerned, that M.Sc (Criminology & Criminal Justice Science) is equivalent to the M.A (Criminology) course that was offered till 1990,” Mr. Muthuraj added. While noting the initiatives taken by the University to get the “equivalence of qualification” approval through the Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education, the State Information Commissioner said all steps taken by Public Information Officers of the TNPSC, the University and the Department of Social Defence should be communicated to the petitioner in the case.  The varsity should write to the Department of Social Defence and the other authorities, that M.Sc (Criminology & Criminal Justice Science) is equivalent to M.A (Criminology)  S. Muthuraj  State Information Commissioner
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajini in distress, says Arjunamurthy||Actor Rajinikanth is in distress as he could not carry out his political plans owing to health concerns and for not being able to do anything for the people of Tamil Nadu through politics, Ra. Arjunamurthy, chief coordinator of what was to be the superstar’s political party, claimed on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Arjunamurthy said his wish was to work with Mr. Rajinikanth and be with him and added that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the actor were like his two eyes. “Rajinikanth had grand plans for the people... and the work had begun in that aspect. He is in distress that he is unable to execute his plans owing to health concerns,” he said.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police excess: panel recommends compensation of Rs. 1 lakh to victim||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has recommended compensation of Rs. 1 lakh to a man who was assaulted in a public place and at the Madhavaram police station in November 2016. The victim had not committed any offence. SHRC member A. Chittaranjan Mohandoss recommended that the Home Department recover a sum of Rs. 1 lakh from police constable Thavasi Anandan and initiate disciplinary action against the respondents. According to complainant G. Saran Srinivasan of Thanikachalam Nagar in Ponniamman Koil (west), he and his son were on their way to a shop on a bike on November 13, 2016, when the police constable and three other policemen, who were on a patrol near the Madhavaram auxiliary police station, stopped them. Despite showing a driving licence and other documents, the constable slapped the complainant. Later, he was taken to the police station and assaulted with a lathi, the complainant said. Even after his parents reached the station, he was assaulted and was let go only after signing a letter and promising that he would not file a complaint. Denied allegations The respondent denied all allegations made in the petition and said he was only checking vehicles as per orders. He allowed the petitioner to leave and had not taken him into custody. During the hearing of the case, it came to light that the complainant was taken to the station. The respondent also did not mention the fact that the complainant was made to submit an apology letter. “This indicates the possible motive for the respondent’s attitude,” the Commission said. Though a police officer could make an arrest under Section 41 of the CrPC, it can be made only on the commission of a cognisable offence by the accused, the SHRC noted. The Commission further concluded that the respondent and other police officers had assaulted the complainant near Ponniammanmedu, Prakash Nagar, and also at the station. “The officials also misused their powers by registering a false FIR,” it said.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held in Tiruchi for stealing laptops||The Guindy police arrested a man for stealing electronic gadgets, such as laptops and mobile phones, from houses in Saidapet and Guindy. G. Giridharan, who was staying at a men’s hostel in Ekkatuthangal, lodged a complaint with the police in October, alleging that his laptop was stolen from his room. Based on his complaint, a special team took up investigation. After scrutiny of CCTV footage and inspecting the scene of crime, police traced the suspect, identified as Rajadurai, 23, a habitual offender, of Kallakurichi. Police nabbed him in Tiruchi and recovered 11 laptops, nine mobile phones and a gold chain from him. The suspect has cases against him in Velachery, Chitlapakkam, Taramani and Selaiyur for thefts. He was produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Law varsity convocation to be held in February||The Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University will hold its convocation in February. Candidates who have completed their coursework until September 2020 can apply before January 8. Candidates from affiliated colleges may submit their applications through their colleges. Those who have completed their undergraduate, postgraduate or doctoral programmes in the School of Excellence must submit their applications to the respective directors. The application form and bank payment challan may be downloaded from the university portalwww.tndalu.ac.in, according to the registrar.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fire and match workers’ welfare board set up||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday constituted the Tamil Nadu Fire and Match Workers’ Welfare Board, in line with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s announcement at Virudhunagar last month. The Minister for Labour would chair the 10-member Board, according to a government order. The registered members would be covered by the Puratchi Thalaivi Amma Comprehensive Accident-cum-Life Insurance Scheme, to be launched soon. Welfare schemes/measures meant for members of the boards for other unorganised workers will be extended to the members of this board. It will start working with 62,661 workers of these industrial units, who have already registered themselves with the Tamil Nadu Manual Workers Social Security and Welfare Board. Unorganised workers will be encouraged to become members. All fireworks and match units shall contribute Rs. 200 every year per employee to the welfare fund. As several industries have come forward to make the contribution, the Virudhunagar Collector shall raise a one-time corpus fund of Rs. 5 crore, the order said. Besides the Labour Secretary, the Commissioner of Labour and the Director of Industrial Safety and Health, the board would have representation from employers, industrialist associations and trade unions.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Study encourages research on herbal drink||A study based on computer modelling, published in an open-access peer-reviewed journal, has preliminarily indicated that certain compounds in kabasura kudineer can potentially play a role in antiviral therapy, particularly against COVID-19. S. Vincent, former dean of research, Loyola College, who is a co-author of the paper, said they selected 145 compounds found in kabasura kudineer , a poly-herbal formulation used for therapy in Siddha medicine, for the in silico study. Molecular docking Mr. Vincent said the team used the molecular docking technique to study how effectively the ligands of the compounds bonded with the 3C-like protease, the main protease found in the COVID-19 causing SARS-CoV-2 virus. Many studies have shown the protease as a potential target for drugs against coronaviruses. “Fifteen of the 145 compounds found naturally in herbs used in kabasura kudineer had greater affinity and docked effectively with the protease in SARS-CoV-2, indicating that they can potentially inhibit viral replication,” he said. “We hope our results pave the way for further research onkabasura kudineer, with the backing of the government,” he added. The study was done in collaboration with researchers from Loyola College, Sejong University in South Korea and Mekelle University in Ethiopia, and the findings were published in the journal Frontiers in Molecular Biosciences .
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajinikanth’s adviser Manian quits politics||Gandhiya Makkal Iyakkam founder Tamilaruvi Manian, who took efforts to persuade actor Rajinikanth to consider a foray into politics, announced his decision to quit politics on Wednesday. He was among the actor’s key political advisers over the last three years. “I will not participate in politics till death embraces me. When poet Kannadasan left the DMK, he said he would come back. But I am leaving and will not return,” said Mr. Manian, who was appointed overseer of the party that was to be announced by Mr. Rajinikanth. While announcing his last-minute decision not to enter politics on Tuesday, Mr. Rajinikanth had gratefully acknowledged Mr. Manian for “supporting me for the last three years, despite criticism, and advising me to take care of my health.” However, this is not the first time that Mr. Manian has talked about quitting politics. He had announced his retirement from politics after his organisation performed poorly in the 2016 Assembly polls. Mr. Manian said he started his political career as a follower of Kamaraj and led an impeccable public life. “My wife and children are severely affected by the cheap criticism of people. I have nothing to achieve in a world that cannot differentiate between a stone and a precious gem,” he said.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajini saved himself, T.N. from fascist forces: Alagiri||Actor Rajinikanth has safeguarded himself and Tamil Nadu from fascist forces by listening to his conscience and not entering politics, TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said on Wednesday. ‘Sinister design’ Mr. Alagiri alleged that Union Home Minister Amit Shah had plotted a sinister design by using Thuglak Editor S. Gurumurthy to bring Mr. Rajinikanth into politics, form an alliance with him and break the AIADMK. “It was due to that pressure that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam had announced that the alliance with the BJP would continue, that too at a government function. The AIADMK has lost its self-respect by bowing to the BJP,” Mr. Alagiri said. He claimed the BJP was planning to use Mr. Rajinikanth to meet its goals in the State.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMWSSB depot 150 to be shifted||The office of the Assistant Engineer of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board depot 150 (Area XI) will be temporarily shifted to the Karambakkam head works building at Chettiyar Agaram Main Road, Karambakkam, with effect from January 4. Consumers may contact Assistant Engineer - (81449 30150) and Deputy Area Engineer 34 - (81449 30234) for any redress.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested in Hyderabad for theft at sister’s house||The Vadapalani police on Wednesday arrested a 45-year-old man at the Hyderabad airport for allegedly stealing 40 sovereign gold jewellery. The police said Shobana, 36, of Andavar Nagar, Kodambakkam, lodged a complaint alleging that her brother had stolen 50 sovereign gold and Rs. 80,000 from her house. As her husband had died, she had gone to her father-in-law’s house while her brother Basheer Ahamed, 45, stayed in the house. He had escaped with gold jewellery and cash. After investigation, police found her version to be true and traced Ahamed in Hyderabad and recovered 40 sovereigns of gold and Rs. 40,000 cash from him.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers’ appeal to parties||With election due in the State, teachers’ associations have started approaching parties with their demands. The Aided College Teachers’ Association has appealed to the parties to address their grievances in their manifestos. The association has demanded the reinstatement of the old pension scheme, withdrawn in 2004. It has sought timely promotions, salary increments and an end to the practice of recalling salary paid while assessing pension needs. All eligible teachers who have been appointed guest lecturers in constituent colleges must be made permanent. They also want the actions initiated against college teachers who participated in the protest launched by JACTTO-GEO to be dropped. The association wanted parties to reject the National Education Policy. ACTA general secretary S. Sahaya Satish said the association had a policy of meeting representatives of parties during the Assembly election to present demands. A team of office-bearers met Udhayanidhi Stalin, secretary of the youth wing of DMK, in Tiruchi, and appealed to him to include their charter of demands in the manifesto. Meanwhile, a group of professors from the University of Madras has written to the Chief Minister, appealing for the release of funds towards pensions to retired employees. The Professors’ Forum, in its letter, said the institution had been paying pensions from its own funds. But the number of retirees had increased. With funds from the distance education programme falling, it was unable to honour its commitments.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Damaged roads make for a rough ride||Commuting has become a nightmare for those who travel through the Guindy Industrial Estate, one of the oldest industrial estates in the country. One can find countless potholes on roads leading to the estate. “It’s like a roller coaster ride every day,” said an employee of an automobile firm inside the estate. “At the junction near Kochar Towers and Evolve Automotive, there are many potholes on the road, and people could skid and fall,” he said. “The road’s condition worsens after a spell of rain. Sometimes, the companies buy mud and stones with their own funds and fill the potholes which are in front of their premises,” a pushcart vendor said. K.V. Kanakambaram, president of The Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association, said issues regarding poor infrastructure within the estate had been raised but nothing had happened till date.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight held for running hookah bar||The Kilpauk police on Wednesday arrested eight men, including the owner, for allegedly running a hookah bar. Based on a tip-off, the police raided a restaurant in Kilpauk and seized pots and boxes of different flavours of tobacco. The police said the hookah bar was run by Pranav, 28, and his associate Praveen, 25. Customers too held Workers and customers were among the eight persons who were arrested by the police. They were later released on station bail, the police said.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu wins Digital India award||Tamil Nadu won a gold award under the category ‘Excellence in Digital Governance - State/U.T.’ at the Digital India Award, 2020. The award was conferred by President Ram Nath Kovind during a virtual ceremony on Wednesday, according to an official release. The Digital India Awards (DIA) were instituted under the aegis of the National Portal of India to serve the purpose of bringing to the fore innovative digital solutions and thereby inspiring emulation by all government entities. They acknowledge States and Union Territories that display exemplary initiative in establishing a comprehensive digital presence in sectors like health, labour, finance, social justice and environment, leading to the accomplishment of sustainable development goals (SDG), the release said.
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. has 83 containment zones now||There are a total of 83 COVID-19 containment zones across the State, including the one on the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras campus, as of December 25, the Tamil Nadu government said. According to a government order, the containment zones were in 15 districts across the State. The zones The zones are in Kancheepuram (23), Tiruppur (13), Tiruvarur (11), Coimbatore (seven), Tiruvallur (six), three each in Chengalpattu, Kanniyakumari, Salem, Tiruchi and Tiruvannamalai, two each in Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam and Tirunelveli, and one each in Chennai and Tirupattur districts. The list of containment zones can be accessed on The Hindu portal at:http://bit.ly/- TNcontainmentzones
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Forum seeks more money, A-G rejects petition||Advocate-General Vijay Narayan on Wednesday told the Madras High Court that the State government was giving a Pongal cash gift of Rs. 2,500 not to individuals but to families holding ration rice cards. Therefore, the differently abled could not demand 25% more in terms of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act of 2006. ‘T.N. is spending more’ Appearing before a vacation Bench of Justices R. Mahadevan and Anita Sumanth, he also listed out welfare schemes being implemented in the State for the benefit of the differently abled and claimed that Tamil Nadu was spending much more than the national average in order to ensure a dignified life for the physically challenged.  The submissions were made during the hearing of a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC), represented by its general secretary, S. Namburajan. The association demanded 25% more in terms of Section 24(1) of the RPWD Act of 2006. Its counsel, C. Karl Marx, told the court that Section 24(1) made it clear that the quantum of assistance to the differently abled under social welfare schemes must be at least 25% higher than schemes applicable to others. Therefore, the government was bound to provide 25% more than Rs. 2,500 to the differently abled, he argued. Countering the submissions, the A-G said the provision could be pressed into effect only if the Pongal cash gift was given to individuals and not on the basis of each family. He also undertook to file a detailed counter affidavit listing out the various schemes implemented for the benefit of the differently abled. The Bench accepted his submission and adjourned the case to January 5.  State government is giving a Pongal cash gift of Rs. 2,500 not to individuals but to families holding ration rice cards Vijay Narayan Advocate-General
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Prioritise Tamil students for post of archaeological officer’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said it was condemnable that the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) had failed to recruit Tamil postgraduate degree holders for the post of archaeological officers. In a statement in Chennai, he said even though the students had obtained a postgraduate diploma in epigraphy and archaeology from the Archaeology Department, they had not been considered for the job. ‘Opportunity denied’ “Students from the Arundhatiyar community have scored good marks. But they were not invited for the interview. But students from others States and those coming under other categories of reservation were invited. What is the reason behind this decision?” he asked. Mr. Stalin said while one-third of the inscriptions in Tamil Nadu were in Tamil, the TNPSC had denied opportunities to students who had studied the language. “It is atrocious and condemnable. But the AIADMK government is just watching,” he said. Pointing out that those rejected by the TNPSC had scored good marks, Mr. Stalin said the students who had studied the course from the Archaeology Department had become experts in their fields. “Three-fourth of the students who wrote the entrance examinations were Tamil students. I urge the chairman of TNPSC to invite them for an interview. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami should intervene and ensure that students who have studied Tamil are prioritised,” he said.  Students from the Arundhatiyar community had scored good marks. But they were not invited for the interview
31 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Former Indian cricketer joins BJP||Former cricketer and commentator L. Sivaramakrishnan joined the BJP on Wednesday, before a meeting of party coordinators. He joined the BJP in the presence of BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi. Actor Subbu Panchu Arunachalam and a few members from the DMK also joined the party.
31 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||International brands turn to India for garments, home textiles||A garment exporter in Tiruppur who supplied about 25 styles of winter garments last year to an international brand is, this year, working on samples for 62 styles. Though winter garments are not the mainstay of Indian knitwear exporters, more brands have turned to India this year. Recently, the Ministry of Textiles and a group of garment exporters took part in a meeting with a leading international retailer who is looking at scaling up sourcing from India on a large-scale. The demand for sewing machines by Tiruppur garment makers is almost triple the usual volume installed, says a machinery dealer. These are among the many indications that international brands and retailers are looking more at India now to source their garment and home textiles requirements. The orders on hand are 25 % more than the capacity available, says M. Nachimuthu, president of Karur Textile Exporters' Association. There are orders that are diverted from China and hence this spurt in demand for home textile exports, he says. Garment orders coming in now are for the winter season and this is not a traditional area for Tiruppur garment exporters. Winter garments are mostly made of blends and the demand this year is huge for these products, adds Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters' Association. Many international brands were sourcing in India and are now looking at more suppliers and larger volumes. They are looking for manufacturers, giving samples, and estimating whether the Indian exporters can meet their requirements. “Garment exporters should not be complacent now. They should gear up to tap the opportunities coming in,” Mr. Shanmugham said. “There are positive sentiments towards India. Brands are asking for meetings with garment exporters. Walmart had one and more are expected. The potential is especially huge for manmade fibre garments, though India is known for supply of cotton garments,” said A. Sakthivel, chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council. The demand is high from buyers in the U.S. and the European Union. And they are looking at a wider range of products, some of which are new to Indian garment exporters. “But, we need to see how this demand is sustained,” adds an industry source. With huge demand, investments are also taking place, mostly for expansion of existing capacities.
31 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||West Zone districts saw decline in accidents, law and order cases in 2020: IG||The West Zone of the Tamil Nadu Police saw a decline in road accidents and law and order cases this year in comparison with 2019, Inspector General of Police (West Zone) K. Periaiah said on Wednesday. West Zone comprises eight districts, namely Coimbatore, Tiruppur, the Nilgiris, Salem, Erode, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri. Mr. Periaiah said deaths due to road accidents had reduced this year by 19.55%, compared to the previous year. Only 1,675 road accident deaths were reported in 2020, as against 2,082 in 2019. Accident cases registered in the West Zone also saw a decline of 18.48%. While 12,619 cases were registered in 2019, only 10,286 were registered in 2020. However, there was an increase in the number of motor vehicle petty cases as 33,93,835 cases were registered and a fine of over Rs. 20.54 crore was collected. As for law and order cases, the number of murder cases saw a decline this year. A total of 4,360 cases of murder were registered across eight districts this year, as against 4,462 last year. Similarly, cases such as murder for gain, robbery and chain snatching also saw a decline and 68% of the stolen properties were recovered by the police.  POCSO Act cases There was an increase in the cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act across the zone as 511 POCSO cases were registered, but this was due to increase in awareness among the public, Mr. Periaiah said. A total of 8,784 cases saw the conviction of the accused in various courts in 2020, which included 40 murder cases and 44 POCSO Act cases. Mr. Periaiah also commended the work of all the police officers and personnel amid the COVID-19 pandemic in West Zone, the release said. In a release on Wednesday, the Coimbatore District Police said that 179 police officers and personnel contracted COVID-19 this year. A woman constable from the District Armed Reserve named Thanga Isakki died of the infection and the others recovered.
31 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephant kills estate worker||A woman working in a tea estate within the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in Valparai was killed by an elephant on Wednesday. Forest Department officials said Jaya (56) was attacked by a tusker from the reserve forest adjacent to the estate. She sustained multiple injuries and died on the spot. Her body was found around 1 p.m. on Wednesday on the estate premises, the officials said. The Forest Department sent her body for autopsy and provided Rs. 50,000 to the deceased’s kin as immediate relief, out of the Rs. 4 lakh solatium given by the State government. The Valparai police registered a case. Officials said this was the first death due to an elephant attack within ATR limits this year. This was second death in Coimbatore district in three days.
31 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No UK returnee to city has tested positive: Corporation||None of the United Kingdom returnee to the city had tested for COVID-19, said sources in the Coimbatore Corporation. Thus far the civic body had traced and tested 97 persons, all of who had tested negative. Had any of them tested positive then the Corporation would have taken steps to send the samples to the second level of testing to identify if the virus was a mutant. Though the test results were negative, the Corporation had asked all the 97 persons to remain at home, in quarantine, the sources said. As for checking violation of COVID-19 safety protocol, the sources said following feedback, the Corporation had asked zonal sanitary officers and sanitary inspectors to check on commuters at bus shelters and bus stands, where the violations are high. The Corporation did not see as many violations in commercial establishments as it saw in bus shelters and stands because the shopkeepers, after being fined, had started ensuring maintenance of social distance and that customers wore masks.
31 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pilloor III drinking water project: meeting held with land owners||The district administration and Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board on Wednesday conducted meetings with land owners regarding land acquisition for the Pilloor III drinking water project. Gazette publication Sources said in the meeting conducted under the leadership of Collector K. Rajamani in Marudhur village in Mettupalayam taluk and in Periyanaickenpalayam in Coimbatore North taluk, the officials told about the gazette publication that happened more than two months ago, the land acquisition process that lay ahead and sought suggestions and complaints from the land owners. Quantum of compensation The land owners were keen to know the quantum of compensation they would get, the disbursement of compensation if they were to go in for private negotiation, the possibility of handing over the rest of their land holding as well after the administration acquired the extent it required and the possibility of shifting power line poles or well from one side of their land to another side after the acquisition. Surrender of land holdings The officials said a few land owners were keen on surrendering the rest of their land holding as well as the extent of holding would be small and not suitable for agriculture or any other activity. The administration, the sources said, had informed the land owners that the next meeting would be on February 3, 2021, by which time they would have to declare if they were opted for private negotiation or would let the government compulsorily acquire the land. The administration would acquire 123 acre to execute the Pilloor III drinking water project for Coimbatore city. At the meeting, District Revenue Officer T. Ramaduraimurugan, Revenue Department officials and engineers from the TWAD Board were present.
31 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Cotton textile exporters seek trade agreement with U.K.||The Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council (Texprocil) has sought early completion of a trade agreement with the U.K. Chairman of the council Manoj Patodia has said in a press release that the Central government should take immediate steps to have a free trade agreement (FTA) with the U.K. “The visit of U.K Prime Minister Boris Johnson to India as chief guest at the Republic Day parade on January 26, 2021 presents just the opportune moment to formulate a comprehensive framework for commencing FTA negotiations,” he said. The U.K. is one of India’s largest trading partners among the European countries in the textile and clothing sector, accounting for almost 24 % of the textile and clothing exports to the European Union. The U.K. has already signed trade agreements with 62 countries ahead of the end of the Brexit transition period on January 1, 2021, including Turkey, Canada, Singapore, and Mexico. It is therefore imperative for India to commence negotiations without delay. He also appealed to the Government to simultaneously revive and expedite FTA negotiation with the EU, as it is one the leading markets for India’s textile and clothing exports. Countries such as Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Vietnam have an edge over India due to a zero tariff arrangement. If there is a delay in India having a free trade agreement with the EU, Indian exporters may lose to competing countries that have duty advantage, he said.  The Central government should take immediate steps to have a free trade agreement with the U.K. Manoj Patodia Chairman, Texprocil
31 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNAU Ph.D holders stage protest||A few doctorates who had completed their Ph.D. from the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University staged a protest on Wednesday condemning the State government’s move to depute faculty to the University from Annamalai University. Speaking on behalf of the protesters, P. Anu said the government’s last recruitment call for assistant professorship in the University was in 2013-14 when it gave jobs to around 150 persons. Thereafter, the government had not taken steps for recruitment of faculty, though 300-odd teaching posts in the University were vacant and it had in 2017 twice aborted the recruitment process. When doctorate degree holders from the University expected the Government to start the recruitment process, it was taking steps to send on deputation nearly 60 faculty from the Annamalai University, Chidambaram. The protesters had submitted representation to the University management asking that it should not accept the deputation proposal and should instead ask for recruiting eligible candidates. The protesters would intensify their protest in the coming days, she said.
31 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DVAC seizes cash from CEO||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) seized nearly Rs. 1 lakh unaccounted cash during a raid at the Chief Educational Office at Town Hall here on Wednesday. A team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (DVAC) T.H. Ganesh raided the office following a tip-off that private schools allegedly paid bribe for renewal of recognition, DVAC sources said. The raids were conducted at the main office and the camp office on Race Course Road. The officers also collected the list of private schools that allegedly paid the money, the sources said. The raids began around 7 p.m. and continued till midnight.
31 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||FMCG distributors stage protest||Distributors of Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCGs) staged a protest here on Wednesday, as part of a State-wide demonstration, against dual pricing by multi-national companies (MNCs). Mohan Shankar, chairman of the Tamil Nadu Consumer Products Distributors’ Associations Federation, said the main demand of the distributors is equal pricing on all platforms by the MNCs. “We (distributors) have lost 20 % to 25 % business, especially after lockdown. If a product is supplied to us at Rs. 100 a piece, it is sold online at a lower price. With the turnover reducing for the distributors, there are several drivers, helpers and salesmen who have lost their job,” he said. The State has nearly 10,000 distributors, including over 250 in Coimbatore city. “We need a level-playing field. We have written to the government several times on the need for single pricing for products sold across different platforms. But, there has not been any impact. If there is no remedial measure, we may look at boycotting purchase from these companies for a specific period,” he said.
31 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions stage protest||Members of various trade unions staged a protest here on Wednesday in support of farmers. Nearly 150 people took part in the protest, demanding withdrawal of farm laws. They also protested against the hike in raw material prices.
31 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Smart Cities work inspected||Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian on Wednesday reviewed the progress made in various projects taken up under the Smart Cities Mission and the 24x7 drinking water supply scheme. A release from the Corporation said he took stock of the progress made in the lake development project, model road work in R.S. Puram and Race Course, the construction of micro compost centres and the 24x7 drinking water supply project. He also sought details from engineers supervising the construction of multi-level car parking lot on D.B. Road. Water distribution Thereafter, he reviewed water distribution, ward-wise and asked them to ensure no disruption in the water supply.
31 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life sentence for sexual assault||A special court here on Tuesday awarded life sentence to a 51-year-old man on charges of sexually harassing a five-year-old differently abled girl in 2017. According to sources, the accused N. Balan was booked under sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) and remanded in judicial custody by the All Women Police (Central) based on the complaint from the victim’s mother in 2017. Judge J. Radhika delivering the verdict also imposed a fine of Rs. 1.5 lakh, the sources said. The victim will receive a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh from the State government’s fund for POCSO Act victims, the court ordered.
31 December 2020||COIMBATORE/UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Curbs on New Year’s Eve celebrations in Coimbatore, the Nilgiris||To prevent overcrowding amid fears of a spread of the mutant strain of the COVID-19 virus, the district administration in Coimbatore has barred hotels, restaurants, clubs and resorts from organising any New Year’s Eve celebrations on Thursday night. District Collector K. Rajamani said in a release the restrictions were in accordance with the State government’s order issued on December 22. Action will be initiated against establishments that organised such celebrations, he warned. The public are also barred from organising any New Year’s Eve celebrations on the streets or at any public places on Thursday night. To ensure compliance in all the blocks, teams led by the respective tahsildars would conduct checks, Mr. Rajamani said. No celebrations will be allowed after 10 p.m. on Thursday within the Coimbatore City Police limits, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) G. Stalin said. About 1,000 police personnel would be deployed at locations such as V.O.C. Park Grounds, Race Course Road and Avinashi Road to check whether unauthorised celebrations were being conducted. Commercial establishments such as shops should not function after 10 p.m. on Thursday. “People must not step outside their homes unnecessarily after 10 p.m. [on Thursday],” Mr. Stalin said. In the Nilgiris, more than 600 police personnel will be deployed across the district to prevent drunk driving and to ensure that law and order is maintained. Police officials said motorists found driving under the influence of alcohol would be stopped at “reception points” that would be put up in Udhagamandalam, Coonoor, Pandalur, Gudalur and Kotagiri. The motorists would be made to wait at these points and sensitised to the dangers of reckless driving under the influence of alcohol. The reception points will be set up in Charring Cross in Udhagamandalam, at the Railway Crossing in Coonoor, the Pandalur Bazaar and at Doddabetta Peak, among other places, officials said. A vigil would be maintained to ensure people did not drive down the dangerous Kalhatti Road after evening hours. The Nilgiris district administration had already announced that all New Year’s Eve parties and festivities were banned at hotels, restaurants, homestays and resorts. Owners of these businesses have been warned of strict action if they failed to adhere to the directives. Hotel owners said that due to the restrictions on celebrations, they expect a significant drop in visitors to the district in the first week of January, when compared with previous years.
31 December 2020||COLOMBO,TAMIL NADU||India urges Sri Lanka to release fishermen||India on Wednesday urged Sri Lanka to ensure the early release of fishermen arrested recently on the charge of poaching in Sri Lankan waters, a statement from Sri Lanka’s Ministry of Fisheries said. The issue, among others, was discussed at a virtual bilateral meeting on the persisting fisheries conflict, affecting fishermen on both sides of the Palk Strait. Senior officials of both countries, led by their Secretaries of Fisheries Ministries, took part in the discussions that marked the resumption of the meeting of the Sri Lanka-India Joint Working Group (JWG) on Fisheries after three years. Referring to the recent arrest of 40 fishermen and seizure of six boats, the Indian delegation called on the Sri Lankan side to “ensure their early release and till such time, to provide necessary facilitation, including consular access and necessary assistance,” a press release issued by the Indian Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry & Dairying said. “The Indian side also reiterated the need for releasing all fishing boats in Sri Lankan custody in line with the commitment given by the Sri Lankan President during his state visit to India in November 2019,” it added. The meeting comes in the wake of the recent arrests of Tamil Nadu fishermen, who had allegedly trespassed into Sri Lankan waters.
31 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Thousands throng Chidambaram temple for ‘Arudra Darshan’||Thousands of devotees thronged Sri Natarajar temple in Chidambaram on Wednesday on the occasion of ‘Arudra Darshan’ as the two-day event drew to a close. A large number of men and women from the neighbouring districts and across the State visited the historic temple and offered worship after taking a glimpse of the presiding deity in the annual event. Amid chanting of hymns, Lord Natarajar in a cosmic dance posture and Sivagamasundari were taken out in a palanquin procession through the four streets around 4 p.m. and brought to the thousand-pillar mandapam where special pujas were performed. This is one of the two important annual 10-day festivals when Lord Nataraja is taken out through the four Car Streets in the temple town, the other being ‘Aani Thirumanjanam’. The Cuddalore district police threw a huge security cordon deploying more than 950 police personnel to regulate the crowd permitted after producing online passes.
31 December 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||People will reject BJP, allies: Mutharasan||The people of Tamil Nadu will reject the BJP and its alliance in the State during the 2021 Assembly election, according to CPI State secretary R.Mutharasan. BJP’s political game across the country was one of “divide and rule,” and the same kind of polarisation was being attempted in the State for the Assembly election, he said in Dharmapuri on Wednesday. On actor Rajinikanth’s opting out of political entry, Mr. Mutharasan said that everyone was aware of the forces and the resultant pressure that led him to declare his intentions to start a political party. “Mr. Rajinikanth need not apologise for anything. He was not obligated to apologise, while his health was of primary concern. We admire him as a fine actor, and wish him success in his acting endeavours.” He was dismissive of the electoral impact of Kamal Haasan’s MNM, which had neither a Left nor Right ideology. The BJP had unleashed terror against the farmers fighting against the three farm laws and the Electricity Amendment Act, he charged. While farmers across the country were protesting, the AIADMK-led government had refused permission for protests in the delta. “The government has claimed that it would spread COVID-19. But, all COVID-19 regulations are given a miss when the Chief Minister launches the party’s election campaign,” the CPI leader said.
31 December 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Farmers appeal to release water for irrigation||About 300 farmers rode two-wheelers for about 40 km from their villages and reached the Collectorate here on Wednesday to submit a memorandum to the Collector. Speaking to reporters, the Kudaganaru Urimai Meetpu Kuzhu president Ramasami said that the rainwater in Thandikudi reached the Athur Kamarajar dam. After five years, the reservoir had surplussed, and hence, the farmers in the belt had appealed to release water for irrigation. The normal practice, from time immemorial, had been to release the water from Kamarajar dam that would flow up to the Vellianai in Karur district. This benefited at least 10,000 acres of cultivable land in Alagapuri near Vedasandur where the farmers had grown chilli, groundnut, sunflower and other crops. The farmers alleged that the officials had instead of releasing the water in the above direction, diverted it to Rajavaaikal and Thamaraikulam thus depriving the farmers of Kudaganaaru section. In a bid to draw the attention of the district administration, they staged a demonstration and rode two-wheelers for about 40 km from places like from Kumbur, Kasipalayam and Thadicombu to reach the Collectorate here. In the event of non-compliance of our just demand, the farmers would intensify the stir in the coming days, Mr. Ramasami said and hoped the crops would be saved by releasing water from the Kamarajar dam.
31 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Accused escapes from police custody, nabbed||A murder accused, who escaped from police custody while on the court premises on Wednesday, was nabbed immediately. Police said that K. Tamil Selvan (25) of Thirumangalam in Madurai district was arrested for murdering a woman in a lodge in Erode in 2017 and was lodged in Coimbatore Central Prison. The case is in trial at the Fast Track Mahila Court and the police produced him before the court on Wednesday. The judge asked the police to produce the accused in the court on January 7, 2021. After leaving the court hall, the police attempted to handcuff the accused. But, he pushed the two policemen and started to run on the road. However, the police nabbed him.
31 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power supply disconnected||Power supply to two textile processing units functioning within the Corporation limits were disconnected after the units were found discharging untreated effluents into water bodies. Based on complaints, a flying squad comprising officials from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and other departments inspected the dyeing unit functioning at Gangapuram and Vettukattuvalasu in the city. The team found the effluent treatment plants on the premises non-functional and effluents being discharged into water bodies. A report was submitted to District Collector C. Kathiravan, who is also the chairman of the district coordination committee. He ordered disconnection of power supply to the units. Mr. Kathiravan said that action would be taken against the industries that failed to follow the guidelines.
31 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Parks to remain closed for two days||To prevent overcrowding during the New Year, parks at the Kodiveri anicut and Bhavani Sagar Reservoir will remain closed from Thursday evening to January 2, 2021.  A press release from District Collector C. Kathiravan said that in view of COVID-19 precautionary measures, New Year celebrations have been banned in hotels, restaurants, bars and other places on Thursday night and establishments should close by 10 p.m. on the day. No special programmes should be held and violators have been warned of action. The parks at the Kodiveri anicut and Bhavani Sagar Reservoir will also remain closed to visitors.
31 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Owing to monthly maintenance work at Suriyampalayam sub-station on January 4, 2021, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. at Chithode, Rayapalayam, Sunnambu Odai Amaravathi Nagar, Thanneerpandal Palayam, R.N. Pudur, Konavaikal, Lakshmi Nagar, Kalingarayanpalayam, Perumal Malai, IRTT, Kumilanparapu, Chellapampalayam, Bye Pass Road, Ramanathan Nagar, Karumbukadu, Mamarathupalayam, Mettupalayam, Nochipalayam, Tayirpalayam, Semur, Soolai, Naripallam, Ellapalayam, Sottaiyampalayam, K.R. Palayam, Rasampalayam, B.P. Agraharam, Maravapalayam, C.S. Nagar, K.R. Kulam, Cauvery Nagar, Balaji Nagar, Manickampalayam, E.B.B. Nagar, S.S.T. Nagar, Velaan Nagar and Uthukadu.
31 December 2020||ERODE/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Decision to distribute one full sugarcane to cardholders hailed||The State government’s decision to distribute one full sugarcane to each family card holder for Pongal festival has brought in cheer to the farmers, as the procurement price has gone up by over 20% this year. The sengarumbu variety cultivated in February in fields abutting River Cauvery in Erode, Salem and Namakkal districts is harvested ahead of Pongal and is procured by traders and sold in local markets and in Kerala and Karnataka. Due to increase in cost of cultivation and drop in prices, area under cultivation of sengarumbu reduced over the years. But it picked up in 2016, after the State government announced free distribution of a sugarcane piece to cardholders during Pongal. At present, the variety is cultivated in over 850 acre in Gobichettipalayam, Bhavani, Kodumudi in Erode district, Pallipalayam and Kumarapalayam in Namakkal district and Sankari in Salem district. Officials from the Civil Supplies Corporation have started procuring sugarcane from farmers in Samayasangili in Namakkal district. S. Thirumurugan, a farmer in the area, said that 400 bundles of sugarcane, with 20 canes in each bundle, was sold for Rs. 6,600 to Rs. 7,500, compared to Rs. 5,400 last year. “Though traders from Kerala and Karnataka did not come to purchase sugarcane this year, the government’s decision to distribute one full sugarcane for Pongal has made us happy,” he said. Farmers in B.P. Agraharam, Kodumudi and Kolanalli said that harvesting has started and would be completed by the first week of January, 2021. “The price is better compared to past years,” said Murugan of Kodumudi. Though the production is high, the demand is also good due to the distribution of sugarcane in ration shops, he said.
31 December 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘Beware of fake guides’||The police have advised devotees taking part in Sanipeyarchi festival at Lord Dharbaranyeswarar Temple, Thirunallar, to be cautious about presence of fake guides following arrest of three persons who were found to have collected money from unsuspecting devotees for a ‘darshan’ at the temple. The accused Rajkumar of Chinnappa of Melatheru, and his accomplices, Sankar alias Elangovan of Pettai and Suresh of Edatheru had cheated some devotees on December 27. The police registered a case on December 28 based on complaints from the devotees. Devotees can pass on information about any such experience to the Control Room No. 04368-222067 or 100, Niharika Bhatt, Senior Superintendent of Police, Karaikal, said in a press release. Around 1,700 Police personnel and 500 volunteers have been deployed for crowd control duties. Police personnel in plain clothes were also on the move to check presence of anti-social / criminal elements, the release said.
31 December 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||PMK cadre stage protest for reservation||The cadre of Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) staged a protest at all Block Development Offices demanding 20% reservation in all jobs for Vanniyars on Wednesday. The protesters claimed that the Vanniyar community was under represented in jobs. Earlier, the protesters held a rally.
31 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Boating service inaugurated at Madurai temple tank||Minister for Cooperation Sellur K. Raju on Wednesday inaugurated boating service at Mariamman Teppakulam here. Collector T. Anbalagan and Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan were present. Addressing mediapersons after the inauguration, the Minister said the water-filled Mariamman Teppakulam had become the favourite entertainment spot for residents of the city. They would enjoy the boating service introduced at the temple tank now. At present, one steamer boat was functional and three more would soon be procured. Seven passengers could travel in each boat and the tariff was Rs. 20 per person. The boating service would be allowed from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mariamman Teppakulam was built in 1645 by King Thirumalai Nayak. Two check dams were constructed across the Vaigai under AV Bridge under the Smart Cities Mission to store water and divert it to the teppakulam through Panaiyur channel, according to the Minister. “Corporation workers desilted Panaiyur channel and cleared garbage to ensure free flow of water to the tank," he added. Several measures were taken at Mariamman Teppakulam to ensure the safety of residents. “Gates have been built in all four directions of the tank to restrict access to the tank through padithurais ," said the Minister. The Corporation was also formulating a plan towards storage of water in the tank on a permanent basis, he added.
31 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP opposes decision to cancel Madurai-Chennai Tejas Express||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has opposed the decision of the Southern Railway to cancel the running of the Madurai-Chennai Egmore Tejas Express with effect from January 4. Terming the move a “New Year gift” to the people, he said the Railways had already cancelled two Shatabdi Express trains from Chennai Central to Bengaluru and Coimbatore, citing the same reason — poor patronage. In a memorandum sent to Union Railways Minister Piyush Goyal, the MP said poor patronage in these trains was due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the unaffordable high fares. The trains had a minimum 30% occupancy. Due to the pandemic, it was desirable that there was no crowding to avoid the spread of COVID-19. “The government itself is asking people to desist from travel and to undertake journeys only for essential purposes. The Indian Railways, a government undertaking, should run for the needy people during this pandemic, as they ran for migrant workers appreciably, without any motive for profit,” Mr. Venkatesan said. High fares The other reason for the poor patronage was the high fares, especially when compared to other trains running on the same route, he added. It was understandable to have fares reasonably above those of regular trains. However, the Tejas fares between Madurai and Egmore were 35% higher than the Vaigai Express’s A.C. chair car, he said. Due to the pandemic, people had been earning less, leading to the fares becoming unaffordable, he added. “If the fares are reduced to a reasonable level, they will attract more people. The policy to reduce fares during the lean season is already in vogue in the Indian Railways,” Mr. Venkatesan said. He said the Delhi-Lucknow and Mumbai-Ahmedabad Tejas Express trains have also been cancelled due to poor patronage. “What we foresee for private passenger trains is happening now for trains run by the Indian Railways,” he said. He said one of the reasons to run regular trains as specials was to cancel them when there was no profit. “It is a great departure from the earlier policies of running regular trains even during the lean season. A profit motive by private players is understandable. That is why we oppose private trains. But the government-run Railways cancelling trains for poor patronage, depriving the very needy, is a fact that cannot be digested,” he said.
31 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A silent New Year’s Eve at hotels in city||Parties, cultural events and festivities at hotels and restaurants across the city on New Year’s Eve will be missing this year. An official from the district administration said the State government had banned revelry at hotels, clubs and resorts on the night of December 31. “Hotels and restaurants, including bars, are allowed to function till 10 p.m.” M. Guneswaran, senior manager of Hotel Tamil Nadu on Alagarkoil Road, said more than 1,000 revellers usually participated in the event organised by the hotel on New Year’s Eve. “We invite artists from the entertainment industry and cultural events would be held on the night of December 31.” However, conducting such events during the pandemic would be unsafe, he conceded. It will be a silent New Year’s eve for hotels in the city, said S. Senthil Nathan, Director (Operations), Hotel Germanus. “Many of our customers, who regularly participate in the celebration have enquired if such a party will be held this year. But we told them that only special dinner will be available at the hotel this year.” G. Vasudevan, Director, Hotel Fortune Pandiyan, said following safety precautions would be impossible while having a party. “It would be practically not be possible for guests to wear face masks and maintain adequate personal distance when they are partying.” Usually, hotels commence preparations months ahead for the New Year eve’s party. “But, due to closure of hotels for nearly eight months during the lockdown, there would not have been much time for them to plan and promote parties for New Year’s Eve,” he pointed out. Even if the government had allowed parties, there would not be many participants due to fear factor. “The hotels will not be able to earn sufficient revenue to meet their expenses,” he added.
31 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘No public revelry’||In view of prevailing COVID-19 pandemic situation, Madurai City Police have not permitted public gathering for New Year celebrations on the night of December 31. In a statement, Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha has said that no dance or music programmes are permitted in hotels and resorts. Jolly rides in two-wheelers and drunk and rash driving are not permitted and vehicles found violating rules would be seized and stringent legal action initiated. Bursting of crackers is not permitted inside city limits, the statement added. Exhaustive bandobust arrangements have been made for the general public to visit places of worship and attend to their day-to-day activities. They are advised to follow protocols such as social distancing and wearing of masks while visiting any public place to prevent spread of COVID-19, the statement said.
31 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SBI gesture||The Madurai zone of State Bank of India (SBI), as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility, donated laboratory and clinical apparatuses worth Rs. 11.42 lakh to Nethravathi Pain, Palliative Care and Rehabilitation Centre run by Aishwaryam Trust here on Tuesday. According to a press release from the SBI, U.N.N Maiya, General Manager, NW II, SBI Local Head Office- Chennai, was chief guest. Murali Krishna, DGM (B and O), SBI, Madurai zone; Joseph Christy, RM, Region 1- Madurai; and Mallikharjuna Rao, CM (Admin), Region 1, were present.
31 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Milkman hacked to death||A 32-year-old milkman, B. Pitchaimani, of Errampatti near Palamedu was hacked to death by an unidentified gang here in the early hours of Wednesday. According to police, Pitchaimani, who left home around 3 a.m. to collect milk from various houses, was intercepted and hacked to death by the armed gang. The victim’s wife alleged that Pitchaimani had enmity over the panchayat election and suspected that it could have been the motive behind the murder. Palamedu police have registered a case of murder.
31 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Extend quarantine facility for health workers’||A public interest litigation petition filed before the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has sought extension of quarantine facility provided at hotels to health workers of Government Rajaji Hospital. A Division Bench of Justices P. Velmurugan and G. Ilangovan was hearing the petition filed by advocate R. Balaji of Madurai, who said the facility was discontinued citing lack of funds without considering the safety of health workers. The court ordered notice to the State and asked authorities to extend the facility by two weeks for the time being and adjourned the hearing by two weeks. Taking into account the safety of family members, it would not be safe for health workers engaged in COVID-19 duty to quarantine at home. Therefore, the facility of accommodation and food should be extended, the petitioner said.
31 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SBI donates laboratory, clinical apparatuses||The Madurai zone of State Bank of India (SBI), as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility, donated laboratory and clinical apparatuses worth Rs. 11.42 lakh to Nethravathi Pain, Palliative Care and Rehabilitation Centre run by Aishwaryam Trust here on Tuesday. According to a press release from the SBI, U.N.N Maiya, General Manager, NW II, SBI Local Head Office- Chennai, was the chief guest of the event. Murali Krishna, DGM (B and O), SBI, Madurai zone; Joseph Christy, RM, Region 1- Madurai; and Mallikharjuna Rao, CM (Admin), Region 1, were present. Doctors Balagurusamy, Venkatesh and Sabari Manikandan from Aishwaryam Trust participated in the event.   A woman polic, Gracia, 29, was arrested on Wednesday on charges of stealing motorbikes parked in the station. Following complaints to SP N. Manivannan that two-wheelers parked in the Valliyoor station were missing, he had ordered a police team to conduct probe.
31 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Milkman hacked to death||A 32-year-old milkman, B. Pitchaimani, of Errampatti near Palamedu was hacked to death by an unidentified gang in the early hours of Wednesday. According to police, Pitchaimani, who usually leaves home at around 3 a.m. to collect milk from various houses, was intercepted and hacked to death by the armed gang. Meanwhile, wife of the deceased had complained that Pitchaimani had enmity with some people over the panchayat elections. Palamedu police have registered a case of murder and are enquiring few persons in this connection.
31 December 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Steps taken to provide mobile connectivity in Kolli Hills: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday said that steps were being taken to install mobile phone towers in Kolli Hills for the benefit of students and the people. Interacting with tribal people from Kolli Hills at Senthamangalam as part of his election campaign titled, ‘Vetrinadai Podum Tamizhagam’, he said that in the absence of mobile connectivity in hill areas, children were facing difficulties in pursuing their studies and hence, the government was taking steps to ensure mobile connectivity. The Eklavya Model Residential School, Government Arts and Science College and ITI were started for tribal students in Senthamangalam to ensure the community develops economically, and in education equally with others. He said that basic amenities like road facilities, drinking water and street lights were created step-by-step by the government in hill areas. But laying roads or widening in hilly areas was difficult as permission had to be obtained from the Forest Department and then the Central government. The State government has given priority for laying roads and providing power supply to households in remote hamlets. “Solar lights were provided where power connectivity is difficult,” he said. The CM, who campaigned at Namakkal, Rasipuram, Kumarapalayam and Tiruchengodu on Tuesday, winded up his campaign in the district by addressing the gathering at Alanganatham Pirivu after which he left for Tiruchi.
31 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Restrictions in place in U.T. for New Year celebrations||In view of the existing guidelines issued by the Centre to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the district administration and the police have made elaborate arrangements for people to visit the Beach Road in Puducherry on New Year night. Addressing a joint press conference at the Police Headquarters on Wednesday, Director General of Police (DGP) Balaji Srivastava and District Collector Purva Garg said, taking into account the detection of a mutant variant of novel coronavirus in South India, specific measures were being put in place on the beach promenade. No hotel celebrations There will be no celebrations/events in hotels/restaurants/resorts and on beaches. People are free to visit the beach promenade if they follow all regulations and COVID-19 protocols, the DGP said. In view of the enforcement, only an appropriate number of visitors would be allowed on a first-come first-served basis on Beach Road on Thursday night. The entire promenade area has been divided into zones. There will be entry points from Subbaiah Salai, Bazaar Saint Laurent (near Ajanth Signal), Lal Bahadur Shastri Street (Bussy Street), Police Headquarters, Mahe Labourdonnais, Dupey Street and S. V. Patel Salai. People would be subjected to thermal screening at all entry points, Mr. Srivastava said. Traffic restrictions will be in place from 2 p.m. on Thursday in the White Town area. After 2 p.m. no vehicles will be allowed in the area till 9 a.m. on January 1. Separate passes will be issued for residents of White Town and tourists staying in hotels. All the tourists entering the town would be screened using thermal scanners at Ganagachettikulam, Gorimedu, Mullodai and Madhagadipet. Symptomatic persons would be subjected to medical screening at the border itself. If symptoms are confirmed, the infected person would be isolated, he said. People who intend to visit the Beach Road should park their four-wheeler in the designated places at New Port, Indira Gandhi Sports Complex, Petit Seminar Higher Secondary School on Ambedkar Salai, Anna Thidal at Odhiansalai, Old Jail Complex on J. N. Street, the vacant site of LAD on Victor Simonel Street and Bharathidasan Women’s College on M.G Road. Free bus services are arranged from the parking lots to the town and beach promenade. Those coming to the beach by two-wheelers should park their vehicles at Petit Seminaire Primary School, Ambedkar Salai and Uppalam. Vehicles could also be parked on the southern side of the roads between Ambour Salai and Mission Street, the district administration and the police said in a joint statement. “Despite the constraints, the government is making strenuous efforts to facilitate celebration of New Year for the local residents and the tourists in a befitting manner. Inconvenience caused, if any to the general public is regretted,” the statement said. ‘Celebrate at home’ Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi on Wednesday advised residents of Puducherry to celebrate New Year with their families at home. In a WhatsApp message to reporters, the Lt. Governor said the Centre had warned that celebrations could turn into COVID-19 “super spreaders.” People who wished to visit the beach would be subjected to “intensive” thermal screening. Those with symptoms would be referred to the medical team, she said. “So I just wish to say it would be much better and safer to be spending the New Year at home keeping health and not letting others be affected either. The Centre has directed the States ahead of celebrations. Request commuters coming from Tamil Nadu and other States to not come as there are no New Year celebrations,” she said.
31 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Opposition parties doing injustice to people by supporting L-G, says CM||The Opposition parties are doing injustice to people of Union Territory by supporting Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference, the Chief Minister said the Lt. Governor was interested only in creating obstacles to the elected government and the growth of the Union Territory. When revival of tourism sector was vital to the economic activity in the Union Territory, the Lt. Governor wanted to ban all New Year celebrations. Without even the approval of the elected government, Ms. Bedi issued a statement on online media that New Year celebrations are banned in the Union Territory, he said. The Lt. Governor also wanted to ban all festivities, including the recently-held Sani Peyarchi festival at Thirunallar Temple in Karaikal. The Lt. Governor’s insistence on obtaining COVID-19 negative certificate from devotees for darshan had created unrest in Karaikal. If not for the Court's intervention in settling the issue, there would have been law and order problem in Karaikal region, the Chief Minister said. “There is no justification to ban New Year celebrations in Puducherry. We don’t need to imitate whatever Tamil Nadu does. The Union Territory has a separate identity and whether we are in government or not, we will not allow the rights of the people to be taken away. When the Lt. Governor is creating hurdles, the Opposition parties are becoming sycophants of Ms. Bedi. By doing so, they are doing injustice to the people” the Chief Minister said. He reiterated that there was no ban on New Year celebrations in the Union Territory. People are free to gather on the beach and hotels by following social distancing norms, wearing masks and adopting personal hygiene. “Tourists can stay in hotels but there will not be any party or events associated with New Year celebrations in hotels,” he said. The Police and the District Administration will enforce COVID-19 regulations and protocols as done during the peak of pandemic time.  We don’t need to imitate whatever Tamil Nadu does. The U.T. has a separate identity and whether we are in government or not, we will not allow the rights of the people to be taken away
31 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory logs 26 new COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory has recorded 26 new COVID-19 cases after screening 3,346 persons on Wednesday.rrit Of the total new admissions, 16 are from Puducherry region, 9 from Karaikal and 1 from Mahe. While 26 new cases were recorded, same number of patients got cured during the time, statistics released by the Health Department revealed. Currently, there are 363 active cases, including 163 in hospitals and 200 under home quarantine. The new cases were detected during tests conducted on 3,346 persons. The total number of people tested so far had reached4,81,987in the Union Territory. The overall tally stood at 633 deaths and 38,096 cases. 20 cases in Cuddalore Cuddalore district reported 20 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 24,662. While 24,252 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 104. In Villupuram district, 10 persons tested positive, taking the total cases in the district to 14,981. Kallakurichi district reported one positive case, taking the overall count to 10,797.  Central districts The central region on Wednesday recorded 106 fresh cases of COVID-19. No COVID-19 related death was reported in the region.
31 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Raj Nivas sanitised as L-G’s staff tests positive||The Health Department on Wednesday sanitised Raj Nivas after a personal staff of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi tested positive for COVID-19. Sanitisation of Raj Nivas was done after a woman officer, part of the social media team of the Lt. Governor, tested positive. The officer has been admitted to the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research for COVID-19 treatment. The healthcare workers collected throat swabs of around 25 persons in Raj Nivas on Wednesday evening to test for novel coronavirus.
31 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Training programme for conservancy workers||Conservancy workers of the Ponnamaravathi town panchayat in Pudukottai district have been trained to prepare disinfectants and phenyl to supply to residents and offices. The initiative would help them make an extra money and help in creating savings for the workers’ children, officials here said. The workers were given a month-long training on the method of preparing soap oil and phenyl by a trainer from Madurai while the town panchayat arranged for an initial investment of Rs. 1,50,000 to begin making the items through donors in the area, said Executive Officer V. Dhanushkodi. A total of 3,000 litres of phenyl and 1,000 litres of soap oil have been prepared so far and are ready for sale. The town panchayat has 33 workers on its payroll and each of them earn Rs. 12,000 per month. However, a lion’s share of their earnings is spent in paying off money borrowed from loan lenders. What is left is very little and usually insufficient for food, rent and other living expenses, he said. The aim is to create some additional income for the workers and provide clean, unadulterated sanitization products to the public. The price of soap oil has been fixed at Rs. 60 per litre, while phenyl is being sold at Rs. 40. A brand name - Sugandham - has been given to these products which the conservancy workers can supply at the door of residents. So far, Rs. 66,000 has been raised by sale of these products, of which Rs. 20 would be the profit earned per bottle sold. ‘We have decided that Rs. 1000 would be handed over to each worker directly, while Rs. 500 would be deposited in a recurring deposit account opened for all of them. The remaining Rs. 500 would be saved up for the education of their children, he said. The officials have arranged for sale of these products to other town panchayats in Pudukottai. We are looking to expand into making floor cleaners, toilet cleaners and detergent powders. The training and preparation will begin soon, he added.
31 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Will seek Rajini’s support: Kamal||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Wednesday said he would seek the support of actor Rajinikanth, as a friend, for the Assembly election. “When fighting the election, we have to seek the support of everyone. Will I not seek support from my friend?” Mr. Haasan told reporters in Kadiyapatti, near Pudukottai. ‘Not aware’ Stating that he was not aware of the reasons behind Mr. Rajinikanth’s decision to opt out of a political entry, Mr. Haasan said all that he knew at present was that it was taken on health grounds. If the decision was indeed taken on health grounds, Mr. Haasan said he, too, was in favour of it and would accept the decision. “It would have been better if he had been there,” he said, when asked whether he felt disappointed over the actor’s decision. Replying to another query, the MNM leader made it clear that he was not opposed to spiritualism. “But at the same time, nobody can force me to accept spiritualism, just like I can’t force anyone to accept rationalism,” he said.  ‘BJP is irrelevant’  Asked how he would rate the BJP government at the Centre, he said the people of Tamil Nadu did not wish to have a BJP government in the State and as far as they were concerned, it was “irrelevant”. To another query on whether he would pursue Dravidian politics, he said the term Dravidian could not be apportioned to just two parties. “It refers to all of us,” he said. Asked about the perception that he was only attacking the AIADMK government and was soft on the DMK, he said it was essential to talk about the corruption that was taking place now. “We have to stop the crimes happening now. For the crimes committed earlier, some have gone to jail and others have not,” he said. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was releasing the list of DMK’s corrupt deeds, he said. “He is lessening our burden as we want to do that too,” Mr. Haasan said.  When fighting the election, we have to seek the support of everyone. Will I not seek support from my friend?
31 December 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Special Observer verifies applications submitted for inclusion in poll rolls||Special Observer and Tamil Nadu Social Welfare Commissioner D Abraham conducted a verification of applications submitted for inclusion of names in the electoral rolls here on Wednesday. Accompanied by the District Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver and other officials from the election wing, the Special Observer visited Anandur village in R.S. Mangalam block and checked with the applicants. The district, which had conducted special campaign to enrol eligible voters in the list as per the guidelines of the Election Commission of India, had received 46,301 applications, which included 28491 for inclusion of names in the voter list, 10688 for deletion, 2181 seeking change of address among others. During the campaign, the public had submitted in separate forms with the officials at the designated polling stations and online as well, the officials said and added that after due enumeration, the changes would be effected in the list. The district, which has four Assembly Constituencies - Paramakudi, Tiruvadanai, Ramanathapuram and Mudukalathur has 1369 polling stations and 11,38,383 voters. During the enumeration, DRO Sivakami, Sub-Collector N O Sukaputra, RDO T Thangavel and other officials participated.
31 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Anicut to be built across Ponni Odai at Rs. 26.30 crore||Foundation was laid for the construction of Ponnaliamman Koyil anicut across Ponni Odai in Chokkanur Agraharam village in Gangavalli Taluk here at Rs. 26.30 crore. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had in December 14, 2018, announced the construction of a new anicut across Ponni Odai. On Tuesday, District Collector S.A. Raman and Chairman of Tamil Nadu State Co-operative Bank and Salem District Central Co-operative Bank R. Elangovan laid the foundation for the anicut. The odai originates from the eastern slopes of Pachamalai in the Gangavalli Reserve Forest limits and runs four km towards north east, before it drains into Swetha Nadhi near Veeraganur. The water had remained unused and farmers in the area had been demanding an anicut for long. Mr. Raman said that 85 patta land owners had agreed to provide land for building the anicut, which would help irrigate 446 acre of farmlands. The anicut with two shutters would have a catchment area of 4.29 sq mile, and inflow would be 53.45 cusecs, he said.
31 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Corporation tax collector gets two-year jail term in graft case||A Corporation tax collector was on Wednesday sentenced to undergo two years of imprisonment in a graft case in 2010. T. Pradeepan (54) of Kitchipalayam was running a tyre retreading company from a rented building. He purchased the building on July 21, 2010 and submitted an application to the Corporation’s Ammapettai Zonal office on March 9, 2011 seeking property name transfer and for fixing tax. Tax collector R. Balakrishnan (53) inspected the building and demanded Rs. 7,000 for name transfer. Since Padeepan refused to give the money, Balakrishnan asked him to pay Rs. 6,000 and get the work done. Pradeepan alerted the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) sleuths, who arrested Balakrishnan.  A case was registered against him and the case was in trial at the Special Court for Corruption Act Cases. Fined Judge V.P. Suganthi found Balakrishnan guilty and sentenced him to undergo two years imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 15,000.
31 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Ramadoss will announce PMK’s stand on CM candidate’||PMK president G.K. Mani has said the party’s stand on the Chief Ministerial candidate will be announced by party founder S. Ramadoss as the election approaches. Addressing mediapersons in Salem on Wednesday, he said the party had been demanding 20% reservation for Vanniyars in higher education and government jobs for 40 years. “Instead of fulfilling our demand, the State government constituted a commission, which we see as merely a delaying tactic,” he said. To a question whether the party accepted Edappadi K. Palaniswami as the chief ministerial candidate, Mr. Mani said, “Their party [AIADMK] announced the candidate and as the election comes closer, Dr. Ramadoss will announce our stand,” he added. On Rajinikanth’s decision not to launch a party, he alleged that the actor had earlier announced that he would start a party due to the pressure exerted on him. “If his fans pressure him, he might change his decision.”
31 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||If women voters decide, T.N. can see a change in govt.: Kamal||If the womenfolk in Tamil Nadu decide for a change in the government, it will happen for sure, said Makkal Neethi Maiam president Kamal Hassan here on Wednesday. Speaking at a well attended meeting by women, he said that the time had come for a change. "Strengthen my hands, we will march forward together..." he said amidst applause. Over these years, we all have allowed some people to rob resources. Today, we are paying the price for remaining silent in the past. Time has come for a change and vote for us," he appealed. The actor, who has been attacking the ruling party members and the government, said that the daylight robbery had reached a new high that sand mining and smuggling of trees were happening as a routine affair in many districts. Some political parties have been vying with one another to grab the power by giving something or the other. We are promising to deliver something after coming to power. We have honesty, which others can't even utter as their conscience may not allow," he lamented. Stating that the womenfolk in the State were a big force, he appealed to them to join the big fight with the MNM in the ensuing election to the Assembly, Mr. Kamal Hassan said that they would surely give a change for better. Speaking from Sivaganga, which were the birthplace of Velu Nachiar among other women stalwarts, he urged the women to bring about the change as they alone can do it. Along with him, there was a huge following of not only right thinking people, but persons with honesty in the party. For instance, senior IAS officer Santosh Babu, who had served as District Collector in the early 2000 in Sivaganga had joined the MNM after giving up his service, Mr. Kamal Hassan informed the gathering. Going by the number of voters in Tamil Nadu, he said that the women voters were higher than men. Earlier, he addressed wayside meetings in Tirupathur and travelled to Paramakudi in the neighbouring Ramanathapuram district, the hometown of the actor. He was accorded a rousing reception at Yemeneswaram. The actor also interacted with self-help-group women, traders, representatives from the industry and artisans.
31 December 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||‘Amma mini-clinics will help those living in remote areas’||Amma mini-clinics have been launched in Tamil Nadu to provide quality treatment to all people including those living below the poverty line and also those living in remote villages, said Adi-Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Minister V. M. Rajalakshmi here on Wednesday. Launching two mini-clinics at Vellalankulam and Kadambankulam in the district in the presence of District Collector G. S. Sameeran, doctors, para-medical team and officials from the Health and Family Welfare department, she said that the government had allotted 41 mini-clinics for the district. Already, two have started functioning in Puliampatti and Alaganeri. The rest would be opened in a phased manner, she said. The Minister said that the mini-clinics would be open from 8 a.m. to 12 noon and from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. Instead of rushing to urban locations or private hospitals, poor people can approach the mini-clinics and get quality treatment. The mini-clinics have a doctor and a nurse. The government’s aim was to care for the needy and give them the assistance at the right time. Be it womenfolk or students, weavers or farmers, aged people or deserted women, the Edappadi Palaniswami's government had accorded top priority for providing the basic needs. The Amma mini-clinics would be functional across Tamil Nadu. Apart from setting these clinics in urban and rural pockets, in Chennai Corporation limits alone, 200 such clinics would be opened and another 200 clinics would be mobile units, which would benefit the floating population. Basic medical examinations including blood pressure and medication for ailments such as fever, cold and cough can be availed here, the Minister said and added that people need not travel far to seek treatment when they are sick. Pregnant women were presented with a kit each on the occasion.
31 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Three persons arrested with ganja||Three persons transporting `ganja’ in a car were arrested at Sengipatti on Tuesday night. According to police, on Tuesday evening the Thanjavur District Police received a tip-off that `ganja’ consignment from Andhra Pradesh being transported to the coastal area through Thanjavur. Subsequently, a special team was formed and it carried out vehicle checking on the Thanjavur-Tiruchi Road on the outskirts of the town on Tuesday night. While they were checking the vehicles, a car with Andhra Pradesh registration was signalled to stop by the special team at around 10.30 p.m. But the car driver ignored the signal and moved ahead. Subsequently, the vehicle was intercepted and a thorough check revealed that `ganga’ weighing around 56 kilograms was found concealed under the seat. Thus, the occupants of the car, Sivasankar Reddy of Chinnarajakuppam in Chitoor district, Andhra Pradesh, Divakar of Moolakute village in Baleswar district, Odisha and Prabhu of Ambedkar Colony, Echampatti in Perambalur district, have been arrested and the contraband was seized.
31 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Protests against farm laws will continue’||The All India Farmers’ Protest Coordination Committee (AIFPCC), Tamil Nadu, on Tuesday declared that protests against the three new farm laws would continue until they were repealed. Disclosing this to reporters here, P. Shanmugam State general secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to CPI(M), and K. Balakrishnan, State coordinator, AIFPCC, Tamil Nadu, jointly said the Centre’s strategy of explaining the farm laws in order to dilute the resoluteness of agitating farmers near New Delhi would not work. The protesters were firm in their demand and would not yield to such tactics during their scheduled meeting with the Centre. The AIFPCC had decided to organise agitations throughout the country if talks failed, they said. Hence, if the Centre did not concede to the farmers’ demands, the State unit of AIFPCC would organise protests against the farm laws in all district headquarters in Tamil Nadu until they were withdrawn, the two members said. Asked to respond to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s claim that the kisan rail service introduced during the COVID-19 pandemic would be beneficial to small and marginal farmers to tap new markets, they did not think so. Urging Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami to clarify on what grounds his government supported the laws, they said farmers from Punjab were on the road because curtains would fall on procurement of wheat and paddy in that State if the laws were enforced. The Chief Minister, who was vociferous in supporting the laws publicly, should clarify whether the State government had any plans to enact legislation to counter ‘ill-effects’ of the Central laws on farmers in the State. Expressing displeasure over partial grant of permission to AIFPCC to conduct a rally and public meeting in Thanjavur on December 29, the leaders condemned the State government for using the law enforcement machinery to create an image that the not all farmers in the State supported the New Delhi agitation. Mr. Shanmugam and Mr. Balakrishnan also demanded that those who were taken into preventive custody so as to prevent them from proceeding to Thanjavur to take part in the rally and public meeting on December 29 should be released immediately.
31 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Central team inspects crop damage in central districts||On the second day of their tour of areas affected by the heavy rainfall caused by cyclone Burevi in the State, the Central team inspected crop damages in Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Thanjavur districts on Wednesday. An eight member led by Ashutosh Agnihotri, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, visited affected areas and interacted with farmers for a first-hand account of the damage caused by the rain to standing crops. In Nagapattinam district, the team visited Karunkanni in Keezhaiyur union and Vadakkupanaiyur in Keezh Velur Union where farmers narrated their woes displaying the damaged paddy and horticulture crops. The team inspected photographs of the inundated fields and damaged crops displayed at the villages. The district officials led by Praveen P.Nair explained to the team that standing crop on about 82,330 hectares were estimated to have been damaged in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts. In Thanjavur, the team interacted with farmers at Periyakottai near Madukkur. They conversed with two farmers, A.Rathnasabapathy and P.Lakshminathan of Periyakottai in Hindi as the progressive farmers responded to their queries in the language. The farmers explained to the team how the paddy crop raised on about 230 hectares out of 279 hectares in the village was inundated due to a breach in Kannanaru. The team also visited Ullur near Orathanadu. Earlier, Collector, M.Govinda Rao gave a brief account of the crop loss in Thanjavur district. Stating that crops such as paddy, maize and groundnut sowed on 21576 acres were affected in the inclement weather conditions, he said a total of 11065 farmers have suffered crop loss. Compensation The Joint Director (Agriculture), Justin explained how the heavy downpour had affected the paddy crop at different stages – vegetative, panicle initiation, grain filling and harvesting stages. At Thanjavur, P.R.Pandian, president, president, Tamil Nadu All Farmers Associations Coordination Committee, met the Central team and submitted a memorandum seeking Rs. 30,000 per acre of damaged paddy as compensation. He also sought fair compensation for damages to banana, sugarcane and coconut crops.
31 December 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||56 kg of ganja seized||Three persons transporting ganja in a car were arrested at Sengipatti on Tuesday night. Following a tip-off that a consignment of ganja from Andhra Pradesh was being transported to coastal areas, a special team checked vehicles on Thanjavur-Tiruchi Road. A car with Andhra Pradesh registration was intercepted and a check revealed that 56 kg of ‘ganga’ was found concealed under a seat.
31 December 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||OPS gives free cycles to students||Handing over the cycles to 4,853 boys and 5,592 girl students studying in eleventh standard, as part of the State government's welfare scheme, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said that the government was committed to protecting the people by giving them basic amenities. At a function here on Wednesday, the Deputy CM handed over benefits worth Rs. 4.51 crore. In his address, he said that any State can claim to be developed in every sphere, only when the common man had the basic needs fulfilled. Keeping this in mind, the late Chief Ministers MGR and Jayalalithaa had accorded importance to providing food, shelter and clothes. Following their footsteps, the present government too had focussed on fulfilling the needs of the masses. The objective of giving free textbooks, uniforms, laptops and cycles to all the students was that parents should not feel the economic burden. Similarly, the womenfolk, the destitute, widows and differently-abled persons in society were also taken care of by the government, which showed the sustained commitment, Mr. Panneerselvam said and added that self-help-groups in Tamil Nadu were being followed by many other States in the country. The best model had not only given motivation to the SHGs, but also given them the much needed empowerment. The State government had given financial assistance to those Below Poverty Line after due enumeration. Similarly, under the Backward Classes and Minority Welfare, 70 Christians here had got Rs. 9,000 each. Sewing machines and iron boxes for the beneficiaries meant that they could take care of their livelihood, he said. Collector M. Pallavi Baldev presided. Theni MP O.P. Raveendranath, MLA STK Jakkayan and others participated.
31 December 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Stalin’s prediction won’t materialise: Dy. CM||DMK president M.K. Stalin’s prediction that the AIADMK will split is not going to come true, Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam said in Theni on Wednesday. Speaking to presspersons, he said there was no confusion in the AIADMK. Unable to stomach the popularity and the unity in the AIADMK, the Opposition leader was trying to spin stories. This was not going to happen. On the election campaign, he said he would begin at the appropriate time. To a query on the choice of the chief ministerial candidate, he said C.T. Ravi, BJP general secretary in charge of Tamil Nadu, had already clarified the same. “There is no confusion. We are seeking votes from the public with a clear mind and with clarity,” he said. Asked about actor Rajinikanth’s recent announcement of his exit from politics, Mr. Panneerselvam said he wished the actor a long life. “Earlier, when Mr. Rajinikanth said he would announce his party on December 31, I welcomed it... Now, he has decided to opt out. It is his decision. I wish him a long and peaceful life,” he added. Meanwhile, Forest Minister Dindigul C. Sreenivasan said Mr. Stalin should stop misleading the public. The Chief Minister’s decision to give a Pongal gift of Rs. 2,500 to eligible cardholders in the State showed the AIADMK government’s welfare approach. ‘Don’t mislead people’ “If he [Mr. Stalin] cannot appreciate it, he should remain calm. It is not correct to mislead the people,” he said. Officials have been clearly instructed to distribute the tokens to the cardholders at their doorsteps and ensure that there is no crowding at the ration shops, he told presspersons in Dindigul. Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju told presspersons at Kovilpatti that the DMK had been trying all sorts of “gimmicks” as they were caught in the poll “fever”. “The leader [Mr. Stalin] is daydreaming. His own brother [M.K. Alagiri] had once stated that Mr. Stalin can never become a Chief Minister. People have not forgotten the atrocities when the DMK was in power,” he said. According to him, the public have decided that the AIADMK should remain at the helm. Unlike in the DMK, an ordinary worker can become the Chief Minister in the AIADMK. “Hence, it is better Mr. Stalin continues to daydream,” Mr. Raju added.
31 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Small onion growers seek compensation||Small onion growers in Perambalur and Tiruchi districts, a major shallot growing belt in the State, are worried over the persistent disease attack on the crop which, they say, has adversely hit yield. The peculiar root rot disease, referred to as ‘thirugal noi’ in Tamil, has been worrying farmers for a couple of years. The incidence of the disease was widespread in the two district though the extent of damage varies. In some fields, the disease has completely damaged the crop, while in others it has caused over 60% of loss in yield. The crop is normally raised on about 7,000 hectares in Perambalur district and more than 3,000 hectares in Tiruchi district. Though officials and scientists have inspected some affected fields and suggested preventive measures and specific pesticides, farmers say that the recommended pesticides have not been effective in controlling the disease. Last week, a group of onion growers resorted to a protest at Sellipalayam near Thuraiyur demanding compensation for the crop damage. Farmers from Sellipalayam, Maruvathur, Sengattupatti, Narasingapuram and Ammampalayam, who participated in the protest, complained that the crop raised on about 1,500 acres have been severely damaged. Farmers had been raising the issue at the agriculture grievances meetings in these districts. The disease has caused extensive damage causing severe losses to farmers, said R.Raja Chidambaram, state secretary, Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam. “Despite applying pesticides recommended by officials and scientists, the disease could not be controlled. Farmers should be compensated after proper enumeration but at the same time we should strive to find a permanent solution,” he said seeking a special campaign like the one taken up over to check the incidence of Fall Armyworm in maize. The disease is causing at least 60 to 70% of loss in yield, says D.Srinivasan, a farmer of Renganathapuram. “In a good season, we harvest up to six to seven tonnes of small onions in an acre. Now, we are sustaining heavy losses after spending up to Rs. 30,000 an acre. No official has inspected our fields,” he said as he awaits compensation from the insurance company for the crop damage he has suffered this season. R. Arunachalam of Nagalapuram near Thuraiyur said the disease starts affecting the crop when it is about 30 to 35 days old and the problem has been persisting for two years now. “We are all small farmers in our village; some have lost the crop fully and others have sustained 50 to 75% yield loss,” he said urging the government to sanction a compensation of at least Rs. 10,000 an acre from the State Disaster Response Fund. Some farmers insist that the officials should ensure that the affected onions were not used as seeds in the following seasons to check the recurrence of the disease. But this, they concede, would be easier said than done.
31 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CM ticks off Stalin for talking about split in AIADMK||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday chided DMK president M.K. Stalin for claiming that the AIADMK was headed towards a split and advised him to “stop dreaming and save his party first”. Campaigning at Thottiyam in Tiruchi district, he said several attempts made by the DMK in the past to cause discord in the AIADMK and bring the government down had proved futile. “You said the government under my leadership would crumble within a month, six months and one year. We have now completed three years and 10 months. People are now aware, and do not believe your misleading statements. You cannot touch even a worker of the AIADMK. Even a thousand Stalins cannot split the AIADMK,” he said. The Chief Minister alleged that Mr. Stalin had entered politics through a “short-cut”, on the strength of his family background. On the other hand, he had risen from the grassroots. “Never think you can take a farmer with a rural background for granted,” he said. Unlike the DMK, the AIADMK promised only what would be achievable. His government was confident of implementing the Godavari-Cauvery inter-linking project to find a perennial solution to the water shortage in Tamil Nadu, Mr. Palaniswami said. He thanked his counterparts in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on behalf of Tamil Nadu’s farmers for their cooperation. “The DMK leadership, on the other hand, is worried only about the welfare of its family,” he said. “It was only during the stint of your [Mr. Stalin’s] father Karunanidhi that the Kabini Dam was constructed in Karnataka, resulting in the destruction of the livelihood of our farmers. Amma [former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa], on the other hand, secured Tamil Nadu’s rights by ensuring the Supreme Court verdict as a lasting solution to the water-sharing dispute of five decades,” he said. While interacting with farmers at Thottiyam, a banana-growing belt, the Chief Minister said a facility for value-addition of banana would be established there, with technical support from the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras. The proposed betel leaf research centre at Paramathy Velur in neighbouring Namakkal district would be of immense utility for cultivators of the crop in the region. All through his campaign at Thuraiyur, Manachanallur, Lalgudi, Pullambadi and Tiruchi, Mr. Palaniswami accused the DMK leadership of attempting to thwart the government’s decision to give Rs. 2,500 as a Pongal gift to the poor for tiding over the hardships caused by the COVID-19 lockdown. The people would teach a fitting lesson to the DMK in the election, he said. At an interaction with rice mill owners at Manachanallur, Mr. Palaniswami said he would look into their plea to recommend a reduction in the GST on the Manachanallur Ponni variety of rice. At Kothampatti near Thuraiyur, the Chief Minister got down from his vehicle to interact with a few Scheduled Caste families and informed them of the schemes under implementation for their welfare.
31 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||College teachers’ association interacts with political parties||The Aided College Teachers’ Association has initiated the process of calling on leaders of mainstream political parties ahead of elections to the State Assembly for inclusion of long-pending demands of higher educational teaching faculty in their manifesto. “We have submitted our charter of demands to DMK and we will soon meet leaders of Congress, AIADMK, Communist parties, and all other mainstream political parties,” ACTA State general Secretary S. Sahaya Satish said. On Monday, ACTA representatives met DMK Youth Wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin in Tiruchi and submitted the charter of demands for inclusion in the party’s election manifesto. The ACTA has sought restoration of old pension scheme for teachers appointed after 2004, timely promotion and disbursal of increments, rectification of anomalies in pay, desisting from recovering money from already paid salaries for the purpose of pension, and regularisation of services of guest lecturers in government colleges with requisite qualifications. The associaton has also called for filling of all vacancies in a transparent manner and withdrawal of action against teachers who took part in protests organised by JACTO-GEO (Joint Action Council of Teachers Organisations - Government Employees Organisations).
31 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Be restrained in new year celebrations’||The police have said that new year celebrations at hotels, clubs, restaurants or other similar places would not be permitted on December 31 night in view of the pandemic. They have warned of stern action against two-wheeler riders who indulge in bike racing and drive after consuming alcohol on new year and its eve. The vehicles driven by such persons would be confiscated. Patrolling all over the city would be intensified. The entire police strength would be mobilised for security duty. Teams would be deployed at vantage points to mount vigil and additional strength would be posted in all check posts. Police personnel would be split into 50 teams to carry out vehicle checks all over the city, Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan said in a press release here. Action would be initiated against those found teasing people or causing problems at public places in the name of greeting them. Legal action would be taken against those found consuming alcohol in public places or parking their vehicles in a haphazard manner or bursting crackers on roads. No celebration would be allowed on roads. Adequate security would be provided at all places of worship also. It has asked the public to inform 100 and 0431-2418070 or in the mobile number 96262-73399 in case anyone caused problems in public places. They could alert the police in the Kavalan App or in the Tiruchi City Police Facebook and Twitter accounts.
31 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 106 cases||The central region on Wednesday recorded 106 fresh cases of COVID-19. No COVID-19 related death was reported in the region. Thanjavur reported the highest number of cases in the region with 27 fresh cases, while Tiruvarur reported 22. Meanwhile, Tiruchi reported 21 fresh cases. Among them were primary contacts and asymptomatic patients identified through fever camps. Five patients who had been undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after they recovered from COVID-19. Sixteen fresh cases were reported in Karur, while in Nagapattinam 15 patients tested positive. Patients in both districts were primary contacts and local index cases with no history of travel or contacts. Patients suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses and Influenza-Like Illnesses also tested positive. Pudukottai reported a drop in fresh cases on Wednesday with three patients reporting positive. The district had reported 11 cases on Tuesday. Ariyalur and Perambalur districts reported one fresh case each. Meanwhile, 331 throat swabs were lifted from patients with COVID-19 symptoms in Perambalur and sent for testing.
31 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Let govt. staff distribute tokens for Pongal gift hampers: DMK||A DMK MLA, A. L. S. Lakshmanan, has lodged a complaint with District Collector V. Vishnu that the AIADMK men were distributing tokens to card holders for collecting Pongal gift. In a memorandum submitted to the Collector, Mr. Lakshmanan, who was accompanied by senior party functionaries on Wednesday, stated that the Pongal gift of Rs. 2,500 and other commodities including rice and sugarcane were announced by the State government. However, in many ration shops, the ruling party functionaries had put up boards giving an impression that it was being distributed by the AIADMK. This was unfair and the partymen indulged in misleading the people. The DMK was not against giving Pongal gift, but only opposed to the manner in which was being implemented, Mr. Lakshmanan said and urged the district administration to be transparent. Speaking to reporters, the MLA said that with elections fast approaching the ruling party was in jitters. By hook or crook, the AIADMK was running behind the people and bent upon getting their votes. “The people have decided and the DMK, upon emerging victorious, would cleanse the administration under the leadership of M. K. Stalin”, he added. In Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and Tenkasi districts also, the DMK functionaries complained that tokens were being distributed by the ruling partymen. The District Supply Officers should sensitise the employees at the ration shops to distribute it directly to the card holders and urged the police to be vigilant, the MLA added. Meanwhile, Tirunelveli Collector Vishnu visited a ration shop in Thatchanallur and checked the arrangements made for distribution of tokens to card holders. From January 4 to 12, the Pongal gift would be distributed and he appealed to the residents to cooperate with the staff while collecting the hampers.
31 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Woman police held for stealing two-wheelers from station||A woman police identified as Gracia (29) was arrested on charges of stealing motorcycles parked in the station here on Wednesday. Following complaints to the Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan that some two-wheelers parked in the Valliyoor station were missing, he ordered the police team to probe. Investigations revealed that the woman police, when she was on night duty at the station, called her husband Anbumani and helped him in stealing the two-wheelers, which were impounded by the police for Motor Vehicle Act violations.Three motorcycles, two mobile phones and other articles were seized from them and they were arrested.
31 December 2020||Tirupathur,TAMIL NADU||Government school students will learn to make Femto Satellites||It was an interesting experience for around 50 students of government schools in Tirupathur district, as they sat engrossed in a demonstration on how to make Femto Satellites (small satellites of very low mass) at the Jolarpet Model Government Boys School, recently. The programme was jointly organised by the Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam International Foundation, House of Kalam, Rameswaram, along with Space Zone India, Chennai and the Martin Group. The event was inaugurated by Commercial Taxes Minister K.C. Veeramani. “This programme will encourage government school students to pursue and succeed in space research,” said the Minister. The main aim of the event was to take satellite technology to students across the country and kindle their thirst for learning about space. This awareness programme is part of the ‘Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Space Research Payload Cubes Challenge – 2021’. The mission is to guide 1,000 students from Classes 9 to 12 across the country, to work on Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) and enable them to use their knowledge and skills for the design and development of 100 Femto Satellites to be launched through a single high-altitude scientific balloon on February 7, 2021, at Rameswaram. “This is the first time school students from across the country will come together and make and launch satellites. These satellites will provide us with live data for studies on agriculture, ultraviolet radiation, natural composite materials, vibration, wind speed, global warming and ozone depletion among others. We will first provide online training and conduct virtual classes on coding. Then we will provide hands-on training on making the satellites. Government school students across the country will be provided with free training,” said Anand Megalingam, founder of Space Zone India. Recommendations After the awareness programme, the Tirupathur District Education Officer would send some of the bright students for the programme. “We are getting entries from across the country. Students in Tirupathur asked many questions and they were very keen on attending this competition. This will make former president Abdul Kalam’s dream a reality,” added Mr. Anand.  We will first provide online training and conduct virtual classes on coding. Then we will provide hands-on training on making the satellites
31 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Woman murdered, cash and jewellery stolen||The Vellakoil police are on the lookout for a man who murdered a 55-year-old woman and attacked her husband to steal cash and jewellery at a furniture shop in the early hours of Wednesday. According to the police, Sakthivel (35), an auto rickshaw driver, claimed that he will conduct parihara puja for Arumugam (65), owner of a furniture showroom on Semmandampalayam Road in Vellakoil. At around 5 a.m. on Wednesday, Sakthivel conducted the rituals at the showroom in the presence of Arumugam and his wife Eswari. Suddenly, the accused attacked both of them with a sickle, stole the gold jewellery worn by Eswari and cash Rs. 10,000 from the showroom and absconded. While Eswari died at the spot due to excessive bleeding, Arumugam sustained injuries on his head, the police said. He lodged a complaint with the Vellakoil police and was subsequently admitted to Kangeyam Government Hospital. Special team formed The accused was booked under sections 302 (Murder), 307 (Attempt to murder) and 394 (Voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) read with 397 (Robbery or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code. The police said that four special teams have been formed to nab the accused.
31 December 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Plea to check stray cattle menace||The Tiruvarur Vijayapuram Traders Association has urged the district administration to find a solution to the stray cattle menace in the town. In a resolution passed at its annual general meeting held recently, it that stray cattle cause accidents. It urged the administration to initiate steps to find a lasting solution to the stray cattle menace and save the people. In another resolution, it sought removal of encroachments on market streets by relocating cart vendors doing business in market areas to a suitable place permanently     As many as 48,447 Plus One students have been provided with free bicycles during the last four years at a cost of Rs. 52.43 crore, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said after distributing free bicycles to 133 students of Government Higher Secondary School at Kavarapatti in Viralimalai panchayat union on Wednesday. Free bicycles would be provided to 64 students of Government Higher Secondary School, Sevalpatti, and 95 students of Government Higher Secondary School, Kodumbalur. District Revenue Officer P.V. Saravanan and officials of the Education Department participated, a press release said.    Collector S. Sivarasu inaugurated a fortnight-long special handloom expo organised by the Union Ministry of Textiles and the Tamil Nadu Handloom and Textiles Department here on Tuesday. He said 42 stalls showcasing textile and handloom products made by 52 weavers associations from Salem, Namakkal, Ramanathapuram, among other districts, would be on display and on sale at 30% discount. Saris, bedsheets, curtains and other textiles would be available. The expo had recorded sales worth Rs. 41 lakhs last year and Rs. 55 lakhs hsa been fixed as the target this year. It would remain open from 9 am to 9 pm at the G.K.M. Mini Hall on Salai Road till January 12.
31 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nilgiris police reach out to Adivasi communities in their own language||Fostering better communication with Adivasi communities in the Nilgiris, the district police are conducting awareness campaigns about COVID-19, and about crimes against women and children, in the language the communities communicate with each other. “When I used to visit Adivasi communities, it would be extremely hard to communicate with them in Tamil and we would have to use a translator to get our message across to them. This got us thinking that it would be much more effective to conduct awareness campaigns in their own language,” said Nilgiris District Superintendent of Police, V. Sasi Mohan. The police took a count of their personnel and home guards recruited from Adivasi communities in the district. “We have personnel from most of the Adivasi communities including the Todas, Kotas, Kurumbas, Irulas and Paniyas working with the district police in some capacity,” said the SP. Starting with awareness campaigns in March and April aimed at spreading the message of COVID-19 prevention among Adivasis, the police translated their entire message from Tamil and English to the languages of the communities with the help of community members working with the district police. Following the success of this endeavour, the police are now conducting awareness campaigns on crimes against women and children, including sensitising the communities to the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Mr. Sasi Mohan said the efforts of the district police to “break the ice” and foster better communication between the police and local communities was yielding results. “While this effort is not the sole reason, our continuous efforts at outreach aimed at Adivasi communities is helping us detect crimes. There have been more complaints registered with the police this year when compared to previous years, especially offences committed against women and children in Gudalur, Devala and Pandalur. This could indicate that more people are feeling comfortable enough to approach the local police with their complaints,” he said.
31 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Political parties demand deletion of names of deceased voters||Representatives of political parties have asked election officials to ensure that names of all dead voters should be removed from the voter list. They attended a meeting with Electoral Roll Observer for Virudhunagar district, Sigy Thomas Vaidhyan, who is Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation, here on Wednesday. Virudhunagar MLA, A.R.R. Seenivasan, said that already the issue of non-distribution of Form 7 for deletion of names names of the deceased voters was taken up with the Virudhunagar Collector and District Voter Registration Officer, R. Kannan. “While a survey conducted by our party men has shown that at least 3,500 persons were either dead or had double entry in 150 parts of the 255 parts in Virudhunagar constituency. However, the officials claimed that they had received only 2,500 Form 7 for the entire constituency,” he said. Similarly, demand for deletion of names of deceased voters was raised by representatives of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Muthukumar and CPI, Palanikumar. The Collector said that Election Commission has asked the officials not to entertain any bulk application for deletion. “Only if the close family members of any deceased person gave the Form 7 for deletion along with death certificate, it should be accepted,” he added. Stating that efforts were being taken to get the list of deceased persons through the Birth and Death Registration, he said the data given by political parties would be taken as a reference. “Our officials will make visit to those houses and take Form 7 for the family members before deletion,,” he added. Besides, the representatives also wanted the officials to do due diligence with the Form 6 received for inclusion of names for people above 21 years. The officials have also promised to look into the demand for additional polling booths in certain areas in Rajapalayam Taluk where proper transport facility was not available. Rajapalayam MLA, S. Thangapandian, Virudhunagar District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, and Sivakasi Sub-Collector, C. Dinesh Kumar, were among those who participated in the meeting.
31 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||SC woman president lodges complaint||A woman president of Gurumoorthinaickenpatti reserved panchayat, Muthulakshmi, has complained that she was denied entry into the panchayat office and not allowed to discharge her duties by vice-president, Varadarajan, a caste Hindu. In her complaint submitted to Collector R. Kannan, the woman president alleged that she was not allowed into the panchayat office. She added that he had taken the cheque book and letter pad from the office. Muthulakshmi said that the Collector has promised to look into the issue.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||3 U.K. returnees who tested positive under treatment||Two persons who travelled from the United Kingdom to Madurai in December and tested positive for COVID-19 are under treatment at Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur. A 38-year-old man, who arrived from the U.K. in the last week of November and tested positive, is also under treatment at the hospital. Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar said the two patients (a woman and her daughter) travelled from the U.K. on December 18. They reached Delhi and came to Madurai by flight. “Both their samples have been sent to National Institute of Virology in Pune for genomic analysis.” Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani said the vital parameters of both patients were normal. They belonged to the second batch of 38 passengers who arrived from from the U.K. to Madurai. The 38-year-old man was part of the first batch of 83 persons from the U.K. and were monitored by health department officials.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 4,424-crore potential linked credit plan for Perambalur||The Potential Linked Credit Plan prepared by National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has assessed the credit potential for Perambalur district during 2021-23 at Rs. 4,424 crore, a projected growth of 9.32% more than the projections for the current year. The Collector Sri Venkada Priya released the plan at the District Consultative Committee meeting of bankers held recently. Lakshmi Narasimhan, Chief Regional Manager, Indian Overseas Bank, Thanjavur, received the first copy of the document . The PLP for the year has been prepared on the theme of “Collectivisation of agriculture produce for enhancing farmers’ income.’ Speaking on the occasion, Ms.Priya observed that there was good scope of promoting farmers producers organisations in dairy sector in Perambalur district and suggested setting up of an animal feed unit by FPOs as the raw material required for the same is available in the district. L.S. Naveenkumar, District Development Manager, NABARD, said that out of the total plan outlay, 79% of amount (Rs. 3,500 crore) is earmarked for agriculture sector, including agriculture infrastructure. The credit flow potential for the MSME sector has been projected at an estimated of Rs. 348 crores. The Potential Linked Credit Plan suggested that an export hub can be promoted in the district as there was good potential in dairy sector and the district is well connected with State capital. B. Arul, Lead District Manager, and other officials were present.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports four deaths, 91 cases||Coimbatore district reported 91 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 52,247 cases. Two persons aged 70 and two others aged 75 and 43 died of the infection, raising the toll in the district so far to 652, the Health Department said. The district saw 50,774 recoveries and 821 patients were active cases. A total of 101 patients were discharged from various treatment centres on Monday. A 27-year-old man from Spain, who travelled through the U.K., Dubai and Mumbai, tested positive upon landing in Coimbatore. He was admitted to the ESI Hospital and his swab sample was sent for genomic analysis to the National Institute of Virology in Pune on Wednesday to check whether he had contracted the mutant strain of the COVID-19 virus, according to the officials. Tiruppur district reported 32 fresh cases, taking the tally to 17,017 cases. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 16,482 patients have recovered and 319 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 216 deaths overall. On Wednesday, 45 patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, 13 people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 7,930. The number of deaths increased from 45 to 46 on Wednesday, while 113 people are undergoing treatment. Erode district reported 32 new cases taking the district’s tally to 13,636. While 38 persons were discharged, 264 persons continued to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 30 cases taking the district’s tally to 11,189. A total of 15 persons were discharged, while 181 persons continued to be under treatment. Salem district reported 24 cases taking the district’s tally to 31,547. While 40 persons were discharged, 348 persons are under treatment.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A day out on the beach||
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A stitch in time||
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||GENERAL  KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: Signing of Memorandum of Understanding with Centrale Nantes University (France), Primrose, KPRIET, 10 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Cyclothon Event, 3.30 p.m.
31 December 2020||Afshan Yasmeen,KARNATAKA||New strain: Surge unlikely in State||Although seven of the U.K. returnees have been found to be positive for the new variant of SARS-CoV-2, Karnataka is unlikely to witness a surge beyond what it has already witnessed, according to experts. This is mainly because nearly half of the population in the State has already been exposed to COVID-19 by now and has developed immunity. This immunity is likely to work against the new strain too. Moreover, none of the primary and secondary contacts of the seven U.K. returnees have tested positive for the new strain so far. This is a good indication for the State, experts said. Also, with the new variant circulating in the U.K. since September 2020, there is a possibility that it could have already been imported into the country and Karnataka as well. But, going by the considerable decline in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State since October, epidemiologists concurred that the new strain - despite being highly infectious - is unable to find dense pockets of susceptible (uninfected) people in the State. Giridhar R. Babu, member, State’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), told The Hindu on Wednesday that it is highly unlikely that we would see a surge in cases beyond what we have already seen in the State. “Travel to the U.K. was happening unhindered till a few days ago; we cannot be sure that persons infected with the new strain have not travelled here during that time. If so, the likelihood of seeing a surge now is unlikely,” he said. Contact tracing V. Ravi, nodal officer for genetic confirmation for SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka and TAC member, said none of the contacts of the seven U.K. returnees who tested positive for the new strain traced so far have been infected. “This is a good indication for the State. In this context, we are unlikely to see a surge now. But there is a need to further intensify contact tracing and testing to ensure that no case is missed,” he said. Moreover, the State has acted quickly this time. Within 48 hours of the Centre’s decision to halt flights from the U.K., the State traced and tested 1,614 patients and their primary and secondary contacts. “This was a quick response,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing of the State’s COVID-19 task force, said it is very clear that the mutant strain is unable to find a chunk of susceptible (uninfected) people as nearly 50% have developed immunity. “We are talking about the U.K. strain but there can be different strains in different parts of the world. This is an immune escape phenomena. It is very important that people should not become complacent now,” he said. Aggressive testing He said the State should take up another round of aggressive testing of those who are in continuous contact with the public such as street vendors and delivery boys. “This will further help in checking any spread. Early tracing, testing, isolating and treating are vital,” he said. All the three experts said that the State should not go slow on contact tracing and people should continue following the standard guidelines of SMS - social distancing, masking and sanitisation.
31 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ahead of reopening, schools scramble to follow SOPs||As schools across the State are gearing up to reopen on Friday, several school managements are struggling to meet all the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and say they may be unable to complete sanitisation of classrooms. As a result, some schools are likely to reopen only on Monday. Schools which were closed in March owing to the COVID-19 pandemic are reopening after nine-and-a-half months. Class 10 and II PU will be the first to reopen. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools, said that as the State government had taken a final decision on reopening class 10 on Monday, many school managements who depended on external agencies for sanitisation of classrooms were unable to get slots to sanitise before January 1. “There is a huge demand and the schools who are dependent on these agencies may not be able to complete the sanitisation process by Friday,” he said. B.R. Supreeth, secretary, Oxford Institutions, Nagarabhavi, said that although schools were struggling to complete the sanitisation process, there was no other option but to complete it in the interest of safety of students and staff. “Several sanitisation agencies are charging per square feet and it is becoming an expensive affair. It would help if the BBMP can help us with sanitisation of the classrooms and school buildings,” he said. Some schools are also procuring additional infrastructure like benches and chairs as they need to ensure that physical distance is maintained between the students. Explaining the plight of government schools, Basavaraj Gurikar, vice-president, All India Teachers’ Federation, said that the State government had not provided any funds for sanitisation of classrooms or schools. “Many teachers are mobilising funds from the School Development Monitoring Committee members and the local residents to ensure that all precautionary measures are taken during the pandemic,” he said.
31 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Results declared early in Bidar||As the gram panchayat results in many places were yet to be declared since counting of ballot papers was in progress, in Bidar district where the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) had been deployed, counting of votes was completed in less than six hours. Counting began around 8.45 a.m. and was over by around 2.30 pm, and the results of all 178 gram panchayats had been declared. Incidentally, Bidar was the only district in the State where EVMs had been deployed. As many as 1,253 EVMs had been used in the elections.  Dead but elected In Belagavi, a candidate who died three days ago, was declared winner in Kakkeri Gram Panchayat. C.B. Amboji, 64, who died due to illness, won the highest votes in his village. A lawyer by profession, he had served as the chairman of the Bishtamma Devi temple committee for 15 years. Elected through a toss In several cases, with candidates registering a tie in number of votes polled, officials resorted to a toss to declare the winner. After candidates Shrishail Hipparagi and Ravutappa Alur secured the same number of votes (311) in the second ward of Hebbal Gram Panchayat at Nidagundi taluk of Vijayapura district, the winner was decided through a toss and the former won. Victory margin just one Molakalmur taluk of Chitradurga district registered two cases of victory with a margin of just one vote. Jangama Kamayya defeated Gudlanayak (166) by a margin of one vote in Chiktummi constituency of Tumakuru Halli gram panchayat. In Yarapota Jogihalli constituency of Rayapur gram panchayat, Basamma (152 votes) defeated Thayamma (151 votes).  Nomination from jail Mr. Bopanna managed to win his fourth term as a gram panchayat member even after filing his nomination from the jail. He was in jail in connection with a case booked against him for allegedly passing casteist remarks. He filed nominations for the Yemmegundi ward in Polybetta gram panchayat in Kodagu district’s Virajpet taluk from the prison. Polling official dies A polling officer died due to heart attack while on duty at a counting centre at Pushpa Convent in Periyapatna of Mysuru district. Bore Gowda, 52, an Assistant Executive Engineer of PWD, was posted as polling officer for N. Shettihalli Gram Panchayat. He died on the way to the hospital, according to officials. Man held with knife In Shahapur, the police held a man for carrying a knife to the counting centre set up at Government Degree College. The police took Mohammad Asfaq, native of Sagar village in Shahapur taluk, in possession of a knife. into custody.
31 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All travellers from United Kingdom to Bengaluru have been traced, says civic official||With a total of 18 cases suspected to have been affected by the new variant of the coronavirus in the city, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has intensified contact tracing. Of the 18 cases, three have been confirmed to have the new strain of SARS-CoV-2, following genome sequencing that was done at NIMHANS. According to Rajendra Cholan, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health), all the travellers from the U.K. to the city had been traced. Of the 1,433 travellers from the U.K., 1,382 were available for testing. Of these, 1,293 have been tested already and results of 1,108 have been received. The results of 185 persons are awaited. The contact tracing and other preventive measures put in place by the BBMP were reviewed by administrator Gaurav Gupta on Wednesday. A press release stated that the civic body had already traced 54 primary contacts and 92 secondary contacts of the 18 who have tested positive. All who have tested positive have been hospitalised, irrespective of whether they are symptomatic or not. Mr. Cholan said that most of those who had tested positive were from Bommanahalli and Mahadevapura zones – five each, three each from East and West zones, and one each from Dasarahalli and South zones. Most of those who are positive have been admitted at Victoria Hospital, while some are at K.C. General. The condition of all the 18 is said to be stable, he said. Meanwhile, primary and secondary contacts have been shifted to institutional quarantine facilities already identified by the civic body, except for the 33 residents of an apartment in Vasanthpura ward, who sought home quarantine. When they refused to get admitted in institutional quarantine facility, the BBMP sealed the apartment for 14 days. In the release, Mr. Gupta has appealed to citizens to wear masks properly, sanitise their hands regularly and maintain social distance.
31 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa urges all U.K. returnees to undergo RT-PCR test||As some people who returned to the State from the United Kingdom have tested positive for the new U.K. variant of SARS-CoV2 so far, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday asked all those who returned to the State from the U.K. during the last two months to undergo an RT-PCR test. “Don’t escape from the test. As the Chief Minister of the State, I am appealing to all who returned from the U.K. in the last two months to undergo tests to contain the spread of virus,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. The government has taken several precautionary measures to prevent the spread of the new variant of virus, he said and urged the returnees to undergo tests. He said the Centre had already issued guidelines to prevent the spread of the new variant of virus and the same guidelines would be followed in the State. The State government has made mandatory RT-PCT testing for all passengers who arrived from the U.K., including those transiting in other airports outside the U.K. It was reported that some passengers managed to exit airports without undergoing tests. Speaking to reporters, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said at present there was no plan before the government to impose a lockdown. However, there were two views on opening of schools and colleges in the State from January 1. While some have opposed it, others have suggested opening of schools for the benefit of students. A final decision would be taken after holding talks with the CM, he said.
31 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lessons on COVID-19 pandemic on the first day||When students of classes 10 and 12 return to school on Friday, they will be educated on the COVID-19 pandemic. The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has issued orders to all teachers to dedicate the first session to educate children about the infectious disease and spread awareness on the precautionary measures. A senior official of the department said that they will be taught about maintaining social distance, wearing masks, avoiding gatherings as well washing hands frequently. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that the department has said that besides masks, teachers who are above 50 years old need to wear a face shield. He also said teachers need to undertake confidence building measures by ensuring the SOPs are followed. Mr. Suresh Kumar, who visited several schools and PU colleges to inspect the preparations as the institutions reopen on Friday, said that there was a need for teachers to improve the confidence of students and parents and encourage them to attend classes. All teachers have been told to submit COVID-19 negative reports. Many school managements complained that some teachers are not ready to give their swabs for testing. Teachers have been told to keep an eye on the physical and mental health of children. School passes The Minister said that bus passes, which were issued during the previous academic year, will be accepted this year as well and an official order will be issued shortly.
31 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BDA warning on fraud||Though the Dr. Shivarama Karanth Layout is still under formation by the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA), many buildings are being constructed within the notified area, a press release stated and added that the construction of buildings was unauthorised, as was their sale. As per an order of the Supreme Court, a committee has been formed to identify such unauthorised buildings within the notified area and demolish them. BDA has urged citizens to exercise caution while purchasing land or houses that have come up in the notified area. The release added that certain fraudsters were selling sites and houses illegally by creating forged documents. Citizens may contact the BDA to verify the authenticity of the site or house before purchase. They may contact the office of the BDA Commissioner or Task Force if they come across such cases, the release added.
31 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||P. Ravi Kumar is new CS||Going by seniority, the State government on Wednesday appointed Additional Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, a 1984 batch IAS officer, as the new Chief Secretary of Karnataka. The incumbent Chief Secretary, T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, will retire on Thursday, according to a notification issued by the government. Mr. Bhaskar took over the reigns of the administration in July 2018 following the retirement of the then Chief Secretary Ratna Prabha. Mr. Bhaskar, who is credited with handling the State administration well during the change of governments and adverse conditions like pandemic, was felicitated by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday. Born on May 5, 1962, Mr. Kumar hails from Andhra Pradesh. He holds postgraduation in Mathematics and PG diploma in Econometrics. He will head the State administrative machinery till May 2022. He will take charge as the 38th Chief Secretary on Thursday.
31 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM calls on Vice-President||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday called on Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu at the Kumara Krupa guesthouse and held discussions on issues related to Karnataka. Mr. Naidu said that he had accepted a garland from a Chief Minister for the first time in the last 10 months. Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, and P.C. Mohan, Bengaluru Central MP, were present. Mr. Naidu held conversations with the Chief Minister and Ministers by maintaining social distancing at the guesthouse. He arrived in Bengaluru on Tuesday on a three-day official State visit. Mr. Naidu inaugurated the optics fabrications facility on the Centre for Research and Education in Science and Technology campus at Hoskote in Bengaluru Rural district on Tuesday. He will leave for Chennai on Thursday.
31 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Webinar||Samudaya Karnataka, a theatre group, will organise Safdar songs of the dark times — a webinar on cultural resistance — on Friday at 5.30 p.m. The meeting ID is 851 2800 8570, and passcode 738424.
31 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||973 new cases reported in Karnataka||The State on Wednesday reported 973 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 9,18,544. With seven deaths, the toll rose to 12,081. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,217 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,94,834. Of the remaining 11,610 active patients, 202 were being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.93%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.71%. Bengaluru Urban Bengaluru Urban reported 554 cases, taking its tally to 3,87,832. With five deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 4,311. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 7,732. As many as 1,03,857 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 92,720 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 1,39,62,707.
31 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Counting peaceful in Hassan district||The counting of ballots in the Gram Panchayat elections was by and large peaceful at eight centres in Hassan district on Wednesday. A person allegedly attempted to commit suicide as his mother lost in the election for a seat at Kaduvina Hosahalli in Holenarsipur taluk. Arun, 22, had campaigned for his mother contesting for Bagivalu Gram Panchayat. His family members took him to a hospital in Holenarsipur and from there he has been shifted to Hassan. He is said to be out of danger. A clash broke out between supporters of two candidates at Maragodanahalli in Holenarsipur taluk after the results were announced. Both the groups have filed separate complaints with the Holenarsipur police. In an interesting fight between a woman and her mother-in-law, the latter has won at H.Byrapura in Heragu GP in Hassan taluk. Sombamma secured 276 votes, while her daughter-in-law secured 273. Mahesh Gowda, 70, of Kanavinakoppa in Thirthahalli, who had won GP elections nine consecutive times, lost this time. He had been elected to Mandagadde GP since 1972. All these years, he campaigned alone without spending money. Hundreds of people had gathered at the counting centres in Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts. The people hardly followed the COVID-19 norms.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)
31 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||House sealed, sanitisation work on in Shivamogga||Shivamogga district administration has begun field survey and sanitisation in Savarkar Nagar in Shivamogga after four people, who had returned to the city from Britain recently, tested positive for the new strain of SARS-CoV-2. A couple and their two children, who had returned on December 22, had tested positive for the infection. The house has been sealed down. The family members, who were staying put in Britain, could not visit Shivamogga when a family member died four months ago, because of the lockdown. Rajesh Suragihalli, District Health Officer of Shivamogga, told The Hindu that the four had been isolated since their arrival. There were only two primary contacts of them and they tested negative for the infection. “We have begun sanitisation of an area of 100 metres around their house at Savarkar Nagar. Besides that, the staff members have begun the field survey in the locality to find out people with symptoms”, he said. The infected are being treated at the COVID-19 hospital in the city.
31 December 2020||Hassan/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Railway police begin investigation into Dharme Gowda’s death||The railway police have begun an investigation into the death of Deputy Chairman of the Legislative Council S.L. Dharme Gowda, who was found dead on railway track near Gunasagar in Kadur taluk on Monday night. A team of officials under the leadership of D. Ashok, Dy.SP, visited Sakharayapatna on Wednesday. When The Hindu contacted him over phone, Mr. Ashok said he would not reveal the information gathered at this stage. Asked about the death note, he refused to share the content. Meanwhile, Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Wednesday said only a probe by the police will reveal the truth behind his death. Speaking to mediapersons in Bengaluru, Mr. Ashok said in his death note Dharme Gowda mentioned that he was pained by the ruckus during the session on December 15. “Everything will be known only after the probe,” the Revenue Minister said. Noting that this kind of a political incident should not repeat again, Mr. Ashok said Dharme Gowda’s death was a lesson for politicians.
31 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||AAP to contest in Hubballi-Dharwad||Apart from Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike in Karnataka, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has decided to field candidates in the forthcoming election to Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC). Addressing presspersons here on Wednesday, State president of AAP Pruthvi Reddy said that from last year, AAP workers had been doing groundwork in the twin cities and highlighting the civic issues. As the actual Opposition parties had forgotten their responsibility, AAP workers were working towards finding solutions to civic issues and highlighting real issues. Emphasising that AAP had a zero tolerance policy towards corruption, Mr. Reddy said that people who loved working for society were welcome to join the party. State Vice-President of the party Shantala Damale said that the plan was to field candidates in the municipal elections in other bigger cities in the State and they would fight against all the three main political parties. Dharwad district unit president Santosh Naragund said that from the new year, the district unit would launch its awareness campaign in the twin cities. Aam Aadmi Party office-bearers Vikas Soppin and others were also present on the occasion.
31 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Counting of votes in GP elections peaceful in Kalaburagi district||Counting of votes in gram panchayat polls was peaceful in Kalaburagi district on Wednesday. As the process started, people from various villages were seen thronging the counting centres in the respective taluk headquarters to support their candidates. Soon after the results of a few gram panchayats were announced after the first round, the supporters of the candidates spilled out onto the streets to celebrate victory. Except for some commotion at the main gates of the counting centre at the Government Polytechnic College in Kalaburagi, where a large number of people, including the candidates, were struggling to get entry to the counting stations, the entire process was peaceful. Of the total 4,173 seats in the district, polling was held for 523 seats of 28 gram panchayats in Kalaburagi taluk, 600 seats of 36 gram panchayats in Aland taluk, 498 seats of 26 gram panchayats in Afzalpur taluk, 270 seats of 16 gram panchayats in Kamalapur taluk, 239 seats of 14 gram panchayats in Kalgi taluk and 90 seats of four gram panchayats in Shahabad taluk. In Yaddrami taluk, polling was held for 261 seats of 15 gram panchayats, in Jewargi taluk for 369 seats of 23 gram panchayat, in Chittapur taluk 410 seats of 24 gram panchayats, in Chincholi taluk 453 seats of 27 gram panchayats and for 460 seats in 27 gram panchayats in Sedam taluk in the district. 383 elected unopposed As many as 383 candidates — 91 in Chittapur, 25 in Kalaburagi, 40 in Aland, 37 in Afzalpur, 11 each in Kamalapur and Shahabad, 17 in Kalgi, 53 in Yaddrami, 36 each in Jewargi and Sedam, 26 in Chincholi taluk in the district — were elected unopposed. Elections were held to fill 3,790 seats, with 10,190 candidates contesting. The polling turnout recorded in Kalaburagi district was 76.41 %. Arrangements As many as 530 tables were arranged in 11 counting centres across the district and 106 taluk sector officers were assigned for the purpose. The police had made elaborate arrangements to restrict entry only to pass holders. The Superintendent of Police, the Additional Superintendent of Police, eight Deputy Superintendents of Police, 16 Circle Inspectors of Police , 39 Sub-Inspectors, 97 Assistant Sub-Inspectors, 628 Head Constables, four KSRP teams and 11 District Armed Police teams were deployed.
31 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Lemons, amulets seized at counting centre||Candidates contesting in the gram panchayat elections were found carrying lemons and amulets in a counting centre at the Government Polytechnic College in Kalaburagi on Wednesday. As the counting process began at 8 a.m., the contestants queued up in front of the counting centre where police personnel carried out security checks at the entrance gate and the latter found a few candidates carrying lemons smeared with vermilion and amulets in their pockets. Though there is no written direction to the police, officials on duty even made an announcement that carrying things such as lemons, vermilion, amulets or others was prohibited in counting centres. At one point in time, a few candidates made repeated attempts and forcibly tried to take lemons with them inside the counting centre but in vain.
31 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||TP member wins GP elections||A taluk panchayat member representing Shiroli constituency in Chincholi taluk has emerged victorious in the gram panchayat elections, the results of which were declared on Wednesday. Taluk panchayat member Venkatredy Saireddy contested for a Jettur Gram Panchayat seat in Chincholi taluk in Kalaburagi and emerged victorious with a margin of 121 votes. Venkatreddy Saireddy was elected taluk panchayat member from Shiroli in 2015.
31 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi MLA opposes making FastTag a must at toll gates||Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat said on Wednesday that he opposed collecting users fee from local vehicles at toll plazas in Hejmady and Sasthan on the National Highway 66 by making FastTag compulsory from January 1. The MLA told presspersons in Udupi that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has not completed the four-lane project of the NH 66 in Udupi district. It is yet to complete work on the flyover at Shastri Circle in Kundapur and the widening of the highway at Padubidri is still pending. In addition, the NHAI has not completed work on some service roads. Hence, without completing the projects, users fee should not be collected. The MLA said that as per an earlier understanding with the NHAI, users fee should not be collected from local vehicles within a five-kilometre radius of the two toll plazas. Now, no fee is being collected from such vehicles. This should continue from January 1 too. Mr. Bhat said that the issue will be discussed in a meeting in Udupi on January 9 which will also be attended by Udupi-Chikkamgaluru Member of Parliament Shobha Karandlaje. The MLA said that local people should be employed at toll plazas. Meanwhile, the Tollgate Virodhi Horata Samithi, Surathkal, has opposed making FastTag compulsory at Surathkal toll plaza from Friday. If the government did so, the samithi will launch an agitation, samithi convener Muneer Katipalla said in a memorandum submitted to Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra copies of which were sent to Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel and Mangaluru Project Director, NHAI, Shishu Mohan. The samithi said that Surathkal toll gate should be merged with the Hejmady toll gate which is nine kilometres away. He said that the free entry for local people at Brahmarakutlu toll gate on Bengaluru-Mangaluru National Highway and at Talapady toll gate on NH 66 should continue.
31 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Coast Guard simulates search and rescue||The State unit of the Indian Coast Guard, which is the co-ordinator of Maritime Search and Rescue Operation, conducted the regional level exercise, RESAREX-2020, in Mangaluru on Wednesday. The Regional SAREX-2020 tested the efficacy of operations of various search and rescue agencies in the State. In all, five Coast Guard ships, two helicopters and two Hovercraft and other stakeholders, including the Indian Mission Control Centre (INMC), the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS), State agencies, Coastal Security Police, Customs and Fisheries Department personnel, participated in the exercise, according to a release issued by the State unit of the Coast Guard in Mangaluru. A Mass Rescue Operation was simulated off Mangalore coast wherein a simulated distress alert was transmitted. The exercise commenced on the receipt of the distress message by Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre (Mumbai) relayed through Indian Mission Control Centre. A Coast Guard Dornier on patrol was diverted to ascertain the position of the distress vessel. On ascertaining the location, all operational surface Coast Guard units were directed to be ready to sail and render assistance. A Coast Guard Chetak was also launched for assistance at the incident site. Nearly 60 people who were simulated to be injured/over board were rescued using various means by Coast Guard rescue units. Simulated rescued survivors were brought ashore and transferred to triage area set up at the New Mangalore Port Berth No 1. Subsequently, they were shifted to various hospitals for medical management, the release said. The Search and Rescue Mission undertaken and the lives saved during emergency at sea stand testimony to the concerted efforts of the Indian Coast Guard. With the conduct of this exercise, the Indian Coast Guard has once again proved its multifarious capabilities and the growth it has witnessed since inception in 1978, while living up to its motto “Vayam Rakshamh”, which means “We Protect”, it said.
31 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||No mid-day meal in schools from Friday||Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra has said that parents can send their children to primary and high schools without any apprehension when they are re-opened on January 1, as the government has taken enough precautionary measures to ensure safety of children. In a statement here on Wednesday, he said that no mid-day meal will be served in schools. Hence, students should bring food and hot water with them from home. There will be no sports and cultural activities in schools. Teachers have been instructed to conduct classes by ensuring social distancing. He said that steps have been taken to clean premises of primary and high schools and sanitise classrooms through the urban and rural local bodies. Thermal scanning will be carried out in all schools. Teachers and non-teaching staff will have to compulsorily undergo RT-PCR tests for COVID-19. Arrangements have been made in primary health centres, community health centres, taluk hospitals and at the Government Wenlock Hospital for this. Attendance is not mandatory for students who will have to produce consent letter from their parents. Nodal officers will visit all schools from January 1 to January 8 to inspect whether all schools have followed COVID-19 guidelines issued by the government. If any educational institution is found flouting them or not adhering to them, action will be taken. The Deputy Commissioner said that those students residing in hostels will have to compulsorily undergo COVID-19 test. The hostel supervisors will have to ensure that this happens.
31 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||IT professionals prefer jobs closer home rather than in big cities, reveals survey||At a time when COVID-19 has brought upon people the work from home (WHF) culture, mainly for IT professionals, a vast majority of IT professionals from the coastal region working in bigger cities and even foreign countries have said that they were willing to relocate to their native places, provided they get better opportunities. At the same time, fresh graduates too were willing to work closer to their home towns if they get better job opportunities locally rather than moving to bigger cities, revealed a survey conducted between December 9 and December 19. Though the survey commissioned by the Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), Mangaluru, to gauge response from professionals towards the proposed IT Park on KEONICS land in the city, it revealed the overall mood of professionals and their priorities. Of the 2,240 respondents, 96 % professionals said that they were willing to relocate to Mangaluru or Udupi if better work opportunities were available. The survey was conducted in association with Confederation of Indian Industries and some IT companies, said KCCI president Issac Vas. While rooting for their home town, the respondents gave top weightage to better work-life balance (74 %) rather than recreational opportunities (34 %). A majority preferred to give more time to family, staying closer to parents and career growth than recreation. If they were to get good job opportunities locally, 94 % of graduates were willing to work closer to their home towns rather than migrating to bigger cities. Those working in senior positions such as managers, research and development professionals too (95 % of the respondents) said that they would relocate to the coastal region given a chance. If there were good job opportunities in smaller cities and towns, 87 % of respondents were willing to move out of bigger cities, the survey revealed. While many IT companies located in commercial complexes were unable to carry out their operations because of cost escalation, KCCI has been asking the government to facilitate construction of an IT Park on the land earmarked by Karnataka State Electronics Development Corporation Ltd. (KEONICS). It has also submitted a detailed project report for the park estimated to cost around Rs. 60 crore to the government. KEONICS and Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. could share the cost equally on revenue sharing model, the chamber has said.
31 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kerala PU students to produce COVID-19 negative certificate||Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra said on Wednesday that students from Kerala attending second year pre-university classes in Dakshina Kannada from January 1 will have to mandatorily produce COVID-19 negative certificate. Speaking at a meeting called by him to review the preparations for opening pre-university colleges in the district, he said that all tutorials should follow the COVID-19 guidelines and standard operating procedures will have to be adhered to. The Health Department should ensure that these are followed, as he has been getting complaints that tutorials are not following guidelines. He said that if the pre-university colleges did not follow the standard operating procedures, their principals will be held responsible and legal action will be initiated against them. He said that colleges should conduct classes for only three hours a day. Each period should not exceed 45 minutes. Teachers should ensure that there is no gathering of students in the corridors. Medical help should be arranged for such students falling ill and there should be a room to isolate such students.
31 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP-backed candidates win 15 GPs||Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat said on Wednesday that of the 19 gram panchayats coming under the jurisdiction of Udupi Assembly segment, 15 panchayats have been won by candidates supported by the BJP, in full majority. “This is clear win for development of Udupi constituency,” he said in a statement.
31 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Girl rescued from mother||Members of the Udupi District Child Protection Unit on Wednesday rescued from a village in Brahmavar taluk of Udupi district an eight-year-old girl who was reportedly being assaulted by her mother. Following information from a neighbour, the DCPU team, led by Prabhakar Acharya, went to the house in Heroor village where the girl resided along with her mother. Their neighbour Santosh had complained that the girl was being assaulted badly for the last four days by her mother, who hailed from Belagavi. On the instructions of Ronald Furtado, president of the Udupi District Child Welfare Committee, the girl was taken to the Bal Mandir in Nitoor. The woman will be called shortly for counselling, officials said.
31 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM urged to allow functioning of all classes in schools, colleges||The Dakshina Kannada unit of the Communist Party of India (CPI) on Wednesday appealed to the State government to open all classes in schools and colleges in the State. In a memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister and submitted through the Deputy Commissioner, secretary of the district unit of the party V. Kukyan said that the government should take all safety measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 while opening classes from anganwadis onwards. He said that though schools and colleges have been conducting online classes, many students in rural areas who are facing issues with internet connectivity and who do not have mobile phones, computers and laptops, have been deprived of classes. Hence, rural students have been deprived of education for the last 10 months. Many of those students are children of beedi workers, construction workers and farm workers. Though the government has allowed all business activities, not permitting schools and colleges to open all classes is not a proper step. The statistics of the government indicate that COVID-19 cases have been on the decline after September. Many public functions have been permitted. Hence, schools and colleges should not be stopped from opening all classes, he said.
31 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Water tariff up for non-domestic usage||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has hiked the water tariff for commercial and industrial consumers coming under its jurisdiction with effect from January 1, 2021. The MCC notification was issued on Wednesday and has evoked a sharp response from the industrial sector which wants a separate slab on the grounds that industry is distinct from commercial category. The MCC, which has spared domestic consumers from the hike, said that the revised rate for non-domestic and industrial/commercial usage will be taken into account for computing the water tariff from the month of January. The minimum rate for non-domestic usage has been pegged at Rs. 168. The tariff will be calculated at the rate of Rs. 16.80 per thousand litres for the first 10,000 litres. The rate per 1,000 litres between 10,001 and 20,000 litres will be Rs. 21.60 and it will be calculated at the rate of Rs. 26.40 per 1,000 litres for 20,001 to 30,000 litres of consumption. Consumption above 30,000 litres will be calculated at the rate of Rs. 31.20 per 1,000 litres. There are two categories for commercial and industrial usage, treated and untreated. The minimum tariff for treated water supply is Rs. 336 per month. For consumption upto 10,000 litres, tariff will be calculated at the rate of Rs. 33.60 per 1,000 litres and Rs. 43.20 for consumption between 10,001 and 20,000 litres (per 1,000 litres). The tariff will calculated at the rate of Rs. 52.80 per 1,000 litres for consumption above 20,000 litres to 30,000 litres and it will be at the rate of Rs. 62.40 per 1,000 litres for consumption above 30,000 litres. Untreated water will be supplied at the following rates: Rs. 300 is minimum tariff per month upto 8,000 litres; Rs. 30 (per 1,000 litres) for 8,001 to 15,000 litres; Rs. 40 (per 1,000 litres) for 15,001 to 25,000 litres and Rs. 50 (per 1,000 litres) for 25,001 litres and above. The MCC said this is in addition to the 30 per cent cess on the total tariff towards UGD connections. The Mysore Industries Association (MIA) has reacted sharply to the hike in the year of the pandemic and said at a time when the industries are struggling to recover from the blow inflicted by the COVID-19, the MCC has accentuated their misery. Suresh Kumar Jain, General Secretary of MIA, said they will resort to agitation in case their submissions and pleas to the government to withdraw the hike, goes unheard. ‘’Industries cannot be clubbed with commercial entities as they generate jobs, and contribute to the GDP unlike entities that are purely commercial in nature. We demand recategorisation and separate slab of tariff for industries for water consumption’’, he said.
31 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Crowds throng counting centres||Large crowds milled outside the gram panchayat poll counting centres set up by the district administration on Wednesday even though the process of counting the ballot papers was held in accordance with the COVID-19 guidelines. Counting of votes cast in different taluks was taken up in different centres set up in the taluk headquarters, and the votes cast in the gram panchayats of Mysuru taluk were taken up for counting at the Maharani’s Commerce and Management College at Paduvarahalli in Mysuru around 8 a.m. While the candidates and their agents were allowed inside the counting centre with their face masks after their thermal scanning, a large number of supporters were seen on Valmiki Road outside the counting centre. The crowds gathered on the roads in the vicinity while the police had diverted traffic away from the counting centre. At most places outside the counting centre, the mandatory social distancing and wearing of masks was not visible. Police had made elaborate security arrangements in and around the venue.  A polling official, Bore Gowda, 52, died due to a heart attack he suffered while on duty at the counting centre in Periyapatna. An Assistant Executive Engineer of Public Works Department (PWD) posted for duty as a polling officer for N .Shettihalli Gram Panchayat in Periayapatna, heexperienced severe chest pain and was rushed to the hospital. But, he died on the way. Bore Gowda was a native of K.R. Pet taluk in Mandya district, but was residing in Kushal Nagar of Kodagu district. Meanwhile, a transgender, Devika won the gram panchayat elections from 7th block in Saligrama in K.R. Nagar taluk. She defeated her nearest rival by 5 votes. Officials said candidates belonging to the third gender contest from general wards.
31 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Gatecrashing a wedding reception||As the counting of votes in the gram panchayat elections was nearing the end in a few constituencies in both Yadgir and Raichur districts, some interesting reports emerged. A marriage reception at Yadav Kalyan Mantap in Raichur city was disturbed when hundreds of people from a nearby counting centre entered it and started having lunch. The relatives of both the bride and bridegroom were worried after seeing such a huge number of people having lunch and suspected that some of them were strangers. After some time they found a way out by deploying men at the entrance of the main gate of the kalyan mantap and allowed only invitees after proper identification. Meanwhile, a candidate was declared winner with a toss of the coin when two candidates secured the same number of votes in Sunkeshwarhal constituency of Ramdurga Gram Panchayat in Deodurg taluk. Bhimavva and Arunamma polled 388 votes each. Then, Arunamma was declared the winner after she won it in the toss. Two daughters of the former Minister Muniyappa Muddappa lost the gram panchayat elections. Sharada and Meenakshi, who contested in the Marchethal Gram Panchayat, were defeated by their opponents. Gopikrishna, who contested in Ward No 4 in Gandhinagar in Sindhanur taluk, registered his fifth victory in the elections. He won by 133 votes. He has been elected panchayat president twice earlier. Meanwhile, Shivakumar, son of the former MLA Yallappa Hakkarki, registered victory by 111 votes in Dondabali constituency.  Hundreds of people from a counting centre entered Yadav Kalyan Mantap without invitation in Raichur city and started having lunch
31 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Auto driver elected in Allipur Wari Tanda||An autorickshaw driver who has extended his services to passengers for the 25 years in Yadgir city has been elected from the Allipur Wari Tanda in Yadgir taluk in the gram panchayat elections results of which were declared on Wednesday. Somu Chawan, who contested in Ward No 3 in Allipur village, emerged winner by a margin of 52 votes against Venkatesh, who secured 330 votes. Chawan secured 382 votes. He contested the elections after residents of the tanda forced him to and achieved success in his very first elections. The son of a winning candidate from Vibhutihalli village in Shahapur was specially honoured with the winner’s followers pouring on him litres of milk. His mother Padmavathi emerged the winner from Vibhutihalli. But, her followers organised a ksheerabhishekam for her son Ameen Reddy after the results were announced. A candidate defeated his relative by 32 votes in Ramsamudra village in Yadgir taluk. Chandappa was the winner over his brother Totendra in the elections.
31 December 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Man carrying knife taken into custody||The Shahapur Police took a man into custody on Wednesday for carrying a knife on the premises of the Government Degree College in Shahapur where counting of votes polled in 22 constituencies was going on. A senior police officer said that the knife was detected during checking and the man was immediately taken into custody. The police gave his name as Mohammad Asfaq, a native of Sagar village in Shahapur taluk. A case under Section 188 of IPC, 97 of Karnataka Police Act and for violation of Section 144 imposed around the counting centre was registered against him.
31 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Returning Officer takes ill while on duty||A Returning Officer at a counting centre in Raichur was taken to hospital when he suddenly developed breathing problem and other health issues while on duty on Wednesday. The officer was identified as Chandrashekhar and is working as a lecture in women’s college. He was shifted to hospital in an ambulance. Reports on his health condition were not available.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||SEC upset as political parties claim victories in GP elections||As the gram panchayat poll results started coming in, the BJP and the Congress leaders started claiming that their party-backed candidates registered a majority of victories, much to the chagrin of the State Election Commission. For, the elections are not fought on party symbols, and is difficult to gauge how the workers of parties have fared on the ground. The gram panchayat elections were held for 91,339 seats across 5,728 gram panchayats in the State. While accusing the BJP of trying to lure the Congress candidates either by threatening or by offering money, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah said on Twitter: “This is a challenging time for Congress. There are reports that BJP is trying to lure our candidates. BJP leaders are frustrated that they could not win the hearts of rural India. This should be condemned.” He further said: “Rural India has always supported Congress in gram panchayat elections since the panchayat system came into existence. Report suggests that Congress-supported candidates are winning.” BJP leaders also took to Twitter claiming victories for party-backed candidates. Around 3 p.m., BJP national organising general secretary B.L. Santhosh said: “Of 82,616 wards, BJP is ahead with victory in 5,344 wards (48%) as of now. Great going... Congratulations.” RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa tweeted. “Today’s results show BJP is not restricted to educated urban voters. BJP is now the first choice of farmers and people in rural areas,”. BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel claimed that the people have rejected the Congress going by the results. “People have decided that BJP candidates are the right choice for village development,” he tweeted. Medical Education and Health Minister K. Sudhakar went a step ahead and said: “This historic performance of BJP in Karnataka gram panchayat elections is a vindication of PM Narendra Modi’s pro-farmer policies and continued thrust on Gram Swaraj.” He claimed on Twitter: “For the first time in history, Lotus has bloomed in all the 29 GPs of Chickaballapur.” The State Election Commission clarified that since the elections are not fought on party symbols, the result attributing to the parties was baseless, and also asked the media to refrain from giving party positions.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A year with all work and little play||There were sweeping changes in the way we lived, worked and played this year, and among the activities that the pandemic brought to a grinding halt was sports. The lockdown was relaxed in September, but most people preferred to stay indoors. Parents still don’t want to send their children for training. Football and cricket activities have restarted slowly, but most other sports are yet to restart. National-level tournaments are ruled out, as train services are disrupted. In Bengaluru, we have two main sports hostels – SAI and DYES. Both are yet to reopen. Those in charge of the hostels are understandably scared, because even if one sportsperson or staff member tests positive, the whole hostel has to be closed again. Everybody is taking a cautious approach, especially when it involves contact sports like hockey. It remains to be seen how educational institutions approach sports activities. They are already behind in their curriculum, so their priority will be academics. Tough on young talent The long break is especially tough on promising young talent. Under normal circumstances, a player progresses from the State under-14 team to under-16 to under-21 and so on. But now, if they don’t play for two years, they will lose out on valuable time. When sports does return, they will be ineligible to play in that age group. They will be forced to try out for the higher age group team, and they will not be ready. A crucial two years of skill and career development are interrupted. The tried and tested age-group structure stands broken. Seniors suffer too Talented senior players are affected too. The senior national hockey championships that were postponed last year haven’t taken place yet. The 2021 national championships may be deferred too. It means that new talented players have not been identified and added to the Indian hockey team camp. Take the case of a promising player who is set to break into the national team. That person has lost out on two full years, and he/she is now out of contention. Sponsorship issues Except cricket, all other sports will be badly affected by a lack of sponsorship. Most companies simply do not have the financial power to invest in sports. They have suffered losses owing to the pandemic. The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) may have managed to successfully conduct the IPL without fans, but most other sports will suffer. In hockey, we don’t earn anything through gate or ticket collection. Every association is obliged to conduct tournaments. Unless we raise our own funds, we cannot conduct these tournaments. Raising our own funds is next to impossible. The entry fee for our tournaments is a pittance. It does not cover even the basic costs. We cannot ask our affiliated private clubs to pay higher entry fees, as they too have suffered losses. As for the livelihood of sportspersons, those employed with Public Sector Units – Railways, Banks, Postal Department – are better placed than others. All sports activities may have come to a halt, but job security is taken care of in government jobs. The future Nothing can be said with conviction for another six months. Just when you get some satisfaction – with the number of cases steadily reducing in the country – a new strain emerges. Once again, everyone is scared. We have to wait for the vaccination, see the results, and then take a call on how to bring sports back to life. ( K. Krishnamurthy is    the Honorary Secretary   of the Bengaluru    Hockey Association )
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||191 nakabandis to monitor drunk driving tonight||As the city gears up to leave the pandemic-hit 2020 behind to usher in a new year, the city police are leaving no stone unturned to ensure the event passes off peacefully. B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic), said that as many as 191 nakabandis have been set up at strategic locations across the city to check traffic violations, especially drink and drive incidents. An equal number of pick-up squads are stationed at the nakas to handle drunk drivers and subject them to a medical examination. Mr. Gowda warned motorists not to drink and drive, failing which their DL will be recommended for suspension, vehicle will be seized, apart from being slapped with a hefty fine. They will be booked under various sections of the MV Act and under the IPC. The traffic police held a meeting recently with the managements of pubs, bars and restaurants. They have been asked to identify drivers who are drinking and offer alternative arrangements, like providing drivers or booking cabs for them. As the CBD area, including M.G. Road, Brigade Road, Church Street, as well as Indiranagar 100 feet Road and a part of Koramangala have, been turned into no man’s zones, people who are visiting these areas for dining purposes should have booking coupons with them. The traffic police, along with their law and order counterparts, will intensify patrolling around the city to keep an eye on revellers on the road. While flyovers across the city will be shut, patrolling will also be intensified on NICE road and ring roads. Security measures In addition, the Central Division police has issued notices to shops and commercial establishments seeking their response to the security measures taken up to ensure public safety on their premises. The notices were issued in the wake of Police Commissioner Kamal Pant saying that the CBD will have to be given special attention during enforcement of prohibitory orders on New Year’s eve. In the notice, the police have directed shops and commercial establishments to install high-definition CCTV cameras at the exits and also facing the road. The cameras should be functional round-the-clock with a storage capacity of data of at least one month. The notice also stated that parking lots should be adequately illuminated, and alarms and security guards should be deployed at strategic locations. Many shops and commercials establishments, despite several reminders, failed to implement security measures, the police said. The notice specifies that the action taken report should be submitted at the jurisdictional police station failing which strict action would be taken under the Public Safety (Measures) Enforcement Act, 2017.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Government tells BU to reinstate Finance Officer||The State government has issued an order asking the Vice Chancellor of Bangalore University to reinstate the Finance Officer. The Vice Chancellor had issued an order to relieve her of the post. This drew sharp criticism as the move came after Finance Officer Parvathi H.B. submitted a report, which alleged discrepancies and irregularities in the university's finances. An order issued by Additional Chief Secretary of Finance Department states: “It has come to the notice of the government that you have relieved the officer appointed by the government without getting approval from the government, which is unacceptable and unfortunate. The decision taken by you is a clear violation of government orders.” It has directed the official to withdraw the order immediately and ensure that the Finance Officer continues in the same post. The Higher Education Department plans to seek an explanation from the Vice Chancellor as to why he had issued an order to relieve her of the post.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru all set to get another hi-tech hospital||One more hospital is being added to the list of public healthcare facilities established in Mysuru, reinforcing medical care services to the poor. And, this hospital is also coming up in a cluster of hospitals having potential to emerge as a “health city”, that are catering to the needs of patients of Mysuru and neighbouring districts since past few years. The district hospital, which was converted into COVID-19 Hospital after the pandemic struck early this year, is one of the facilities. The 220-bed superspeciality hospital, estimated to have been built at a cost of Rs. 135 crore on PKTB Sanatorium campus on KRS Road, is all set for a launch in January. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had been requested to inaugurate the hospital. However, it has to be seen when the new hospital will start functioning since equipment and manpower requirements had not been met yet since the authorities were occupied in tackling the pandemic. MMCRI Dean and Director C.P. Nanjaraj told The Hindu that the new hospital is being planned for launch by January end. The hospital will have two basement floors and ground plus five floors to accommodate over a dozen departments with speciality care. They include neurology, neuro surgery, medical gastroenterology, surgical gastroenterology, plastic surgery, paediatric surgery, medical oncology, surgical oncology, radiation oncology, and other departments. The hospital will have a built area of 2,20,676.84 sq. ft with each floor having over 40,000 sq. ft of space.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Age no bar||At 95, Gujjamma Shankrappa Hosman(in picture)of Bidar district, became one among the oldest persons in the country to win the gram panchayat polls. She secured 287 votes against her younger opponent, who got 254 votes, and won from Muttangi village near Humnabad.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Drug peddler arrested||The K.S. Layout police arrested a drug peddler and recovered 10 kg of marijuana from him on Monday. The accused, D. Mallikarjuna, is a native of Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh. He was allegedly caught red-handed while he was waiting for his clients in Banashankari. The accused is a habitual offender who was peddling drugs, which he sources from his contacts in AP. The accused was smuggling the drugs in goods vehicle along with essentials and selling them to his contacts. The accused has been booked under the NDPS Act and remanded in judicial custody, Harish Pandey, DCP South division, said.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||It will ease patient load on K.R. Hospital||The patient load on K.R. Hospital here may ease considerably once the government superspeciality hospital becomes functional and the district hospital, now a designated COVID-19 hospital, returns to non-COVID treatment and vaccine is launched. With limited scope for expansion, being a heritage structure, the K.R. Hospital of MMCRI has been under pressure with increasing patient numbers, being the largest public healthcare facility of the region. Once the 220-bed super speciality hospital becomes a reality and the 250-bed district hospital is was used for the purpose it was built, the K.R. Hospital management can streamline its functioning, focusing on key tertiary care with the two taking over the load from it, sources said here. Thanks to setting up of 13 kl liquid oxygen tank, K.R. Hospital has now around 400 beds with oxygen supply for COVID-19 treatment (critically ill cases). It is majorly handling SARI and ILI cases since the pandemic broke. The space once occupied by the Sri Jayadeva Institute is now being used for COVID-19 treatment. The ready infrastructure came in handy when cases peaked and the deaths went up a few months ago. The ready infrastructure of the newly-built district hospital on KRS Road helpedin combating the pandemic situation.
31 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Many twists and turns in Alappuzha||Elections to the posts of president and vice president in grama panchayats and block panchayats in the district on Wednesday witnessed many twists and turns. In the Chennithala Thripperuthura grama panchayat, Vijayamma P. of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] was elected president with the support of the United Democratic Front (UDF). In the local body elections held earlier this month, both the UDF and the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance won six seats each, whereas the Left Democratic Front (LDF) got four seats. The post of president in the local body is reserved for Scheduled Castes woman. As the UDF did not have a Scheduled Caste woman member, its members voted for Ms. Vijayamma. Meanwhile, Ravikumar of the Congress was elected the vice president. T.V. Ratnakumari of the CPI(M) was elected president of the Mannar grama panchayat after Congress member Sunil Sredheyam, who was later elected vice president, cast his vote for her. Both the LDF and the UDF won eight seats each in the elections to the grama panchayat. In Muttar In the Muttar grama panchayat, LDF candidate Merlin Baiju of the Janadhipathya Kerala Congress was elected president after two members of the Kerala Congress Joseph group switched sides and cast their votes for her. The BJP stormed to power in the Pandanad and Kodamthuruth grama panchayats. In Pandanad, Asha was elected president while Surendran Nair became vice president. Bineesh Illikkal of the BJP is the new president of the Kodamthuruth panchayat while Akhila Rajan was elected vice president. Jincy Jolly of the Congress was elected president of the Champakulam block panchayat through a draw of lots. Earlier both the UDF and the LDF won six seats each in the elections. M.S. Sreekanth of the Communist Party of India became the vice president of the block panchayat. Election to the post of president in the Chingoli grama panchayat was postponed after UDF members failed to turn up. Officials said that the election would now be held on Thursday. The heads of other grama panchayats and block panchayats in the district too were sworn-in.
31 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||CPI(M) opts for a 50-50 in Alappuzha||Amidst the wrangling in the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] over the chairperson post in the Alappuzha municipality, the party has decided to divide the five-year tenure between two women. As per the decision, Soumya Raj who was sworn in as the municipal chairperson will remain in the post for the next two-and-a-half years. K.K. Jayamma will take over the post for the remaining term. “We have taken the decision to divide the tenure of the chairperson in the best interests of the party and considering various other things,” said a CPI (M) leader. The displeasure in the CPI(M) over the party’s choice of Alappuzha municipal chairperson came out in open with a section of the party workers staging a protest march in Alappuzha town on Monday. The CPI(M) district committee had put forward Eravukadu councillor Soumya Raj’s name to the post of chairperson of the Alappuzha municipality. However, it did not go well with a section of the party. They demanded that Ms. Jayamma, representing the Nehru Trophy ward and CPI(M) area committee member, be made municipal chairperson. The protesters, including several women, raised slogans against the party district leadership and levelled allegations against party leaders of accepting bribe in order to nominate Ms. Raj over the more experienced Ms. Jayamma. Action unlikely Following this, the CPI (M) launched an inquiry and sought an explanation from three branch secretaries. Severe action is unlikely to be taken against those who led and participated in the protest march.  Two women to steer municipality for two-and-a-half years each Protest in district unit prompts move by party
31 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Victorious LDF candidates resign in Thiruvanvandoor||Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidates who were elected to the post of president and vice president of the Thiruvanvandoor grama panchayat in the district resigned soon after their victory in the elections held on Wednesday. Earlier this month, in the elections held to the grama panchayat, the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance won five seats, followed by LDF (four seats) and UDF (three seats). An Independent candidate won one seat. On Wednesday, Bindu Kuruvila, an LDF Independent, representing Mazhukeermel ward was elected president with the support of UDF members. S he polled seven votes, while the NDA candidate got five votes. However, as per the decision of the LDF, Ms. Bindu quit before being sworn-in. In the election to the post of vice president, Beena Biju, of the LDF was declared the winner. But she too did not take the oath of office. LDF sources said that it was averse to accepting UDF's support. District Congress Committee president M. Liju alleged that the LDF’s action was to help the BJP in the grama panchayat.
31 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||K.G. Rajeshwari to helm Alappuzha district panchayat||K.G. Rajeshwari of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] was sworn-in as the president of the Alappuzha district panchayat on Wednesday. Ms. Rajeshwari, representing the Mararikulam division, was elected unopposed. Daleema Jojo of the CPI(M) representing the Aroor division became the vice president of the local body. She too was elected without voting. The CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front had romped to victory in the district panchayat elections earlier this month by winning 21 out of the total 23 seats. The opposition UDF had to settle for two seats.
31 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Gigi K. Philip elected Idukki district panchayat chief||Gigi K. Philip, CPI district council member who represents the Pampadumpara division, was elected president of the Idukki district panchayat on Wednesday. Ushakumary Mohankumar of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and representative of the Rajakkad division is the vice-president. The election to the post of president in the district panchayat, where the LDF has a clear majority, was held at 11 a.m. and that to the post of vice president at 2 p.m. As per an agreement within the LDF, the CPI’s nominee will be in the president’s post for the first two years, followed by a CPI(M) nominee for the next two years and a Kerala Congress nominee for the remaining one year. Mr. Philip is a well-known figure in the social circle and cultural fora in the district. While Mr. Philip got 10 votes, M.J. Jacob of the United Democratic Front (UDF) received four votes. The Murickassery division representative of the UDF could not participate in the voting as she could not reach the district panchayat council hall at Painavu where the election was held.
31 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||LDF wins power in 30 grama panchayats||Left Democratic Front (LDF) or United Democratic Front (UDF) nominees were elected presidents in seven block panchayats in the district where elections were held on Wednesday. The elections to the Idukki block panchayat was postponed to Thursday due to quorum deficiency. The new president and vice presidents respectively of the block panchayats are: Adimaly - Soman Chellappan and Shanti Baby; Devikulam - Anandarani and N.R. Jayan; Elamdesam - Mathew K. John and Dani Varghese; Nedumkandam - K.T. Kunju and Rani Thomas; Kattappana - Josekutty Kannamundayil and Annamma Johnson; Thodupuzha - Treesa Jose and N.K. Biju; and Azhutha - P.M. Noushad and Sajini Jayakumar. Grama panchayats Elections to the posts of president and vice-president were held in 52 grama panchayats in the district on Wednesday. Compared to the previous local body elections, the UDF lost power in three grama panchayats. The LDF came to power in 30 and the UDF in 21 panchayats. In the Kanchiyar grama panchayat, a National Democratic Alliance (NDA) representative, Suresh K.C., was chosen president. In the panchayat, the president’s post is reserved for Scheduled Castes. Though the LDF has majority in the council, Mr. Suresh, the lone NDA representative in the council, is the only member eligible to the reserved post. In the Karunapuram and Vazhathope grama panchayats, the LDF got power through draw of lots. In the first tribal grama panchayat in Edamalakkduy, UDF member Eeshwari was elected president. In the Upputhara grama panchayat where the UDF won majority, CPI(M) representative James K. Jacob has been elected president. The post is reserved for Schedule Tribes candidates. In the Velliyamattam grama panchayat, One India One Pension representative Indhu Biju was elected president.
31 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Samshad sworn in Wayanad district panchayat chief||Samshad Marakkar of the Congress was elected Wayanad District Panchayat President on Wednesday after a drawing of the lot. As the LDF and UDF had a neck and neck fight in the Wayanad District Panchayat election after both the fronts obtained eight votes each in the 16-member civic body. Mr. Makkar defeated Suresh Thaloor of the CPI(M) through the draw. Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla, who is also the district electoral officer, drew the lot and administered the oath of office to Mr. Marakkar. S.Bindu of the CPI bagged the Vice President’s post, defeating the IUML candidate and former district panchayat president K.B.Naseema. Later in the day, Mr. Marakkar and Ms. Bindu assumed office.
31 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Elephant found dead in forest||A male elephant was found dead by Forest Department officials in the Chethalayath forest range of the South Wayanad forest division on Wednesday. Officials who are attached to the forest division and veterinarians performed a necropsy of the tusker in the evening. The carcass of the single tusker was found on a rivulet at Thoppadikkolly inside the Pathiri reserve forest, near Manal Vayal in the district, T. Sasikumar, forest range officer, Chethalayath forest range, said. Tribal people They traced the elephant based on inputs from tribal people about a fight between two elephants. Estimated to be around 25 years old, the elephant died owing to the serious injuries caused by the fight with a lone tusker in “musth”, a periodic condition in bull elephants characterised by highly aggressive behaviour and accompanied by a large rise in reproductive hormones, Mr. Sasikumar said. Monitoring movement “We are closely monitoring the movement of the lone tusker and have installed four surveillance cameras in the area for the purpose,” Mr. Sasikumar said.  The carcass of the tusker was found on a rivulet inside the Pathiri reserve forest
31 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||UDF gains power in 15 grama panchayats in Wayanad||The UDF obtained power in 15 of the 23 grama panchayats in Wayanad district on Wednesday. Apart from this, the UDF retained the post of District Panchayat President and won in two of the four block panchayats in the district. A. Naseema of the IUML became the president of the Kalpetta block panchayat and P.K. Abdurahiman of the Congress bagged the vice president’s post. C. Assianar of the CPI(M) was elected Sulthan Bathery block panchayat president and Ambily Sudha of CPI(M) became vice president. Justin Baby of CPI(M) and Girija Krishnan of Congress were elected presidents and A.K. Jayabharathi of CPI(M) and Abdul Gafoor Katty of IUML became vice presidents of the Mananthavady and Panamaram block panchayats respectively. As both fronts had a neck and neck fight in Panamaram grama panchayat after they obtained 11 seats each and the lone member of the BJP stayed away from election, P.M. Asya of CPI(M) got elected as president after a draw of lots. However, the vice president’s post of the civic body was bagged by Thomas Parakkalayil of Congress in the draw.
31 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Dissent in Congress helps LDF seize power at Naduvil||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) seized power in the Naduvil panchayat after four decades despite the United Democratic Front (UDF) winning 11 of the 19 seats. Differences between leaders over the president post led to the UDF losing power in the panchayat. Baby Ottampallil of the ‘I’ group in the Congress contested against Alex Chunayammakal, the official candidate belonging to the ‘A’ group. Seven members of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), three members of the ‘I’ group, and a Congress rebel voted for Mr. Ottampallil. The LDF came to power by 11 votes to eight. The UDF had secured 11 seats in the local body polls with four candidates from the ‘A’ group, three from the ‘I’ group, a Congress rebel, and three from the Indian Union Muslim League emerging winners. The front had been in power in the panchayat for the past 40 years. It all started with the Congress Parliamentary Party deciding to field Mr. Chunayammakal for the post of president. The three ‘I’ group members led by Mr. Ottampallil came out against this. The ‘A’ group was adamant that it would not support Mr. Ottampallil as president even if it lost power. KC(M) faction’s role The Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) took the lead in bringing the four Congress members to the LDF. It is learnt that CPI(M) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan went to Naduvil on Tuesday night and called a meeting of the party local committee. However, Mr. Ottampallil said he did not seek anyone’s support. Voting was held under heavy police security.
31 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||P.P. Divya is Kannur District Panchayat president||P.P. Divya of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) was elected as the Kannur District Panchayat President, on Wednesday. Ms. Divya defeated Lizzie Thomas of the Congress by 16 votes to seven. The voting started at 11 a.m. under the supervision of District Collector T.V. Subhash Ms. Divya, who won from the Kalliasseri division, had received 32687 votes to win the ward. She was the Vice President of the last District Panchayat. E. Vijayan, who won the election from Pannyannur division, was elected zas the vice president of District Panchayat. He received 15 votes to seven, as one LDF vote became invalid.
31 December 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Baby Balakrishnan takes charge as Kasaragod District Panchayat chief||Baby Balakrishnan was elected as the Kasaragod District Panchayat President. Ms. Balakrishnan defeated her opponent Jameela Siddique by one vote. While she got eight votes, against the seven votes received by Ms. Suddique. Out of a total of 17 district panchayat members, two members did not register vote. Baby Balakrishnan was elected to the district panchayat from Madikkai division. District Collector D. Sajith Babu led the voting process at the District Panchayat Hall. District Panchayat Secretary P. Nandakumar supervised the voting process. Baby Balakrishnan was nominated by C.J. Sajith and supported by S.N. Saritha. Jameela Siddique was nominated by Geeta Krishnan. She was supported by Abdul Rahman. Baby Balakrishnan was then sworn in as President by the Collector. Former MP, Karunakaran, former District Panchayat President M.V. Balakrishnan, former MLAs K.P. Satish Chandran, and C.H. Kunhambu, and others were present on the occasion. Shanavas Padur was elected as the Vice President of Kasargod District Panchayat. Jomon Joseph was the opposition candidate. Out of the 17 members in the district panchayat, eight voted for Shanavas Padur and seven for Jomon Joseph. Two votes were invalid. President Baby Balakrishnan administered the oath of office to the Vice President and Collector presided over the election process.
31 December 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||IUML secures president’s post||The Indian Union Muslim League has secured the post of president in the Manjeswaram block with the support of the SDPI. Shamina of the IUML and Ashwini of the BJP were in the fray for the post. With the support of a single member of the SDPI, Ms.Shamina got seven votes, while Ashwini had to content with six votes. The 15-member governing council has six members each from the BJP and the Muslim League, two from the CPI(M) and one from the SDPI.
31 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||UDF, LDF share the spoils in block panchayats in district||Voting to the posts of president and vice-president in 14 block panchayats in the district more or less went along expected lines except in Vazhakkulam and Vadavucode-Puthencruz block panchayats on Wednesday. While the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidates won in seven block panchayats, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidates emerged victorious in six block panchayats. Elections to the posts of president and vice-president in Vazhakkulam block panchayat had to be postponed owing to lack of quorum. The LDF has six members, UDF five and Twenty20, the Kizhakkambalam-based corporate outfit, has four members in the Vazhakkulam block panchayat. Election in Vengola and Vazhakkulam grama panchayats also had to be postponed for want of quorum. The elected members of the Twenty20 in Vazhakkulam block panchayat chose to stay away from the elections while the UDF members boycotted the poll. “It was a return of favour by the UDF after the LDF resorted to a similar ploy in Vengola panchayat under the Vazhakkulam block panchayat. The UDF has nine members in Vengola compared to six of the LDF and eight of the Twenty20. Since Twenty20 members were staying away, UDF candidates would have won the election to the president and vice-president posts to avoid which LDF members boycotted the election,” said Mohammed Shiyas, District Congress Committee vice-president. Election to the Vazhakkulam block panchayat will be held on Thursday at 10 a.m. In Vypeen In Vypeen block panchayat, where the president’s post was reserved for Scheduled Caste woman, LDF candidate Thulasi Soman was elected unopposed since the UDF had no eligible candidate. In Vadavucode-Puthencruz block panchayat, UDF candidates were elected as president and vice-president after five Twenty20 members stayed away from the elections. The UDF also won the elections in Angamaly, Muvattupuzha, Kothamangalam, Mulanthuruthy, Edappally, and Koovappady block panchayats. The LDF emerged victorious in Parakkadavu, Alangad, Pampakkuda, Vypeen, Palluruthy, and Paravur block panchayats. Split terms The UDF is likely to give split terms to president or vice-president or both in Kothamangalam, Angamaly, Edappally, and Koovappady block panchayats to accommodate allies or as part of political arrangements. For instance, the vice-president post in Kothamangalam block panchayat has been given to the Indian Union Muslim League for one-and-a-half-year term after which it may be shared between the Kerala Congress and the Congress though a concrete arrangement about the sharing of post is yet to emerge, Congress sources said.
31 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Land acquisition for corridor project suffers delay||Close on the heels of the district administration submitting before the Kerala High Court that land acquisition to widen the long-overdue 3.75-km-long Padma Junction-Pullepady-Thammanam-Chakkaraparambu road can be carried out only after the PWD (Roads Wing) submits its requisition letter, PWD sources said the letter would be ready only after the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Board (KIIFB) vetted the project’s DPR and accorded financial sanction. “The Kochi Corporation transferred the road to us five months ago, although its council passed a resolution in January last. We have not received any official communication from the corporation regarding the transfer, except a copy of the resolution. A Government Order on that is awaited,” said a senior PWD official. After KIIFB nod The PWD (Roads Wing) conducted an investigation of the stretch, and the report will be handed over to the projects wing of the department. The DPR, work on which began two months ago, will be ready in February 2021. KIIFB (which earmarked Rs. 100 crore of the expected over Rs. 300 crore to acquire land and to develop the road in 2017) will vet the draft DPR and suggest technical changes, if any, before according financial sanction for the project. The estimated cost of the project will find mention in the DPR, the official said. Once realised, the corridor that will be widened to 22 metres and run parallel to SA Road and Banerjee Road, is expected to considerably augment east-west connectivity in the city. The High Court had in May 2019 set a year’s deadline to realise the project, the work on which began 25 years ago. The Kochi Corporation could achieve little, except widen a small stretch in the corridor, at Kathrikadavu and Thammanam Junction. The State government is expected to take a call on further extending the corridor from Chakkaraparambu to Seaport-Airport Road and beyond, a proposal mooted over five years ago. Affidavit In an affidavit which was recently filed before the High Court on a contempt plea moved by a medical practitioner, District Collector S. Suhas had said that the district administration could not begin the land acquisition process under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (LAARA 2013), since a requisition letter was awaited from the PWD. At a meeting in July, P.T. Thomas, MLA, had suggested that a bridge that would be required at Kathrikadavu Junction to enable smooth flow of vehicles along the proposed corridor be integrated with another bridge in the vicinity. He further demanded wide-enough bell mouths at junctions in the corridor and a dedicated duct on the 3.75-km road to carry utility lines.
31 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Well-being of women, children a priority, says Ullas Thomas||Ullas Thomas of the United Democratic Front (UDF) was sworn in as the new president of the 27-member Ernakulam District Panchayat here on Wednesday. In the election to the president’s post held at the district panchayat hall in the morning, Mr. Thomas defeated Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate M.S. Anil Kumar by 16 to nine votes. District Collector S. Suhas administered the oath to the winner. Two elected members of Twenty20, the Kizhakkambalam-based apolitical corporate outfit, stayed away from the voting in keeping with their organisational policy. “Our focus will be on agriculture and implementing projects for the well-being of women, children, and the differently abled. The zero-landless project will also be given an added impetus,” said 50-year-old Mr. Thomas who is also the District Congress Committee general secretary. Mr. Thomas was elected to the district panchayat for the first time after having unsuccessfully contested in 2005. He had also served as a member of Palakkuzha panchayat for two terms between 1995 and 2005. ‘Great opportunity’ Shiny George of the UDF was elected vice-president by the same margin defeating Sarada Mohan of the LDF. This was her maiden contest to the district panchayat having served as Karukutty panchayat member for two terms in the past. “Unlike in the panchayat, we get even greater opportunity to implement bigger projects in the district panchayat. Being a woman, I want to do more for the development of the district panchayat and leave a mark after studying about the potential development prospects,” said Ms. George. No to politics Sabu M. Jacob, chairman of Twenty20, said that the decision to stay away from voting to the president and vice president posts was deliberate in keeping with the outfit’s outlook to stay away from politics. “We will participate and express our views in matters related to governance,” he said. Besides the district panchayat, the elected members of Twenty20 stayed away from the presidential and vice-presidential elections in two block panchayats and a panchayat as well. Mr. Thomas said that while Twenty20 members congratulated him, they chose to stay away from the election. “We will adopt a consultative approach and try to take everyone along,” he said.
31 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Chellanam panchayat president to focus on checking sea erosion||Veteran CPI(M) leader K. D. Prasad, vice-president in the outgoing council, was elected president of the Chellanam panchayat on Wednesday. He said that the first priority for the panchayat would be to persuade the State government to take up measures against the problem of sea erosion. The village of Chellanam has been at the receiving end of extreme weather condition. The cyclonic storm Ockhi hit the coast of Chellanam in 2017 December severely and several houses were damaged. Since then, periodic sea intrusion has affected the village. Mr. Prasad said that the panchayat also wanted the government to include dozens of damaged houses in the Life Mission programme to be rebuilt at the earliest. Surumi Ajeesh of the UDF was chosen president of Ayavana panchayat through a draw of lots as both the LDF and UDF candidates bagged seven votes each in the 14-member panchayat council. The LDF contestant was Julie Sunil. Sonia Murukesan, who was elected president of Vadavukode-Puthenkurisu panchayat, said that the one of the major problems facing the panchayat was the common waste treatment facility at Brahmapuram. It had become a major issue because people were afraid that the plant does not work properly. “It is our intention to see that the plant is operationalised and functions properly”. All efforts would be made to ensure the working of the plant, she said. Kadamakkudy panchayat president Mary Vincent said that priorities of the panchayat would be to ensure that all those who applied for housing under the Life Mission programme of the government got their houses at the earliest. She said that there were still people, who had their own land, but did not have houses. Besides, she said, the panchayat wanted to revive pokkali rice cultivation in a big way. Lija Thomas Babu, who was elected presdient of Kumbalanghi panchayat, said that the first priority for the new panchayat administration was resuming KSRTC services to the village, which had now been suspended for a long time. Setting up a proper playground in Kallancherry and improving the facilities at the Kumbalanghi public park were other priorities, she said. Tourism had suffered a setback due to the COVID-19 pandemic and attention would be paid to improve facilities and to draw more people to the tourism village. M. P. Nithamol of the Twenty20 combination was elected president in the Kunnathunadu panchayat. The combination won 11 of the wards while six seats were won by the UDF and LDF won one seat. LDF member stayed away from the voting on Wednesday. Bincy Biju was elected president of the Mzhuvannoor panchayat where Twenty20 won 14 seats in the 19-member council. The LDF has won four seats and the UDF one seat. The UDF member stayed away from voting. Mini Ratheesh was elected president of the Kizhakkambalam panchayat where Twenty20 has returned to power winning 18 of the 19 seats in the council. Jincy Aji is the vice-president .   Postponed  Election of the president of Vazhakkualam panchayat has been postponed. The UDF has 11 members and LDF nine members in the panchayat council. Though the UDF has a clear majority, the political front has no candidate for the post of president, which is reserved for the SC community. UDF members stayed away from voting and the required quorum was not achieved. Election for the post of Vengola panchayt president was not held on Wednesday. The quorum needed to hold the election was not achieved and the election will be held on Thursday even if the quorum was not achieved, said an election official. None of the eight new councillors of the Twenty20 combination was present in the hall when the time came for the voting. Only eight of the nine UDF members were present with the Muslim League member being absent. Though six LDF members were present they did not enter the voting hall, the official said. The UDF has won nine and the LDF six seats while the Muslim League has one seat.
31 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Toughened by life, this new councillor is set for her job||Four years ago when Sheeba Durom started a chicken stall in Thoppumpady and had to run it on her own, the biggest concern of the 45-year-old widow was how to kill the birds in cold blood. Snuffing the life out of a living creature didn’t come to her naturally. But, she could hardly afford to develop cold feet. For, staring at her were three teenaged children, including two daughters, and the aged mother of her deceased husband, all dependent on her. So, she overcame her inhibitions and went about her livelihood and has been running the stall successfully at the evening market at Thoppumpady since then. For Ms. Durom hardened by the travails of life, winning the Thoppumpady division of Kochi Corporation as a Congress candidate in the just concluded local body polls turned out to be a far easier task in comparison. Second attempt It was her second attempt after contesting unsuccessfully from division 21 in the last election away from her home. She, however, more than made up for that loss this time romping home with a majority of 848 votes in the division where 55.8% of voters turned out at polling booths. “I consider this victory as the collective victory of the big Thoppumpady family who has seen me from close quarters and knows who I am. That love was reflected in my majority, which was more than the total of votes won by my five opponents, including a namesake, taken together,” said an elated Ms. Durom, a resident of Thoppumpady. A firm believer that politics should not be a means of livelihood, she remains confident of donning the roles of a trader and that of a councillor simultaneously. The fact that her stall operates out of the evening market that functions between 3 p.m. and 10 p.m. also helps her focus on civic issues in the mornings. She, however, has recalled her employee who had left in the wake of the lockdown. Immediate priorities Cleaning up long-neglected drains and the canal along the backside of the Thoppumpady market and addressing drinking water woes remain her immediate priorities. “Giving a fitting entry point in tune with the heritage status of Thoppumpady also remains a dream,” said Ms. Durom who has been active in public life for over a decade and has served as the district general secretary of the Mahila Congress.
31 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Toothless laws help animal abusers go scot-free||When the video of a dog being tied to the boot of a car and dragged along the road went viral in social media earlier this month, it created such a public outcry across the State that the police felt compelled to register, quite rarely, a suo motu case. The man, one Yousuf of Kunnukara, who brutalised the dog was tracked down and arrested only for him to secure bail straight away and he continues to be a free man. Animal welfare activists said that this was a script that played out with disturbing frequency in similar incidents, thanks to a largely toothless Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act (PCA Act) and triviality of relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) invoked. “We had invoked IPC Sections 428 (mischief by killing or maiming animal of the value of ten rupees) and 429 (mischief by killing or maiming animal of the value of fifty rupees) and relevant sections of PCA Act, which was all that we could do. But those charges are quite benign and bailable,” said T.K. Josey, Station House Officer of Chengamanad, who registered the suo motu case. Ambili Purackal, founder-member and coordinator of Daya Animal Welfare Organisation, blamed the non-deterrent nature of the PCA Act to the delay in amending the Act that has been pending in the Lok Sabha since 2017. “Unless the Act is amended with more stringent punishments, animal abusers will manage to get away with negligible fine. Besides, the animal welfare is such a neglected area that neither do the police take it seriously nor lawyers are forthcoming to fight for the cause,” she said. Sruthy Bhat, one of those rare lawyers willing to fight animal welfare cases, said that the PCA Act is infested with circumstantial and situational impediments restricting the role of the police that either one has to move it as private complaint before a magistrate or take the complaint at the level of the Superintendent of Police to get it investigated. “While the relevant IPC Sections also entail imprisonment term of up to two years, it rarely happens. The police also question the locus standi of animal welfare activists pursing the case and also fall back on ‘lack of evidence’ while ignoring the obvious abused state of the animal to take the case forward. Unlike the Wild Life Protection Act with stringent punishment for offender, the PCA Act has no deterrent that stops abusers from harming animals,” she said.
31 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Police to keep New Year revelries on a tight leash||For the first time in recent memory, Fort Kochi will largely remain out of bounds for New Year revellers, thanks to the precautionary measures being adopted by the police to check the spread of the pandemic. New Year celebrations, including the annual carnival, the signature event of the city during year-ends, remain suspended. In fact, the police have warned of stern action against those found violating the COVID protocol in Fort Kochi region on the New Year eve and the day after. Parents found taking their children below 10 years to beaches, those aged above 60 found in crowded places, and violators of physical distancing in general have been put on notice. Access to the beach will be restricted to a fixed number of visitors for a specific time limit. Crowds and revelries lasting past midnight will not be allowed. Those found loitering in Fort Kochi region without valid reasons way past the scheduled operations of public transport, including bus, jankar, and boat services, will be strictly dealt with, a release issued by the Mattancherry Assistant Commissioner said. The police will step up surveillance along major spots in Fort Kochi using CCTV networks and deployment of plainclothesmen. Extensive arrangements The Ernakulam rural police have also warned of stern action against New Year celebrations violating COVID protocol. The police have made extensive arrangements for the smooth and peaceful organisation of celebrations. “Nearly 1,500 cops will be deployed round-the-clock in Ernakulam rural limits for law and order maintenance from the New Year eve till the day after. Unauthorised use of public announcement systems in public places and organisation of events and bursting of crackers without prior police permission remain banned,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). Motorists found driving under the influence of alcohol will be strictly dealt with. Steps will be taken to suspend their driving licence. Vehicle checking will be intensified to check drunk driving. Liquor outlets will not be allowed to function beyond permissible hours. Cops, including women police personnel, will be deployed in plain clothes to nab those found teasing women and children in public places like beaches and parks. Special squads will be deployed for checking the sale and distribution of drugs. Public places will be constantly monitored with the help of CCTV networks. Special patrol Special police patrol will get under way in all rural police station limits from Thursday evening. Vehicle checking both by the police and the Motor Vehicles Department will be carried out across various points. Cops in plain clothes will be deployed at tourist locations to ensure the safety of tourists. Crowding in beaches will not be allowed in the wake of the pandemic and access will be denied after permitted hours. The police have requested to avoid DJ parties and to keep children and senior citizens away from celebrations. Vehicles, including altered ones, found engaged in unauthorised motor racings endangering public safety will be seized.
31 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court upholds damages for medical negligence||The High Court has upheld the Thiruvananthapuram principal sub-court’s verdict directing PRS Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, and urologist N. Gopakumar to pay a compensation of Rs. 20.4 lakh to a patient who became paraplegic after a surgery. The Bench comprising Justice S.V. Bhatti and Justice Bechu Kurian Thomas passed the verdict while dismissing an appeal filed by the hospital management and the doctor against the sub-court’s order. The compensation was awarded on a suit filed by P. Anilkumar of Kattakada. According to him, he was diagnosed with secondary calculi in the right kidney and was advised to undergo keyhole surgery to remove the calculi. He was admitted to the hospital on September 25, 2005, and the operation commenced under general anaesthesia on September 27. Within 30 minutes, the operation was halted. He could not move. Subsequently, he was referred to the Sree Chithira Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences, where spinal subdural clots were detected. He suffered permanent damage to his lower limbs. He alleged that his illness and disability occurred due to the injury sustained on the spinal cord during the keyhole surgery performed by the urology specialist. The doctor did it in the most callous, negligent, and irresponsible manner, the petitioner said. Hospital’s version The doctor and the hospital management contended that the problems arose either because of a pre-existing aneurysm rupture or because of cardiac arrest that occurred while the patient was inside the operation theatre. In either case, there was no negligence on the part of the doctor. The operation was abandoned to treat the unexpected complications shown by the patient.
31 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||A biking mission in solidarity with the agitating farmers||Eight youngsters from Puthenvelikara in North Paravur are pedalling their way to Ladakh as a novel way of expressing solidarity with the protesting farmers camped along the Delhi border. The band of friends and neighbours, aged between 17 and 33 years, set out from their neighbourhood on December 18. Plus Two students Two of them, Athil Shibu and Abhishek Unni, Plus Two students, had undertaken a similar bike ride to Wayanad in November to instil hope of overcoming a raging pandemic. “We were planning such a ride to express solidarity with the protesting farmers when the rest of the group also came around to a similar idea,” said Athil. The youngsters also plan to spend a couple of days with the protesting farmers on reaching Delhi. They had been riding with placards ‘no farmers, no food’ displayed on their bikes before they encountered some very unexpected responses on entering Karnataka. “We had to face some hostile behaviour while riding through Karnataka, which was probably due to political reasons, as the State is ruled by the BJP. Since we have to pass through more BJP-ruled States, we are now planning to replace the message with demands for unpolluted air, water and food to avoid any more unpleasant encounters,” said Rejoy Raphael, a 27-year-old who quit his job as a customer care agent in a firm in Indore following the pandemic outbreak. The youngsters hope to reach Ladakh in around 45 days, covering on an average 100-120 km a day. “We spend our nights in makeshift tents in petrol pumps before resuming our ride in the mornings,” said Jismon Varghese, another member of the team. Though they are not new to long-distance rides, the ongoing trip is by far their longest ever ride. “A show of solidarity is the minimum we owe to our farmers who feed us. If these farmers decline to serve us food, then the people in Kerala with little food production may have to go starving,” said Rejoy.
31 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC: govt. can’t control other State lottery||The Kerala High Court has restrained the State government from interfering with the marketing and sale of lottery tickets of the State of Nagaland. Justice A. Muhamed Mustaque passed the order after declaring ultra vires the amended Kerala Paper Lotteries (Regulation) Rules that controlled the lotteries organised by other States. The court held that the Central government had framed Lotteries (Regulation) Rules, 2010. These rules provided a mechanism to redress the grievances of other States as against organising States and their agents. These rules conferred authority on the Union government to decide on such complaints and grievances. Therefore, the State was not authorised to make rules to regulate or control lotteries of other States. The court observed that the Union government alone had the power to interfere with the organising, conduct, and promotion of lotteries and the State government did not have such power. The court passed the verdict while allowing a writ petition filed by a private company engaged in marketing and sale of lottery tickets organised by the State of Nagaland.
31 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held on charge of killing employee||The Hill Palace police on Wednesday arrested a catering contractor on the charge of murder. The arrested man was identified as Mahesh, 43, a resident of Thripunithura. The accused, who ran a catering firm at Thripunithura, is accused of murdering his 44-year-old assistant, Santhosh, reportedly in a drunken brawl. According to the police, both were having drinks on Monday afternoon in a room at the office of the catering firm during the course of which a fight erupted reportedly after the accused alleged the victim of consuming his liquor. In a fit of anger, the accused allegedly assaulted the victim and pushed him from the first floor, inflicting serious injuries. The accused left the scene in an inebriated state unaware of the serious state of his employee. Later in the day, the victim was found lying unconscious in a pool of blood.
31 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Online art show for unity||An art exhibition “Love Thy Neighbour” under the aegis of voluntary organisation White Rose will go online from December 31 midnight. Artist Satyapal, who is curating the exhibition, said that it was dedicated to the cause of unity at a time when forces were dividing society on religious lines and terrorising people in the name of citizenship. The “Love Thy Neighbour” exhibition is a follow-up to the “For the Kisan” exhibition that was launched on November 1 in support of the demands of the protesting farmers. The online exhibition stood behind the farmers and reiterated the demand for the withdrawal of the three controversial farm bills, said Mr. Satyapal. Nearly 100 famous artists, including S. G. Vasudev, Rakhi Kumar, Rekha Bhatnagar, J. M. S. Mani, Sidharth Ghosh, and Summan Dey are among the participants in the online exhibition, he said. There would be a total of 200 art works in the exhibition. The exhibition can be viewed on the YouTube link of White Rose as well as on its FaceBook page. The link ishttps://youtu.be/ WsR5r8LeAjY
31 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Women’s panel registers case||The Kerala State Women’s Commission has registered a suo motu case in connection with the incident in which a young woman was subjected to striptease at a mall at Edappally recently. The commission asked the District Police Chief (Kochi City) to conduct a detailed probe and submit a report on the incident. M.C. Josephine, Commission Chairperson, also urged establishments to take necessary measures to safeguard women from such incidents in public places.
31 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam reports 1,006 COVID cases||The incidence of COVID-19 spiked in Ernakulam district with 1,006 cases reported on Wednesday. A total of 7,806 samples were sent from the district for testing on Tuesday. Thiruvaniyoor recorded 103 cases while Kizhakkambalam and Kuttampuzha had 34 each, Kalamassery logged 31, Karukutti 30, Ayyampuzha 25, and Thripunithura 24 new cases. Twelve of the newly infected were health workers. Only 780 people recovered from the disease on Wednesday. With 702 more added to the list of those under observation, the total shot up to 2,92,206. New admissions to FLTCs/hospitals were 150 while 140 people got discharged on recovery. The district had a total of 8,809 cases as on Wednesday evening.
31 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Load tests on twin flyover completed||The load tests on the newly constructed Vyttila and Kundannoor flyovers have got over, but a decision on the opening of the structures will be taken based on a report filed by the Chief Engineer of the PWD’s National Highway wing to the government. The load tests were conducted complying with the technical, legal, and safety stipulations. The flyovers, constructed using funds from the KIIFB, are expected to ease traffic along the busy Aroor-Palarivattom stretch. However, their commissioning could also result in traffic hold-ups at Palarivattom where reconstruction of the faulty flyover is in progress, experts said.
31 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Sam K. Daniel takes over in Kollam||Sam K. Daniel from Chadayamangalam division was elected as the twelfth president of Kollam district panchayat here on Wednesday. In the election held at the district panchayat council hall, he secured 22 among the total 26 votes polled. Mr. Daniel’s name was proposed by Girly Shanmughan, representing Oachira division, and seconded by Kottankara division councillor N.S. Prasannakumar. Brijesh Abraham, the other contestant for the post from the Vettikavala division, polled three votes. His name was proposed by C.P. Sudheesh Kumar and seconded by R. Rasmi. The vote of Ambikakumari from the Anchal division was considered invalid. A member of Communist Party of India (CPI) district executive committee, Mr. Daniel is a lawyer practising at the Kottarakara court. He has also served as the president of Elamadu grama panchayat and as the vice president of Chadayamangalam block panchayat. He was sworn in by Additional District Magistrate P.R. Gopalakrishan, who was given the charge of District Collector. V. Sumalal from Neduvathur division was elected as the vice president and the newly elected president administered the oath of office to her. Ms. Sumalal’s name was proposed by B. Jayanthi from the Perinadu division and seconded by Anil S. Kallelibhagam from the Thodiyoor division. She is the area secretary of All India Democratic Women’s Association and a member of Lawyer’s union State committee. Forest Minister K. Raju, t, was among those who attended the meeting that followed the swearing-in ceremony.
31 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Congress expels 4 members in Kollam||Presidents and vice presidents of 11 block panchayats and 68 grama panchayats of the district were elected at separate functions held here on Wednesday. In Ithikkara block panchayat S.Sadanandan Pillai from Kalacode division and Saritha Prathap from Velamanoor division were elected as president and vice president respectively. Others who took oath of office as the new presidents and vice presidents of various block panchayats include Santhosh Thuppassery and Sofia Salam (Chavara), B.Yashida and H.Hussain (Mukhathala), Deepthi Raveendran and Suresh Thanuveli (Oachira), A.Anandavalli and S.Aromal Unni (Pathanapuram), Radha Rajendran and Maneesh (Anchal), K.Harsha Kumar and Bechi B Malayil (Vettikavala), M.Shivaprasad and M.Leelamma (Kottarakara), Ansar Shafi and Geetha Kumari (Sasthamcotta), Lathika Vidyadharan and Hari V Nair (Chadayamangalam), and Jayadevi Mohan and B.Dinesh (Chittumala) Meanwhile, four members were expelled from Congress for supporting an Independent candidate in the election held at from Elampalloor panchayat. Sam Varghese, Sindhu Gopan, J,Mini and Ani G Lukose were expelled from the party after they joined hands with the BJP members and voted for Amina Sherif who was elected as the president. Proposed It was Sam Varghese of Congress who proposed the name of Amina that was seconded by a BJP member. The expulsion was for voting against party decision, said DCC president Bindu Krishna in a statement issued here today.  In Ithikkara block panchayat S.Sadanandan Pillai and Saritha Prathap were elected as president and vice president respectively
31 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||She sweeps to president’s chair with elan||The swearing-in ceremony at the Pathanapuram block panchayat was unlike any other as it witnessed A. Anandavalli who has been working as cleaning staff there for nearly a decade taking the reins of the local body. Elected from the Thalavoor division, the 46-year-old took charge as the president on Wednesday. The biggest surprise She said she was in for the biggest surprise of her life when the party leadership proposed her name for the position. “My candidature was not much of a surprise and I was confident about the electoral outcome too. I was not expecting this, but today is one of the happiest days in my life and I am well aware of the huge responsibility handed over to me,” said Ms. Anandavalli after the swearing-in ceremony. In the 13-member block panchayat, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has seven seats and the United Democratic Front (UDF) six. A branch committee member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Ms. Anandavalli could not continue her education after pre-degree and in the 90s she had worked as a pre-primary teacher and ayah. She joined the panchayat office as a part-time sweeper in 2011 and till 2017 her salary was a meager Rs. 2,000. “It was hiked to Rs. 6,000 three years ago. Though I was taken as a cleaning staff, I used to do the work of office attendant as well,” she said. Learning the ropes The block panchayat might be a familiar place for her, but Ms. Anandavalli said her initial days would be dedicated to learning the ropes. “I have seen how the office functions, but I will have to learn the official procedures and paperwork. Also, I will have to study about the issues that require immediate attention,” she said.
31 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||LDF makes a clean sweep in Kottayam||The Left Democratic Front (LDF), which has won the Kottayam district panchayat and 10 out of the 11 block panchayats, has reiterated its authority over Kottayam by wresting power in 50 out 71 grama panchayats. The United Democratic Front (UDF), long regarded as the traditional favourite, came to power in one block panchayat and 19 grama panchayats while the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) won two grama panchayats. Earlier in the day, Kerala Congress (M) member Nirmala Jimmi was elected president of the district panchayat. In the 22-member council, she secured 14 votes while her rival candidate Radha V. Nair of the UDF received just seven votes. Kerala Janapaksham member Shaun George, who represents the Poonjar division, abstained from voting. Ms. Jimmi, who became president of the district panchayat earlier in 2012, took oath before District Collector M. Anjana, who was the returning officer. In the afternoon session of the council, Communist Party of India (Marxist) member T.S. Sarath defeated Josmon Mundakkal of the UDF to become the new vice president. Election Deputy Collector Geo T. Manoj and ADM Anil Oommen took part in the election process. Of the 11 block panchayats, the LDF won president posts in all the blocks except Erattupetta, where the UDF held the majority. While CPI(M) members were elected president in seven block panchayat posts, Kerala Congress (M), a constituent of the LDF, received the post of presidents in three blocks. The block panchayat presidents are as follows: Vazhoor-Mukesh K. Mani, Ettumanoor-Arya Rajan, Kaduthuruthi -P.V. Sunil, Kanjirappally-Ajitha Ratheesh, Pallom-Tomichan Joseph, Pampady-Mariyamma Abraham, Vaikom- K.K. Ranjith [all CPI(M)], Lalam-Ruby Jose, Madappally-Alexander Prakkuzhy, Uzhavoor-Baiju John [all KC (M)] and Erattupetta-Bindu Sebastian (Congress). UDF loss Notwithstanding its success in forming administrative councils in five out of the six municipalities in the district, the UDF has suffered a major setback across grama panchayats . The coalition, which had won the district panchayat, 10 out of the 11 block panchayats, and 49 out of the 71 grama panchayats five years ago, managed to capture power in just one block panchayat and 19 grama panchayats. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance won two grama panchayats this time. While the coalition had a clear majority at Pallikkathodu, it also won the presidential election in the Mutholi grama panchayat after two UDF members abstained from voting.
31 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Priority to agriculture, drinking water projects, says Jameela||Kanathil Jameela of the CPI(M) and M.P. Sivanandan of the LJD were sworn in as the President and Vice President of Kozhikode District Panchayat on Wednesday. Ms.Jameela, representing Nanmanda division of the District Panchayat, is on her second term in the post. She held the post earlier during 2010-15 and had been instrumental in implementing several welfare projects under the banner of the District Panchayat. In the election to the post held on Wednesday morning, she secured 18 votes against 8 polled for Ambika Mangalath of Indian National Congress. UDF member Ramseena Narikkuni could not vote as she has been tested positive for COVID-19. District Collector S.Sambasiva Rao was the returning officer for the polls, who later administered the oath to Ms. Jameela. In the address that followed, Ms.Jameela said she could continue the developmental works undertaken by the previous boards of the District Panchayat. “Priority will be given to projects related to drinking water and agriculture. There should also be efforts to ensure food security,” she said. Ms.Jameela also requested the support of all the board members irrespective of political differences. M.P. Sivanandan, representing Arikkulam division, bagged 18 votes as against 8 scored by Nassar Estate Mukku of the IUML, who represents Omasseri division. He was administered the oath by Ms. Jameela. Mr. Sivanandan was earlier the Vice President of Moodadi grama panchayat. He will be in the post for two and half years, after which the post will be handed over to P. Gavas of CPI, who represents Kadalundi division.
31 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||LDF nominees take charge in 10 block panchayats in Kozhikode||Members of the Left Democratic Front on Wednesday assumed office in 10 of the 12 block panchayats in Kozhikode district. United Democratic Front members were elected in the rest of them. Sajitha Pookkadan is the new president of the Kozhikode block panchayat and Raveendran Parassery is the vice-president. Babu Nellooli assumed office as the president of the Kunnamangalam block panchayat while Mumthaz Hameed is the vice-president. K.P. Vanaja and T.K. Aravindakshan are the president and vice-president, respectively of Thooneri block panchayat. K.P. Girija is the president of the Vadakara block panchayat while V.K. Santhosh Kumar is the vice-president. K.P. Sunil Kumar took charge as the president of the Chelannur block panchayat where Shihana Rarappankandi is the vice-president. V.K. Anitha is the president of the Balussery block panchayat, where T.M. Sasi is the vice-president. In Melady block panchayat, K.P. Gopalan Nair and P. Prasanna are the president and vice-president, respectively. P. Baburaj is the president of the Panthalayani block panchayat, where Bindu Madhathil is the vice-president. In Perambra block panchayat, N.P. Babu is the president and C.K. Pathumma is the vice-president. M. Sreelatha is the president of Thodannur block panchayat and P.M. Leena is the vice-president. Thomas Kalathoor took charge as the president of the Koduvally block panchayat, where Saleena Siddique Ali is the vice-president. In Kunnummal block panchayat, K.P. Chandri is the president and Mohammed Kakkattil is the vice president.
31 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Korapuzha bridge nearing completion||The travel from Kozhikode city to Kannur is to get smoother soon with the new bridge across the Korapuzha getting commissioned in a few months. The work of the bridge is progressing fast and is expected to be completed by February 2021, authorities say. The bridge across Korapuzha on the National Highway, which was almost a century old and constructed by the British, was demolished in December 2018 as it was in a dangerous condition. Besides, it was too narrow to accommodate the heavy traffic on the route and was often the reason for hours-long traffic blocks on the highway. The new bridge is being constructed at a cost of Rs. 26-crore by the Kerala Road Fund Board and National Highways Authority of India. It is much broader compared with the earlier one. It is 12-metre wide, of which 7.5-metre is the carriage way and the rest consists of 1.5-metre-wide footpaths on both sides. The bridge is being constructed on nine pillars over which there are seven spans, each 32-metre-long and 12-metre wide. Besides, there are approach roads on both sides and service roads where necessary. Street lights are also being set up on the new bridge. After the demolition of the old bridge, the traffic from Kozhikode to northern towns such as Koyilandy and Vadakara, besides Kannur, were diverted from Puthiyangadi through the NH bypass road. With this, traffic through Elathur, where the bridge is located, had become minimal, adversely affecting the business and lifestyle of people on the stretch between Puthiyangadi and Elathur. Reopening of the Korapuzha bridge and restoring of the traffic through the stretch, are hence much looked forward to by the local people.
31 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||638 new cases reported in Kozhikode; daily TPR 11.33%||A daily test positivity rate of 11.33% was reported in Kozhikode district on Wednesday when 638 of the 5,628 samples tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 616 locally acquired infections while the source of 13 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation had 102 cases of local transmission, Vadakara 38, Kuruvattoor 33, Eramala 27, Koduvally 26, Chorod 23, and Mukkom 22. There were 718 recoveries and the active caseload stands at 6,209. Meanwhile, three deaths were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Wednesday and two others died on Tuesday.  In Wayanad A total of 267 people, including two health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Wednesday, taking the total number of active cases to 2,488. Of the new cases, 266 patients were infected through local contact and a person had returned from Karnataka. As many as 284 people recovered on the day. The district has so far reported 16,758 COVID-19 cases while 14,168 people recovered. As many as 9,069 persons are under observation.
31 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Calicut University to regularise temporary staff||Calicut University has decided to regularise the services of over 35 temporary employees who have put in 10 years with the institution. This was decided at a meeting of the Syndicate held on Wednesday. Daily wage labourers in posts such as computer programmer, driver, watchman, room boy, pump operator, electrician, and plumber will benefit from the decision. The university would seek the State government’s permission for the purpose. United Democratic Front members in the Syndicate, however, opposed the move, pointing out that the Supreme Court had ruled against regularizing posts to which the Kerala State Public Service Commission makes appointments. Those belonging to the Left Democratic Front claimed that this was a humanitarian gesture as most of those people had crossed the age bar for appointment. The Syndicate also decided to invite tenders to set up local area network system on the university campus. The decision to give the contract to Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society without inviting tenders has been deferred as it had snowballed into a controversy. The project is worth Rs. 2.8 crore. The Syndicate also decided not to collect hostel fees and library fees from the students during the lockdown period. New courses would start in affiliated colleges on January 31. The Syndicate also decided to seek clarity from the government on the order directing college teachers to be on duty between 8.30 a.m. and 5 p.m. as classes are scheduled to begin in January. Date extended Meanwhile, the university has extended the last date for admission to graduate and postgraduate programmes for the 2010-21 academic year under private registration to January 10. Applications can be submitted with a fine of Rs. 100 till January 17. Candidates should register themselves online, download the application form and send it to the Deputy Registrar (Private Registration), Distance Education Block, Calicut University (P.O), Malappuram 673635, along with required documents.
31 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Presidents take oath in 70 grama panchayats||The presidents and vice presidents of 70 grama panchayats took the oath of office in Kozhikode district on Wednesday. At the end of political negotiations and strategic alliance, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) nominees emerged as heads in 44 out of the 70 grama panchayats. When Communist Party of India (Marxist) nominees took the majority of 42 posts, Kunnamangalam and Cheruvannur panchayat were given to Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) and the Communist Party of India (CPI) as part of the political understanding within the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Within the United Democratic Front (UDF), the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) nominees were sworn in as presidents in 15 grama panchayats. For the Congress, the positions in eight grama panchayats were given away as per the political understanding. At Azhiyoor, fortune favoured the newly formed Janakeeya Munnai in the draw of lots. Both the LDF and UDF-RMP supported Janakeeya Munnani had secured equal seats which eventually culminated in the draw of lots. Ayisha Ummer was sworn in as the new president representing the Janakeeya Munnani. The vice president post also came in favour of the Janakeeya Munnani. The Janakeeya Munnani also made it in Onchiyam and Eramala panchayats. The Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) nominee was sworn in as president in Onchiyam. As part of the political understanding, the administrative tenure in Eramala panchayat was divided among the IUML and RMPI. At Unnikulam panchayat, the draw of lots came in favour of the UDF to continue in power. Indira Eradiyil was elected the president. At Kayakkodi panchayat, the LDF was fortunate to win the lot. O.P. Shijil was sworn in as president here where both the LDF and UDF had won equal number of seats. Complying with the COVID-19 protocol, there were subdued celebrations in the limits of all grama panchayats to greet the new local body heads. Many of them also took part in the village-level celebrations hosted by their parties.
31 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fortune favours UDF in Azhiyoor||Despite the unexpected support of two Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) members and an Independent, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) could not seize power in Azhiyoor grama panchayat as fortune favoured the United Democratic Front (UDF) at the end of the draw to select winners as both the UDF and the LDF had eight members each at the time of the election on Wednesday. Though the LDF-SDPI combine had actually nine members in effect, one of the LDF members who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 could not turn up for voting which eventually ended up in a tie. After the elections, the LDF and the UDF had secured six seats each. Of the 18 seats, others had secured five seats. The NDA too had won a seat. Meanwhile, the newfound alliance of the LDF with the SDPI emerged as a hot topic of discussion. SDPI members Zeenath Basheer and Salim Punathil were the two who came in support of the LDF along with independent member K. Leela. The aim was to beat the rival front led by the Janakeeya Munnani comprising the Congress, the Indian Union Muslim league and the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India. Responding to the rivals’ criticism, LDF spokespersons said there were no formal alliance or tie up with the SDPI. The SDPI members were independently supporting the LDF, they claimed. Until 2010, Azhiyoor was a stronghold of the LDF. The UDF came to power here in 2010 and 2015. However, the entry of Loktantrik Janata Dal had helped the LDF assume power for a few years in the last term.
31 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two held for damaging police vehicle||The Town Police on Wednesday arrested two persons, including a minor, who were allegedly part of a gang that damaged a police patrolling vehicle in Kozhikode city. Kolathara native Sumeer and the minor boy were arrested after checking the Closed Circuit Television Camera visuals from the spot. The two, along with a few others, were seen throwing stones at the vehicle. A Civil Police Officer had suffered injuries in the incident. Town Police sources said their vehicle was attacked while carrying out checking against suspected drug peddlers. It was a planned attack and the windshield of the vehicle was smashed, they said. The gang reportedly turned against the vehicle when two policemen were about to chase a few suspected persons spotted on a city road. The police had intensified checking in the area after receiving complaints of flesh trade and antisocial activities.
31 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Held for sexual assault on woman conductor||The Nadakavu police on Wednesday arrested a Kasaragod native on the charge of sexually assaulting a woman conductor. Shyju Joseph, the suspect in the sexual assault incident, was taken into custody with the support of a few passengers. According to police sources, Shyju was travelling by a KSRTC bus from Kannur to Kozhikode on Tuesday. Though he tried to escape after the assault, the other passengers in the bus overpowered him following the complaint of the woman conductor. The suspect has been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days.
31 December 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||IUML’s M.K. Rafeeka in Malappuram||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML)’s M.K. Rafeeka was elected president of the Malappuram District Panchayat here on Wednesday. IUML’s Ismail Moothedam was elected vice president. Ms. Rafeeka became President by winning 26 of the 32 votes. She defeated Left Democratic Front (LDF)’s Arifa Nasar, who got five votes. One vote was declared invalid. Congress’s N.A. Kareem proposed Ms. Rafeeka for the president’s post, and P. Manaf backed her. Ms. Rafeeka represents Anakkayam division of the District Panchayat. Ismail Moothedam was elected Vice President by winning 27 votes against LDF’s A.K. Subair. K.T. Ajmal proposed Mr. Moothedam’s name and P.K.C. Abdurahman seconded it. Mr. Moothedam represents Chokad division of the District Panchayat. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan administered the oath of office to Ms. Rafeeka. IUML district president Sayed Sadikali Shihab Thangal; Sayed Basheerali Shihab Thangal; IUML district general secretary U.A. Latheef; P. Ubaidullah, MLA; former District Panchayat presidents K.P. Mariyumma, Arimbra Mohammed, Suhara Mampad and A.P. Unnikrishnan; senior IUML leaders Umer Arakkal, Salim Kuruvambalam, Kurukkoli Moideen, Noushad Mannisseri, and Congress leaders V.A. Kareem and K. Mohandas addressed a meeting that followed the oath taking ceremony. A commerce postgraduate, Ms. Rafeeka said that she would look upon the responsible position with due respect. She called upon the entire council and the people for concerted efforts to take the district forward in comprehensive development. Former president of Pulamanthol grama panchayat, Ms. Rafeeka was elected from Anakkayam division with 11,449 votes majority. She was instrumental in winning many accolades for Pulamanthol grama panchayat between 2010 and 2015. In 2011, the panchayat won the State Swaraj Trophy, the Central Vayo Sreshta Samman, and Gaurav Grama Sabha award. In 2013, she won a Central award for panchayat empowerment. In 2014, Pulamanthol won Rajiv Gandhi Best Grama Panchayat award.
31 December 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||UDF gains power in 72 panchayats, LDF in 22||Presidents and vice presidents of the three-tier pancahayts assumed office in the district on Wednesday. United Democratic Front (UDF)’s K.M. Rafeeka and Ismail Moothedam assumed office as District Panchayat president and vice president respectively. Out of the 15 block panchayats, UDF came to power in 12 and the LDF in three blocks. When the UDF presidents and vice presidents assumed office in Malappuram, Areekode, Perinthalmanna, Kuttippuram, Tanur, Kalikavu, Vengara, Tirurangadi, Mankada, Kondotty, Wandoor, and Nilambur block panchayats, the LDF had its presidents and vice presidents assume power in Ponnani, Tirur and Perumpadappu block panchayats. Out of the 94 grama panchayats in Malappuram district, the UDF came to power in 72 and the LDF in 22. The UDF had a simple majority in 66 panchayats. Vazhayoor, Kuruva, Chungathara, Elamkulam, Wandoor and Veliyamkode panchayats elected UDF presidents through a draw of lots. Nannamukku, Melattur, Tiruvali and Niramarathur panchayats favoured the LDF in a draw of lots.
31 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Binumol to head district panchayat||Left Democratic Front (LDF)’s K. Binumol and C.K. Chamunni were elected president and vice president respectively of the Palakkad district panchayat here on Wednesday. They assumed office after taking an oath at a function presided over by District Collector D. Balamurali. Mr. Balamurali administered the oath to Ms. Binumol, who in turn administered the oath to her deputy Mr. Chamunni. They both won the election by securing 27 out of 30 votes. Ms. Binumol was elected to the district panchayat from the Malampuzha division. Her name was suggested by K.V. Sreedharan and seconded by Shabira Teacher. Ms. Binumol succeeds K. Santhakumari as president of the district panchayat. Mr. Chamunni was elected from the Tarur division. P. Moideenkutty proposed his name for the vice president’s post and A.N. Neeraj seconded it.  New road After assuming office, Ms. Binumol and Mr. Chamunni said they would carry forward the development work initiated by the previous council.  Development work to the tune of Rs. 127 crore would be completed within three months, they said. A road connecting the District Hospital to the Women and Children Hospital will be constructed in consultation with the municipality, they said. “This is to do away with the constant clogging on the narrow road in front of the Women and Children Hospital,” they added. They said the new council would focus on such projects as the Palakkayam water scheme, Kannambra rice park, farms under the district panchayat, uplift of tribal children, and strengthening of sports sector.
31 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||BJP alleges unethical nexus between UDF, LDF in State||Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Surendran alleged an ‘unholy alliance’ between the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) in Kerala. “The UDF has become vassals of the LDF. Chennithala [Ramesh Chennithala] and company have surrendered the UDF to the LDF,” Mr. Surendran said here on Wednesday. The BJP leader alleged that the UDF offered president’s position to the LDF in the Chennithala panchayat as part of “this submission.” “The UDF having six seats in Chennithala has made itself insignificant by offering support to the LDF, which has only four seats. Both these fronts have no political morality,” he said. He alleged that both the UDF and the LDF were shamelessly hobnobbing with extremist groups such as the Jamaat-e-Islami and the Popular Front of India. “In the Pathanamthitta and Shoranur municipalities, the LDF is in alliance with the SDPI.” Mr. Surendran said the BJP would launch a series of protests against the “unholy and unethical” political behaviour of the UDF and the LDF in the State. He alleged that Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala was helping the LDF, expecting a quid pro quo in Haripad in the coming Assembly elections. “In politics, two plus two may not be four. Nothing is going to help Chennithala,” he said. “The political untouchability being displayed by the UDF and the LDF towards the BJP will evoke a strong backlash for them,” he warned. He said the police had become shamelessly inactive and biased under Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “Where has the Human Rights Commission gone when the State is witnessing a series of grave rights violations?” he asked. The BJP will campaign against the LDF government’s anti-people policies, corrupt governance, and the despicable failure in handling the COVID-19 pandemic. BJP district president E. Krishnadas and State general secretary C. Krishnakumar accompanied Mr. Surendran.
31 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||It’s LDF 65, UDF 23 in grama panchayat tally||Civic body administration scenario in Palakkad district became clear on Wednesday with the election of presidents and vice presidents in 88 grama panchayats, 13 block panchayats, and the district panchayat. Some grama panchayats whose fate had hung in balance witnessed dramatic scenes as some of the elected members succumbed to the tension and pressure caused by the circumstances. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) won 11 of the 13 block panchayats and the district panchayat. The United Democratic Front (UDF) won only the Mannarkkad and Pattambi block panchayats. LDF presidents and vice presidents were elected in 65 of the 88 grama panchayats. The LDF won six of the eight grama panchayats where none had a majority. Three were wrested with the help of the Independents, and three were gained through a draw of lots. The LDF won power in Puthusseri, Muthalamada, and Parali panchayats with the help of the Independents. It won Koppam, Kapur, and Kavassery panchayats through a draw of lots. The UDF came to power in 23 grama panchayats. In the Nemmara and Kuzhalmannam panchayats, the UDF came to power through a draw of lots. In the Kavassery panchayat, a UDF member’s invalid vote helped the LDF bag power. However, the UDF won the vice president’s position through a draw of lots. The LDF won the vice president’s post through a draw of lots in Mankara. The panchayats that favoured the UDF are Alanallur, Kottopadam, Kumaramputhur, Thachanattukara, Karimpuzha, Pirayiri, Puthunagaram, Vadavannur, Nelliyampathy, Tiruvegapura, Chalissery, Pattithara, Anakkara, Parathur, Kuzhalmannam, Mankara, Nemmara, Eruthempathy, Pattanchery, Elapully, Kuthanur, Mathur, and Peringottukurissi. In the Akathethara panchayat, where the LDF came to power, a CPI(M) member voted for the BJP’s presidential candidate, leading to some melodramatic scenes. In the 17-member council, the LDF has 10 members and the BJP has seven. The UDF has no members here. The LDF’s Lalithambika, who was considered for the president's post earlier, voted for the BJP candidate in protest against the CPI(M)’s replacing her with Sunita.
31 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||LDF loses Mankara, rues an invalid vote||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) lost power at the Mankara grama panchayat because of an invalid vote by one of its members on Wednesday. In the election held to choose the civic body president, one Communist Party of India (Marxist) member’s vote was declared invalid, and the rival United Democratic Front (UDF) grabbed power through a draw of lots.  Six each Both the LDF and the UDF have six seats each in the 14-member panchayat governing council. A Bharatiya Janata Party member and a CPI(M)-backed Independent, who defeated the CPI’s official LDF candidate in the local body polls, are the other two members in the council. The BJP stayed away from voting.  LDF in 2015 Although the LDF had assured the support of the CPI(M) Independent, the invalidation of an LDF vote tied the results 6-6, leading to a draw of lots through which the UDF was elected. The LDF had wrested Mankara from the UDF in 2015.
31 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||LDF retains Koppam through draw of lots||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) retained power in the Koppam grama panchayat through a draw of lots. Luck was with the LDF when the presidential election took place on Wednesday.  BJP stays away Both the LDF and the United Democratic Front (UDF) had secured eight seats each and the Bharatiya Janata Party, one seat. The BJP stayed away from voting, leading to a draw of lots. CPI(M)’s T. Unnikrishnan was elected panchayat president in the draw of lots. However, the vice presidential draw of lots favoured the UDF. Congress’s Punya Satheesh was elected vice president.
31 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Omallur Shankaran takes charge in Pathanamthitta||Senior CPI(M) leader Omallur Shankaran and Raji P. Rajappan of the CPI have been elected respectively as the president and the vice-president of the Pathanamthitta district panchayat . In an election held to the 16-member council on Wednesday, Mr.Shankaran won 12 votes while C.Krishnakumar, a candidate fielded by the United Democratic Front, received just four votes. District Collector P.B. Noohu, who was also the presiding officer, administered the oath of office to Mr.Shankaran, who in turn, administered the pledge to the vice-president. Soon after swearing in, Mr.Shankaran informed that the first meeting of the District panchayat council would be held on January 5. On the occasion, he also carried out the distribution of financial assistance on behalf of the Kerala State Literacy Mission to the family of a Prerak, who died recently. Mr.Shankaran , who represents the Elanthur Division, is slated to handover the post to Sreenadevi Kunjamma of the CPI after three years. The KC(M), meanwhile, will take over the position from Ms.Kunjamma in the fifth year of the council. Ms.Rajappan, who represented the Anikkadu division, has been an active member of the CPI for the past one-and-half decade. As per an understanding within the Left Democratic Front, the post of the vice-president will be shared between the CPI, KC(M) and the Janata Dal (S) for a term of one year each while the CPI(M) will hold the post in the last two years.
31 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||LDF bags 31 panchayats in Pathanamthitta||Carrying on the momentum it attained during the recent local body polls, the Left Democratic Front formed administrative councils in as many as 31 out of the 53 grama panchayats and seven out of the eight block panchayats in Pathanamthitta. The United Democratic Front came to power in 17 grama panchayats while the National Development Alliance captured power in three panchayats. The fate of the remaining two panchayats- Kottangal and Thottapuzhassey, will be decided later. The day also witnessed some dramatic scenes as Binu Joseph, the CPI(M) member, who had been elected as president of the Kottangal panchayat with the support of the SDPI, resigned from the post moments later. Both the LDF and the BJP have five members each in the panchayat council while the UDF has just two members besides one member by the SDPI. In Ranni, Sobha M. Charley of the Kerala Congress (M), a constituent of the LDF, was elected as the president with the support of the BJP. Both the UDF and LDF have five members each in the panchayat council while the BJP has two members, besides an Independent. Similarly in Chittar, Saji Kulathingal of the UDF was elected as president with the support of the LDF. Later in the day, the Congress announced the ouster of Mr.Kulathingal for violating the party whip. In Thottapuzhassery, where six out of the 13 wards are held by Independents, both the UDF and the LDF have failed to form the administrative council, sources said The BJP has just one member in the local body.
31 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||714 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 714 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, 667 people contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 42 cases were yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Pandalam reported 46 cases, followed by Ranni-Perunad with 41 cases. Meanwhile, the disease claimed two more lives in the district. The victims were identified as a 47-year-old Pathanamthitta native and 52 year old woman from Kadapra. With 422 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5177 active cases. Kollam The district reported 602 new cases of COVID-19 and 389 recoveries on Wednesday. Among the patients are 593 contact cases, four NRIs, three persons who had travelled from another State and two cases with no known source. While 1,344 people completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 1,38,464 primary and 12,891 secondary contacts of the positive cases. Kottayam As many as 542 people s tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Wednesday Of the fresh cases, all but five persons contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 50 children and 107 people s aged above 60. With 70 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally followed by Changanassery and Kooropada with 24 cases each
31 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree planning Gramakam||The Kudumbashree Mission is implementing Gramakam, a campaign for preparing Village Poverty Reduction Plan (VPRP) to realise comprehensive development of a village. For the first time, the Kudumbashree is leading activities for preparation of the VPRP in 941 grama panchayats in the State. The panchayats have been directed to couple the VPRP with the next year’s Grama Panchayat Development Plan (GPDP), the preparation of which has been directed by the Union government. The National Rural Livelihoods Mission has directed the Kudumbashree to implement its activities for bringing the needs of the people to the attention of local self-government institutions such as the VPRP. Planning  As part of this bottom-up planning activity, special neighbourhood group meetings are being held this week. The Kudumbashree hopes to present these needs to the panchayats on January 26. At the individual level, one may require various services. Access to entitlements such as social welfare pensions, insurance support, and MGNREGS job cards, may be some of the requirements of the individual. These rights of each individual will be included in the first part of the VPRP. Programmes for livelihood of the individual will also be made part of the plan process at the ward level. The needs of families or livelihood groups in agriculture, animal husbandry, small-scale enterprises, and marketing sectors will be identified and included in the VPRP plan formulation. Programmes will be needed to find solutions for local social problems such as alcohol consumption, environmental issues, pollution, and so on, besides construction and protection of public assets and natural resources, be it road, masonry check dams, drinking water facilities, street lights, libraries, or playgrounds. Through Gramakam, the Kudumbashree aimed at submitting to panchayats a plan prepared by determining the needs of the people by including entitlements, livelihood needs, social projects, and infrastructural requirements, a statement here said. To implement the VPRP, 320 resource persons from the Kudumbashree training team were selected, and they extended training at the community development society (CDS) level. After the area development society (ADS) level, the special NHG meetings will be held to fill in various requirements in a data collection form. The data will be compiled at the ADS level, and ward-level plans prepared. These will again be compiled for preparation of panchayat level plans. The Kudumbashree chairpersons will present the VPRP to the panchayats on January 26. Through this bottom-level planning, the panchayat administrative committees will be able to identify the programmes needed by the people the most and prioritise them.  For the first time, the Kudumbashree is leading activities for preparation of the VPRP in 941 grama panchayats in the State.
31 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District panchayat polls go as expected||There was not much change in the expected script in the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat election, as D. Sureshkumar and A. Shailaja Begum of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) were chosen for top posts on Wednesday. While the president election was a no contest, as the United Democratic Front (UDF) could not field a candidate, the vice president election witnessed the LDF and the UDF securing the expected number of votes. 26-member council In the 26-member council, the LDF has 20 seats, while the UDF has six seats. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which had one seat in the previous term, failed to repeat its win this time. On Wednesday, District Collector Navjot Khosa presided over the election proceedings. The UDF was unable to field a candidate for the president post, as it is reserved for Scheduled Caste candidates in this term. With no SC candidate among its six winners, the UDF could not contest. Mr. Suresh Kumar, who wrested the Malayinkeezh division from the UDF for the first time, was elected unopposed to the post. The District Collector administered the oath to the newly elected president. In the election to the vice president post held in the afternoon, the UDF had fielded Sofy Thomas, who won from the Palode division, against Shailaja Begum who won from the Kizhuvilam division. The LDF candidate polled all of the front’s 20 votes, while the UDF candidate got six votes. Mr. Suresh Kumar administered the oath to Ms. Shailaja Begum. Offering greetings Following the election process, a function was organised to congratulate the winners. Among those present on the occasion were the outgoing district panchayat president V.K. Madhu, V.K. Prasanth, MLA, CPI(M) district secretary and former district panchayat president Anavoor Nagappan, and others. Mr. Sureshkumar said that this was an opportunity for him to strengthen the State government’s developmental initiatives. He said that the new administration would focus on implementing people-friendly projects.  The UDF was unable to field a candidate for the president post, as it is reserved for Scheduled Caste candidates in this term.
31 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||In daily caseload, State continues on top||The State continues to report the highest number of new COVID-19 cases in the country with 6,268 new cases on Wednesday, when 63,887 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Test positivity rate remained steady at 9.81%, as the trend has been since the past few weeks. The active case pool rose to 65,394 cases on Wednesday. With 5,707 persons reported to have recovered on the day, the total number of recoveries from COVID-19 has gone up to 6,87,104. Public health experts said that while the State’s epidemic curve did go up after the local body polls, the case graph did not surge as much as anticipated. Cases went up by 10-15% generally in the State after the local body polls, especially in some districts like Pathanamthitta and Kollam. The four northern districts which held the polls in the last phase of the elections are yet to show a surge in new cases, which could happen in the next two weeks. 28 deaths With 28 new deaths added to the official list of COVID fatalities on Wednesday, the State’s official COVID toll till date has risen to 3,042. Four deaths each were reported from Alappuzha, Kottayam and Kozhikode, three from Pathanamthitta, two each from Kollam, Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad and Malappuram while Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kannur reported one death each. Among districts, cases are soaring in Ernakulam, Kollam and Pathanamthitta. Ernakulam reported the highest number of cases on Wednesday with 1,006 persons newly testing positive. Pathanamthitta reported 714, Kozhikode 638, Kollam 602, Kottayam 542, Alappuzha 463, Thrissur 450, Malappuram 407, Palakkad 338, Thiruvananthapuram 320, Wayanad 267, Kannur 242, Idukki 204 and Kasaragod 75.
31 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Biodegradable tableware from NIIST||The CSIR-National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST) here has come up with an alternative to single-use plastics. NIIST scientists have developed a technology for manufacturing biodegradable tableware — including plates, cutleries and cups —from agricultural residues and byproducts. The know-how was licensed to Marikar Green Earth Pvt Ltd. last week. A huge amount of agricultural residues/by-products are released into the environment from food processing sectors. The utilisation of these wastes as an alternative to single-use plastics provides immense opportunities, says the NIIST. Primary agricultural residues are generated as a by-product during the harvesting of agricultural crops while secondary agricultural residues are the leftovers from post-harvest processing. According to the NIIST, the biodegradable tableware developed from them has a shelf-life of up to six months and heat resistance up to 100 degree celsius. The developed product is found to be ideal for replacing the single-use plastics, according to the NIIST. 27,000 tonnes a day Citing Central Pollution Control Board statistics, NIIST scientists pointed out that India generates around 27,000 tonnes of plastic waste a day. The country produced around 400 million tonnes of plastic waste in 2018-2019 alone. “The shocking fact is that only 9% of all the plastics ever produced was recycled and around 60% of the plastics have been disposed of into the natural environment or landfills. With recent ban imposed by various States of India for single-use plastics, there comes a huge demand for alternative to plastics which are biodegradable in nature,” the NIIST said.
31 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Neyyattinkara: Collector calls for verification of land status||District Collector Navjot Khosa has directed the tahsildar, Neyyattinkara, to verify the status of the parcel of land at Pongil, near Neyyattinkara, where the couple, Rajan and Ambili, who succumbed to burns during an eviction bid, had been living with their sons. Ms. Khosa is expected to submit her report to the State government on Thursday after receiving the tahsildar's report. Vasantha, who resides in the area, had gone to court against Rajan claiming that the latter had encroached on her land more than a year ago. ‘Poramboke’ Meanwhile, it is argued that the land in question was ‘Poramboke’ and was illegally purchased by Vasantha. The Neyyattinkara tahsildar will look into this aspect of the case as part of his inquiry. Rural SP B. Asokan also has launched an investigation into the incident. State Police Chief Loknath Behera had ordered a probe by the SP on Tuesday. Eviction The incident pertaining to the case had occurred while the Munsiff-appointed commission, with the assistance of police, attempted to evict the family on December 22. The Neyyattinkara police had also registered a case on December 22 against Rajan for attempted suicide and preventing public servants from carrying out their duty. Rajan and Ambili had succumbed to their injuries on December 28. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and K. Ansalan, MLA, called on the couple’s sons Rahul and Renjith on Wednesday to express their concern.  The Collector is expected to submit report to the State government on Thurday after receiving the report of Neyyattinkara tahsildar.   More on the case  The Collector is expected to submit report to the State government on Thursday It is argued that the land in question is ‘Poramboke’ and was illegally purchased by Vasantha
31 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2-phase Assembly polls likely||Indications are that the 2021 Assembly elections in the State would be held in two phases, but a final decision on the matter is still awaited. The formal announcement regarding the polls is expected by the first or second week of March, according to Chief Electoral Officer (Kerala) Teeka Ram Meena. Based on the feedback from district collectors, Mr. Meena has indicated to the Election Commission of India (ECI) that two phases would be advisable as additional manpower and infrastructure are required, given the COVID-19 situation in the State. Mr. Meena, however, said that he had not yet made a formal recommendation to the ECI. The matter would come up before ECI officials who are scheduled to visit Kerala soon. “The ECI will take a final decision on the matter in consultation with political parties and the State government,” Mr. Meena said. The rationale The 2016 Assembly elections were held on a single day on May 16. The just-concluded local body elections were held in three phases. The rationale for multiple phases is that additional manpower and infrastructure would be needed. If the pandemic persists, the State would require 15,000 auxiliary polling stations in addition to the 25,041 that were used for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. This would see the number of polling officials shoot up from 2.31 lakh in 2019 to 2.41 lakh. Mr. Meena urged political parties to ensure that their representatives are present during the first-level checks on electronic voting machines (EVMs) which began on December 28. He said political parties were showing scant interest in the exercise. “The ECI is particular that the machines are checked in the presence of political parties, engineers and officials,” he said. VVPAT machines As many as 51,500 ballot units, 51,100 control units and 55,300 voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines have been brought to Kerala from Telangana and Maharashtra for the Assembly elections.  Political parties must ensure the presence of their representatives during the first-level checks on EVMs.
31 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||97.73% participate in RTC referendum||As many as 26,848 of the 27,471 employees (97.73%) of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) participated in the much-delayed 2020 referendum held on Wednesday to select recognised unions in the transport undertaking. The highest number of votes was registered in the Thiruvananthapuram Zone with 10,147 of the 10,349 eligible employees casting vote In the Central Zone based in Ernakulam, 9,574 of the 9,817 participated. In the North Zone headquartered in Kozhikode, 7,121 of the 7,305 staff exercised their franchise. As many as 100 booths were set up in depots across the State. The results will be declared on January 1. The validity of the recognised unions — the CITU-affiliated Kerala State Road Transport Employees Association (KSRTEA) and the INTUC-affiliated Transport Democratic Federation (TDF) — had ended on December 14, 2019 after a six-month grace period. HC intervention The last referendum was in 2016. A minimum of 15% votes is needed for becoming a registered union as per the Kerala Recognition of Trade Union Act, 2010 and the Kerala Recognition of Trade Unions Rules, 2011. In 2016, the KSRTEA got 48% votes and the TDF 28% from an electorate of 42,000. The referendum comes after the intervention of the High Court in a case filed by the TDF. The Labour Commissioner had found 14 trade unions in the KSRTC eligible for participating in the 2020 referendum.
31 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New Year: more police personnel deployed in city||The police have tightened security in the capital city in view of the New Year celebrations. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay has urged the people to engage in the celebrations by observing the COVID-19 protocol. Violations of COVID-19 guidelines and traffic regulations will attract stern action, he said on Wednesday. Inspections, especially at tourist spots such as Kovalam, will be increased. Additional personnel Nearly a 100 additional personnel have been deployed in and around Kovalam. Security has been beefed up at Shanghumughom and along the Vizhinjam-Kazhakootam bypass stretch, Mr. Upadhyay said. Special units will be deployed along 18 centres in the city. Vehicle inspections will be carried out at 20 points in the city and 12 points along the Kazhakuttam-Vetturoad stretch. Deputy Police Commissioner Divya V. Gopinath is in charge of the security arrangements.
31 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF attains power in 10 out of 11 block panchayats||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) came to power in 10 out of a total of 11 block panchayats in the district after elections to the posts of president and vice president were held on Wednesday. In the Vellanad block panchayat, where the LDF and the United Democratic Front (UDF) had the same number of seats, the UDF came to power through drawing of lots. In the Parassala block panchayat, S.K. Ben Darwin of the CPI(M), who won from the Nediyamkode division, was elected the president while A. Alvediza of the CPI was elected the vice president. In the Vellanad block panchayat, S. Indulekha of the Congress, who won from the Vellanad division, was elected president, while S.L. Krishnakumari of the CPI(M), who won from the Vithura division, was elected vice president. In the Pothencode block panchayat, Hariprasad of the CPI(M), who won from the Menamkulam division, was elected president, while Aneeja K.S. of the CPI(M), who won from the Kudavoor division, was elected the vice president. In the Athiyannur block panchayat, M.V. Manmohan of the CPI(M), who won from the Payattuvila division, was elected president, while B.B. Sunitha Rani of the CPI(M), who won from the Venpakal division, was elected as the vice president. Nemom In the Nemom block panchayat, S.K. Preeja of the CPI(M), who won from the Poonkode division, was elected president, while S. Chandran Nair of LJD, who won from the Malayinkeezh division, was elected as the vice president. In the Perumkadavila block panchayat, G. Lalkrishna of the CPI, who won from the Ottasekharamangalaam division, was elected president while R. Simi of the CPI(M), who won from the Chemboor division, was elected as the vice president. In the Nedumangad block panchayat, V. Ambili of the CPI(M), who won from the Maruthoor division, was elected president, while Vaisakh P. of the CPI, who won from the Vattappara division, was elected as the vice president. In the Vamanapuram block panchayat, G. Komalam of the CPI(M), who won from the Palode division, was elected president, while S.M. Rasi of the CPI(M), who won from the Kallara division, was elected as the vice president. Kilimanoor In the Kilimanoor block panchayat, B.P. Murali of the CPI(M), who won from the Nagaroor division, was elected president, while Sreeja Unnikrishnan of the CPI(M), who won from the Koduvazhannoor division, was elected as the vice president. In the Chiryanikeezh block panchayat, O.S. Ambika of the CPI(M), who won from the Edakkode division, was elected president, while S. Feroze Lal of the JDS, who won from the Vakkom division, was elected as the vice president. In the Varkala block panchayat, Smitha Sundaresan of the CPI(M), who won from the Vadasserikkonam division, was elected president, while Lenin Raj of the CPI(M), who won from the Elakamon division, was elected as the vice president.
31 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man arrested for assaulting mother||The police on Wednesday arrested a man from Edava for assaulting his mother. The Ayiroor police registered a case suo motu against the man, identified as Razak, 28, of Kunnuvila House, Thusharamukku, after a video of the assault sparked outrage on social media. The footage, reportedly shot by Razak’s sister, showed him repeatedly kicking his mother Shahida, 49, and hurling abuses at her. The woman is seen seated on the floor, with her back to the wall. Razak, 28, was allegedly drunk when he attacked his mother. Razak’s sister had forwarded the footage to her father who sent it to his brother-in-law who is in the Gulf. The incident pertaining to the case had occurred on December 10, but Shahida has refused to file a formal complaint against her son. The police suo motu registered a case after the footage went viral on social media. Meanwhile, the Kerala Women’s Commission has sought a report from the Rural SP, Thiruvananthapuram, on the incident.
31 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Voters’ list on Jan. 20||A little over 5.38 lakh applications have been received till Wednesday with one more day left for a special campaign launched in connection with the revision of electoral roll for the 2021 Assembly elections. The final voters’ list will be published on January 20, Teeka Ram Meena, Chief Electoral Officer (Kerala), said. While the final list will be prepared with the revisions made till Thursday, December 31, eligible voters will still have an opportunity to make it into the supplementary voters’ list. The supplementary list will be published ten days before the withdrawal of nominations. “People should not be confused. Applications filed after December 31 will be accepted, but the names will not be included in the main list, but in the supplementary list,” he said. As per the draft list published on November 16, the State has 2,63,08,087 voters. The number of voters above 80 years stands at 6,51,317. The draft list also has 56,697 service voters and 89,154 NRI voters. So far, 98,840 names have been deleted from the list, which include deceased voters, repetition of names, and voters who have shifted elsewhere.
31 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||29 from U.K. test positive||With 29 out of the 1,609 air travellers who reached Kerala from the U.K. between December 9 and December 23 testing positive for COVID-19 as on Wednesday, the State government has given a directive to all districts to increase general testing for COVID-19 in the community. The samples of all 29 U.K.-returnees who tested RT-PCR positive have been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for genome sequencing to identify if they have indeed contracted the new SARS-CoV-2 variant B.1.1.7. Though the Centre announced that so far 20 U.K.-returnees had been found to be infected by the new virus variant, the results of the samples sent from Kerala are yet to be released. The new U.K. variant is believed to be 56% more transmissible than the previously circulating strain, even though no association with increased severity has been found yet. People reluctant Senior Health officials said that while the State wanted to increase testing, in many districts, especially Malappuram and Kasaragod, people were reluctant to subject themselves to testing and this was affecting the districts’ efforts to improve testing.
31 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No public gatherings for revelry: KSDMA||Given the COVID-19 scenario in the State, stern measures have been put in place to prevent public gatherings during New Year celebrations. As per an order issued by the Kerala State Disaster Management Department (KSDMA), no public gatherings are permitted as part of the celebrations on Thursday, New Year’s eve. All New Year celebrations on Thursday should cease by 10 p.m. Direction to police The District Collectors and District Police Chiefs have been directed to ensure compliance with the order. “'Given the COVID-19 pandemic situation in the State, New Year 2021 celebrations by the public are likely to result in a spike in the transmission of COVID-19, if extant COVID-19 protocols are not adhered to,” the order by the disaster management authority noted. Action will be initiated against people who fail to adhere to the COVID-19 protocols, it said.  Action will be initiated against people who fail to adhere to the COVID-19 protocol
31 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF bags 51 grama panchayats in district||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has come to power in a majority of grama panchayats in the district, bagging 51 panchayats out of a total 73 in its kitty. The United Democratic Front (UDF) has won 17 panchayats and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has won four panchayats. In the Elakamon panchayat, voting was postponed, as there were insufficient members to complete the quorum. The district witnessed an instance of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) giving up power in a panchayat after winning the president election, as it goes against the alliance’s stated policy of not allying with the communal forces. In the Pangode panchayat, the LDF’s presidential candidate submitted resignation after winning the election, as the two members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) had voted for the LDF. Here, the LDF has eight seats, while the UDF has seven seats, SDPI has two seats, and Welfare Party of India, affiliated to the Jamaath-e-Islami, has two seats. According to the CPI(M) Venjaramood area committee secretary Salim, the LDF had made it clear that it would not accept votes from parties such as SDPI. But SDPI chose to vote for LDF because it did not want the UDF’s president candidate to win. Declining the SDPI offer, LDF’s president candidate resigned after taking oath and the vice president candidate resigned right after the election. In the Vembayam panchayat, the UDF came to power after an SDPI member voted for it. The LDF had nine seats here, while the UDF eight seats, the NDA three, and SDPI one. With both the LDF and UDF president candidates getting nine votes each, the decision was made by drawing of lots, which the UDF won. In the Vilappil panchayat, the NDA came to power after a Congress member voted for the NDA president candidate in violation of the whip. District Congress Committee (DCC) president Neyyatinkara Sanal said the future course of action in these panchayats would be decided on Thursday after receiving reports from the ground. “We had made it clear to everyone that they should not accept votes from the SDPI, the CPI(M) or the BJP. In Vembayam, we had not asked for the SDPI’s vote, yet they voted for us. We will take action against the members who violated the whip, like in Vilappil and Thirupuram panchayats,” said Mr. Sanal.
31 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State sanctions Rs. 2,313.11 cr. for Jal Jeevan Phase 2||The State government has accorded sanction for undertaking projects worth Rs. 2,313.11 crore in the second phase of the Centrally assisted Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) rural water supply initiative. In this phase, the government expects to provide 5.16 lakh functional household tap connections (FHTC) across the State. The government has also cleared a Rs. 61-lakh proposal for providing water supply to 611 Anganwadis and Rs. 2.85 crore for providing relief to regions that face quality problems in water supply. With the announcement of the second phase, the State government has provided administration sanction for providing 21.65 lakh connections during 2020-21. In the first phase announced in August this year, the government had accorded sanction for providing 16.48 lakh connections in rural Kerala at an estimated cost of Rs. 4,343.89 crore.  In Kerala, the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) is playing a lead role — with the participation of the panchayats — in implementing the centrally assisted JJM that envisages water connections to all rural households in the country by 2024. The Kerala government has set a target of 49.65 lakh FHTCs by 2024. So far during 2020-21, 1.30 lakh connections have been issued in the State, according to the KWA. During 2021-22, the target is 12 lakh connections and in 2022-23, 6.69 lakh connections. The target for 2023-24 has been set at 9.54 lakh connections. JJM guidelines require local bodies to bear 15% and beneficiaries 10% of the infrastructure cost.  Nod for Rs. 61-lakh proposal for providing water supply to 611 Anganwadis.
31 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Energy awards presented||One crore LED bulbs will be distributed by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) and the Energy Management Centre (EMC) together for saving power, Minister for Electricity M.M. Mani has said. He was inaugurating a function organised by the EMC to present the Kerala State Energy Conservation Awards for 2020 on Wednesday. The Minister said that in the wake of difficulties in implementing large-scale hydel power projects or coal-fired power plants, solar, wind, or small hydel power projects should be implemented. Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran said energy conservation had a significant role in sustainable development. Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd.; Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore Ltd.; Milma, Kozhikode; Keya Foods International Pvt. Ltd.; Christ College, Irinjalakuda; Kanakkary grama panchayat; and J.S. Sonu received the citation from the Minister. Hindustan Organic Chemicals; HLL Lifecare; KIMS hospital, Thiruvananthapuram; Mar Athanasius College, Kothamangalam; Sabeer Malappuram; Biju Mathews K.C.; Athul Energy Consultants; and F Five Sustainability Consultants received the citation from Mr. Surendran. Energy Secretary Dinesh Arora was present on the occasion.
31 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||RSS chief calls on Governor||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Sarsanghchalak Mohun Bhagawat on Wednesday called on Governor Arif Muhammad Khan. Mr. Khan presented Mr. Bhagawat with a statuette of Sree Padmanabha Swamy. Sources close to the State leadership of the RSS described the visit as a private one. Mr. Bhagawat earlier paid homage at the statue of Swamy Vivekananda at Kowdiar. He is scheduled to attend a closed-door meeting of RSS workers at the RSS State headquarters on Thursday.
31 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Army recruitment rally in capital||An army recruitment rally will be held at the Colachel Stadium, Pangode Military Station, here from January 11 to 21. A total of 48,656 candidates have registered online for the rally, the Army said. Organised by the Army Recruiting Office (ARO), Thiruvananthapuram, and held under the aegis of the HQ Recruiting Zone, Bengaluru, the rally is open to male candidates from Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, and Idukki. Posts The rally is being held for enrolment as Soldier General Duty, Soldier Technical, Soldier Technical Nursing Assistant/NA Veterinary, Soldier Clerk/Store Keeper Technical/ Inventory Management and Soldier Tradesmen. For attending the rally, candidates need to register online on the website joinindianarmy.nic.in. Those who have registered have been issued admit cards online. Warning against agents The Army has warned candidates not to fall prey to agents who promise easy entry into the army. “It is once again reiterated that the entry into Indian Army is totally free and there are no agents. Entry is totally on merit and no one can influence the selection system which is conducted by teams from outside the State. Candidates are advised not to pay money to any agent, institute or organisation even if he claims to be an ex-Army man with contacts in the recruiting office,” a statement said. Candidates also have been asked to report such persons to the police or the ARO.
31 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two arrested for stealing vehicles||The City police have arrested two men on charges of stealing two-wheelers and selling the parts after dismantling the vehicles. The accused persons were identified by the police officers as Jamir, 24, and Govinda Raju, 24, of Manickal. The accused were arrested by the Medical College Police patrol at Ulloor junction in the capital. The police officers have also recovered several vehicle parts from the residence of Shameer, who is the third accused in the case. Shameer is yet to be arrested.
31 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||320 more test positive in capital district||The district reported 320 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the active case pool to 3,419. The capital area also reported 392 recoveries, administration officials said. The death toll, according to the latest available statistics, stands at 654. Of the new cases, local transmission accounted for 207 cases. The list also included seven health workers. Meanwhile, 1,218 more people have been quarantined in the district as part of precautionary measures adopted to check the spread of the infection. At present, 20,647 people are in quarantine in the district, including 20,582 persons in home isolation and 65 in institutional quarantine. There were also 1,901 persons who completed the observation period on Wednesday.
31 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||T.A. Nahas takes charge as New DDP||T.A. Nahas has taken charge as the Deputy Director of Prosecution (DDP) in the Thiruvananthapuram Chief Judicial Magistrate Court. Mr. Nahas, who was previously the Ernakulam DDP, was transferred recently. He is currently the State president of the Kerala Additional Public Prosecutors (APPs) Association.
31 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cheating: three held||The Varkala police have arrested two men and a woman on charges of cheating a resident of Pullaniyode, Varkala, of Rs. 4 lakh by promising him a job in Singapore. The police identified the accused as Raji, 35, Kizhakkekovoor House, Thiruvalla; Sumesh, 33, of Kottangal, Mallappally taluk; and Sumesh's father Sreedharan, 59. Raji is managing partner in a Thiruvalla-based tours and travels firm and Sumesh is its general manager.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||State takes steps forward for PMMVY||The State government has issued an order forming steering and monitoring committees at various levels for smooth implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana (PMMVY). Under the scheme, a cash incentive of Rs. 5,000 is given in three instalments to pregnant women and those breastfeeding as partial compensation to make up for wage loss during childbirth and child care. The Centrally sponsored scheme, being implemented by the Women and Child Development Department, targets improving the nutrition levels of the women and providing them health security. The funds are provided directly into the bank account of the beneficiaries. Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja, in a statement, said State, district, block, and village-level steering and monitoring committees had been formed. These committees would also analyse the functioning of the National Nutrition Mission. Women and Child Development Secretary would be the chairperson of the State-level committee, and District Collectors would be the head of the district-level steering committees. Sub-district magistrate or block development officers would be chairpersons of the block-level committees. Bank manager or official in-charge of post office would be members of the village-level steering and monitoring committees. The scheme would be reviewed in meetings of the Grameena Suchitwa committees.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||New leaf||
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For better pay and perks||
31 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||AMC undertakes revamp of roads, anti-encroachment drive||Even as the Anantapur Municipal Corporation has been on its toes to check the spread on the coronavirus almost across the year, it has laid focus on the works pertaining to civic issues. Since the last two months, the civic body has been laid focus on the revamp of major thoroughfares, removal of unauthorised encroachments, repairing the potholes on roads that were withered due to the incessant rains during the monsoon season this year. “The works are likely to be completed in the next two months and this will remain the best achievement of the AMC this fiscal year,” Municipal Commissioner P.V.V.S. Murthy told The Hindu . He said the money for these works are being drawn from the 14th Finance Commission and the civic works is a welcome change after having completely immersed in the pandemic-related activity for the past eight months with regard to sanitation or disposing of bodies of close to 300 victims of the virus. “The pandemic kept us busy almost throughout the year, consuming most of our energies. However, we needed to focus on development activity too, thanks to the active support from Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy,” said Mr. Murthy. He said the the newly recruited ground-level staff of ward secretariats were the strength of the AMC as they had been the eyes and ears of the civic body when it came to assessment of the ground reality. “The AMC is spending Rs. 70 crore to revamp the stretches from the bus stand to Gooty Road, NTR Marg between the bus stand and Tadipatri approach road. The Roads and Buildings National Highways Division is widening and black-topping the connecting Gooty Road from the NH-44. Once the works are completed, it will ensure hassles-free flow of heavy vehicles passing through the city,” he said the Municipal Commissioner. The second major circuit will be from the Super Speciality Hospital to the RTO office from both sides, providing a circular road, which has been pending for almost a decade. The current cutcha road in several stretches are riddled with potholes and puddles. “With the release of Rs. 5 crore from the 14th Finance Commission funds, things are moving very fast,” he said. Tax collection Referring to the tax collection, AMC Deputy Commissioner G. Ramana Reddy said that of the target of Rs. 44.49 crore set for annual property tax and vacant land tax this fiscal year, Rs. 33.37 crore was to be realised by December 31. “However, tax compliance remains at 57.9% (Rs. 19.33 crore) owing to the financial problems caused by the pandemic. However, the figure is better than that of last fiscal (Rs. 15.11 crore) against the target of Rs. 43.29 crore. Total water cess target for the current fiscal is Rs. 16.45 crore including the arrears, of which the AMC has realised Rs. 3.16 crore, falling short in performance when compared to Rs. 3.30 crore collected last year,” said Mr. Ramana Reddy. About 200 open plots owned by the AMC will be secured from encroachment by March 31, 2021. Some automobile shops will be shifted to Rapthadu to decongest the city roads, a proposal that was discussed with 200 shop owners and agreed upon. Vending zones will be created under Ramnagar flyover and at other places to accommodate the vendors who are running their business on the streets, causing traffic congestion. Collection of garbage Another major achievement is introduction of door-to-door collection of garbage and 5,000 households beginning composting kitchen waste. A target has been set up to increase the number to 30,000 households by the March-end.
31 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntakal Division bags five shields||Twenty-eight employees of the Guntakal Division of South Central Railway bagged 28 zonal awards for their excellence in performance during the 65th Railway Week celebrations. Awards announced and presented through video conference due to COVID-19 protocols. The division bagged 21 individual awards, two group awards, and five efficiency shields from among the six divisions and three workshops of the South Central Railway. Guntakal Divisional Railway Manager Alok Tiwari did the honours in Guntakal by presenting the awards to the employees. The Efficiency Shields were bagged by Guntakal Railway High School for being the Best School in the zone, electrical maintenance got the Best Energy Conservation (electrical), shield, the signal and telecom; human resources department (personnel) and medical relief van of Dharmavaram along with Bitragunta (Bezwada Division).
31 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allegations of Snehalata’s mother refuted||The Anantapur police have denied the allegations levelled by SBI outsourced employee Snehalatha’s mother M. Lakshmi Devi that the I-Town police did not respond to the pleas over the phone and in person seeking a search for her daughter, who went missing on the day of her murder. Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu told the media on Wednesday that no such phone call was made through the ‘Dial 100’ helpline or the Disha app as claimed by the mother of the victim. “We have the call data records and anyone can check them,” said the SP when asked about the allegations made by several Dalit leaders and political parties against the I-Town Circle Inspector Prathap Reddy. “These false allegations are aimed at tarnishing the image of the police force. If someone has any evidence, let them produce. The media should also exercise caution while making such baseless allegations without any evidence,” Mr. Yesu Babu said. ‘Zero tolerance policy’ The police are adopting a ‘zero tolerance’ policy to corruption or wilful misconduct by any employee of the department, he said.
31 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Technology comes in handy for Chittoor police to bust crime||Technology appears to be the core competencies of the Chittoor district police when it comes to busting crimes in the year 2020. The Technology Analysis Wing (TAW) is a team comprising trained constables which not only extensively use technology, but also adheres to the principles of investigation. Formed by SP S. Senthil Kumar, the team has 24 men, most of them B.Tech graduates who underwent training in cybercrime investigation. Six teams with four persons each have been assigned to one sub-division. The TAW played a crucial role in busting the case of burglary involving cellphones worth Rs. 8 crore in Nagari. The team zeroed in on Dewas district of Madhya Pradesh, where members of a tribe traditionally involved in highway robberies were nabbed in July. This is for the first time that such a crime was busted and consignment of this size recovered intact,” Mr. Senthil Kumar told The Hindu . Another such challenging case was the arrest of culprits in the guise of employees of an ATM cash remitting agency, who decamped with Rs. 1.17 crore in October. Crime against women The conviction rate in 2020 nearly doubled to touch 85.24% from 46.03% in 2019. The crime rate dipped by 13.06% in 2020 when compared to the previous year. Similarly, crime against women such as murder, dowry, abetment to suicide, rape, outraging the modesty and bigamy fell by 11%. The district bagged the SKOCH Award and the Award for Best Investigation in Crime Detection (ABCD) for exhibiting excellence during the year.
31 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rate of accidents in Guntur down, but fatalities remain high||As the year of the pandemic comes to an end, there is some cheer as 2020 has seen lesser accidents in Guntur district. In Guntur Urban limits, 545 road accidents took place till the end of November, when compared with 866 accidents in 2017, 857 accidents in 2018 and 803 accidents in 2019. In Guntur Rural limits, 470 road accidents took place, when compared with 517 in 2019 and 548 in 2018. But the fatality rate remained higher, as in 2020, there were 586 deaths when compared with 768 in 2019 and 738 in 2018. During a review meeting on road safety, Deputy Transport Commissioner E. Meera Prasad said the department had been conducting road safety drills and increased the checks on vehicles. But with vehicles remaining off the roads for most period of the year, there were fewer road accidents. The effect of lockdown on the road accidents was evident, as there were just 60 road accidents in April, 86 in May, 130 in June, when there were 186 during April 2019, 208 road accidents in May 2019 and 205 accidents in June. During the year 2020, 653 deaths were reported when in comparison, 834 deaths were reported in 2019, among the highest in the State. Road safety Road safety, still remained a vital issue with two national highways passing through the district. The four laning of Perecharla-Pidiguralla remains a promise with no effort being made for land acquisition and laying of the road. Dangerous drive The Guntur-Bapatla-Chirala road also is in need of repair as the road is either too narrow or damaged in many areas. Narakoduru-Tenali road is also too narrow and the many turns make it dangerous to drive.
31 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor inaugurates blood component unit||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Wednesday inaugurated a blood component (plasma) unit at the Indian Red Cross Society, Guntur district branch. The Governor, while launching the facility through a video conference, said that the unit would be useful for the public in future. While hailing the contribution of IRCS, Guntur branch, Mr. Harichandan said that the branch stood first in delivering services during various phases of lockdown. IRCS (AP) president A. Sridhar Reddy said that the Guntur Red Cross achieved a record by collecting 9,287 units of blood on the 48th birthday celebrations of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Rotary International president-elect Sekhar Mehta said that there was a lot of awareness on blood donation and said that the Rotary was happy to be associated with Red Cross Society. IRCS (Guntur) chairman Vadlamani Ravi said that the component unit was launched with advanced technology. Blood would be available round the clock, he added. Rotary Club 3150 governor Hanumanth Reddy, vice-chairman of Red Cross P. Ramachandra Raju, treasurer Ravi Srinivas and Rotary Club of Guntur president Venugopal were present.
31 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poster released||A poster on International Year of Child Labour was released on Wednesday by the Forum For Better Bapatla at a meeting held in Town Hall. Degree College for Women principal Kondaiah Sarma, forum secretary P.C. Sai Babu, lecturers Hanumantha Rao, Venkateswarlu, Newspaper Club members participated. Stating that about nearly one in ten children across the globe were child labourers, Dr. Sai Babu said that economic hardship was forcing many families to send their children to work. The United Nations General Assembly unanimously adopted a resolution declaring 2021 as the International Year for the Elimination of Child Labourand asked the International Labour Organisation (ILO) to take the lead in its implementation.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||SBI opens Circle Call Centre at Amaravati LHO||The State Bank of India has established a Circle Call Centre (CCC) at its Amaravati LHO premises. SBI MD (R&DB) Challa Sreenivasulu Setty, during his visit to the LHO on Tuesday, inaugurated it in the presence of CGM Sanjay Sahay. The CCC has been established with an aim to provide speedy and effective resolution of customer queries, a release from the bank on Wednesday said.
31 December 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh stages dharna at slain leader’s house||Expressing anguish over the murder of party leader N. Subbaiah in broad daylight at Proddatur, TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh has pointed an accusing finger at YSRCP MLA R. Prasad Reddy, his brother-in-law Bangaru Reddy, and Municipal Commissioner Radha for the “vindictive act.” Mr. Lokesh, who arrived at Proddatur to pay tributes to the slain leader on Wednesday, caught everyone by surprise by staging a dharna in front of the leader’s house demanding inclusion of the above names in the FIR. Accompanied by, among others, former Minister Bhuma Akhila Priya and district party president R. Sreenivasa Reddy, Mr. Lokesh announced that they would not allow cremation of the body till justice was delivered. Terming the murder an attack on the Backward Classes, he said the TDP leader was killed with a political motive. Mr. Lokesh also referred to the alleged attack on the vehicles of TDP leaders at Thamballapalle in Chittoor district and the alleged attack by Tadipatri MLA K. Peddi Reddy on former MLA J.C. Prabhakar Reddy’s house. “These incidents prove that the State is returning to faction politics after Jagan Mohan Reddy became the Chief Minister,” he said. On the YSRCP’s charge that the TDP was trying to politicise the issue, Mr. Lokesh questioned, “How should one construe the signature campaign in front of the mortal remains of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy?” Though the police tried to persuade him, Mr. Lokesh refused to budge till the FIR was modified. When reports last came in, as the situation appeared to go out of control, SP K.K.N. Anburajan reached Proddatur to tackle the situation.
31 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||72 weavers get Mudra loan in East Godavari||Social Welfare Minister Pinipe Viswaroop on Wednesday handed over loans to 72 weavers at the island village of Bandaru Lanka in Amalapuram rural in East Godavari district, under the Prime Minister Mudra Yojana (PMMY). The Department of Handloom has granted the loan of Rs. 50,000 to each weaver with the support of the respective banks.
31 December 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||29 held on charge of sand, liquor smuggling in a day||In a major drive against the brewing and smuggling of illicitly distilled liquor and illegal transportation of sand in Kurnool district, the Special Enforcement Bureau sleuths arrested 29 persons on Wednesday. Additional Superintendent of Police Gowthami Sali said that 19 cases were registered with regard to illicit liquor distillation and it transportation, with the arrest of 24 persons and seizure of 10 vehicles. The SEB personnel seized 264 litres of country liquor and 40 kgs of black jaggery, 4,920 litres of jaggery wash and 4,218 bottles of IMFL of various brands from Jaggapuram, Santhakallu in Adoni and Krishnakanth Plaza in Adoni town. Meanwhile, 11.5 tonnes of sand was seized from three vehicles and five persons were arrested on charge of transportation of the stock without authorised slips. Ms. Gowthami Sali appealed to the people to inform the SEB officials in case they come to know about any illegal transportation or sale of sand and liquor by dialling 7993822444. People can also share information on WhatsApp with the same number.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea against criterion for recruitment of civil judge||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought response from the A.P. Government on a plea challenging the stipulated condition of three years practice as an advocate to be eligible to appear for the examination for appointment as civil judge in the State. While agreeing to hear the plea, a vacation Bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and Aniruddha Bose also issued notice to the Registrar (recruitment) of the A.P. High Court. The court was hearing a petition filed by R. Venkatesh, who had challenged the condition stipulated in the A.P. State Judicial Service Rules. The plea also questioned the December 3 notification. The petitioner’s counsel told the Bench that as per the notification, the last date for submission of online application was January 2. The Bench, while issuing notice on the petition, listed it for hearing on January 5.
31 December 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crimes against women rise in Rajamahendravaram||Rajamahendravaram in East Godavari district witnessed an alarming number of cases of domestic violence and sexual abuse in 2020. “As many as 1,047 cases of domestic violence, including harassment for additional dowry, were registered in the city in 2020. Of them, 792 cases were settled through counselling,” said Rajamahendravaram Urban SP Semushi Bajpai. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, the SP said: “The city witnessed 55 rape cases in 2020 as against 51 last year. A total of 67 cases were registered under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2021. In 2019, a total of 51 cases were registered under the Act.” Murder cases As many as 17 murder cases were registered this year and of them, two were for gain. The number was 14 in 2019. As many as 131 persons were killed in road accidents in 2020. In road accidents, a total of 131 persons were killed in 2020 as against 181 last year.
31 December 2020||SAMARLAKOTA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Eligibility the only criterion for house sanction: Minister||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna has made it clear that the State government will not entertain any recommendation while selecting beneficiaries for the ‘Nava Ratnalu’ including the ‘Pedalandariki Illu’ scheme, but for the prescribed eligibility criteria.  Amul project Addressing the gathering during the distribution of house-site pattas to the beneficiaries in Samarlakota municipality here on Wednesday, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said that those meeting the eligibility criteria of the housing scheme were being encouraged to apply and guaranteed of the sanction within 90 days after field inspection by the Secretariat staff. Referring to the State government's collaboration with Amul, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna observed that the dairy project would change the fate of dairy farmers in the State, providing the latter access to competitive market with an assurance of huge benefits. “The Amul-Andhra Pradesh project has been designed to guarantee a profit of at least Rs. 4 of profit per litre,” said the Minister. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said that the 55-acre housing site was spared near the Samarlakota-Prathipadu road for the 2,800 beneficiaries in Samarlakota municipality. “We are distributing the house-site patta along with documents assuring construction of a house on the site,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy. Former Home Minister and Peddapuram MLA N. China Rajappa, Kakinada MP V. Geetha and other public representatives were present.
31 December 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||High-level inquiry sought into Ramateertham row||The TDP, BJP and the Jana Sena Party have sought a high-level inquiry and immediate arrest of culprits who allegedly vandalised an idol of Lord Rama in historic temple located on Ramateertham hill of Nellimarla mandal in Vizianagaram district. TDP regional coordinator Budda Venkanna alleged that there was no protection even for idols and temples in the State. He charged the government with failing to control such incidents. BJP State executive member Nadukuditi Eswara Rao and other leaders alleged that the government had taken up the issue very lightly although the incident had hurt the sentiments of Hindu devotees. “When a new temple of Lord Rama is being constructed in Ayodhya, temples are being vandalised in Andhra Pradesh. Protests will continue on Thursday at the Vizianagaram Collector’s office,” Mr. Eswara Rao said. BJP leaders Reddi Pavani, Baggam Rajesh, Jana Sena leader Palavalasa Yashaswi and others extended their solidarity to Mr. Eswara Rao, who continued his hunger strike on the hill. Meanwhile, a part of Lord Rama’s idol was identified in a small pond. Uttaradhana Sadhu Parishad president Swami Srinivasananda and Tridandi Ahobilam Ramanuja Jeeyar Swamy performed puja to the idol. Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari said a special team was investigating the issue.
31 December 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ID liquor destroyed in A.P.-Odisha border areas||Special enforcement teams of both Andhra Pradesh and Odisha jointly destroyed 20 litres of ID liquor and 38,400 litres of FJ wash, a component used in making illicitly distilled liquor. Additional Superintendent of Police of Srikakulam district K. Srinivasa Rao, Excise Superintendent of Police M. Rambabu, Assistant Commissioner of Special Enforcement Bureau S. Sukesh and others took part in the raids with 45 personnel in Gongapur, Ramachandrapur, Konda Bijapur and other villages located on AP-Odisha border near Itchapuram town. Circle Inspector of Special Enforcement Bureau J. Janardhana Rao said that the Police Department would take stern action against those involved in ID liquor business. Srikakulam Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar congratulated the police and excise officials and staff for conducting massive raids to control ID liquor making units in the border areas.
31 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to declare cow as national animal||Yuva Tulasi founder and member-trustee of TTD Trust Board K. Siva Kumar on Wednesday demanded that cow be declared as the national animal. The organisation has called for ‘Go-Sadak bandh’ on January 8, and is in the process plans to block L.B. Nagar Junction connecting Vijayawada NH to mount pressure on the Centre. Mr. Kumar expressed anguish over the indiscriminate slaughtering of cows. The organisation has vowed to protect one lakh cows, and is strongly determined to abide by it, he said.
31 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel expresses satisfaction over ‘Nadu-Nedu’ works||The renovation, uplift and beautification work implemented in 15,000 schools in the State with an outlay of Rs. 4,000 crore is, by and large, satisfactory. The observation was made by Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (APSERMC) that inspected several schools and colleges in Chittoor district on Wednesday. The inspection was necessitated by the completion of the first phase of work and ahead of the launch of the second phase involving a similar outlay for developing another 15,000 schools. Commission members V. Narayana Reddy and B. Eswaraiah, accompanied by Regional Joint Director (Kadapa) Venkata Krishna Reddy, Chittoor DEO Narasimha Reddy and Deputy DEO (Tirupati) Vijayendra Rao inspected the Zilla Parishad High Schools in Karakambadi of Renigunta mandal and Pachikapalam of Vedurukuppam mandal, where the first phase work was nearing completion. The team later inspected the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) at Karvetinagaram and the Malavyaji Municipal Corporation High School in Tirupati. The members met parents, headmasters and Panchayat Raj engineers, where shortage of sand and cement was found to be the only stumbling block in the progress of work. “We have received complaints of private schools demanding fee payment prior to uploading the student details for ‘Amma Vodi’ support. The two should not be linked and we will take action against such schools,” said Prof. Narayana Reddy. The panel also reportedly found the infrastructure at the state-run DIET better than the privately managed colleges.
31 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘posts’ wife’s obscene photos on social media||A woman lodged a police complaint accusing her husband of posting her obscene photographs on the social media platform, branding her as an escort. The case came to light on Wednesday after the Tirupati Urban district police registered a case against the husband, identified by Revanth, a junior assistant working in a TTD-run educational institution. The woman, after lodging a complaint, staged protest at the police station demanding immediate action. The police have launched a manhunt for Revanth who is on the run. ‘Miscarriage’ The woman, in her complaint, alleged that she was physically assaulted within days of their marriage for dowry. “I conceived shortly after the marriage, but the physical attack led to a miscarriage,” she said. Unable to bear the torture, the woman said, she went to her parents’ home in Bengaluru. However, Revanth allegedly claimed that she had run away from his house with Rs. 10 lakh in cash and gold. The woman alleged that a few days ago, one of her classmate alerted about her obscene photos doing the rounds in their school WhatsApp group. “My husband branded me as an escort in the posts. I can not take it any more, “ she said, after lodging the police complaint. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy spoke to the woman over telephone and assured speedy investigation.
31 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A ray of hope for job losers during pandemic||The COVID-19 pandemic has forced scores of migrant workers to leave their work place and head to their native lands to be in the safe confines of their homes. The State witnessed a large-scale influx of workers from the Gulf countries who now face bleak future after losing their livelihood. The government, through AP Non-Resident Telugu Society (APNRTS), plans to help them find suitable jobs. “We plan technical trade job melas where clients from the Gulf will be invited to interview and assess local candidates for suitable jobs,” said Venkat S. Medapati, president of the society. “Preference will be given to the returning migrants who already have experience of working in the Gulf and those with upgraded skills,” he added. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Venkat said the NRT Society had established Skill Development Centres at Guntur and Rajampet to train ITI, diploma holders, 10+2 pass and graduates as skilled technicians in the trades which were in high demand in the Gulf nations. “We facilitate placements and along with the recruiters, arrange client interviews for the Gulf placements,” he said, adding that so far, 81 % of the 270 candidates trained in industrial electrician course, had found placements while the remaining ones were under process. Bank loans The society is also helping the migrants with bank loans besides educating them about the various State and Central schemes that aim at making them self-employed or scaled up skills as per the industry demands, give them training and provide procedural support related to the employment. Among many other activities like establishment of Vidya Vahini, a career counselling centre for students aspiring to pursue overseas education by helping them in overseas admission process, scholarship programmes, visa processing and pre and post arrival services, the society has started free training in IELTS (International English Language Testing System). “This programme has evoked good response with an increasing number of students joining the training classes,” said Mr. Venkat, adding: “To make students aware of our initiatives, we have conducted 131 awareness workshops in 80 colleges. We have so far helped 13 students acquire visas and 68 more are in the process. Of them 38 students have received scholarships and representatives of 27 renowned universities have visited the APNRTS office for student programmes.” IT training Through its Global Placements Program, the society has also placed 52 teachers in District Schools of the USA, in association with Star Tech Group USA (STG), a first of its kind. Besides, it also imparts IT and software online training to non-resident Telugus for their better career prospects and facilitates recruitment drives in the IT and ITES companies in the State for freshers and the recent passed outs from colleges and universities contributing towards a talented workforce. “We have also organised online training for NRIs in advanced courses like AWS, Cyber Security, Artificial Intelligence, PMP, Data Science with Machine Learning and Python which were availed by 412 NRTs,” said Mr. Venkat.
31 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Investment climate ‘buoyant’ in State||The State government is in a buoyant mood with its efforts to attract investments in the last 18 months bearing fruit. The Industrial Development Policy 2020-23 has helped in attracting investors by offering a slew of incentives. Official sources said that the Industries Department and its agencies had mobilised investments worth Rs. 25,739 crore from 48 large and mega industries between June 2019 and November 2020. MSMEs During the period, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) had invested Rs. 2,503 crore. There were 11 projects under the government’s active consideration with a total investment of Rs. 12,368 crore. Besides, deliberations were going on in respect of 49 projects involving an investment of Rs. 1,25,572 crore. High-level foreign delegations from Australia, South Korea, Taiwan, China and Saudi Arabia had visited the State, and were exploring the investment opportunities, they said. More than 1,525 companies had been allotted 1,614 acres of land by the AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) with a committed investment of Rs. 11,598 crore. Adani Enterprises, ATC Tyres and Intelligent SEZ Ltd. were some of the mega industries that were in advanced stages of investing in the State. Jobs for local youth The AP Employment of Local Candidates in Industries/Factories Act of 2019 was a major policy initiative aimed at giving 75% of the jobs in industrial units to local youth. As finding qualified manpower locally was a difficult proposition, the government took upon itself the task of augmenting the skills of youth and making them available to the industries looking out for such talented workforce. “The government is in the process of roping in private companies keen on partnering with it in the establishment of an integrated steel plant in Kadapa district. Seven companies, including some MNCs, have evinced interest in setting up the plant,” the sources said. The release of pending incentives of nearly Rs. 905 crore was a significant step towards bailing out the MSMEs, which were badly hit by COVID-19. The master planning and industry assessment of Visakhapatnam-Chennai Industrial Corridor was undertaken.
31 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijayawada division bags six shields for efficiency||Vijayawada division has bagged six South Central Railway (SCR) General Manager Efficiency Shields for its best performance during 2019-2020 and 33 employees from various departments won individual awards along with one group award at the zonal level, according to an official release.  Divisional Railway Manager P. Srinivas presented the awards at a function held on his office premises here on Wednesday as part of the 65th Railway Week celebrations. Earlier, SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya addressed the officers and employees from Secunderabad. Record gross earnings Mr. Gajanan Mallya said the zone registered gross earnings of Rs. 13,771 crore for the financial year 2019-20, the press release said. While 109.50 million tons of freight loaded from the zone generated Rs. 9,029 crore, passenger traffic (363 million) fetched a revenue of Rs. 4,119 crore, said Mr. Gajanan Mallya.
31 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four more succumb to COVID-19 in State||The State reported four more COVID-19 deaths and 349 new infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The toll, as a result, increased to 7,104 and the tally reached 8,81,948. As 472 patients recovered during the period, the number of active cases came down to 3,256. The total number of recoveries increased to 8,71,588, and the recovery rate stood at 98.83%. The mortality rate remained at 0.81%. Meanwhile, the overall positivity rate of 1.176 crore samples tested so far decreased to 7.5% and the positivity rate of the 55,740 samples tested in the last one day was 0.63%. The tests per million ratio reached 2.20 lakh and the number of cases per million increased to 16,516. Chittoor, Kadapa, Krishna and Prakasam reported one death each in the last one day. Krishna district also reported the highest single-day tally of 75 cases. It was followed by Chittoor (50), West Godavari (46), Guntur (44), East Godavari (28), Visakhapatnam (26), Kadapa (24), Anantapur (16), Srikakulam (14), Nellore (9), Kurnool (7), Prakasam (6) and Vizianagaram (4). The overall tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,23,653), West Godavari (93,833), Chittoor (86,080), Guntur (74,719), Anantapur (67,323), Nellore (62,076), Prakasam (62,014), Kurnool (60,555), Visakhapatnam (59,134), Kadapa (54,972), Krishna (47,742), Srikakulam (45,938) and Vizianagaram (41,014).
31 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC trying to increase its operations in Telangana||The outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in lockdown, confined the fleet of buses belonging to the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) to the depots, inflicting a revenue loss of Rs. 2,603 crore from March 22 to December 28, said the corporation’s Vice-Chairman and Managing Director M.T. Krishna Babu on Wednesday. At a press conference, Mr. Krishna Babu said, due to COVID, the RTC had lost 78.84-crore km of operations. He said the department was trying to coordinate with its Telangana counterpart to increase inter-State operations from 1,60,999 km to 2,08,856 km. As per the MoU entered into with the TSRTC post lockdown, the APSRTC limited its operations to 1,60,999 km by plying 638 buses in Telangana. It withdrew 372 buses. The buses withdrawn from the Telangana routes had been redeployed on routes within the State, augmenting the inter-district operations. Mr. Krishna Babu said, during the lockdown period, the RTC had transported 3,07,058 migrant workers and other people from the State stranded in other States by arranging 11,802 buses. During the pandemic period, services of RTC drivers and conductors were utilised by the Police, Revenue and Medical and Health departments as volunteers to prevent the spread of the virus. Intra-State bus operations were started on May 21, and, subsequently, inter-State services were restored to Karnataka from June 17, to Odisha from September 29, to Telangana from November 2 and Tamil Nadu from November 25. As many as 5,586 employees of the corporation had contracted the virus and, of them, 5,383 recovered and 5,235 of them had joined duty. He said 112 employees were undergoing treatment while 91 employees died. Cargo business The corporation employees contributed their one-day salary for payment of Rs. 5 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased employee. The corporation realised a revenue of Rs. 42 crore on cargo business from March to December this year against Rs. 52 crore the previous year, incurring a loss of Rs. 10.31 crore due to the pandemic. Mr. Krishna Babu said tenders would be called soon for integrated development of four bus stations at Maddilapalem (Visakhapatnam), Autonagar (Vijayawada), Tirupati (Chittoor) and Raj Vihar Bus Stand (Kurnool). Executive Director (Administration) A. Koteswara Rao, Executive Director (Operations) K. S. Brahmananda Redy, Vijayawada Executive Director G. Venkateswara Rao, Financial Adviser N.V. Raghav Reddy, Chief Manager (Personnel) Swaroopanand Reddy, Vijayawada Regional Manager Nagendra Prasad and others were present.
31 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Data scientist bags ‘Mrs. AP’ title||Ramya Mandava, a data scientist working from Vijayawada who works for a Pune-based multi-national company, has bagged the ‘Mrs. AP 2020’ title at a beauty pageant held recently. Speaking at a press conference organised by event manager Satish Addala on Wednesday, Ms. Mandava attributed her success to her passion for creative art forms. Of the 185 contestants who attended the auditions, 16 were short-listed for the final round of the event who then had to showcase their talents in various fields before a panel of judges. Born and raised in Vijayawada, Ms. Ramya moved to the US and acquired a double Masters in Technology Project Management and Data Science. She is currently working for a firm in Pune. Ms. Ramya said she is looking to act in a web series. A trained Bharatanatyam dancer, she says support from her parents Prasad and Jasthi Asha Latha and her brother Rajesh contributed to her success.
31 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP to NCSC: probe ‘attacks’ on Dalits||The TDP has urged the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) to depute a delegation to inquire into the “brutal attacks” against Dalits in Andhra Pradesh. In a letter to NCSC chairperson Ram Shankar Katheria on Wednesday, TDP Polit Bureau member Varla Ramaiah said the party had been updating the NCSC on instances of attacks from time to time. The TDP had appealed to the NCSC to inquire and initiate action against the culprits on five occasions, he said. “Sadly, the NCSC has not responded till date. As a consequence, no action has been initiated against the culprits much to the dismay of the victims,” Mr. Ramaiah said. “On the one hand, the ruling party in the State has turned a blind eye to the attacks on Dalits, and on the other, the NCSC appears to be ignoring the victims’ plight. With no authority attempting to contain the situation, the ruling party leaders are emboldened,” he alleged.
31 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ineptitude of CM impacting State’s economy’||The State has suffered severe losses due to the inefficiency of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the adverse impact of COVID-19, according to Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, TDP Polit Bureau member. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had become a “non performing Chief Minister’,” the former Finance Minister said in a statement on Wednesday. “As per experts, the GSDP will shrink by Rs. 2 lakh crore because of the COVID-19 crisis. The 2021-22 fiscal will be no different. The State will witness an unrealistic budget and poor performance. It will have a cascading effect on the fourth year too. And the fifth year is an election year,” the TDP leader observed. “The YSRCP government has no knowledge of the economy and financial management. In 18 months, the government’s borrowings have touched Rs. 1.50 lakh crore. The government has burdened people to the tune of Rs. 70,000 crore by way of taxes and cess. There are no investments and infrastructure development,” he alleged. “There is retrenchment. There is no job creation. The State is witnessing a ‘jungle raj’. The ruling party MLAs are attacking the houses of their opponents. As many as 880 farmers have committed suicide so far. The rights of Dalits are at stake, and women’s safety was compromised,” he alleged.
31 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free power: State govt. focusses on solar energy||The decision taken by the State government to provide free power to the farm sector is set to become a reality as the ball has already been set in motion. The government invited tenders for the 10,000 MW solar power project on November 30 and received bids from five companies in four weeks, according to an official release. Officials are now gearing up to open the bids and put them through the process of of reverse tendering. The entire exercise is scheduled to be completed by the end of February, 2021. Care has been taken in preparing the tender documents in compliance with the guidelines laid down by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy. The documents were later sent to the Judicial Preview Committee (JPC) and uploaded to the website after being examined. As many as 150 suggestions and objections have been received from the public. After this process, the officials referred the documents again with certain explanations to the JPC. The documents have finally been finalised. The government has taken up the project with top priority to maintain quality and transparency through use of solar energy in the next 30 years thereby save Rs. 48,800 crore. Consumption Power consumption in the farm sector has been increasing every year even as the demand for new connections has increased. According to Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Committee’s statistics, 12,221 million units of power is being consumed by 18.17 lakh electricity connections in the State and the subsidy for agricultural connections increased manifold in the past five years. While there are 18.37 lakh agricultural connections, the production capacity is only 8,354 MW. The number of agricultural pump sets is increasing by 50,000 every year. With this, the government has come to the understanding that solar energy is the only answer to make free power supply available in the farm sector.
31 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Need for making rythu bazaars self-reliant’||Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu has asked officials to take steps to increase the rent of shops at the rythu bazaars rationally. He also wants them to take the allotment of shops to 50% from the existing 25%. At a review meeting on Wednesday, the Minister stressed the need to improve revenues of the rythu bazaars. “Prepare an action plan to make the rythu bazaars self-reliant,” he said. The Minister said that new shops could be constructed at the rythu bazaars wherever there was a possibility. “They can be allocated to bakeries, rice shops, ATMs, or generic medicines outlets to make the bazaars attractive and vibrant. If there are no farmers, the shops can be allotted to the unemployed youth or FPOs,” he said. The Minister also held a review meeting on food processing policy 2020-25.
31 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Licences mandatory for dogs and pigs||The Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Department has made it mandatory for owners and breeders of pet dogs and pigs to obtain a licence for the animal in rural areas as per the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Issue of Licenses for the rearing of dogs and pigs and control of unlicensed dogs and pigs) Rules, 2020 issued late on Tuesday. Dogs and pigs with licence need to wear tokens around the neck so that they can be differentiated from animals without a licence. Owners failing to do so have to pay a fine of Rs. 500 per dog and Rs. 250 per pig for every day they are captured by authorities.
31 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal students make it to record books||Tribal students have set a new trend by making it to Asia Book of Records and India Book of Records. At a programme at Tadepalli near here on Wednesday, the girl students of 8th and 9th standards of Alur school in Kurnool, run by the Andhra Pradesh Tribal Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (APTWREIS), displayed their skills in front of the representatives of Asia Book of Records and India Book of Records. They achieved 11 records in all -- two Asia Book of Records and 9 India Book of Records. The students who made the achievment were T. Anu Vaishnavi, Gayatri Bai, Manju, B. Vijaya Lakshmi, M. Yuva Rani, G. Sujatha, and Y.K. Sridevi.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City police introduce community beat system to check crime rate||With an aim to bring down the number of crimes, especially during nights, the city police have introduced community/private beat system concept. As part of the initiative, the police are conducting meets with various Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs), apartment associations, associations from colonies and commercial establishments and motivating them to have community beats or personal security in their areas apart from installing CCTVs in their locality. “The city police have been deploying night beat police to man all areas. However it is also tough to monitor all the areas throughout the night. Police cover stretch by stretch focussing on vulnerable areas. In this regard, we have been motivating citizens to have private security with one or two men,” said Inspector of Police (Harbour Sub-division Crimes) M. Avatharam, who was appointed as nodal officer for taking the initiative forward. He said that the objective of the initiative is to keep a close watch on a particular area, colony or street. “We also hope to prevent crimes and provide security to the community by assisting in patrolling at night in crime-prone areas. It also ensures timely flow of crime-related intelligence from the community to the police, apart from strengthening police-public relations,” he said. “For every 20 to 30 houses in a colony, two guards can be arranged to monitor the colony all through the night. Similarly, for a group of shops or commercial establishments, the association can depute a couple of workers, who can keep a watch at night,” he said, adding that the police are also requesting the citizens to arrange CCTV cameras at their localities explaining the advantages of having them. The initiative was the brainchild of Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha, he said. Citing some examples, Mr. Avatharam said that Ganesh Colony in Pendurthy was one such colony, which has personal security with CCTV surveillance. Similarly in One Town, a couple of gold shop owners have appointed private security, he added. The robberies in these areas since the last couple of years are zero, he said.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Overall crime rate has come down by 14%, says Police Commissioner||Impact of COVID-19 and also due to visible policing by the city police, property offences have seen a decline by 21% during the year 2020, compared to 2019 and 48% compared to 2018, in the city. House break-ins, snatchings, motorcycle thefts and other forms of thefts have also seen a drop. According to the statistics provided by the city police, the number of property offences reported during 2020 was 671 as against 850 in 2019 and 1,258 in 2018. As many as 176 H.Bs were reported in 2020, while in 2019, the number of H.Bs were 200. Chain snatchings saw a 43% decline in 2020. In 2020, 31 chain snatching cases were reported as against 54 in 2019. However, there has been a drop in the detection from 61% in 2019 to 58% in 2020. However, the recovery rate has increased from 50% in 2019 to 53% in this year.Addressing the annual press conference, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that the overall crime rate in the city has come down by 14% when compared to 2019. As many as 3,022 cases were reported in 2020, whereas in 2019, it was 3,458. Law and order cases saw a 4% increase with 1,089 in 2019 to 1,112 in 2020. White collar offences have reduced from 494 in 2019 to 356 in 2020. Cyber crime cases have reduced by 4% from 368 in 2019 to 353 in 2020, he said. On crime against women, Mr. Sinha said that there was 24% decline in the overall cases. Apart from the rape cases, all other cases have seen a decline. Statistics suggest that during the year 2020, the city reported 123 rape cases, as against 106 in 2019 and 87 in 2018. Domestic violence cases have come down from 612 in 2019 to 381 in 2020. Similarly crime against children cases have reduced from 239 in 2019 to 150 in 2020, he added. Mr. Manish Kumar Sinha said that in 2020, the police have come up with various initiatives to address issues related to youth. He said that after the incidents of attacks on girls, cases of drugs and bike racings, the police have come up with ‘Neti Yuvathe – Repati Pourulu’ initiative. “Since the city is close to Visakha Agency, ganja smuggling is rampant here. Most of the colleges are already affected and there are a very few colleges which are not affected,” said the Police Commissioner, adding that they have been conducting raids to nab smugglers and simultaneously creating awareness to ‘say no to drugs’. After drive on overspeeding, cases have come down, he said. The Police Commissioner also said that Pre-Litigation Counselling Forum (PLCF) and Disha Counselling Centre for ‘women in need’ have been set up to ensure people come forward to report about their issues without any stigma. To tackle crime, community beat system and awareness programmes on cyber crimes, were introduced.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fall in accident deaths in city||Constant enforcement on wearing of helmet by the city police and COVID-19 lockdown has led to drastic decline in road accident deaths during the year 2020 in the city. According to the statistics by the city police, fatal road accidents have reduced by 24% and road accident deaths have reduced by 21% in 2020 compared to 2019. In the year 2019, the total number of MV Act cases booked were 10.38 lakh, but in 2020, they were close to 14.38 lakh. In the year 2019, 320 fatal road accidents were reported in which 326 persons died. But in the year 2020, the total number of fatal road accidents reported were 243 and 256 persons died. Similarly, the year saw 889 non-fatal road accidents in which 1,164 persons were injured. During the year 2019, 1,204 persons were injured in 1,090 non-fatal accidents. “In the year 2020, the number of ‘No-Helmet’ enforcement cases registered were about 8.38 lakh. In 2019, we booked about 5.10 lakh cases and in 2018, the total cases registered were 2.37 lakh,” Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, (Traffic) Ch Adinarayana said. He said the use of helmet by two-wheeler drivers has increased and this has led to reduction in fatalities in road accidents. The city police said that a number of initiatives are being brought to control road accidents, create free flow of traffic, deal with parking issue and others. The traffic police have arranged traffic signals at 25 new junctions and 25 more are getting ready. Overspeeding, rash driving and bike racings were some of the areas of concern for the traffic police in this year. In 2020, a total of 31,505 over-speeding cases were booked. On December 11, two youth were killed allegedly due to overspeeding at Jodugullapalem. Police said that a few weeks ago, 217 bikes were seized by the police in a special drive on racing or overspeeding. Parents were informed and counselling was conducted for the youth. “In second week of December, another overspeed drive was conducted in which 129 cases were booked. Out of the 129 cases, only 11 were found to be two-wheelers and the remaining were four-wheelers,”said the ADCP. Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that the police teams were monitoring closely the overspeeding issue and due to rigorous enforcement, it is under control. Speaking about parking issues, he said that drives were conducted to ensure cellars are used for parking to ensure free flow of traffic.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag airport flies up the ASQ ladder with better facilities||The ASQ (Air Service Quality) ranking, given by the Airport Council International (ACI), has placed Visakhapatnam International Airport in the 70th position this year among airports across the world. The airport had scored 160th rank in the last quarter of 2019, according to airport officials. The steady increase in passengers after the resumption of domestic flights in May 2020, indicates the satisfaction of passengers with the airport. “The first thing that passengers look for at the airport after a long flight is the washroom. We have improved the washrooms to match the standards of a 5-star hotel. Cleanliness of the toilet and the entire premises is being ensured round-the-clock by appointing a dedicated team with 125 members on a contractual basis,” Airport Director M. Raja Kishore said. “A ‘protocol department’ has been created for the first time to guide fliers who may not be aware of the procedures and senior citizens and others who require special assistance for baggage and security checks. We expect to improve our ASQ ranking further for the last quarter of 2020, which is expected to be out soon,” he said. The present peak hour passenger capacity of 700 will increase to 1,050 on completion of the terminal building expansion. Cargo facilities The launch of an exclusive SpiceXpress cargo flight in February 2020, connecting Visakhapatnam to Surat and Kolkata and Chennai, six days a week, has turned out to be a boon for shrimp exporters from Visakhapatnam, who were earlier sending their stock to Delhi and Mumbai and by connecting flights to Surat and Kolkata. “What used to take 24 hours in the past, is now being delivered within four hours,” said Mr. Raja Kishore. The number of passengers handled by the airport after the resumption of domestic flights are as follows: May – 7,000, June – 40,000, July – 42,000, August – 61,000, September – 84,000 and October – 1,02,000.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land alienation kicks off in State||The process for setting up nine new medical colleges in the State has begun with the process of land alienation here on Wednesday. Considering it to be the first step towards the vision of having a medical college in each district, the State government passed a GO on Tuesday, asking District Collectors of eight districts to alienate the land with immediate effect and hand them over to the principals of various government-run medical colleges. In the process, three new medical colleges will come up in north-coastal Andhra Pradesh, with one in Vizianagaram and two in Visakhapatnam district at Paderu and Anakapalle. “Seventy acres of land will be alienated in Vizianagaram, and 35 acres in Paderu and 50 acres in Anakapalle for the medical colleges,” Andhra Medical College principal P.V. Sudhakar told The Hindu . The other colleges will come up at Rajamahendravaram in East Godavari district (12.57 acres), Machilipatnam in Krishna district (29.60 acres), Markapuram in Prakasam district (41.97 acres), Nandyal in Kurnool district (50 acres), Penukonda in Anantapur district (48.49 acres) and Kakinada in East Godavari district (15.76 acres). Each medical college will require an investment of around Rs. 300 to 500 crore and each college will cater to the recruitment of 200 to 300 staff members, including doctors, nurses, paramedics and other staff, said Dr. Sudhakar. The medical colleges will initially start off as basic colleges catering to MBBS degrees and will later be upgraded to post-graduate colleges after the first batch passes out, he said. AMC to be upgraded As part of the upgrading the existing colleges, Andhra Medical College has been sanctioned Rs. 150 crore for upgrading its facilities. Dr. Sudhakar said that KGH has been sanctioned Rs. 500 crore for upgrading its facilities and AMC will get around Rs. 150 crore out of it. He said the present Panagal Block, which houses the college and the administration block, will be dismantled and an eight-floor structure built in its place.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU invites applications for Fire and Industrial Safety Engineering programme||Officials from Andhra University are inviting applications from the defence services/ ex-servicemen for admission in to online certificate course in Fire and Industrial Safety Engineering programme. The programme duration is 12 weeks which includes 10 weeks online classes and two-weeks offline practical classes. Director of Directorate of Admissions (DOA) D.A. Naidu said that the eligibility for the course is 10+2 or Intermediate or equivalent. Defence service personnel should submit No-objection certificate from the respective commanding officer. Meanwhile ex-servicemen should submit proof of defence service and normal discharge from the service. He also said that candidates should download the application form from the AU website: www.audoa.in and submit the filled in application along with a demand draft for Rs. 500 drawn in favour of Registrar, A.U. He said that seats will be filled as per the merit order in 10+2 or Intermediate or equivalent examination following the rule of reservation. Last date The last date for submission of applications is January 23, 2021. Fee must be paid in between January 25 and 28, 2021. The officials also said that classes will be commenced from January 30, 2021.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||It is not compensation paid to cyclone-hit farmers, alleges JSP||Jana Sena Party general secretary T. Siva Sankar has alleged that YSR Congress Party government was duping people by claiming that farmers hit by Cyclone Nivar have been paid compensation on December 29. Referring to the full page advertisements issued by the government on December 29, he alleged that the State government has not released any funds towards the Nivar-affected farmers. Addressing a media conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Siva Sankar said that the government only released input subsidy and instalment of ‘Rythu Bharosa – PM Kisan’, which was due to them. He alleged that G.O. RT. Nos 127 and 128 were issued in a hurry after JSP president Pawan Kalyan visited the cyclone-affected farmers in the first week of December. These G.O.s are for input subsidy and Rythu Bharosa and not a compensation for Nivar-affected farmers, he said. He said that the JSP chief toured all the cyclone-affected areas in the first week of December and assured farmers that he will represent their problems to the government and ensure immediate relief. Mr. Pawan Kalyan demanded Rs. 35,000 per acre to all the Nivar-affected farmers, including tenant farmers, of which an amount of Rs. 10,000 as immediate relief. Since the government failed to take any action, the Jana Sena Party had submitted representations to all the 13 District Collectors on 28th demanding immediate justice. Mr. Pawan Kalyan had gone to Machilipatnam to give the representation to the Krishna district Collector. During this time, Mr. Pawan Kalyan urged the Ministers to focus on farmers issues. JSP leader Bolisetty Satyanarayana showed a clip of 2015, where Mr. Jagan had said that everyone knows that Rs. 30,000 would be the cost per acre and why Mr. Chandrababu Naidu was waiting for enumeration and that he should release immediate compensation and paying Rs. 5,000 an acre was not acceptable.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former army man found dead||A 64-year-old former army man was found dead in his house at Railway New Colony here on Tuesday night. According to the primary investigation, the police suspect that he might have been allegedly murdered by a woman with whom he was living. The deceased was identified as Sheikh Shubani Mehboob. According to the IV Town police, Mehboob was separated from his wife around 10 years ago. Since the last few years, he had been living with a woman. On December 20, the duo reportedly had a dispute over unknown reasons. The woman is suspected to have beaten Mehboob with a stick on his head and left the house by locking the doors. A few neighbours allegedly noticed the woman leaving the house with her bags. When they enquired, the woman replied that she was going on a tour, the police said. On Tuesday night, the locals alerted the police about bad odour emanating from the house. On opening the doors, the police found the semi-decomposed body of Mehboob. Based on a complaint by the locals, a case was registered. Police launched a search for the woman. Investigation is on.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Derailment: Kirandul special express to be short-terminated today||Due to derailment of goods train between Jarati-Malliguda section of Kottavalasa-Kirandul line, the train services between Koraput and Kirandul are affected. This resulted in short- termination of Visakhapatnam- Kirandul special express at Koraput. Train no. 08514 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul special express, leaving Visakhapatnam on December 31 will be short-terminated at Koraput and will return as 08513 Koraput to Visakhapatnam special express on the same day. Hence there will be no service of this train between Koraput-Kirandul on December 31. Restoration works were taken up on a war-footing and work is in progress. More than 300 workers engaged in the operation apart from 100 railway officials and staff. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, ADRM (infra) Akshay Saxena and other officers visited the site and are monitoring the restoration works, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New premises for IEC inaugurated at KGH||A new premises for Institutional Ethics Committee(IEC) was inaugurated by P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College, at Super Specialty Block in King George Hospital(KGH) on Wednesday. It has a meeting hall, space for archival of records, waiting lounge and office rooms. Dr. Sudhakar said that quality research is essential for upgrading the institute.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ring nets banned in coastal waters in district||The use of ring nets in the coastal waters in the district has been banned, pending further orders, according to the Joint Director of Fisheries K. Phani Prakash. The ban has been necessitated due to frequent disputes between the fishermen of Kotha Jalaripeta and those of Jalari Endada, Uppada and Mangamaripeta on the use of ring nets. The Kotha Jalaripeta fishermen had complained to the Fisheries Department that the use of ring was resulting in the depletion of fish resources close to the coast and near the Fishing Harbour. Mr. Phani Prakash said that the District Collector has appointed a technical committee to make the field-level study and submit a comprehensive report on the issue. A decision would be taken based on the report. In the meantime, the use of ring nets in the marine waters in the district has been banned. Those violating the ban would be taken to task.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NSTL conducts trial of air droppable container||Visakhapatnam-based Naval Science and Technological Laboratory (NSTL) successfully conducted the maiden flight trial of Sahayak, a new-generation air droppable container with parachute system, capable of carrying critical stores for ships in distress at sea from Indian Navy’s Fixed Wing Aircraft. The system was deployed off the Goa coast on Wednesday morning. Sahayak-NG has a Satellite-based Reporting Terminal (SBRT), which provides its precise GPS location enabling the ship in distress to pick up critical stores. After safe separation from the aircraft, the parachute controls the descent of Sahayak-NG for safe touchdown on water. All mission objectives were met as planned. This is a first-of-its-kind trial involving mission critical systems. Scientists from NSTL led by R.V.S. Subrahmanyam, Principal Project Director, NSTL, scientists from ADRDE, Agra, lead integrator Avantel, Visakhapatnam and Indian Navy aviation personnel participated in the trial. The airworthiness of the system was certified by CEMILAC. The system has good export potential and also has great utility for commercial and fishing vessels in emergency and distress.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delicate surgery performed||A 60-year-old farmer from Tuni in East Godavari district, who was suffering from a rare heart ailment, was saved with cover stenting and bypass surgery at KIMS ICON hospitals, Visakhapatnam. The patient was presented with the complaint of pain in the chest. He felt it was quite common. Dr. Damodar Rao, consultant cardiologist at KIMS ICON, who tested him, found something was wrong and conducted a complete medical examination. Then he observed some haemorrhage around the heart.  Describing pseudoaneurysm as a very rare problem, Dr. Damodar Rao said that he had only seen three cases during his long career. The patient was discharged and even came for follow up, he told. Doctors advised the patient not to smoke or drink alcohol and take complete care about his heart.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||House sites for all eligible, says Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that house sites will be sanctioned to all eligible persons. He distributed pattas to beneficiaries at Ainada and BR Tallavalasa villages of Padmanabham mandal in the district on Wednesday. Addressing the gathering, the Minister said that welfare programmes worth Rs. 5 crore were sanctioned in the villages and 68 development works were taken up with Rs. 2 lakh. In BR Tallavalasa, he said that welfare schemes worth Rs. 4.75 crore were extended to 999 families and Rs. 14 crore was sanctioned for the bridge to be constructed at Pandrangi. The funds sanctioned for other works were Rs. 16 crore for Revidi-Venkatapuram road, Rs. 10 crore for the Reddipalli-Padmanabham road and Rs. 5 crore was sanctioned for the hill top road to Ananta Padmanabha Swamy temple.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 26 new COVID cases||The district reported 26 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours taking the tally to 59,646, as on Wednesday. The death toll stands at 522 since no deaths were reported in the past 48 hours. It may be noted that since December 16, the district reported only three COVID-19 deaths. Meanwhile, 27 persons have recovered from the virus in the past one day, according to the bulletin. The number of active cases and recoveries stands at 250 and 58,874 respectively.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||922 kg ganja seized at Paderu, two arrested||Officials from Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) in coordination with the district police conducted a route-watch and arrested two persons while they were allegedly transporting about 922 kg dry ganja at Paderu in Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday. The seized ganja is estimated to be around Rs. 90 lakh to Rs. 1 crore in a few northern States. According to the officials, the smugglers have procured the ganja from interior places of Raipur and were heading towards Paderu. Teams of SEB and police caught the vehicle with Chhattisgarh registration at Dallapalli village junction. In order to escape from police, the smugglers have prepared cabins near driver seat in which they arranged 461 packets of ganja (each 2 kg.) The case has been handed over to Paderu police for further investigation. It was learnt that the five more persons involved in the case are yet to be arrested.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man gets 10-year RI for kidnap, rape of minor||A special court pronounced its judgment in a 2013 case of a kidnapping and rape of a minor girl, here on Wednesday. Special Judge of the Visakhapatnam Special Court, G. Sridevi, found the accused M. Dhanesh (30) guilty of rape, and sentenced him to rigorous imprisonment of 10 years. The judge also found him guilty of kidnapping and sentenced him to rigorous imprisonment of five years. Both sentences will run concurrently. Special Public Prosecutor M. Venugopal Rao said the victim was an Intermediate student. In 2013, Dhanesh struck up an acquaintance online, claiming to be working as a manager at a well-known bank. In December 2013, the accused asked the girl to accompany him on a holiday and asked her to bring along gold jewellery. He then took her to various various hotels and lodges where he raped her.
31 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inspect accident-prone spots, JC tells officials||Joint Collector R. Govinda Rao said that officials from the National Highway Authority of India, Transport Department, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) and the police should inspect accident-prone spots in the district and take preventive measures. He was speaking during the road safety committee meet here on Wednesday. Mr. Govinda Rao instructed the officials to arrange sign boards immediately at the black spots. He also added that potholes on the roads should be repaired at the earliest. He also asked the officials to arrange barricades, speedbreakers at necessary points. Earlier Deputy Transport Commissioner, G. Raja Ratnam spoke about measures being taken by the department to prevent road accidents. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana, KGH Superintendent Mythili and a few others were present.
31 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Housing programme will give a boost to the construction sector: Jagan||The building of 30.75 lakh houses in the next three years will give a leg-up to the construction sector, besides improving the State’s economy, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said. Addressing a public meeting at Gunkalam village, about 8 km from here, on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said everybody involved in the sector, be they construction workers, or electricians, or plumbers, would get hands full of work with the establishment of Jagananna Colonies across the State, wherein properties worth Rs. 25,000 crore were being created as part of the Navaratnalu schemes. In the village, 12,301 house site pattas were distributed to the beneficiaries on the occasion. “In the next three years, the government plans to construct housing units on the sites and help the beneficiaries realise their dream home,” the Chief Minister said. Accusing the TDP of trying to stall the distribution of house sites by obtaining stay orders from the courts, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, “We have planned to distribute house sites to nearly 54,000 beneficiaries in Amaravati. But the TDP has put a spoke in the government’s wheel and prevented it from implementing the scheme not only in Amaravati but also in Visakhapatnam, Kadapa, and East Godavari districts. As a result, nearly one lakh beneficiaries could not get the house sites.” Tribal varsity The Chief Minister further said that work on the construction of JNTU in Kurupam, Central Tribal University in Saluru mandal, and Government Medical College in Vizianagaram would begin in six months. In their address, Deputy Chief Ministers D. Krishnadas and P. Pushpa Srivani lauded the Chief Minister for launching welfare programmes such as Amma Vodi, Rythu Bharosa, Cheyuta, and Aasara. Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana said the massive housing programme was becoming a reality because of the determination of the Chief Minister. ‘Perfect gated community’ “A perfect gated community at Gunkalam will come up in a couple of years, thanks to the Chief Minister’s determination to ensure houses for the poor in the Vizianagaram Assembly constituency,” MLA K. Veerabhadra Swamy said. CM thanked Earlier, a few beneficiaries explained their ordeal in rented houses, and thanked the Chief Minister for kick-starting the housing programme to make their dream home a reality. They said each beneficiary at Gunkalam would get property worth about Rs. 8 lakh.
31 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies at venue||Mantena Sattibabu, 70, died of suspected exhaustion at the Chief Minister's public meeting at Gunkalam village on Wednesday. According to his wife, Satyavati, he came to the village in the early hours as volunteers reportedly insisted on attendance of both wife and husband to the meeting where house site documents were being distributed. He got tired and collapsed in the meeting around 2.30 pm. He died on even before an ambulance could reach the location.
31 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SFI bid to submit memo to CM foiled||SFI activists staged a protest here on Wednesday, urging Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to ensure that the government took over MR College and started the admission process in it. The police foiled their bid to submit a memorandum to the CM in this regard. Tension prevailed with the arrest of a few leaders. SFI local leaders P. Rammohan Rao and Ch. Venkatesh asked the government to reopen the college hostels and extend scholarship to the eligible students. The decision of MANSAS to stop admissions was detrimental to the interests of students, said another leader M. Harsha.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Despite challenges, VMC completes several projects||Several infrastructure projects taken up in 2020 in the city by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation are in line for being thrown open to the public in New Year. While some projects have been taken up post lockdown, others were taken up early this year and their progress slowed down due to lack of availability of labour and other resources in the times of COVID-19 pandemic. Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh, at a press meet here, said that the corporation overcame the crisis caused by the pandemic and was able to finish many projects and speed up other works. The Chennupati Ramakotaiah Indoor Stadium in Patamata, which has been renovated into an international standard sports facility, was ready for opening in January, he said. Similarly, swimming pool in Gurunanak Colony, renovation of which is almost complete, would be opened soon. “The city is set to get its biggest park (13 acres) in the coming year at the reclaimed dump yard site in Ajith Singh Nagar being developed at a cost of Rs. 10 crore and 30% of the work has already been carried out, while the remaining is expected to be completed by March,” he said. Transformation of Besant Road in Shoppers Street, Stadium Road in Eat Street, construction of railway under bridge (RUB) at Madhuranagar, two crematoriums at Ajith Singh Nagar and Vidyadharapuram, amusement park under PPP on the premises of Rajiv Gandhi Park, Go-Karting at Bhavanipuram in PPP mode and 24-hour water supply to 24 divisions under AMRUT scheme were among other projects. Solid waste management About the projects realised this year, Mr. Venkatesh said that several parks were renovated and new ones were built in various areas. He said for the first time in the country VMC pressed into service 25 CNG garbage transport vehicles with separate bins for wet and dry garbage which substantially improved solid waste management. He said Rajiv Nagar maternity hospital was renovated at a cost of Rs. 65 lakh. Special drives taken up with the help of Ward Secretariats helped in finding over 4,500 un-assessed, under-assessed and newly assessed properties that add Rs. 9-crore revenue to the corporation. “The VMC is also looking forward to implementing the Corridor Improvement Plan for which draft DPR has been prepared and consultation with police is pending,” Mr. Venkatesh said. At least 39 km of major roads like MG Road and Eluru Road would be developed with Rs. 4 crore per km under the project, he said. The VMC would take up renovation of Ciber Disney Land with the permission of the court. Installation of CCTV cameras on the Kanakadurga Flyover, the supply of treated sewage water to the thermal power station and other plans were also in the pipeline. Old-age home Moved by an incident where a senior citizen who was living alone took pension from volunteers in the day and died a few hours later recently, VMC Commissioner and employees have established an old age home at Old Rajiv Nagar in the city recently. The home would be run by the VMC staff with the donations of the staff and the pension received by the inmates. Mr. Venkatesh said that only food would be accepted as a donation from outsiders at present and the entire function of the home was being taken care of by the employees. Mr. Venkatesh said that many senior citizens who receive pension were homeless or live alone and the old age home was meant to take care of such people.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB traps 62 ‘tainted’ govt. staff this year||The Anti-Corruption Bureau has trapped and arrested 62 government officials who were practising bribery and nearly half of them (28) are from the Revenue Department. According to a release from the ACB, apart from the trap cases, 14 cases of disproportionate assets, 15 cases of criminal misconduct, 102 regular inquiries, 97 surprise checks and 31 discreet enquiries were taken up by the ACB this year. Of them, 14 trap cases, one disproportionate assets case, five criminal misconduct cases, 50 regular inquiries and 61 surprise checks at sub-registrar offices, Tahsildar offices, Town and Country Planning Department officials and area hospitals were based on complaints received through 14400 ACB helpline launched by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the release stated. The Town Planning Surveyor of Anantapur was caught accepting the highest bribe amount of Rs. 7 lakh in the State this year. A total of Rs. 28.39 lakh was seized from the accused officials in the trap cases. The ACB also conducted surprise checks on the officials who allegedly bribed persons impersonating ACB officers. Seven officials, including five from the Revenue Department, were convicted this year.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shrinking space||
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Perfect setting||
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Leave it to discretion of those making bias allegations: DGP||Responding for the first time to allegations of political bias, Telangana DGP M. Mahender Reddy said he would “leave it to the discretion” of those making them. The State police chief made it clear that Telangana police department was acting as per law in every situation and would continue to do so. Replying to a question at year-end press conference about State BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay’s comments that he would barge into the DGP’s office if Telangana police continued to act biased, he said, “I will leave it to their discretion”. Mr. Sanjay, during GHMC election campaign period in November last week, said he would not hesitate to storm into State police chief’s chamber alleging that Mr. Reddy was using police force against BJP activists. Though Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar had condemned the BJP State chief’s charges back then, the DGP had not reacted to those comments until now. Action for violation Action would be initiated against any person as per the law in case of violation of rules, he said. Replying to a query on Forum for Good Governance’s representation on slain gangster Nayeemuddin procuring weapons like AK47, the DGP said investigation was being done based on evidences available. Referring to investigation by Crime Investigation Department (CID) into housing project scam, Mr Reddy said an inquiry report was already prepared and submitted to the government. Based on further instructions from the government, future course of action would be decided, he said. Loan app scam The quick response of the Telangana police over mobile phone loan app operators fleecing people was proved with the arrest of 28 persons and registration of 50 cases soon after learning about such crime pattern, he said. Involvement of some Chinese nationals had come to fore. “Linkage of Chinese to such type of crimes is still being probed,” he said. At the media conference, he added that 72 Telangana police officials of different ranks died due to COVID-19 and that while there are no restrictions on New Year celebrations per se, no permission would be granted to any special events with large gatherings. Mr Mahender Reddy also mentioned that the issue of invoking Preventive Detention Act against suspended ASI Mohan Reddy of Karimnagar will be examined.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No sign of leachate treatment||Legacy leachate at the Jawahar Nagar land fill facility is proving to be an insurmountable problem for GHMC authorities, and a continuing menace for residents of the surrounding colonies. Even as the legacy dump with 12 million tonnes of city garbage is being capped, the issue of leachate oozing out of the dump has remained unsolved for years. Several attempts to get the leachate treated completely have fallen through, and all that the authorities have managed to do is maintain a status quo so far. On Tuesday, the issue came to the fore again, when the leachate mixed water reportedly from Malkaram lake seeped on to the road causing a spate of accidents. There is a total of 750 million litres (ML) of leachate stored in several ponds exclusively dug for this purpose in Jawahar Nagar, outside the Solid Waste Management facility. Two existing plants each with a capacity to treat 2,000 litres per day, strive to maintain the leachate at 600 ML, in the absence of which the quantity would be enhanced by rain water, and result in widespread pollution and crop damage. Sources from Irrigation department informed that during the heavy downpour in October, all the ponds and Malkaram lake, where leachate was stored, overflowed onto the road. Water was mechanically drained downstream, spreading the pollution to connected lakes at Dammaiguda, Nagaram and Cherlapally. Repeated attempts have failed towards treatment of the total leachate at once. Global tenders were called twice, but have not yielded result. “The first time we called for tenders on Build-Operate-Transfer basis, the least bid was for Rs. 340 crore, which we thought, was excessively quoted. The tenders were cancelled, and called for again just before elections, limiting the brief to complete treatment of existing leachate at Rs. 240 crore. There was no response for that,” shared an official. Efforts are on to call tenders a third time, this time on Build-Operate-Own model. Proposals have been prepared and sent to the GHMC Commissioner, who in turn, will forward the same to the state government for approval. “As per the proposal, the bidder will have to design the plant, build it, and operate to completely treat the leachate, existing and even that which might ooze in future. He may take up work from outside too based on completion of our quantity. Government will bear the complete cost, Rs. 270 crore, and seek 20% share from the earnings accrued to the agency from outside work,” explained the official. The procedure involves repeated cycles of treatment till the leachate is reduced to sludge, which would be sun dried into powder form, and disposed of to the landfill.
31 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR seeks 20% of funds from Centre for municipal projects||Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao has sought Rs. 750 crore in the Union Budget of 2021-22 for the Comprehensive Sewerage Master Plan (CSMP) of the Telangana government to develop sewer network infrastructure in Hyderabad and other cities of Telangana. In separate letters to Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardip Singh Puri and Union Minister for Finance Nirmala Sitharaman, he requested 20% of the funds in the budget for Strategic Nala Development Plan (SNDP) to develop sewer network infrastructure for liquid waste collection in Hyderabad Urban Agglomeration (HUA) area, Metro Net Project in Warangal, and solid waste management in ULBs in the State. The Minister said that in compliance with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directions to mitigate the sewage pollution in Musi river stretches and water bodies in HUA, the sewage line network of 2,232 km is proposed at a total cost of Rs. 3,722 crore and the government would take up to 36 months for finishing the works. He requested for a sanction of 20% of the project. Mentioning the recent floods in Hyderabad and its after effects, he said as a permanent solution to the issue the government has set up Strategic Nala Development Plan (SNDP) at a cost of Rs. 1,200 crore and sought Rs. 240 crore funds for the project. Similarly, Metro Neo Project in Warangal, similar to that of Metro Neo Project in Nashik, has been designed to meet the growing population of an estimated 35 lakhs by 2051. The project covering 15.5 km length will cost Rs. 1,050 crore, he said, and requested for a sanction of Rs. 210 crore from the Union government. Mr. Rao said that the tenders were finalised for bio-mining solid waste in the ULBs of the State at an estimated cost of Rs. 258 crore for 2021-22, apart from tenders for bio-mining and remediation of 70 lakh metric tons of legacy waste in ULBs in the State with an estimated cost of Rs. 520 crore. The government is also spending Rs. 250 crores for construction of Fecal Sludge Treatment Plant (FSTP) in 71 ULBs.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Promoted, but still in the same post||Since its inception six years ago, Telangana State is witnessing a unique situation with top police officers continuing in the same post even months after getting promoted. Interestingly, some of them have been continuing in the same post for unusually long periods. A couple of unit heads had completed more than four years of service, and still continue to hold the same post. In Hyderabad police alone, some police officers of the rank of Superintendent of Police are in the same post even after getting promoted to the rank of Deputy Inspector General. Three districts in northern Telangana have no regular SPs. Two of these districts are witnessing movement of Maoists. Heads of adjacent units were given charge of these districts. Meanwhile, the issue of promotions for different batches of inspectors as Deputy Superintendents of Police has been kept pending for past several years. Especially, the promotions of SIs (who are presently inspectors and eligible for DSP promotion) of 1995 and 1996 remain unresolved. Some of the 1995 batch SIs (presently inspectors) from Hyderabad were promoted as DSPs and posted in districts. Those in districts still working as inspectors have to work as subordinates under their own batchmates! This issue of promotions of SIs of different batches arose due to various factors like recruitment of SIs in different zones when Telangana was part of undivided state of Andhra Pradesh. Interestingly, even after formation of separate Telangana, the problem is continuing and becoming more complex. The policy of accelerated promotions, SIs working in zones having lesser posts getting faster promotions and other factors created rifts relating promotions. In Warangal zone, one batch of SIs could not become inspectors even after putting in 15 years of service while their batchmates became senior inspectors in Hyderabad zone. The 1995 batch SIs took the matter to the notice of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao stating that indecision by the higher-ups stalled their prospects of becoming DSPs. Meanwhile, the SIs of 1996 batch too have started presenting petitions to consider their case for promotion as DSPs.
31 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Traffic restrictions on New Year’s Eve||For New Year’s eve, police of three commissionerates — Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda — have announced traffic restrictions in various parts of the city. Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said vehicular traffic in and around Tank Bund and Necklace Road will not be allowed from Thursday 10p.m. to Friday 2 a.m. Vehicles coming from the V.V. Statue towards Necklace Road and NTR Marg will be diverted at the V.V. Statue towards Khairatabad and Raj Bhavan Road, while motorists coming from BRK Bhavan towards NTR Marg will be diverted at Telugu Talli Junction towards Iqbal Minar, Lakdikapul and Ayodhya. Commuters coming from Liberty Junction will not be allowed towards Upper Tank Bund, hence they should take left at Ambedkar statue, Telugu Talli, Iqbal Minar, Ravindra Bharathi and other alternate roads. Traffic coming from Khairatabad Market to go towards Necklace Rotary will be diverted at Khairatabad (Bada Ganesh) towards Sensation Theatre, Rajdoot lane and Lakdikapul, while Mint compound lane adjacent to Secretariat will be closed for general traffic. Vehicular traffic coming from Nallagutta Railway Bridge will not be allowed towards Sanjeevaiah Park and Necklace Road and will be diverted towards Karbala Maidan or Ministers Road and commuters coming from Secunderabad will be diverted at the Sailing Club towards Kavadiguda crossroads, Lower Tankbund, Kattamaisamma Temple, left turn and Ashok Nagar, RTC crossroads. “All the flyovers in the city except Begumpet flyover will be closed on Thursday evening till next day,” the Commissioner said, adding that private buses, lorries and heavy vehicles will not be allowed in Hyderabad city limits till 2 a.m. on Friday. Traffic police will launch extensive checks to curb drunk driving, rash and negligent driving, over speeding, triple riding and other traffic violations for the safety of the public. Cyberabad area Cyberabad Traffic DCP S.M. Vijay Kumar said that the Nehru Outer Ring Road and PVNR Expressway will be closed for light motor vehicles except the vehicles bound for the airport from 11 p.m. on Thursday to 5 a.m. on Friday. Movement of vehicles and pedestrians will not be allowed on flyover at Cyber towers, Gachibowli, Biodiversity, Mindspace flyover, Forum Mall-JNTU, Jubilee Hills Road No.45 and Durgam Cheruvu bridge. He said that cabs and auto rickshaw drivers should not refuse rides on hire, which is a violation of Section 178 of Motor Vehicles Act and must wear proper uniform and carry documents. “Stringent action will be taken against the management of bars and pubs if they allow their customers to drive under the influence of alcohol, and they will be prosecuted for abetting the crime,” he said. Rachakonda area Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh M. Bhagwat said New Year celebrations are restricted in resorts, parks, hotels, bars, pubs and other public places. He advised the public to stay at home and restrict their movement in view of COVID-19 pandemic. Mr.Bhagwat said movement of light motor vehicles and passenger vehicles on ORR falling in their jurisdiction will be restricted from 11 p.m. on Thursday to 5 a.m. on Friday. However, medium and heavy vehicles will be allowed on ORR.
31 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cyberabad police step up drunk driving checks||With an increase in the number of road accidents involving tippler drivers, the Cyberabad police intensified drunk driving checks to curb the violation, Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar said on Wednesday. So far this month, the police have booked 3,387 people for driving under the influence of alcohol, and in the last three days alone, they have booked 928 cases. “People aged between 21 and 40 years are found to be involved more in this dangerous activity. They will be produced in court in due time,” Mr. Sajjanar said. A penalty of Rs. 10,000 and/or imprisonment of up to six months for the first offence and a penalty of Rs. 15,000 and/or imprisonment of up to 2 years for a second or subsequent offence will be awarded by the court, he said. Also, all their driving licences will be seized and sent to concerned RTOs for suspension as per Section 19 of the Motor Vehicles Act (MVA), he said. “For the first offence, the driving licence will be suspended for three months and for second and subsequent offences, it will be revoked permanently making the person ineligible to drive in India,” Mr. Sajjanar said, adding that the drive will continue till this menace is totally curbed in the city in view of road safety. According to him, this year 155 fatal accidents have taken place due to driving under the influence of alcohol and 166 people have been killed in those accidents. People who drive under the influence of alcohol are equal to ‘terrorists on roads’ to the extent that they may cause death of anyone indiscriminately, the officer said. Against all popular misconceptions, it is found that most of the drunk drivers are highly educated and employed. Shockingly, many of them have been to or stayed in global cities like New York, Melbourne, Singapore and Dubai, where they would never think of violating any traffic rule, he said. “But, here they indulge in these dangerous acts at the cost of safety of themselves and other innocent people on roads. This aspect needs self-introspection by citizens as well,” Mr. Sajjanar said. He added that the loss of young lives in road accidents in the city is adding great psychological stress and livelihood problems to lakhs of families every year in the country.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two GMRVF students qualify for higher studies in the US||Two students from GMR Varalakshmi Foundation (GMRVF) have been chosen for higher studies in the United States under the Community College Initiative Programme (CCIP) sponsored by the US Department of State. The students are Behera Mounika and Sopeti Hema Sree from SGCSR College of Rajam in Srikakulam. Selected by the US Consulate General, Hyderabad, to participate in the CCIP this year - Ms. Mounika hails from a fishermen family and has been supported by the Foundation from third standard under its flagship ‘Gifted Children’ programme where underprivileged meritorious children get help. She has opted for ‘Environmental Horticulture’ course under CCIP 2020-2021 and will be pursuing her studies at College of DuPage, Illinois State. Ms. Hema Sree hails from a lower middle-class family and has opted for ‘Sustainable Agriculture’ course and is going to pursue her studies at Valencia College, Orlando, Florida State. CCIP supports deserving candidates from other countries to study at an American community college for one year and GMRVF provides training to its students applying for courses under this programme. Ten students have been chosen so far. The entire expense of the selected candidates — course-related expenses, airfare, boarding and lodging expenses, books and medical aid — are borne by the US government. Further, the candidates are also paid a monthly stipend to meet other incidental expenses. Both candidates will start their courses in January, 2021 as it has been slightly delayed due to COVID-19 this year. “GMRVF provides the right launchpad for students to break the barrier and live their dreams. Our courses help students aim higher and make a change in their lives,” said director-community services wing, GMRVF Avanish Kumar, in a press release.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Wine shops to stay open till midnight||Telangana Prohibition and Excise department has permitted wine shops to be open till December 31 midnight. Besides, according to orders issued by the department officials on Wednesday, licence holders of pubs, clubs, EP1 licences (events permit), and licences of Tourism Development Corporation are permitted to serve liquor up to 1 a.m. on the intervening night of December 31 and January 1. The Union Health Secretary has written to all States to keep strict vigil on all events that could be “super spreader” events, and to curb crowding in the wake of New Year celebrations and various events associated with it. Since the pubs, clubs, and other places were permitted to be open till 1 a.m., there is a possibility of congregations. Interestingly, popular websites which list pubs and hotels, where the New Year celebrations will be held took down advertisements on Wednesday night. From afternoon to early evening, the websites listed party venues along with COVID precautions. However, the pages did not load on the websites at night.    The government and the police have restricted New Year parties due to the pandemic and fears over the transmission of the new virus strain. How would you like to celebrate this year-end? Tweet us @THHyderabad   The government and the police have restricted New Year parties due to the pandemic and fears over the transmission of the new virus strain. How would you like to celebrate this year-end? Tweet us @THHyderabad
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP wants govt. to implement interim relief from New Year||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday demanded the TRS government to start implementing 27% interim relief for the employees, including teachers, from New Year itself and also declare the time frame for filling up of vacant posts before the schedule of the MLC elections is announced. PRC Senior leader and MLC N. Ramchander Rao told a press conference that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s announcement of sops are welcome but considering the past record, credit will be given only if and when the actual implementation of recommendations of the Pay Revision Committee (PRC) and other benefits to the employees pending since the last six years begins. “Employees played a key role during the Telangana formation, however, they have been denied a single benefit like increasing retirement age to 60 years, dearness allowance, promotions or filling up of vacant posts. It is ironical that Mr. Rao has announced sops even when several unions were protesting at the Dharna Chowk near Indira Park seeking solution to long pending demands,” he pointed out. Big loss “Each employee must have lost anywhere up to Rs. 3 lakh because of the delay in giving interim relief denied despite being a ‘rich’ State. Is the Chief Minister’s new found love towards the employees because of the recent electoral setbacks and MLC polls round the corner,” he questioned. The BJP leader reminded similar kind of announcements were made during Huzurnagar byelections, which benefited the TRS, but people turned hostile during the subsequent Dubbak bypoll and the GHMC elections as they were “no longer ready to be fooled by empty promises.” Questioning the time table for PRC implementation, Mr. Ramchander Rao said a report was to have been submitted in August last year. Now it is scheduled to be given next month following which a chief secretary-led panel will study and give a report, which in turn, will be vetted by the Cabinet sub-committee before going to the Cabinet for clearance. “The lengthy process raises many doubts. The government should clarify if the interim relief will be from 2018 onwards and about exact number of vacancies till date,” he said and stated that none of the universities have vice-chancellors and recruitment of teachers have been frozen for many years. The MLC also castigated the unions maintaining ‘baffling silence” on extension of the Pay Revision Committee ‘indefinitely’ and not a single benefit given so far -- including health cards -- yet having no qualms in rushing to support Secretariat demolition and bandh calls.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cotton Corporation of India urged to lift curbs till Jan. end||The State government has requested the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) to lift the restrictions imposed on the cotton procurement operations till January-end, keeping in view the interests of the farming community as also to avoid distress sale of the fibre crop by farmers. In a letter addressed to the Chairman and Managing Director of CCI on Tuesday, Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy stated that restrictions were imposed to purchase only 15,000 bales each every day in the Warangal and Mahabubnagar regions and only 10,000 bales in Adilabad region. Stating that the current period was key when third picking of the crop was in progress, he requested the CCI to lift the restrictions imposed. He assured that the State government would divert the farmers to nearby procurement centres in case the storage capacity of a procurement centre was nearing exhaustion or already exhausted to continue the procurement operations at minimum support price. The CCI step would cause concern among the farming community on the disposal of their produce and they would be forced to resort to distress sale to traders, he explained. The Minister said cotton was cultivated extensively in 60.36 lakh acres during the kharif season in the State and the production was estimated to be about 54.81 lakh tonnes. He stated that the CCI had procured 12.12 lakh tonnes till December 26 at an average of 60,000 bales every day. A total of 300 ginning mills were notified as procurement centres in 29 districts for the procurement operations of CCI. He also stated that the Director of Agricultural Marketing had already written to the CMD-CCI with a request not to impose any quantity restrictions on purchase till February 1, next to extend the support price to farmers. Since the peak arrivals would be in the month of January the restrictions imposed would harm the interests of farmers and to avoid unrest among them, he noted.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Karimnagar DCCB chairman is new NAFSCOB chairman||Telangana State Cooperative Apex Bank (TSCAB) chairman and Karimnagar District Cooperative Central Bank (DCCB) chairman Konduru Ravinder Rao has been unanimously elected as the chairman of the National Federation of State Cooperative Banks Limited (NAFSCOB). This is the first time in the 55 years history of the NAFSCOB, an apex body for the cooperative banks of the country, a Telugu speaking person was elected as the national body chairman for a period of five years. Mr Ravinder Rao would be heading the NAFSCOB which comprises of 33 state cooperative banks and 393 district cooperative central banks in the country. Mr Rao was elected as chairman at the NAFSCOB general body meeting which was organised on Tuesday in Mumbai. After the election of the new board of directors, Mr Rao was unanimously elected as the chairman of the NAFSCOB. Earlier, Mr Ravinder Rao was presented with a special award by the NAFSCOB under the democratic management practices and good governance category. NABARD chairman GR Chinthala, International cooperative alliance vice chairman and chairman Kribco Chandrapal Yadav and others were also present. Similarly, Karimnagar DCCB was adjudged as the winner of the first prize for annual performance for the year 2018-19 at all India level by the National Federation of State Cooperative Banks limited (NAFSCOB). DCCB CEO N Satyanarayana Rao received the award. Among the 393 district cooperative central banks (DCCB)s in the country, the NAFSCOB had selected the Karimnagar DCCB as the winner in the country for its best performance. The Choppadandi Primary cooperative agriculture society (PACS) had stood best performing PACS in the country among the total of 93,000 PACS. Choppadandi PACS president V Malla Reddy and CEO Tirupathi Reddy received the awards from the NABARD chairman and other dignitaries.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Former football captain Amalraj retires from FCI||Former India football captain and linkman, Victor Amalraj will be retiring as Deputy General Manager of Food Corporation of India (Hyderabad) after 40 years of service. Amalraj, who led India and also has the rare distinction of leading all the three famous Kolkata football clubs — East Bengal, Mohammedan Sporting and Mohun Bagan — says he is grateful to the FCI for giving him an opportunity to serve in the job under sports quota. In FCI, 60-year-old Amalraj donned the role of PR officer ever since he returned to the city in 1995 from Kolkata. A highlight of his tenure in FCI was to bring in sports culture in the organisation. “I remember talking to Shivlal Yadav, former HCA secretary and BCCI president, who was also my schoolmate in Valerian Grammar School (Bolarum) and seeking his support. He gave me important assignments like manager of the Hyderabad age group teams which had the likes of Arjun Yadav, Ambati Rayudu and T.Suman,” he said. Now, he is looking forward to start football academies in city international schools. He led the country in 1983 President’s Cup where India lost in the semi-final.
31 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KNUHS V-C meets Governor||Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences Vice-Chancellor B. Karunakar Reddy met Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Wednesday at the Raj Bhavan in the light of the controversy over admissions. A statement from the Governor’s office said that she has enquired about the MBBS admissions process and asked the Vice-Chancellor to safeguard the interests of meritorious Telangana students in MBBS admissions. The Governor was responding to a series of representations from the students of Telangana regarding the MBBS admissions in the State, the statement added. Cong. thanks Governor Meanwhile, AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju thanked the Governor for her swift response on the sensitive issue of medical seats allocation ‘scam’ at the university. He wondered why Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Health Minister E. Rajendar are silent when fraudulently medical seats are being deprived to meritorious sons of soil. He alleged Mr. Rao has failed to restrict forgery and malpractices at one of his Cabinet colleagues Ch. Malla Reddy's educational institutions. So there was no way he would take action against the KNUHS, he said. He welcomed the Governor’s immediate response to meet the V-C to seek clarifications on the controversy. As per complaints lodged by the students, meritorious students of Telangana were denied seats in Telangana colleges due to a faulty system adopted by the university.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ABCI Award for L&T Metro||L&T Metro Rail (Hyderabad) LTMRH has been presented with the prestigious ABCI Award under the categories ‘Web Communication – Online Campaign’ and ‘Internal Broadcast – Intranet’ in the 59th Annual Awards Nite 2020, hosted in Mumbai by the Association of Business Communicators of India recently. ABCI is the country’s largest non-profit organisation for business communication professionals since 1957. “We are delighted to receive these prestigious awards, which are a testimonial to my entire team’s hard work and best efforts put in. Specially, I would like to congratulate corporate communications department for their innovative and unique campaigns to reach out to the commuters of Hyderabad Metro Rail, enabling encouragement to ridership growth and help better understanding of the travel etiquettes in this new normal scenario. I would like to thank all jury members and ABCI core team for recognising L&TMRHL as a brand to reckon with,” said L&TMRH MD and CEO K.V.B. Reddy.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Decision to dovetail Arogyasri with Ayushman Bharat raises many an eyebrow||The State Government’s decision to dovetail Arogyasri scheme with Ayushman Bharat scheme of the Central Government is set to raise many an eye brow. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar informed the Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the video conference that the State Government has decided to dovetail the Arogyasri project implemented in the State with the Ayushman Bharat, the comprehensive health coverage project launched by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi led Government a couple of years ago. The State government, during the launch of the Ayushman Bharat (Prime Minister’s Jan Arogya Yojana), opted out of the scheme citing several conditions restricting the coverage of the beneficiaries. The Government had contended that only about 26.11 lakh families would be covered under the Ayushman Bharat, just one third of the 77.19 lakh families covered under the Arogyasri. Families covered under Arogyasri were being provided coverage ranging between Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 13 lakh and the government had made budgetary allocation in excess of Rs. 750 crore for the scheme as against the Rs. 260 crore allocated to the State under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. The government’s decision to dovetail Arogyasri with Ayushman Bharat has raised many an eyebrow given the vehement opposition conveyed by the State Government over the past several months to join the scheme.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana sees 474 fresh COVID cases||Telangana recorded 474 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections to 2,85,939. While 45,590 people underwent the tests, results of 775 were awaited. Three more patients died. The new cases include 102 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area, 49 from Rangareddy, 45 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 29 from Karimnagar. No case was recorded from Jogulamba Gadwal while one case was detected in Narayanpet. From March 2 to December 29, a total of 68,39,281 samples were examined and 2.85 lakh persons have tested positive. Of the total cases, 5,878 were active and 2,78,523 have recovered. The death toll has reached 1,538.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ISB new dean named, to take over on July 1||The Indian School of Business (ISB) on Wednesday announced the appointment of Madan Pillutla as the next dean. A renowned management academic, currently professor of Organisational Behaviour at London Business School (LBS) and a visiting faculty member at ISB since its founding, Mr.Pillutla will succeed Rajendra Srivastava. He will formally take over as dean on July 1, a release said. On his appointment, Mr.Pillutla said, “It is a privilege to be selected as the dean... particularly special to lead an institution that I have been associated with since its inception. I am excited about the opportunities for ISB to set new benchmarks for others to follow.” Mr.Srivastava will transition into a faculty role as Novartis Professor of Marketing Strategy and Innovation over next few months.
31 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. thanks Governor||AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju thanked Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan for her swift response on the sensitive issue of medical seats allocation ‘scam’ at Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences that deprived seats to Telangana students. He wondered why Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Health Minister E. Rajendar are silent when fraudulently medical seats are being deprived to meritorious sons of soil. He alleged Mr. Rao has failed to restrict forgery and malpractices at one of his Cabinet colleagues Ch. Malla Reddy's educational institutions. So there was no way he would take action against the KNUHS, he said. He welcomed the Governor’s immediate response to meet the V-C to seek clarifications on the controversy.
31 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Gulf employee leaders meet K.T. Rama Rao||A delegation of Gulf Telangana Welfare and Cultural Association led by its president Patkuri Basanth Reddy met TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao on Wednesday and submitted a memorandum seeking his intervention on problems being faced by people of Telangana in the Gulf. Mr. Reddy urged Mr. Rao to create the Telangana Gulf Employees Welfare Board with a corpus fund and also allocate at least Rs. 500 crore in the budget for welfare of Gulf employees who contribute hugely to Telangana’s growth. He asked the IT Minister to provide assistance of Rs. 5 lakh to the families of people who died in the Gulf. He requested Mr. Rao to prevail upon the Union government to withdraw the circulars issued by it on the minimum referral wages for Gulf employees. Those circulars have reduced the wages recommended for Gulf employees.
31 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IOC turbines to be monitored from Hyderabad||A remote monitoring centre that will analyse operational data from 27 gas turbines at eight Indian Oil Corporation refineries across the country has been established in Hyderabad. Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Dharmendra Pradhan on Tuesday inaugurated the IndianOil Remote Monitoring and Operation Centre, the facility set up by BHEL-GE Gas Turbine Services, which is a joint venture of BHEL and General Electric, a release said. The project combines the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar Bharat and Digital India and is to ensure preventive as well as proactive monitoring and maintenance of the gas turbines remotely from Hyderabad, the Minister said. IOC chairman S.M.Vaidya said it is for the first time such a multi-unit monitoring system is being implemented by an oil Public Sector Undertaking.
31 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Minister KTR congratulates founders of four Telangana based start ups||IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao praised four start-ups conceived by youngsters of Telangana for creating a place in the niche market when they met him on Wednesday. Mr. KTR congratulated Arun Kumar Rapolu, director of Dhira, produced by Hyderabad based start-up A-Theorem Studios in 12 Indian languages. He also congratulated Pallav Bajjuri, co-founder and CEO of Kahaniya, Srinivas Madhavam, founder and CEO of Exprs, and Sricharan Lakkaraju, founder of stuMagz, for running their start-ups successfully in their respective sectors.
31 December 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Karimnagar Dairy turnover crosses Rs. 343 cr. in 2019-’20||The Karimnagar Milk Producer Company Limited albeit Karimnagar Dairy has emerged as the number one dairy in Telangana State by striving hard for the economic empowerment of the milk producing farmers and providing quality milk and milk products to customers, said Karimnagar Dairy chairman Ch. Rajeshwara Rao. The Karimnagar Dairy conducted its ninth general body meeting on Monday by adhering to all COVID-19 norms. The chairman said that the Dairy tops in the State by implementing several welfare schemes for milk farmers as well as milching animals. Giving details about the welfare schemes, he said that they had distributed Kalyanamasthu to 760 milk producing farmers worth Rs. 86 lakh. Stating that Karimnagar Dairy had crossed a turnover of Rs. 343.60 crore during the year 2019-2020, he said that the Dairy earned profit of Rs. 1.08 crore till March 2020. Reiterating that Karimnagar Dairy was following the footsteps shown by Milkman of India Dr. Verghese Kurien, he said that they were making strides on all fronts by launching the ‘white revolution’ (milk production) in the integrated Karimnagar district. Explaining about CSR, he said that they had been distributing milk to orphanages and buttermilk packets to devotees visiting Sri Raja Rajeshwara Swamy Devasthanam during the Shivarathri jatara, Sri Ramachandra Swamy devasthanam in Illandakunta mandal during the Sriramanavami celebrations and also to the Traffic police during the summer all worth over Rs. 5 lakh.
31 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||In a move to extend support to the ongoing agitation of farmers at New Delhi, several public organisations would conduct a bus yatra starting from Sangareddy district headquarters from January 1. CITU State president Chukka Ramulu, former MLA J. Ranga Reddy, Rythu Sangham State secretary Sagar, All India Kisan Sabha vice president S. Malla Reddy and others would participate in the programme, according to district secretary of Rythu Sangham G. Jayaraj.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Lockdown, death, rains||The year 2020 comes to an end in a few hours but leaves a lasting impression on the minds of the citizens due to the disastrous COVID-19 pandemic that left a trail of death and hardship. Lockdown for months crippling the economy and livelihoods of many people, fear of contracting Coronavirus and heavy rains, inundating several colonies, in the twin cities only added to the misery. All these were captured through the lenses of our photographers. Here's a snap shot:
31 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Couple shot in Rohtak, honour killing suspected||A 28-year-old woman and her male friend were shot dead in Rohtak on Wednesday in a suspected case of honour killing. Two persons, including the woman’s uncle, have been detained, the police said. Pooja and her friend Rohit, 30, were inside a car when two men waylaid them near Maharishi Dayanand University Gate No. 1 around 4 p.m. and opened fire. While both died on the spot, Rohit’s brother Mohit sustained four bullet injuries. “Pooja’s uncle Kuldeep had called them for a court marriage,” said the police. Kuldeep and his brother-in-law’s son Vikas alias Vicky have been detained.
31 December 2020||Mumbai,||Centre using NCB to terrorise Bollywood, alleges Congress||Mounting a veiled attack on the Central government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Maharashtra unit of the Congress on Wednesday alleged that Bollywood was being deliberately “terrorised” through the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). State Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant also asked the NCB when it would summon actor Kangana Ranaut for questioning over a video in which she allegedly admitted to consumption of drugs. The party levelled the allegations a day after the actor returned to Mumbai. “When will the NCB call Kangana Ranaut, who consumed drugs and forced others to take them, for interrogation? She has returned to Mumbai,” he said. The Central probe agency has been investigating the drug angle linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. The NCB had earlier questioned some actors in connection with the probe, conducted raids on several occasions to unearth the alleged “Bollywood-drugs” nexus, and arrested many suspected drug peddlers. Mr. Sawant said, “In a bid to unearth a connection between Bollywood and drugs, the Narcotics Control Bureau in the last three to four months has been raiding houses of various actors and people associated with them, and interrogating them. It is even probing an old video of a party at Karan Johar’s house. The filmmaker was served a notice over the party organised by him when Devendra Fadnavis was the chief minister.” The Congress spokesperson said “a deliberate attempt is being made to terrorise Bollywood through the NCB”. Mr. Sawant added that the actor’s friend, Adhyayan Suman, had in an interview stated that she forced him to take drugs. “Both videos are in the public domain. Kangana has publicly stated that she is ready to provide information about the Bollywood-drug nexus. Then why is the NCB not taking her seriously?” he asked. Mr. Sawant said the BJP should ask the actor to share such information with the NCB. ‘BJP should apologise’ Alleging that the BJP has “maligned” the image of Maharashtra, Mr. Sawant said the saffron party owes an apology to the people of the State. The Congress leader also slammed the BJP for backing every statement made by Ms. Ranaut and being a silent spectator. “BJP MLA Ram Kadam had even compared her to the queen of Jhansi, alleging that the present Maharashtra government refuses to let her expose information available with her. The BJP should now take the initiative and ask Kangana Ranaut to divulge all the details,” he said. On Tuesday, Ms. Ranaut visited Siddhivinayak temple in Prabhadevi after arriving in the city. She later tweeted, “The amount of hostility I faced for standing up for my beloved city Mumbai baffled me, today I went to Mumba Devi and Shri Siddhivinayak ji and got their blessings, I feel protected, loved and welcomed. Jai Hind Jai Maharashtra.”  (With PTI inputs)   Kangana has publicly stated that she is ready to provide information about the Bollywood-drug nexus. Then why is the NCB not taking her seriously? Sachin Sawant State Congress spokesperson
31 December 2020||Mumbai,||Pune land deal: Khadse skips ED summons||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse said he did not appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday in response to its summons as he has COVID-19 symptoms. “I have undergone a COVID-19 test and reports are awaited. As per medical advice, I need to take rest for 14 days,” he said. The ED authorities have agreed to give 14 days’ time, Mr. Khadse said and added that he will cooperate with the probe after recovery. He said he was having fever, cold and dry cough since December 28. The ED on December 26 asked Mr. Khadse, who joined the NCP recently, to appear before it in connection with a land deal in Bhosri area near Pune. Mr. Khadse had to step down as a cabinet minister in the previous BJP-led government in 2016 after it was alleged that he misused his position to facilitate the purchase of government land by his wife and son-in-law. Mr. Khadse maintained that the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Income Tax Department had found no irregularities in the transaction, but he would nevertheless cooperate with the ED.
31 December 2020||Mumbai,||TRP scam: ex-BARC CEO sent to judicial custody||A court on Wednesday remanded Partho Dasgupta, former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) who was arrested in the television rating points (TRP) scam, in 14 days’ judicial custody. Mr. Dasgupta, whose police custody ended, has filed a bail application. His lawyer Kamlesh Ghumre said Mr. Dasgupta was CEO of BARC, but there was a board of directors and a disciplinary committee above him. He was not the “whole and sole of the BARC”, Mr. Ghumre said, adding that he could not have manipulated the rating system. The court will hear his bail plea on January 1. The police alleged that Mr. Dasgupta misused his position to manipulate the TRP of certain channels.
31 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||History-sheeter held for rape, murder of toddler||The Pen police have arrested a 32-year-old man for allegedly raping and killing a two-and-a-half-year-old resident of Adivasi Wadi. Adesh Patil, who was convicted for raping a Adivasi woman, was released on parole 10 days ago. Around 2.30 a.m. on Wednesday, Patil abducted the child from her house and raped her in the bushes 200 metres away, causing her death. The victim’s grandmother spotted Patil when he returned to the house to hide the body. “Patil had four cases registered against him, including a break-in, and was externed earlier,” Ashok Dudhe, Raigad Superintendent of Police, said.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||3,800 trainers ready for vaccine drive so far||The Capital witnessed 677 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,24,795, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Also, 21 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,523. Of the total cases, 6,08,434 people have recovered and there are 5,838 active cases. Cold chain handling In another development, the Delhi government has trained over 3,800 healthcare workers for the vaccination drive till now, and will start training of auxiliary nurse midwife (ANMs) for cold chain handling. Also, Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) and anganwadi workers will be trained for dissemination of information about the vaccination in the community later this week, said Suneela Garg, Director Professor of Community Medicine Department of Maulana Azad Medical College. The government has also begun training police for managing the vaccination drive. The Delhi government has created a full chain for the vaccination drive, officials said. Once the vaccine is approved, it will come to a main storage being created at the Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. District vaccine stores From there it will go to 11 district vaccine stores, one in each district in the city. From here, the vaccines will go to 603 cold chain points such as hospitals and mohalla clinics, where the inoculation will take place. The inoculation will be done at booths in these cold chain points and each booth will have three rooms: one for waiting, second for vaccination and a third for observation. “We plan to set up about 1,000 such booths to begin with and this number can be easily increased. Each booth will inoculate a maximum of 100 people a day and thus, around one lakh people can be given the first dose of the vaccine in a day,” Dr. Garg, who is also an advisor to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), told The Hindu . “In the second stage, we can rope in schools and halls to create more booths where vaccination can be done,” she added. Dr. Garg also said after the government approves a vaccine, no new training is needed for healthcare workers as all the three vaccine candidates are of two doses. Meanwhile, the positivity of COVID-19 cases in the city was 0.80% on Wednesday, very less than the average daily positivity in November, which was 11.65%. The overall positivity till now was 7.28%, as per the government bulletin. Of the total 18,727 beds available for treatment in the city, 16,433 were vacant. There were 4,276 containment zones in the city as of Wednesday.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||2020 likely to end on a cold note||Cold wave conditions prevailed in the Capital on Wednesday with the minimum temperature settling at 3.5 degrees Celsius, which is three degrees colder than the normal, and the maximum settling at 16.4 degrees Celsius, which is four degrees colder than normal. The year is likely to end on a cold note with the cold wave likely to persist. As per the forecast by the Meteorological Department, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 17 and three degrees Celsius on Thursday. The forecast adds that the sky will be mainly clear, becoming partly cloudy with dense fog in the morning. Those wanting to ring in the New Year by celebrating outdoors will have to cover up as the minimum is likely to be colder than normal this year. The extended forecast shows that rain is expected in the city on January 2 and 3 that will bring some relief from the mercury that has been below normal for most of the month. On December 20, the Safdarjung station recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far. The city has witnessed three “cold” days and seven “cold wave” days so far. A cold day is declared when the maximum temperature is less than or equal to 16 degrees Celsius.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||Interim bail granted to Unitech promoter on medical grounds||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday extended the interim bail granted to Unitech promoter Sanjay Chandra, who was arrested for allegedly cheating homebuyers, till January 21 on medical grounds. A Vacation Bench of Justice Vibhu Bakhru gave the direction after senior advocate Mohit Mathur, representing Mr. Chandra, contended that his client’s medical condition was not good and there was high risk of complication as he is suffering from co-morbidities. Mr. Chandra has been lodged in jail under judicial custody since August 2017 for allegedly siphoning off homebuyers’ money.  Complaint in 2015 The matter pertains to a criminal case that started initially by a complaint lodged in 2015 and later joined by 173 other homebuyers of Unitech projects’, ‘Wild Flower Country’ and ‘Anthea Project’, in Gurugram. In 2018, the apex court directed a forensic audit of Unitech Limited and its sister concerns and subsidiaries by Samir Paranjpe, partner, forensic and investigation services, in M/s Grant Thornton India. The forensic auditors, in their report, said that Unitech received around Rs. 14,270 crore from 29,800 homebuyers, mostly between 2006 and 2014, and around Rs. 1,805 crore from six financial institutions, for the construction of 74 projects.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Attempts to topple MVA govt. won’t succeed’||Confident that any attempt by the BJP to bring down the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government won’t succeed, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar has asserted that the Uddhav Thackeray-led dispensation is stable and will continue to rule the State. He also slammed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for its actions against leaders of the alliance and their family members as “misuse of authority”. “It has been a year now (since the MVA government assumed office)... they (BJP) were to bring down the government in two months, then they were to do so in six months, then in eight months. But, nothing will happen,” said Mr. Pawar. “It is a stable government and it will continue,” he said. The MVA government completed a year in office last month. All through this period, various BJP leaders have been saying that the government will collapse, citing ideological differences among the alliance partners. The BJP and the Shiv Sena had contested the 2019 Assembly polls together, but their alliance fell through over the issue of chief ministership. It was Mr. Pawar who is said to have then rallied the Sena, the NCP and the Congress to form the MVA. The Maratha stalwart, who has been Maharashtra’s chief minister four times and has also been a Union minister, is seen as the guiding force behind the functioning of the State government. When asked about the ED’s notice to Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha, Mr. Pawar said, “This is a misuse of authority.” The ED had summoned Ms. Raut for questioning in the over Rs. 4,300-crore PMC Bank money laundering case. She is now expected to appear before the Central probe agency on January 5 after skipping summons thrice. Mr. Pawar said, “They even tried to give me a notice once but later withdrew it. I was not even a member of the bank and I didn’t have any account in that bank.” Last year, the ED registered a criminal case in the multi-crore Maharashtra Sahakari Cooperative Bank and the role of Mr. Pawar, his nephew Ajit Pawar, and others had come under the scanner of the probe agency. The ED did not eventually summon Mr. Pawar, but the NCP president had at that time insisted that he would visit the probe agency’s office. He dropped the plan later after the State police requested him not to go ahead to avoid a possible law and order situation. The Sena has been alleging that the Central probe agencies are unfairly targeting its leaders.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||Insurance firm told to pay Rs. 1.75 cr. to owners of shipping vessel||The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission here directed an insurance company to compensate Rs. 1.75 crore to owners of a shipping vessel which sank in the sea after it was hit by some unidentified object from the bottom. The consumer court gave the decision on a petition filed by the owners of the vessel named ‘ Dhananjay ’, complaining that their insurance claim was denied by the Oriental Insurance Company Limited. Sank in 2009 The owners stated that their vessel was en route to Sharjah on December 16, 2009, when it was hit by some unidentified object at the bottom which resulted in ingress of water causing it to finally sink. Immediate intimation to the authorities ensured that no lives were lost. “Law is established that in a case where it is not clear whether there is doubt over the admissibility of a claim in terms of the insurance policy, benefit of doubt should go to the insured,” the court held.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi R-Day tableau on Chandni Chowk facelift project||After three years, a tableau proposed by the Delhi government — depicting a pedestrianised Chandni Chowk, redeveloped along a finely balanced line between its Mughal heritage and urbanisation over decades, is likely to roll down Rajpath during the Republic Day celebrations. Though a Delhi tableau was also part of the celebrations last year — depicting Mahatma Gandhi’s 720-day stay in the city between 1915 and 1948 — it was part of a contingent of 22 others depicting different facets from the life of the Father of the Nation as per a ‘Gandhi Connect’ theme to commemorate his 150th birth anniversary pre-decided by the Ministry of Defence (MoD). This time, however, government sources said, the proposal to showcase the Chandni Chowk Redevelopment Project, undertaken at a cost of Rs. 90 crore and part of a larger redevelopment plan for the Walled City of Shahjahanabad which is on the brink of being inaugurated, will see a float showcasing the Delhi government accomplishment. In 2017, the Delhi tableau illustrated a ‘Model Government School’, referencing the State government’s initiatives in the education sector and the betterment of the conditions of schools administered by it. According to government officials associated with the project, the proposal has cleared three stages of vetting overseen by the MoD and is now at the final stage of approval. Sources said the process began in May this year and, until earlier this month, was accommodating changes suggested by the Ministry. “There were slight changes in the float suggested by the officials concerned which have been accommodated and were received well. We are more than hopeful of the tableau being given the go-ahead very soon,” said a senior Delhi government official requesting anonymity. Before 2017, the Delhi tableau was a no-show for three consecutive years. Prior to this, a float seeking to showcase the diverse culture of those constituting its population and the traditional practices native to them, including fine art was part of the Republic Day celebrations in 2013. Finishing touches are being given to the 1.3-km stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid, in the process of being turned into a car-free zone in addition to being beautified keeping Mughal-era architectural style in mind, as part of the Chandni Chowk Redevelopment Project. Car-free zone The stretch will not allow vehicles between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. though non-motorised vehicles will be allowed. There will be tree-lined footpaths on either side of the road as well as a wide central verge. There will also be seating space for visitors. Most of the work is being done in red sandstone. LED streetlighting is also a part of the plan. All overhead wires have been taken underground and sewer lines have been rehabilitated.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||AQI expected to deteriorate to ‘very poor’ category today||The air quality of Delhi and Gurugram was in the “poor” category and Noida’s was in the “very poor” category, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The air quality of the national capital is expected to deteriorate to the “very poor” category on Thursday and “severe” on Friday. “The AQI is forecast to deteriorate to the high-end of the ‘very poor’ category by December 31. The AQI may touch the ‘severe’ category for a short period on New Year’s Eve. ‘Very poor’ to ‘severe’ air quality is forecast on January 1. Calm wind-low ventilated condition is likely to extend for the first few days of the new year,” said a statement by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. The effect of stubble burning on the city’s air quality remained low on Wednesday.  The AQI of Delhi was 290 on Wednesday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 227 and 302 respectively.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||8 who landed from U.K. in city have new virus strain||Eight people, who landed at the Delhi airport from the U.K. last week were detected to have the new strain of virus, officials said. “Of the 14 samples of positive people from Delhi sent to the National Centre for Disease Control [NCDC] for genome study, eight have been detected with the new strain of the virus,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . Seven of them are admitted at Lok Nayak Hospital. The eighth person, a 47-year-old woman, who returned from the U.K. to Delhi last week and tested positive for COVID-19, gave the officials a slip and went to Andhra Pradesh. She has tested positive for the new virus strain. “The woman was not brought back to Delhi as she had travelled far from here. She is admitted in a hospital in Andhra,” the official said. The Delhi government did not officially release any information on the issue on Wednesday. When contacted, the official did not comment on how many people are found to have the U.K. strain in the city.
31 December 2020||Patna,||Bihar man seeks national bravery award for son||Bhusan Kumar, father of 15-year-old Amit Raj who had died in his home town Nalanda in Bihar while rescuing two girls after a fire broke out in their home on December 3, is a shattered man today. Mr. Kumar wants the government to “at least recognise his son’s valour by conferring national bravery award on Republic Day to him posthumously”. ‘No govt. help yet’ “No one from the government or anywhere else has offered any help. My son had sacrificed his life for two little girls,” Mr. Kumar told The Hindu on phone from Nalanda. He works as a construction labourer in Kalwa of Thane district in Maharashtra. “I have a family, with two other children to look after their studies. I had hoped that Amit would soon pass out from Sainik School and join the armed forces but all my dreams were crushed,” said Mr. Kumar. Mr. Kumar has been in Kalwa since 1992-93 and earning Rs. 15,000 a month. “I have been investing in my children’s education. Amit, my elder son, was a bright student and had qualified for Sainik School, Purulia, where he was studying in Class X,” he said. His other children, daughter Rakhi Kumari and son Abhishek Kumar, study in Class IX and VIII in a school in Kalwa. Mr. Kumar has got tickets to go back to Mumbai on January 5 next year. “What to do? If I do not earn, what will the family eat, and how will the children study?” His wife Sulekha Devi is a housewife and since Amit’s death has not been well. “She stares vacantly, eats frugal and keeps wiping her tears,” said Mr. Kumar. Amit had come to his village Pesaur in Nalanda district in Bihar, and was taking a stroll on December 3 when he heard cries for help from a house which was engulfed in smoke. A fire had broken out in Sudha Devi’s house when her two little children tried to make tea, trapping them inside. “Amit jumped into the fire and rescued the children but sustained 85% burn injuries,” said his father. Amit was shifted to a private hospital in the Kankerbagh in Patna and then to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi where he died on December 13. “I was in Mumbai when this incident happened. Amit had come to the village and was attending classes online due to the lockdown but destiny had willed something else for him,” his father said. “He was brave and very helpful...I am very proud of my son.” Many of Amit’s friends from Sainik School paid tributes to him on social media. “The students also collected money and helped during his treatment. The school management too had helped,” Mr. Kumar said.
31 December 2020||London,||British lawmakers approve post-Brexit trade deal with EU||Britain’s House of Commons voted resoundingly on Wednesday to approve a trade deal with the European Union, paving the way for an orderly break with the bloc that will finally complete the U.K.’s years-long Brexit journey. With just a day to spare, lawmakers voted 521-73 in favour of the agreement sealed between the U.K. government and the EU last week. It will become British law once is passes through the unelected House of Lords later in the day and gets formal royal assent from Queen Elizabeth II. The U.K. left the EU almost a year ago, but remained within the bloc’s economic embrace during a transition period that ends at midnight Brussels time —- 11 p.m. in London — on Thursday. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and European Council President Charles Michel signed the agreement during a brief ceremony in Brussels on Wednesday morning. The documents were then being flown by Royal Air Force plane to London for Mr. Johnson to add his signature. “The agreement that we signed today is the result of months of intense negotiations in which the European Union has displayed an unprecedented level of unity,” Mr. Michel said. “It is a fair and balanced agreement that fully protects the fundamental interests of the European Union and creates stability and predictability for citizens and companies.” The European Parliament also must sign off on the agreement, but is not expected to do so for several weeks. ‘New relationship’ Just after the EU’s top officials formally signed the hard-won agreement in Brussels, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson urged legislators in the House of Commons to back a deal that he said heralded “a new relationship between Britain and the EU as sovereign equals.” It has been four-and-a-half years since U.K. voted 52% to 48% to leave the bloc it had joined in 1973. Brexit started on January 31 of this year, but the real repercussions of that decision have yet to be felt, since the U.K.’s economic relationship with the EU remained unchanged during the 11-month transition period that ends December 31. That will change on New Year’s Day. The agreement, hammered out after more than nine months of tense negotiations and sealed on Christmas Eve, will ensure Britain and the 27-nation EU can continue to trade in goods without tariffs or quotas. That should help protect the 660 billion pounds ($894 billion) in annual trade between the two sides, and the hundreds of thousands of jobs that rely on it. But the end to Britain’s membership in the EU’s vast single market and customs union will still bring inconvenience and new expense for both individuals and businesses — from the need for tourists to have travel insurance to the millions of new customs declarations that firms will have to fill out. Brexit supporters, including Mr. Johnson, say any short-term pain will be worth it.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Oli has gone too far, says former PM||Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli has “gone too far” by dissolving the Pratinidhi Sabha (Lower House) of the Nepalese Parliament, former Prime Minister Madhav Kumar Nepal told The Hindu in an exclusive interview. The former PM, who is also the head of the foreign affairs department of the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP), briefed the visiting Chinese delegation about the ongoing crisis on Monday, but maintained that outside intervention in Nepalese domestic affairs is not welcome. “Oli has gone too far. He sensed that his opponents are in majority both in the Standing Committee and the Central Committee of the party. 32 out of 44 members in the Standing Committee are against PM Oli and at least 70% members of the Central Committee turned against him. That is why he is trying to claim absolute authority in violation of the constitution,“ said Mr. Nepal, accusing Mr. Oli of trying to create a “so-called Central Committee” with his supporters. On December 24, the faction of the Nepal Communist Party (NCP) led by Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda” and Mr. Nepal, approached the Election Commission of Nepal seeking recognition as the original Nepal Communist Party, arguing that the faction has 2/3rd majority in the party. Mr. Nepal, who had worked with Mr. Oli in the erstwhile Communist Party of Nepal-UML, said Mr. Oli has an authoritarian tendency and that his style of functioning had created problems within the NCP since it was formed in 2018. Mr. Nepal, who spoke to The Hindu from Kathmandu, said that he does not expect elections will be held in April as promised by Mr. Oli after he recommended dissolution of the Lower House on December 20. “I have known Mr. Oli since we were together in CPN-UML and I know very well that he is actually a pro-royalist leader who seeks power like an authoritarian ruler. I do not think, a government under his leadership will hold election in April 2021,” remarked Mr. Nepal, who briefed a visiting Chinese delegation that was in Kathmandu for four days. The former PM met the Chinese delegation led by Guo Yezhou, vice-minister of International Department of CPC, on Monday, but maintained that he doesn’t favour “external interference in the domestic affairs of the country.” “We are not guided by others and we do not expect any undue advice from friends. We tried for months and years to change Mr. Oli’s authoritarian tendencies. If anyone has any medicine for authoritarian tendencies we suggest they can send that to Mr Oli,” Mr. Nepal said. Hint at reconciliation Cautioning that the Nepal Communist Party will ultimately split if Mr. Oli doesn’t reverse his decision to dissolve the Pratinidhi Sabha , and Mr. Nepal said, “We can sit together again if Mr. Oli pledges that he will respect democratic norms and will not neglect the sentiment of the majority in the party.” He pointed out that Mr Oli has not yet been expelled from the NCP. “The Central Committee of the NCP has expelled Mr. Oli from the position of the Co-Chair of the party. Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda” and myself are the new co-Chairs. We will share responsibilities and will give the party a democratic and transparent leadership. However, we have not expelled Prime Minister Oli from the party,” said Mr. Nepal, hinting at a possible space for reconciliation. Mr. Nepal jointly with Mr. Prachanda had spearheaded the challenge to Prime Minister Oli after accusing him of making “major political appointments” without consultation with the party’s top organs. “He repeatedly violated the founding agreement of the party. We did not seek to interfere in bureaucratic appointments but he had to consult us in basic policy affairs and before making major political appointments which he did not,” said Mr Nepal.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||China set to launch third aircraft carrier in 2021||The launching of China’s third and largest aircraft carrier is likely to take place next year, State media in China reported on Wednesday, with a renewed push to take forward military modernisation plans amid a number of territorial and maritime disputes. China one year ago launched its second aircraft carrier, the Shandong, which was the first to be built at home. It joined the Liaoning, which was developed by retrofitting a Soviet-era cruiser and commissioned in 2012. The Shandong, which has already been deployed in the Taiwan Straits and in the South China Sea, is likely to be combat ready next year. Two larger aircraft carriers are being built at the Jiangnan Shipyard near Shanghai, the first of which is likely to be launched in 2021, the Global Times reported on Wednesday. This means it could be commissioned into service and be combat ready by 2023. This will be China’s first that has an integrated electric propulsion system, an upgrade from its Soviet-modelled carriers, as well as an electromagnetic launch system for aircraft. Chinese strategic experts have previously said the PLA Navy is working towards six aircraft carriers, with two likely to be deployed in China’s near seas, including for the Taiwan Straits and the South China Sea, two for the western Pacific and two for the Indian Ocean. The Shandong this year was deployed to sail through the Taiwan Straits and also in the South China Sea, where tensions with the U.S. have flared. Next year will also see the maiden flight of a new “aircraft carrier-based” stealth fighter, developed from the fifth-generation FC-31, Fu Qianshao, a Chinese military aviation expert, told the newspaper, while the J-20 stealth fighter jet with domestically developed engines would also make its debut next year. Political statement The launch of the carrier would be one of the highlights for the People’s Liberation Army in 2021, a politically important year in China when the ruling Communist Party will mark its centenary in July, an event around which its launch may be tied. China’s media identified the border with India, the Taiwan Straits and the South China Sea as hotspots, with tensions rising in 2020 and expected to continue in the new year. An article in the Global Times quoted several Chinese strategic experts as expecting tense relations to continue in the new year, although the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) had, in the newspaper's view, somewhat cooled with both sides holding several rounds of military-level talks aimed at disengagement.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Abolishing provincial councils is like playing with fire’||Former President Maithripala Sirisena , who broke away from the Rajapaksas and secured a historic election win in 2015, is back with the Rajapaksa brothers, sitting as an MP with their Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna. In an interview  , the former President spoke about the future of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party – whose rump he leads – devolution, minority rights, and democracy. Excerpts:  You recently remarked that the SLFP faced a “huge injustice” in the parliamentary elections and have hinted at possibly contesting the provincial council elections separately. Would you do that? We were treated unfairly when the candidates were picked ahead of the general elections in August 2020. In the districts we are strong, we weren’t given a fair number of slots. So, while we still look forward to contesting provincial council elections as a coalition, we insist on the fair share of seats due to us. If we get that, we will have no problem going to polls together with the government. If there is no fair treatment, our party will decide on a solo journey. We are ready for both options. What, then, is the future of the SLFP, or what is left of it, given that much of the party is already part of the SLPP? We have a very strong plan in place in regard to the future of the SLFP. Next year, we are bringing an array of new faces on board. In the coming months, our organisers will launch a grassroots rejuvenation programme. Would you be willing to work with former President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, like you did ahead of your January 2015 poll victory? She is not in the party anymore. In the November 2019 presidential elections, she supported Sajith Premadasa [now Leader of Opposition], so she was asked to leave the party. Some within the government want the provincial councils abolished, while the Prime Minister asked officials to expedite arrangements. How do you view these contradictory positions? We have had the provincial council system for over 30 years now. We haven’t seriously evaluated if they have been successful in serving the purpose they were supposed to. I believe there are some amendments needed in the provincial council system. When the central government pumps in money into the councils, it is done as an investment for the development of the country. However, the return on such investment has been less. From a development perspective, I think a set up at the district-level, like a District Development Board, would work better than the provincial councils, given the fact that we are a small country. For a big country like India, a provincial system is good, but we are a country of 21 million. How can this arrangement ensure power devolution? We must empower the District Development Board, that should be the solution. We have to reduce wasteful expenditure, and at the same time empower local administrative bodies. Decentralising power through these District Development Boards can bring about a compromise. In principle, I believe in power sharing and devolution. In the areas where the war was fought, the incidence of poverty is very high even today. So how would you respond to those within government, calling for the abolition of provincial councils established pursuant to the 13th Amendment to the Constitution? The 13th Amendment is a product of the Indo-Lanka Accord of 1987. The Provincial Councils Act is a product of the 13th Amendment. So, I know it is not that easy to abolish provincial councils. India could get a little upset with us if we completely do away with the 13th Amendment. In our region, the friendship with India is very important to Sri Lanka and should be strengthened by all governments. Abolishing provincial councils is like playing with fire. How do you view the 20th Amendment passed by this government you are part of that gives sweeping powers to the President? Months after you assumed office in 2015, the 19th Amendment, clipping executive powers of the President, was passed. I don’t like the fact that the 19th Amendment has been abolished. Had I been the President, I would have made changes to the 19th Amendment to strengthen it. I didn’t vote for the 20th Amendment. Why, your party supported it? It [20 A] is against my policy. Now the President has all the powers that he acquired through the 20th Amendment. I hope he will not misuse or abuse those powers. The Constitution gives you some powers, but it is the person who occupies the seat that decides how that power is used. You keep referring to democracy. In your recent speech too, you spoke of many governments sliding towards authoritarianism, where rights of minorities are under threat. How do you see the Sri Lankan context? As a majority ethnic group, it is our responsibility to seriously think about the minorities who form part of this country all the time. It is a fact that in Sri Lanka the Sinhalese are the majority. Bearing that in mind, we must ensure Tamils, Muslims and Burghers have equal rights as minorities. For example, take the issue of mandatory cremation of victims of COVID-19. Muslims must be given the right to bury their relatives who succumbed to it. The WHO [World Health Organization] says it is possible to bury. As a former Minister of Health, I stand by the opinion of the WHO. You cannot develop the country when the sentiments of minority communities are hurt. We have to ensure that democracy and economic development are shared equally by all ethnic groups in this country. Buddhist philosophy offers us ample guidance on the principle of equality.  In our region, the friendship with India is very important to Sri Lanka and should be strengthened by all governments
31 December 2020||Washington,||U.S. detects first case of new coronavirus variant||A new variant of the coronavirus that may be more contagious has been found in a Colorado man who had not been travelling, triggering a host of questions about how the first U.S. case of the new version showed up in the Rocky Mountain state. For the moment, the variant is likely still rare in the U.S., but the lack of travel history in the first case means it is spreading, probably seeded by travellers from Britain in November or December, said scientist Trevor Bedford, of Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle. President-elect Joe Biden criticised the Trump administration on Tuesday for the pace of distributing COVID-19 vaccines . “We need to be honest — the next few weeks and months are going to be very tough, very tough for our nation. Maybe the toughest during this entire pandemic,” Mr. Biden said. At the current pace, Mr. Biden said, “it’s gonna take years, not months, to vaccinate the American people.”
31 December 2020||Aden,||Yemen airport blasts kill 26 as government plane arrives||At least 26 people were killed on Wednesday as explosions rocked Yemen's Aden airport, moments after a plane carrying the newly formed Cabinet flew in, in what some officials charged was a “cowardly” attack by the Iran-backed Houthi rebels. Although all Ministers were reported to be unharmed, more than 50 people were wounded, medical and government sources said.AFP
31 December 2020||BUENOS AIRES,||LT--Argentina-Abortion||Argentina’s Senate passed a law legalising elective abortion in Pope Francis' homeland early on Wednesday after a marathon 12-hour session, a victory for the women’s movement that has been fighting for the right for decades. The vote means that abortion will be legalised up to the 14th week of pregnancy, and also will be legal after that time in cases of rape or danger to the mother’s life.AP
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Separating the wheat from the agri-policy chaff||In the on-going debates around the three new pieces of agricultural legislation and the farmers’ demand for continuation of minimum support prices (MSP), questions have often been raised whether the government should be using the taxpayers’ money to provide subsidies to the farming community in this country. However, logically, two further questions must be asked, but none of them has been, in any significant manner. First, why have successive governments used the exchequer to provide farm subsidies. And second, how large is India’s spending on farm subsidies as compared to those of other countries having substantial interests in agriculture? Adverse terms of trade It should be obvious to any keen observer of the Indian economy that the country’s agriculture, which also supports the remaining rural workforce, was, forever, living beyond its means. In 1950-51, agriculture’s share in the country’s GDP was 45%, the share of the workforce dependent on the sector was close to 70%. Seven decades later, agriculture’s share in GDP is below 16%, but almost 50% of the country’s workforce depends on this sector. The squeeze on the agricultural sector becomes even more evident from its terms of trade vis-à-vis the non-agricultural sectors. Agriculture has been facing adverse terms of trade over extended periods since the 1980s, and even during the phases when the terms of trade have moved in its favour, for instance in the 1990s and again since 2012-13, there was no distinct upward trend. A more telling commentary in this regard is that since the middle of the 2000s, farming communities have almost consistently faced adverse terms of trade vis-à-vis non-farmers. Erosion of farm incomes was triggered by growing inefficiencies, which, in turn, was caused by a lack of meaningful investment in agriculture. The share of this sector in the total investment undertaken in the country consistently fell from about 18% in the 1950s to just above 11% in the 1980s. In the subsequent decades, the situation has got far worse with agriculture’s share not even reaching double digits. In the most recent quinquennium for which data are available (2014-15 to 2018-19), the average share of agriculture was 7.6%. However, despite this unacceptable situation, every government in post-independent India systematically ignored the need to step up investment in agriculture, which would not only have ensured more efficient use of farm resources but would have also been a crucial step towards improving farm incomes. A look at yields A quick comparison of the yields of the major crops in India with those of other countries confirms the dismal state of agriculture in this country. If one ranks countries in terms of their yields in wheat and rice — India’s two major crops — the country’s ranks were 45 and 59, respectively, in 2019. It may also be added here that this ranking would go down sharply if the areas recording high yields, such as Punjab and Haryana, are excluded. In other words, for farmers in most regions of the country, it is an uphill battle for survival amid low yields. The market has always been the farmers’ biggest adversary, making it impossible for them to realise remunerative prices for their produce. The existing marketing system dominated by the Agricultural Produce Market Committees has long been proved to be against the interests of the small farmers, but the government, in its own wisdom, has now decided to introduce even larger middlemen that would do no more than complete the circle of misery for the farming communities. Need for a policy It is a no-brainer that such complex problems facing Indian agriculture cannot be resolved through ad hoc decision-making, and that this country needs an agricultural policy that addresses the challenges facing this sector in a comprehensive manner. Surprisingly, the demand for such a policy has seldom been made in a forthright manner, even by the country’s farming communities. The lack of a coherent policy for agriculture must surely be regarded among the most remarkable failures of the governments in post-Independence India. The magnitude of this failure can be better understood if one considers the fact that the United States, with less than 2% of its workforce engaged in agriculture, has been enacting farm legislations every four years since the Agricultural Adjustment Act was enacted in 1933, the first piece of legislation of U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt’s New Deal. In a similar vein, members of the European Common Market adopted their Common Agricultural Policy in 1962, only a few years after establishing the institution. These policies comprehensively address the needs of the farm sector through proactive support from the respective governments. Issue of farm subsidies The above discussion is useful for contextualising India’s farm subsidies. The government dole out is a price that the country pays for the failure of the policy makers to comprehensively address the problems of the farm sector. Thus, instead of engaging with the farming communities for putting in place a comprehensive set of policies (which also provides for the setting up of farmer-friendly institutions in order to improve the economic viability of the sector), successive governments have chosen to dole out subsidies in order to ensure domestic food security and protecting rural livelihoods. It must be said that the governments have continued granting subsidies as a failure to realise that either of the two objectives can have catastrophic consequences for the country. At the same time, however, wanton distribution of subsidies without a proper policy framework has distorted the structure of production and, consequently, undesirable outcomes in terms of excessive food stockpiling. And, yet, the fundamental ills of Indian agriculture are not adequately addressed. When subsidies have virtually been made the survival kit for Indian farmers, there is possibly a need to understand the magnitude of the government dole out, also by comparing it with those granted by other countries. Members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) are expected to notify their agricultural subsidies as a part of their commitment under the Agreement on Agriculture (AoA); the subsidy notifications provide a good basis to understand where India stands vis-à-vis other countries in this regard. Economically weak farmers India’s latest notification, for 2018-19, shows that the subsidies provided were slightly more than $56 billion. In most of the recent years, the largest component of India’s subsidies ($24.2 billion, or 43% of the total) are provided to “low income or resource poor farmers”, a terminology that the AoA uses. However, designation of this category of farmers is left to individual members. India has notified that 99.43% of its farmers are low income or resource poor. According to the agricultural census conducted in 2015-16, these are the farmers whose holdings are 10 hectares or less. Thus, according to the Government of India, almost the entire farm sector comprises economically weak farmers. The two major providers of farm subsidies, namely, the U.S. and the members of the European Union (EU) gave much larger magnitudes of support than India did. America provided $131 billion in 2017 and the EU, nearly €80 billion (or $93 billion) in 2017-18. Absolute numbers do not provide a good yardstick to compare the farm subsidies; the ratios of subsidies to agricultural value addition for the three countries give a much better picture. Thus, for 2017, India’s farm subsidies were 12.4% of agricultural value addition, while for the U.S. and the EU, the figures were 90.8% and 45.3%, respectively. This then is the reality of farm subsidies that India provides. Biswajit Dhar is Professor, Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, School of Social Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. The views expressed are personal
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Straws in the wind in South Block||The gravity of the COVID-19 situation, which has not yet abated; impasse on the border with China; severe restrictions on travel; the unsettled situation in the U.S., with three weeks to go for Joe Biden to be sworn in as President; and the game-changing developments in West Asia have created a kind of lull on the foreign policy front. But below the surface, there is feverish activity to figure out future policies. Every straw in the wind in the statements, speeches and seemingly isolated reports emanating from South Block needs to be watched. The China challenge Modiplomacy 2.0 appears to be evolving differently from its first incarnation. The stage, which was set during the first term of the government, has turned out to be inadequate for the new choreography, which is changing minute by minute. China’s intransigence is beyond comprehension. The frustration over the continuing occupation of Indian territory by China is evident in all pronouncements at all levels. The comfort level with the Donald Trump administration over China has disappeared and the focus is on Mr. Biden’s formula in dealing with China. Quad was a tantalising possibility, but avoiding the ‘C’ word in the new vocabulary has become a liability. Determination and resolve are evident in Indian statements, but so is the sense of limited options. All that emerges from South Block is willingness to negotiate and readiness to meet any eventuality. India’s pandemic diplomacy figures prominently in the projection of its foreign policy. We take pride in the fact that we went to the rescue of many countries with relief supplies, medicines and equipment. The emphasis that India put on global cooperation to deal with the global challenge seems to have made an impact. A spike in demand from different countries for pharmaceuticals, especially hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol, made India ramp up production. Today, the focus has shifted to vaccine production and rapid testing, both essential for the return to normalcy. India is deeply involved in many international collaborations and initiatives. India is proud of its contribution to international mobility and migration. As people sought to return to their homes, cooperation between governments to prepare the necessary logistics and protocol was central to that objective. In India’s case, more than 2.5 million citizens came back. More importantly, we supported the movement of more than 1,10,000 foreigners out of India to 120 countries. India’s stress on multilateralism and international cooperation seems to have been appreciated. An increasingly visible integration of foreign and defence policies has added a new dimension to policymaking and execution. The visit of the Chief of the Army Staff and the Foreign Secretary to Myanmar could not go unnoticed. Nepal saw the visits of the Chief of the Research and Analysis Wing, the Chief of the Army Staff, and the Foreign Secretary. “To my mind, adequately securitising foreign policy is for me an absolute imperative. And the primary reason for that is quite obvious: there are really very few major states that still have unsettled borders to the extent that we do,” said External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar. “Of equal relevance is the unique challenge we face of years of intense terrorism inflicted on us by a neighbour. We also cannot disregard any attempts to undermine our national integrity and unity. Over and above these exceptional factors, there are the daily security challenges of long borders and large sea space. The thinking and planning of a polity that operates in such an uncertain environment naturally will give primacy, should give primacy to hard security,” he said. There have been hints of India distancing itself from globalisation, following India’s decision to keep out of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership. It has been stated officially that globalisation and trade agreements have resulted in de-industrialisation in certain sectors. The concept of ‘Atmanirbharta’ appears to be a precursor to reducing dependence on countries like China, even though we know that boycotting Chinese goods and investments is impractical at present. India joining the Chinese Belt and Road Initiative has become even more remote now. Intolerance of criticism Another trend that is visible of late is intolerance of international criticism of internal developments. Some of the measures that countries take to express displeasure over statements or actions of other countries that are prejudicial to their own national interests include slapping trade sanctions, refusing to recognise the government in power, and getting the critical country expelled from international organisations. India has resorted to these measures judiciously over the years. These exceptional diplomatic actions are taken rarely and after considerable thought. That is why every such action is judged on merits, taking care that its adversarial impact is minimum even while conveying a strong message. In recent times, two boycotts by Mr. Jaishankar have been seen as increased intolerance of external criticism. The first was his decision not to meet Democratic Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal owing to her unflattering view of the government’s handling of the Kashmir issue. Senator Bernie Sanders and Indian-origin Senator Kamala Harris, now Vice-President-elect, criticised India for ‘silencing’ its critic. Ms. Harris tweeted: “It’s wrong for any foreign government to tell Congress what members are allowed in meetings on Capitol Hill.” The second boycott was even more significant as it involved a Ministerial meeting on COVID-19 convened by Canada. The reason for the boycott was Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s statement on the agitation of Indian farmers, consisting largely of Sikhs. The Canadian High Commissioner was summoned by the External Affairs Ministry to be told that the statements made by “the Canadian Prime Minister, some Cabinet Ministers and Members of Parliament on issues relating to Indian farmers constitute an unacceptable interference in our internal affairs.” The Ministry said that such actions, if continued, would have a “seriously damaging impact” on ties between India and Canada, characterising some pronouncements as “legitimising extremist activism”. Mr. Trudeau continued to maintain his criticism as the Sikh community in Canada intensified its criticism of India. The British Foreign Secretary was more diplomatic when he explained that Sikh politics had become part of U.K. politics and hence the request from some British MPs to him to intercede with India on behalf of the farmers. At a time when there is some criticism of the invitation extended to the British Prime Minister to be the Chief Guest at the Republic Day parade, neither side wants to rock the boat. India’s policy is to be supportive of our diaspora abroad and we could have been tolerant of such criticism abroad. Every country counts in these days of global rebalancing. Much of the permutations and combinations being worked out in South Block will emerge as the new norm settles down. T.P. Sreenivasan, a former Ambassador of India, is Director General, Kerala International Centre
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Before a new dawn, glimpses of a trauma-filled year||Devastated by the events in the personal life of her children and the fire that gutted a part of her Windsor Castle home, Queen Elizabeth II lamented that the year, 1992, was annus horribilis while making her Ruby Jubilee address. She could as well have repeated the Latin phrase in her recent Christmas Day address, perhaps more justifiably with her Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, narrowly escaping the jaws of the novel coronavirus pandemic which has caused great suffering and deaths in the United Kingdom. But she did not. However, what she did not say, people the world over have said so repeatedly and continue to say it in unison: annus horribilis 2020. World watch Catastrophic climate events including major bushfires in Australia and the United States, tropical cyclones in several parts of the world and devastating floods washing away mile upon mile of fertile soil and dislocating the lives of thousands in China, India, Nepal and Japan, climate change adversely impacted millions of people. At the same time, outbreaks of violence caused by pent-up feelings of anger, frustration and hatred, together with orchestrated attempts of vainglorious national satraps at fomenting territorial adventurism, have made life increasingly insecure in several regions of the world. The Persian Gulf crisis has deepened with the killing of Iranian General Qasem Soleimani and the Iraqi commander Abu Mahdi al-Mohandes in a U.S. drone attack, in January, and the daring assassination of Iranian nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, in November. Outside the Middle East conflict zone, bloody civil wars are raging with varying intensity in Afghanistan, Armenia-Azerbaijan, the Central African Republic of Congo, Syria, Iraq and in Ethiopia between the government in power and the Tigray People’s Liberation Front. The tragedy of the Rohingya Muslims fleeing their homes to escape sectarian harassment has also highlighted the perils of creeping ethnic cleansing. Advent of the pandemic The Wuhan virus which spread like wildfire spared none from its tentacles and continues to rage relentlessly. As thousands get infected and die each day, the vicious virus is mutating itself into many forms overtime, triggering bewilderment. Never before has the world witnessed such colossal calamity. The pervasive adverse impact of the novel coronavirus pandemic on the global economy has been unprecedented, with the International Monetary Fund projecting a (minus) 4.9% contraction, leading inevitably to widespread economic depression, loss of livelihood and consequent human misery. As the United Nations and its affiliates including the World Health Organization continue to remain bit players in the unfolding saga of the pandemic and the severity of its impact, varied countries have adopted their own methods — indigenous devices except for the ubiquitous mask, the obsessive hand-washing and the expansive personal spacing to fight the virus. Not surprisingly in the U.S., President Donald Trump, in characteristic callousness, underplayed the grave pandemic and berated his own expert advisers like Dr. Anthony Fauci. The U.S. has degenerated into a rudderless behemoth, with its President like the proverbial Nero fiddling with twitter instead of providing leadership to overcome the crisis. COVID-19 has continued to infect and kill more and more Americans, with disturbing scenes at mortuaries. Meanwhile, racial violence and hate crimes broke out in several parts of the country, triggering social unrest and dangerously divisive rhetoric. Time magazine (December 3, 2020) lamented: “Americans today seem to agree on only one thing: this is the worst of times.” India’s experience Like the rest of the world, India too has had its COVID-19 woes ever since it was detected first in Kerala, in January, in a student who had returned from Wuhan. Despite symbolic gestures such as switching off lights and lighting diyas and sounding gongs and cymbals and the subsequent long and crippling lockdown, the virus steadily tightened its grip over the country. The hasty lockdown proved to be an unmitigated disaster, only adding to the woes of the people. The country witnessed the pathetic plight of lakhs of hapless migrant workers caught in the lockdown trudging back home, hungry and thirsty under the blazing sun, to an insecure future. Governance till now Holding the reins of power and with a brute majority in the Lok Sabha, the Modi 2.0 government unleashed with great gusto a plethora of controversial pieces of legislation in fulfilment of its electoral promises. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the abrogation of special status to Jammu and Kashmir and its bifurcation, and the agrarian reform acts evoked strident protests from the affected sections of our diverse country. The Shaheen Bagh agitation against the CAA that was spearheaded by women, and the continuing stir against the agrarian laws by thousands of farmers are deeply disquieting as they reflect the rumblings in society. So are the muffled voices of anguish over the perceived decline of our cherished institutions of democratic governance, especially the Supreme Court of India. As the curtain goes down on annus horribilis 2020, the world heaves a sigh of relief and awaits with bated breath the dawn of better times to be ushered in by science and technology and nurtured by human ingenuity. T.K.A. Nair was Principal Secretary and Adviser to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||A virus that changes stripes||On December 29, six samples of passengers who had returned from the U.K. to India had been found to contain the new variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus (VOC 201212/01). About 33,000 passengers from the U.K. had arrived at various airports in India between November 25 and December 23. Of them, 114 tested positive for the virus using RT-PCR. All the 114 positive samples have been sent to 10 INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium) labs for genome sequencing. India temporarily suspended flights from the U.K. from December 23 to 31 to prevent the new strain from entering the country. However, it is possible that many people infected with the new variant had already arrived here days or even weeks before the suspension of flights. Only through detailed epidemiological studies combined with genome sequencing data can we confirm the presence and spread of the variant in India. While the new variant, first identified in the U.K. in September, has been spreading “rapidly” there since end-November, preliminary results have shown it does not cause increased reinfection risk or disease severity. The genomic analysis undertaken by the COVID-19 Genomics U.K. Consortium (COG-UK Consortium) found that this particular lineage was growing around 70% faster in the U.K. Is that a cause for concern in India? At the moment, the variant does not seem to pose a huge risk to India — given its propensity to spread faster, the variant should have already caused a spike in cases in some cities, which is not the case. Since the preliminary study indicates that the variant is unlikely to cause increased risk of reinfection, the new variant might not spread wildly here due to difficulty in finding dense pockets of susceptible people. This is because 40%-50% of urban India, particularly in Tier-1 and Tier-2 cities, and about 30% of people across India would have already been infected. More sequencing needed The emergence of the new variant brings to the fore the importance of undertaking more genome sequencing of the virus. Though the total number of recorded cases stands at over 10.2 million, India has so far sequenced only around 6,300 genomes of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. In contrast, the U.K. has sequenced nearly 1,57,000 genomes of the virus though the total number of cases is only about one-fourth of India’s. A few days ago, the National Task Force on COVID-19 belatedly recommended the setting up of a Genomic Surveillance Consortium (INSACOG) to map the various strains circulating in India. It has also said whole genome sequencing would be done for 5% of the positive cases from all the States and Union Territories. The new variant shows the importance of genome sequencing and the need to link genome data with epidemiological and clinical information in order to make a difference in controlling the disease, says Professor Sharon Peacock, Director of the COG-UK Consortium, in The Guardian . Independent emergence of variants A team of researchers from CSIR-IGIB led by Dr. Vinod Scaria has demonstrated the importance of undertaking more genome sequencing of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. In a study of 120 unique variants reported in literature based on genome sequencing of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, the team found that 86 were genetic variants associated with immune escapes. Of the 86 variants, nine had over 1% frequency in the respective countries. One of the variants (N440K) identified has a frequency of 2.1% in India and a high prevalence in Andhra Pradesh (33.8% of 272 genomes). The same variant has been identified in the U.K., Denmark and Australia. Though the epidemiological and clinical significance of the N440K variant is yet to be studied, its emergence in India and three other countries is an example of homoplasy — the ability of a mutation/variant to emerge independently in different genetic lineages. The N440K variant was found in a healthcare worker who was found to have been reinfected. The presence of N440K in the reinfected person is only an observation. More studies are needed to draw a causal relationship or even a correlation between N440K and reinfection. The N501Y mutation in the new variant first identified in the U.K. is believed to make the variant more transmissible. The N501Y mutation has independently arisen in South Africa too. Due to homoplasy, the possibility of N501Y arising independently in India cannot be ruled out. So, only through increased genomic sequencing can we stay prepared. The possibility of dangerous mutations arising independently in distant locations underscores the need for more genome sequencing of the virus to identify variants on time and for genomic epidemiology to study the spread of the variants. Linking the genome data with clinical and epidemiological information can go a long way in controlling the spread of any variants that cause more infections or severe disease. prasad.ravindranath@thehindu.co.in
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Give adequate time for a probe||Taking a cue from the Andhra Pradesh’s Disha Bill of 2019, the Maharashtra government recently announced that it would enact a law to deal sternly with the cases of sexual assault on women. The proposed Maharashtra Shakti Act of 2020 will have stern punishment for offences of sexual assault and a provision to complete investigation within 15 days. Though Disha has been withdrawn temporarily by the Andhra Pradesh government following queries by the Centre before it could get presidential assent, it is still important to ponder some of its provisions as more States may legislate to reduce the period of investigation. Disha mandated completion of investigation within seven working days for “heinous offences” such as harassment of women, sexual assault on children, and rape, where “adequate conclusive evidence” is available. When the apex court has already ruled in favour of the prosecutrix’s statement alone (if credible) being sufficient to convict an accused and forensic evidence being corroborative in nature, the interpretation of “adequate conclusive evidence” by the police shall remain a problem. The police, in fact, are concerned primarily with collection of all evidence relating to the offence. It is only for the court to evaluate whether the available evidence is sufficient to slap conviction on the accused. Time for investigation Two gruesome cases of sexual assault and murder are important to mention. First, in the ‘Nirbhaya’ case, the police filed a charge sheet on the 18th day of its reporting. No effort was spared to nab the criminals and the case was rigorously supervised. However, in the recent Hathras case, the police took more than 90 days to file a charge sheet. The Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) provides that investigation relating to offences punishable with imprisonment up to 10 years must be completed within 60 days and for offences with higher punishment (including rape), within 90 days of detaining the accused, else he or she shall be released on bail. To speed up the process, the CrPC was amended in 2018 and the period of investigation was reduced from 90 to 60 days for all cases of rape. Though every investigation has to be completed without unnecessary delay, there is no upper limit to complete investigation when the offenders are at large. Each investigation is guided by its own set of facts and circumstances. Factors to be considered Generally, the time of investigation depends on the severity of the crime, the number of accused persons and agencies involved. It includes examination of the scene of crime by the investigating officer (IO) and forensic expert; recording the statement of the victim (by the IO and the judicial magistrate) and witnesses; medical examination of the victim (at a place where a female doctor is available) and accused persons; collecting documents relating to age from parents, local bodies and school (in case of child victim and delinquents); DNA findings of the forensic science lab (FSL); test identification parade of accused persons (if initially not named); seizing weapons of offence; the arrest of accused persons; etc. This is besides the fact that in many cases of rape, the victim remains under trauma for some time and is not able to narrate the incident in detail. The speed and quality of investigation also depends on whether a police station has separate units of investigation and law and order, which is also a long-pending police reform awaiting compliance of the apex court’s directives. It also depends on the number of available IOs and women police officers, and the size and growth of the FSL and its DNA unit. Investigation of sensitive offences should be done expeditiously. However, setting narrow timelines for investigation creates scope for procedural loopholes which may be exploited during trial. Therefore, instead of fixing unrealistic timelines, the police should be given additional resources so that they can deliver efficiently. R.K. Vij is a senior IPS officer in Chhattisgarh. Views are personal
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Himalayan manoeuvres||By sending a senior delegation of the Communist Party of China to Kathmandu within days of Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli’s controversial decision to dissolve Parliament and call for elections, Beijing has sent a worrying message that it is prepared to intervene in Nepal’s politics. The team led by the Vice Minister of the CPC’s International Department, Guo Yezhou, met political leaders and called on President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Mr. Oli, with a stated mission to try and reverse the split in the party and convince Mr. Oli and his rivals Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ and Madhav Nepal to effect a patch up. But Mr. Oli has shown no signs of budging from his decision to mount what has been described a “constitutional coup”, calling for elections without discussing alternative government formation options, rushing through an endorsement from President Bhandari, and carrying out, as caretaker Prime Minister, a cabinet reshuffle. Mr. Dahal and Mr. Nepal are clear that they will not reconsider their move to split the unified Communist Party of Nepal (CPN) and apply to the Election Commission for control of the whole, unless Mr. Oli backtracks and restores the Pratinidhi Sabha (Lower House). While it is surprising that both factions have been willing to meet with the Chinese delegation at a time like this, it is even more curious that the Chinese leadership would risk losing face and lose popular goodwill with a move that sparked protests in Kathmandu. In contrast, India has chosen to be more pragmatic and restrained, possibly due to a historical understanding of the main players in Nepali politics, and their penchant for political brinkmanship. This is not the first time politics has been brought to the precipice since Nepal adopted its new Constitution in 2015; Mr. Dahal walked out of a coalition government with Mr. Oli in 2016. While Mr. Oli’s moves of December 20 seem irreversible, there are still compromises possible. Much will depend on whether the Supreme Court, that has given the Nepali PM until January 3 to explain his actions, will stay the election process, and whether the Parliament Speaker will persuade the President to convene the Lower House despite its dissolution. While it is clear that India is not playing its traditional leading role in Nepal, neither is it facing the odium for playing spoiler. Both Mr. Oli, who has reached out to India after months of the map controversy, and Mr. Dahal, who has been a closer Indian ally during this period, are engaging the government. The positive situation gives New Delhi a little more space in which to consider its moves, and how to avoid instability in its Himalayan neighbour’s polity, something that is crucial to their relations and in the long term, to their closely inter-linked prosperity.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||No show||Veteran Tamil actor, Rajinikanth, has again revealed his mercurial character by dropping his plan to float a political party in January 2021. His decision came as an anti-climax to his hyped-up political venture, after his announcement on December 3. Even though his reasons, including his fragile health and the threat of the new COVID-19 strain, are well-known, his supporters had been hoping that the septuagenarian-actor, who has had a kidney transplant, would provide a credible third political force in Tamil Nadu, where duopoly has been the norm for over 40 years. The State’s political landscape will now continue to be dominated by the two established players, the ruling AIADMK and the DMK, which together cornered around 63% of votes polled in 10 Assembly elections held since 1977. Smaller parties will now be forced to operate within this limited space. The BJP, which was perceived to be the one that was behind Mr. Rajinikanth’s political venture, is hopeful of getting his endorsement at the time of Assembly election, slated for April-May 2021. But even if he does back any front, it is unlikely to be a decisive factor, as his statement against former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa was during the 1996 Assembly election. His support to the BJP-AIADMK front during the 2004 Lok Sabha election failed to convince voters when the DMK-led combine won all the 40 seats in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The episode is an opportunity for those seeking to build a viable alternative to the Dravidian parties to look beyond the film industry. Cinematic charisma cannot make up for the lack of political acumen and grass-roots work. Any political movement will have to be built up by articulating public grievances and livelihood concerns, and representing popular aspirations and the desire for progressive change. Mr. Rajinikanth had no concrete programme to offer other than a vague promise of ‘spiritual’ politics and a crusade against corruption. Although Tamil Nadu is well placed on development indicators, it has had its share of chronic issues: inter-district variations in maternal mortality ratio and infant mortality ratio, intra-district inequity in access to health care, a gap in income between districts and a rising urban population. The pandemic has exposed the vulnerability of the economically weak. These issues, which are being addressed by the established parties, could have been the basis for the politics of a third formation. But, evidently, the actor was hoping to take a short cut to power by riding on the back of his fan clubs, whose members were from different social milieus. Such a strategy was bound to fail. And, Mr. Rajinikanth, looking for power to be handed over to him on a platter, must have realised his years in the film industry had hardly prepared him for the rough and tumble of political life where very little goes according to the script.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Swaraj move||London, December 28: In the course of a leading article, the “Daily Telegraph” emphasises the danger of the attempt of Mr. Gandhi and his associates to rouse the budmashes in view of the failure of the Non-Co-operation movement among intellectuals. The paper says, it does not observe many signs that the Government of India is grappling with the situation energetically and effectively. On the contrary, it has treated Mr. Gandhi and his fellow sedition-mongers with remarkable and misplaced indulgence having apparently shared Mr. Montagu’s entirely erroneous belief that these persons are constitutional agitators. The journal declares the Swaraj movement to be as seditious and disloyal as Sinn Fein. The movement cannot be defeated by clemency or indifference. It demands more rigorous measures of repression than the Indian Executive has yet thought proper to employ. Our primary obligation in India is to give security to the masses.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Bhutan and India (From an Editorial)||Bhutan’s membership of the United Nations would meet the legitimate aspirations of its ruler and people. There has always been a fear that Bhutan’s entry into the comity of nations might make its territory the scene of unsettling rivalries between nations seeking to extend their influence and between rival “isms”. Bhutan has for a long time sought a status similar to that of Nepal and had hence felt that membership of the U.N. was essential as an attribute of full and unfettered sovereignty. India has sympathised with this view. It cannot be ignored, however, that there is a nucleus of anti-Indian politicians in Bhutan, which has made no secret of its dissatisfaction with the very friendly relations which the King of Bhutan has always cultivated with India. There had been some unrest in the small armed forces and the King had to put an end to that as it also spelt personal danger to him. King Wangchuk has repeatedly emphasised in recent months that he has no desire to be an absolute monarch and that he is quite willing to change the form of administration to suit the legitimate aspirations of his people. A sudden change in the political set-up can only mean a dangerous upheaval and this can be avoided by going through a process of gradual constitutional change to representative government.
31 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Current account surplus moderates to $15.5 bn in Q2||India’s current account surplus moderated to $15.5 billion (2.4% of GDP) in the second quarter compared with a $19.2-billion surplus (3.8% of GDP) in the April-June quarter. The country had recorded a deficit of $7.6 billion for the quarter ended June, 2019, as per balance of payment data released by the RBI on Wednesday. The narrowing of the current account surplus in Q2 of FY21 over the preceding quarter was due to a rise in the merchandise trade deficit to $14.8 billion from 10.8 billion in Q1, as per RBI data. Net services receipts increased on a year-on-year basis, primarily on the back of higher net earnings from computer services. Private transfer receipts, mainly representing remittances by Indians employed overseas, declined from a year earlier but sequentially improved 12% to $20.4 billion. The net outgo from the primary income account, primarily reflecting net overseas investment income payments, increased to $9.3 billion from $8.8 billion a year earlier. In the financial account, net foreign direct investment recordedinflow of $24.6 billion compared with $7.3 billion. “Net foreign portfolio investment was $7 billion compared with $2.5 billion in Q2 of 2019-20, largely reflecting net purchases in the equity market,” RBI said. With repayments exceeding fresh disbursals, ECBs saw net outflow of $4.1 billion compared with an inflow of $3.1 billion. Aditi Nayar, principal economist, ICRA, said, “As domestic recovery strengthens, we expect the current account surplus to decline substantially to under $5 billion in [the second half of FY21].”
31 December 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Centre’s focus on rural infra to boost local steel demand’||Tata Steel is optimistic about the demand for steel in India in 2021, said its CEO and MD T.V. Narendran in a year-end letter to employees on Wednesday. “Firstly, we are seeing an inflow of funds from across sectors and an uptick in the overall consumption. “Secondly, the government’s efforts of improving infrastructure, coupled with the ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’ policy and the Production Linked Initiative (PLI), are bound to further boost the money inflow into the system,” he said. “Further, government focus on rural infrastructure projects will also give an impetus to steel demand,” he added. Given all of this, he said the steel demand in the country should grow at least at the rate of GDP growth or higher in FY22. “Typically, this is the trend in a developing country though traditionally in India, steel demand has been lower than the GDP growth rate,” he added. Mr. Narendran said globally, steel prices were likely to stay firm as China was not expected to export large volumes owing to a better balance in their domestic market. “We are optimistic about the overall demand for steel,” he said. On iron ore, he said prices had risen sharply primarily because China had recovered ‘quite well’. Coal prices have softened due to geopolitical issues between China and Australia. So, more coal is available from Australia, he said. “We are certainly back to where we were before the pandemic and we expect the trend to continue through FY22,“ he added.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Relax tax slabs to boost retail: CII||Stating that the pandemic had badly impacted the financial position of individuals, the retail industry has sought relaxation in tax slabs for individual taxpayers to spur spending, while recommending that the single system of taxation be reintroduced. In its recommendations for the upcoming Budget for the retail sector submitted to the Finance Ministry, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has also sought reduction in custom duties on furniture imports, revamping of local testing facilities for import of items such as toys, and amending laws under GST to enable return of goods by customers pan-India at any store. “During the FY 2020-21, a lot of people have lost their jobs. Most employees have faced reduction in salary. Pandemic has impacted the financial position of individuals badly. Considering the situation, it is recommended that tax slabs for individual taxpayers should be relaxed to provide relief in this tough time,” the CII said. The option to choose the taxation system has created more confusion for the taxpayer, it added For economic revival of the sector, the CII has proposed that customs duty on furniture products and raw materials to make them be reduced.  The industry body has also sought revamping of local testing facilities for import of items
31 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Nesco to invest Rs. 325 cr. to expand expo centre||Nesco Ltd., which owns and operates the Bombay Exhibition Centre (BEC), one of India’s largest private sector exhibition and convention centres in suburban Mumbai, has finalised plans to modernise and expand the facility with an investment of Rs. 325 crore. “We have decided to progressively build new exhibition halls, replacing existing halls and convention halls. The estimated cost is around Rs. 325 crore,” Sumant Patel, chairman, said in an interview. Mr. Patel said designs for the new Centre have been prepared by a renowned architect from Australia and work would commence in 2021. Nesco was among the first in the private sector to set up an exhibition centre in 1992 in Mumbai and since then, it had been hosting several national and international exhibitions. The company said it had a market share of 18%-20%. In the same land parcel, the company operates an information technology (IT) park called Nesco IT Park. Nesco has now planned to build a new infotech park building spread over 40 lakh sq. ft at a cost of about Rs. 1,800 crore.  The firm plans to progressively build new exhibition halls, replacing existing halls and convention halls
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||Group owes Rs. 26,000 cr. to creditors, says RCom||Debt-ridden telecom firm Reliance Communications (RCom) on Wednesday said the group owed about Rs. 26,000 crore to Indian banks and financial institutions. Indian banks, vendors and other creditors have made claims of about Rs. 86,000 crore on the firm, which is going through insolvency proceedings. “As per figures certified by the Resolution Professional appointed by the lenders, the RCom group owed around Rs. 26,000 crore to Indian banks and financial institutions as on the date of filing before the NCLT,” RCom said in a statement. Creditors have submitted claims of about Rs. 49,000 crore on RCom, Rs. 24,000 crore on Reliance Telecom and Rs. 12,600 crore on Reliance Infratel before the NCLT. “The alleged ‘fraud’ classification by certain banks is entirely unjustified and unwarranted, and the... Delhi High Court has directed the same to be kept in abeyance,” RCom said.
31 December 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Growth in demand for power slows’||The pan-India energy demand increased year-on-year for the third consecutive month in November, after declining over March-August. But the improvement slowed to 3.7% from a year earlier to 97.9 billion units (in October it was up 11.5%; September, 4%), according to a report by India Ratings and Research. This was due to the early onset of winter impacting demand, it said. “Even though energy demand has been recovering, demand over April-November was 5% lower y-o-y,” it said. Electricity generation (ex-renewables) rose 1.9% to 95.3 billion units in November. It had risen 8.9% in October.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Bring tourism sector into concurrent list’||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has sought the inclusion of tourism in the concurrent list to enable the Centre and States to effectively regulate the sector as well as frame policies for growth. In its Budget recommendations, submitted to the Finance Ministry, CII suggested tourism exports be treated on par with other exports and services and such transactions may be zero rated for GST without stopping the flow of input credits. “Tourism services provided to foreign tourists in India on receipt of foreign exchange should be treated as ‘deemed export’ and exemption of GST should be made available.” It also suggested the hotel industry be granted ‘infrastructure’ status.
31 December 2020||kolkata,||‘Life insurance to see flat growth in FY21’||The life insurance industry’s growth in the current fiscal is likely to stay flat amid sharp traction seen in the protection business and the Rs. 5 lakh income tax exemption will have a short-term negative impact, a top official said. In the private sector, additional premium income saw a contraction of 4% in the first half of the fiscal while some companies attained healthy growth. Companies that could offer complete digital onboarding and servicing immediately grew, he said. “The industry is likely to remain flattish,” said Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance MD & CEO G. Murlidhar.
31 December 2020||new delhi,||‘Exports may reach $290 bn by fiscal-end’||The country’s exports may reach $290 billion by the end of this fiscal in the wake of outbound shipments being hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic during the first half of the year, FIEO said on Wednesday. Exports had dipped 4.78% to $314.31 billion in FY20. In a statement, the Federation of Indian Exports Organisations President Sharad Kumar Saraf also said, “We are confident of a V-shaped recovery in world trade.” Given the order book for food, pharma, medical products, technical textiles, chemical and plastics, “we should endeavour to take FY22 exports to $350 billion.”
31 December 2020||Ahmedabad,||Adani group commissions 100 MW solar plant in Kutch||The Adani Group on Wednesday commissioned a 100 MW solar power project in Kutch, increasing its operational renewable power capacity to 2,950 MW. The Adani Solar Energy Kutchh Two Private Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Adani Green Energy Limited, has commissioned the 100 MW solar project at Khirsara in Kutch ahead of its scheduled commercial operation date.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||Coromandel International promoter sells co''s shares worth nearly Rs 470 cr||EID Parry, a promoter of Coromandel International, on Wednesday sold more than 58 lakh shares of the company worth more than Rs. 469 crore through an open market transaction. EID Parry offloaded 58.50 lakh shares of the company at an average price of Rs. 803.19, for deal value of Rs. 469.86 crore. The proceeds of the sale will be used to bring down the debt of the company, it said.
31 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Air India to operate direct flights from the south to San Francisco, Chicago||Air India (AI) will start a non-stop service between Bengaluru and San Francisco, and between Hyderabad and Chicago from January 9 and 13, respectively. Flight AI-175 from Bengaluru would operate with a Boeing 777-200LR aircraft twice a week. Flight AI-107 from Hyderabad will operate every Friday.The return flight from Chicago would operate every Wednesday, according to AI.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Australia’s batting line-up not settled’||The legendary Sachin Tendulkar has played against some of the finest Australian teams in his time but when he looks at the side’s current batting line-up, he feels it is “less settled” with some “playing for their spots”. Following India''s incredible turnaround in the second Test at Melbourne after the Adelaide debacle, Tendulkar spoke about Australian batsmanship, Ajinkya Rahane’s captaincy, the performance of debutants Mohammed Siraj and Shubman Gill. “When I look at this Australian batting line-up and look at some of the earlier line-ups, I feel earlier line-ups were settled ones. Those players batted with a different kind of intent but this team doesn’t look very settled,” Tendulkar said. Ashwin-Smith duels One of the highlights of the series so far has been Ravichandran Ashwin''s duels with Steve Smith and Tendulkar explained why the senior off-spinner enjoyed an upper hand. “In the first Test, Smith got out to an arm ball or you can call it a straighter one which Ashwin releases differently. An off-spinner bowls a straighter one which skids off the surface when fingers are not on top of the ball.” Tendulkar then explained how Ashwin gets the ball to turn and bounce. “In the second Test, it was not a slider but fingers were on top of the ball which produced bounce and turn. “Steve Smith played a normal flick to a regulation off-break that any batsman does by instinct and fielder was brilliantly placed there. “It was a well-planned ball and wicket by Ashwin. Both are class players, so someone is going to have a better day and so far, Ashwin has come out winner in first two Tests.” Praise for captaincy Tendulkar was all praise for Rahane’s captaincy as well as his match-changing hundred on a day when batting was difficult under overcast conditions. “I felt this was a brilliant performance by our team, the manner in which our team was able to play and the way Ajinkya led the team. Also if you look at senior cricketers and their contribution, it has been good,” he said. “In the fast bowling department, Jasprit Bumrah as the leader of the attack has taken more responsibility and whenever the chips are down, he has pushed himself harder. That’s the sign of a champion bowler,” he said. The maestro also praised Gill, who played two impressive innings of 45 and 35, and Siraj, who picked five wickets on debut. “Shubman looked confident and comfortable. He played some good shots off short pitched stuff that Australians bowled. Someone upfront who goes out and scores 45 and 35... so, it is surely a good start,” Tendulkar said of the 21-year-old. He was liberal in his praise for Siraj. “Let’'s also not forget how Siraj has also bowled. It did not appear to me that he was playing his first Test match,” said the man who has played 200 Tests.
31 December 2020||WELLINGTON,||Kiwis have the last laugh in a thriller||New Zealand’s bowlers produced a late final session surge to guide their side to a tense 101-run victory over Pakistan in the first Test in Mount Maunganui on Wednesday and keep alive the hopes of reaching next year’s World Test Championship final. Pakistan was dismissed for 271, chasing a victory target of 372, with 4.3 overs remaining at the Bay Oval. The host had been the hot favourite to win as the final day started with the tourists 71 for three but a 165-run partnership between Fawad Alam (102) and Mohammad Rizwan (60) gave Pakistan a chance of a draw, if not an unlikely victory. It was Fawad’s second Test century after the first in 2009. Neil Wagner, who played the last three days with broken toes, Kyle Jamieson, Neil Wagner, Tim Southee and Mitchess Santner shared the wickets.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Angulo delivers for Goa yet again||Cometh the hour, cometh the man. Igor Angulo emerged as FC Goa’s match-winner yet again as he steered his side to a 2-1 smash-and-grab win over Hyderabad FC in their Indian Super League clash in Vasco on Wednesday. A lovely backward header from substitute Ishan Pandita, within 30 seconds of coming on, and the late strike from Angulo saw Goa climb to the third spot on the table. Juan Ferrando’s side, which conceded a goal from Aridane Santana first, has earned eight points from losing situations this season. Neither side gave each other an inch in a cagey opening 45. Hyderabad registered its first shot, and the game’s first attempt on target, in the 54th minute when Joao Victor stung Mohammad Nawaz’s gloves. Manolo Marquez’s side took the lead four minutes later as Aridane Santana struck a fine header from Asish Rai’s cross. As luck would have it, Goa would equalise from a set-piece. Edu Bedia whipped in a delicious free-kick and Pandita, who had come on moments earlier, timed his run to perfection to score off his first touch. In the 90th minute, Angulo, the league’s top-scorer, darted down the left before cutting the ball to his right and slotted it past Laxmikant Kattimani to power his side to a victory.  The result: Hyderabad FC 1 (Aridane Santana 58) lot to FC Goa 2 (Ishan Pandita 87, Igor Angulo 90) .
31 December 2020||LOS ANGELES,||Milwaukee Bucks’ long-range barrage buries Miami Heat||The Milwaukee Bucks set an NBA record for three-pointers in a game, draining 29 from beyond the arc in a 144-97 blowout win over the Miami Heat on Tuesday. The Heat, who stunned the top-seeded Bucks in the second round of the 2020 Eastern Conference playoffs en route to the NBA Finals, never got a look in, trailing by as many as 51 in a game Milwaukee led all the way. Sam Merrill drilled the record-breaking 28th three-pointer of the game, surpassing the 27 set by the Houston Rockets against the Phoenix Suns on April 7, 2019. Jrue Holiday had six three-pointers on the way to 24 points. Khris Middleton, who led the Bucks with 25 points, made four of five from three-point range. Starting guard Donte DiVincenzo’s 17 points included five three-pointers, and Brook Lopez had three treys on the way to 14 points. Two-time reigning Most Valuable Player Giannis Antetokounmpo was the only Bucks starter not to make a three-pointer, coming up empty on two attempts in a nine-point performance. Two days after a big loss to the Dallas Mavericks, the LA Clippers beat the Minnesota Timberwolves 124-101. Lou Williams scored 20 points off the bench to lead seven Clippers players who scored in double figures. The Philadelphia 76ers, coming off a lopsided loss to Cleveland, beat the Toronto Raptors 100-93. Randle, Westbrook sizzle Elsewhere, Julius Randle posted a triple-double of 28 points, 12 rebounds and 11 assists to lead the New York Knicks to a 95-86 victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers. But Russell Westbrook’s triple-double of 21 points, 15 rebounds and 11 assists — his third in as many appearances in the young season — again went for nothing as his Washington Wizards fell 115-107 to the Chicago Bulls.  The results: Phoenix 111 bt New Orleans 86, Miami 97 lost to Milwaukee 144, LA Clippers 124 bt Minnesota 101, Sacramento 125 bt Denver 115, Oklahoma City 107 lost to Orlando 118, Cleveland 86 lost to New York 95.   Detroit 106 lost to Golden State 116, Indiana 111 lost to Boston 116, Philadelphia 100 bt Toronto 93, Washington 107 lost to Chicago 115.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dubov leads Carlsen with stunning win||Russian talent Daniil Dubov stunned World champion Magnus Carlsen for the second time in three games to take a 1-0 lead in the second set of their quarterfinal clash in the $200,000 Airthings Masters online rapid chess tournament on Wednesday. The other boards also produced winners in the opening game from the white side with Wesley So, Levon Aronian and Teimour Radjabov emerging stronger. On Tuesday, the two fancied Americans – Nakamura and So – lost the first sets to Aronian and Maxime Vachier-Lagrave. Carlsen could not maintain the lead gained from the first game as Dubov hit back in the third before the set ended at 2-2. Ian Nepomniachtchi and Radjabov were involved in four drawn encounters.  The results:   Quarterfinals: Set Two: Game One: Daniil Dubov (Rus) bt Magnus Carlsen (Nor); Wesley So (USA) bt Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra); Levon Aronian (Arm) bt Hikaru Nakamkura (USA); Teimour Radjabov (Aze) bt Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus).   Set One: Carlsen drew with Dubov 2-2; Vachier bt So 3-1; Aronian bt Nakamura 2.5-1.5; Nepomniachtchi drew with Radjabov 2-2 .
31 December 2020||CHENNAI,||We will do our best: Satyasagara||Chennai City FC (CCFC) is ambitious yet realistic ahead of the new I-League season set to begin from January 9 in West Bengal. After around two weeks of pre-season at Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research in the city, the team reached Kolkata on Dec. 26, and will be under quarantine till January 2. Time not sufficient The club’s head coach Satyasagara, on Wednesday, said there wasn’t sufficient time for the team to prepare. “Preparation wasn’t sufficient. For a pre-season, we needed at least six weeks, which we didn’t get. We will do our best.” Midfielder B. Sriram echoed the coach’s views. “Not enough time to prepare, but it’s nice to be back on the field and we will give a good fight this season,” he said. Satyasagara said the seven days of quarantine has affected the team mentally, but has also been an opportunity for the players to know each other. “We were practising in Chennai and suddenly the seven days quarantine has mentally affected the players. As a team we have bonded well and that makes a lot of difference,” said the head coach. Seniors should step up The 56-year-old said he expects more from the players who have put in a few years with the club. “The expectation is high. I expect more from the senior players,” he said. On taking on Gokulam Kerala in its first match on Jan. 9, Satyasagara said “they are our arch-rivals. We are looking forward to it,” he said. Satyasagara picked goalkeeper Kabir Thaufiq and midfielder Syed Suhail Pasha as young talents to watch out for.  We were practising in Chennai and suddenly the seven days quarantine has mentally affected the players
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We’re trying to bowl good balls’||On India’s tour of Australia in 2018-19, Cheteshwar Pujara scored 521 runs and faced 1258 deliveries, paving the way for a historic 2-1 series win Down Under. But, two summers later, Australia seemed to have found an answer to India’s run machine. Pat Cummins has dismissed Pujara three times in four innings this series and conceded just 14 runs from the 80 deliveries he has bowled to the No. 3 batsman. When asked why the Australians have been effective against Pujara, Cummins said, “I would love to say it’s a big grand plan that has changed things (smiles), but the reality is I don’t know,” he said at a virtual media interaction on Wednesday. “We’re just trying to bowl good balls and make him decide whether he should play or leave it and do it for as long as we can. Fortunately, so far it’s come off pretty early in his innings so long may it continue, but there’s nothing drastically that’s changed. We’ve just got to concentrate on what we do well for longer,” he added. Cummins also praised young opener Shubman Gill’s stroke-filled approach on debut in Melbourne. “Shubi (Shubman) looked quite settled in his first Test. He is quite a calm character...likes to take the game on which as a bowler, provides us opportunities; some days it would come off, some days it won’t,” said the Australian pacer. Good execution About Australia’s bowling performance at the MCG, Cummins said: “I thought our execution was really good, we created a lot of chances, especially in that first innings. To bowl a side out for 300 on the MCG, which was a really good wicket, and create so many chances is a big tick. So we’re pretty happy in that regard.”  The third Test will be telecast from January 7 2021 on Sony Six, Sony Ten 1 and Sony Ten 3 .
31 December 2020||Coimbatore,||Appu-Dinky duo tops the charts in Open class||Appu Karthikeyan and Dinky Varghese of Coimbatore, with a total penalty of 00:05.26, finished on top in the Open class of the FMSCI 21st Chander Memorial Rally for four wheelers here recently. Organised by the Coimbatore Auto Sports Club in memory of rally driver M.K. Chander, the rally, run in Time, Speed and Distance (TSD) format, attracted a total of 36 cars of which 15 were in the open category. Challenging The participants found the 100-km route challenging and interesting with some tricky time controls that tested the skills of both navigators and drivers. There were 18 drivers in fray in the novice class and it was Coimbatore duo of R. Prabhu and Karpaga Ganesan who sealed the top spot on the podium.  The results: Open class: 1. Appu Karthikeyan & Dinky Varghese (Coimbatore) 00:05:26; 2. N. Mageswaran & M.K. Mustafa (Namakkal) 00:16:20; 3. V. Santhosh Kumar & M. Prakash (Coimbatore) 00:18:52.   Novice: 1. R. Prabhu & Karpaga Ganesan (Coimbatore) 00:04:37; 2. G. Krishnan & Lalitha Gowda (Coimbatore) 00:05:25; 3. R. Suryakumar & Elavarasan (Coimbatore) 00:22:38.   Newcomers class: 1. Vishnu Priya & D. Rajkumar (Coimbatore) 00:17:44; 2. Abinayaa & R. Yuvaraj (Coimbatore) 00:18:42; 3. S. Thiagaraj & K. Gokulakrishnan (Coimbatore) 00:20:19.   All Ladies: 1. Aparna Pathak & Lalitha Gowda (Bengaluru) 00:02:02; 2. Jasmeet Kaur & Jyothi Iyanger (Gurugaon) 00:05:28; 3. S. Sumangala & Sharada Kumar (Bengaluru) 00:23:40.
31 December 2020||Kochi,||Sreesanth in Mushtaq Ali team||S. Sreesanth's long wait to get back to cricket, after his seven-year ban for spot-fixing, is over. The 37-year-old former India fast bowler was included in the Kerala team for the Syed Mushtaq Ali National T20 cricket tournament which begins in Mumbai on January 10. Sanju Samson will be the captain of the team with Sachin Baby as his deputy. The team will leave for Mumbai from Kochi on January 1. Vathsal Govind Sharma, M.P. Sreeroop, P.K. Midhun and K.G. Rojith are the new faces in the team.  The team: Sanju Samson (captain), Sachin Baby (vice-captain), Jalaj Saxena, Robin Uthappa, Vishnu Vinod, Salman Nizar, Basil Thampi, S. Sreesanth, M.D. Nidheesh, K.M. Asif, Akshay Chandran, P.K. Midhun, S.L. Abhishek Mohan,Vinoop S. Manoharan, M. Mohammed Azharuddeen, Rohan S. Kunnummal, S. Midhun,Vathsal Govind Sharma, K.G. Rojith, M.P. Sreeroop. Coach: Tinu Yohannan. Assistant coach: Mazhar Moidu.   Kerala's matches: v Puducherry (Jan. 11), v Mumbai (Jan. 13), v Delhi (Jan. 15), v Andhra (Jan. 17), v Haryana (Jan. 19) .
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian women’s team to tour Argentina||Indian hockey will hit the restart button and begin the Olympic preparations when the women’s team travels to Argentina next week for its first tour in nearly a year. A core group of 25 players and seven support staff will leave from New Delhi on January 3. The team will compete in eight matches against the host, starting from January 17. “We have a little over 200 days before we arrive in Tokyo for the Olympic Games in July 2021 and it was very important to play matches against a strong team like Argentina,” team captain Rani said in a release issued by Hockey India. “The team is really excited for this opportunity and has been keenly looking forward to this tour, this exposure will make us understand the level we are at after nearly a five-month long National Coaching Camp in Bengaluru.” The Indian women’s team last participated in an international tour in January this year when it travelled to New Zealand for a five-match series. It played both New Zealand and Great Britain in the five-match series and were victorious in three of them. Future planning “I am happy that after one year we are able to play international matches. This tour will give us information for the next step to be made in our preparations for the Tokyo Olympic Games,” said chief coach Sjoerd Marijne. There is no requirement of quarantine upon arrival in Argentina but the Indian team will still be following all safety and health measures as advised by their respective governments. Hockey India and the host association have planned to create a bio-bubble for the teams.
31 December 2020||Kochi,||Don't want to rush him, says Yohannan||Sreesanth may have got back into the Kerala team but head coach Tinu Yohannan feels that the former India fast bowler should be given time to settle down. “We don't want to rush him into things. It's seven years since he last played. We have some practice sessions to go, two here (in Alappuzha) and two more in Mumbai, let's see how he does in them but we don't want to rush him into the field,” Yohannan, the first Kerala player to play Test cricket, told The Hindu on Wednesday evening. So, does that mean that Sreesanth could miss the opening match of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy? “The first game is against Puducherry (on Jan. 11), we can't take a call right now, we would like to wait till the last moment,” he said.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Greatness of archa form||Poigai Azhvar, in one of his pasurams, says Lord Narayana takes the form in which we want to worship Him. He is glad to be called by whatever name you prefer to call Him, said Kidambi Narayanan, in a discourse. One day, when Parasara Bhatta returned from worshipping Lord Ranganatha of Srirangam, his sishyas asked him if he had had good darshan. Parasara Bhatta replied that he had seen both Rama and Krishna in Ranganatha. His sishyas were puzzled. How was this possible, they asked. Bhatta explained that Ranganatha was chubby and this reminded him of Krishna, who feasted on butter. But while this explanation seemed acceptable, how could he also have seen Rama? Despite being born in a royal family, Rama had spent fourteen years in the forest, living a frugal life. Bhatta said Rama never had the attitude of a royal and had always been humble before elders and learned sages. Viswamitra had promised to bring back Rama to Ayodhya when His tasks were finished. At the end of the period, Rama did not ask Viswamitra if He could go back. Instead He said to the sage: “I am your servant. Is there anything else you want me to do?” Valmiki says that when elders arrived, Rama willingly gave up His seat for them, and did not hesitate to sit on the floor. During the Panguni utsava in Srirangam, Ranganayaki looks majestic. But Ranganatha looks like one paying respects to someone. Witnessing this, Parasara Bhatta was reminded of Lord Rama. It is the archa form which evokes such emotional responses in His ardent devotees. And one cannot help marvelling at the archa form. The Lord owns everything, and yet He accepts our simple offerings. His strength is unmatched and yet He waits for us to worship Him. Such is the greatness of the archa form.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||Sindhu gets favourable draw||Olympic silver medalist P.V. Sindhu has been handed a relatively easy draw but tough outings await Saina Nehwal as the Indian duo returns to international competition in Thailand. Sindhu and Saina didn’t participate in Denmark Open Super 750 and SaarLorLux Super 100 — the only two events which could be conducted since BWF was forced to suspend the calender in March. Now all eyes are on the two Super 1000 events — Yonex Thailand Open (January 12-17) and Toyota Thailand Open (January 19-24). World champion Sindhu, seeded sixth, will open against Denmark’s Mia Blichfeldt, while Saina, who recently recovered from COVID-19, will face formidable Japanese Nozomi Okuhara, seeded third, in the first round. In the next tournament, Sindhu will meet Thailand’s Busanan Ongbamrungphan in the opening round, while Saina will square off against Thai Ratchanok Inthanon, seeded fourth. In the men’s singles, a total of seven Indians, including former World No. 1 K. Srikanth, Olympic-bound B. Sai Praneeth and young Lakshya Sen, will be participating in both the events. Srikanth will cross swords with fellow Indian Sourabh Verma in the opening round in the first Thailand event while Lakshya will be up against Denmark’s Rasmus Gemke. Praneeth will fight it out against local player Kantaphon Wangcharoen. H.S. Prannoy will take on eight seed Lee Zii Jia of Malaysia.
31 December 2020||Manchester,||Solskjaer sees United of old||Manchester United is recreating the habit of late winners that could lead to an unexpected Premier League title challenge, according to manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. “It’s one of the points we brought up early in the season, that we didn’t win many points towards the end of games,” said Solskjaer. “We have a tradition for it at this club. Obviously we’ve normally got many more supporters helping us to do that. “Now we’ve won many more points towards the end of games and that’s both a mental aspect and a physical aspect.” Solskjaer described snatching victory from an uninspired performance as a “big step forward” as United beat Wolves for the first time in five meetings between the sides in two-and-a-half-years .
31 December 2020||Manchester,||Tough one to take: Santo||Wolverhampton Wanderers manager Nuno Espirito Santo said the defeat against Manchester United is a “tough one to take” as his side did so well throughout the match. “It hurts a lot, especially when you work so hard, but football is that, it goes both ways. It’s what we did in the game which is important. “Of course, it’s a tough one to take, but we will take it and go to the next one,” the club’s official website quoted Santo as saying. “In the first-half, we created situations and created some chances. We combined well.”
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Big win for Rann Star Club||Half centuries by Nitin Singh and Sombir Sheokand, along with a four-wicket bag by Rahul Chaudhary drove Rann Star CC to a 102-run victory over Ravindra Academy in the fifth Shanti Devi memorial cricket tournament at the D-Fours ground.  The scores: Rann Star CC 273 for six in 40 overs (Nitin Singh 60 not out, Sombir Sheokand 53, Manish Dhillon 45) bt Ravindra Academy 171 in 37.1 overs (Aditya Yadav 48, Rohan Rana 30, Rahul Chaudhary 4/33) .    Sparkling centuries by Sarthak Pal and Priyanshu Chahal powered RCC Club to a 232-run victory over Endurance Academy in the Endurance under-15 cricket league.  The scores: RCC Club 333 for two in 35 overs (Sarthak Pal 159 not out, Priyanshu Chahal 104) bt Endurance Academy 101 in 32.3 overs (Ram Babu Mehto 51, Dhruv Kumar 4/19, Ansh Kumar 3/13).   Turf Academy 209 for nine in 35 overs (Aryan Dabas 35, Yuvraj Singh 34, Shrey Goel 33, Samik Kesarwani 30) bt Friends Club 142 in 34.2 overs (Tanish Kumar 35, Dwij Vats 3/18).      Ayush Kumar’s all-round performance (29 and 3/17) helped Uttaranchal Boys beat Lal Bahadur Shastri Club by 22 runs in the seventh SN Dubey under-16 cricket tournament at the Pioneer ground.  The scores: Uttaranchal Boys 185 in 34.5 overs (Rohit Manoti 46, Ayush Kumar 29, Tarun Bisht 28, Gautam Kumar 3/38) bt LB Shastri Club 163 in 39 overs (Aditya Sharma 35, Ayush Kumar 3/17, Rushal Saini 3/14) .    Fine batting by Rahul Kumar (91) and a four-wicket haul by Dhruv Sharma helped Haryana Academy beat Lal Bahadur Shastri Centre by 70 runs in the Tripathi Premier League cricket tournament at the Tripathi Oval.  The scores: Haryana Academy 254 for eight in 40 overs (Rahul Kumar 91, Akhil Kumar 44, Jasmit Nain 43, Ankit Gupta 3/39, Mukul Sehgal 3/55) bt LB Shastri Centre 184 in 31 overs (Mohit Saini 50, Ravi Misra 46, Dhruv Sharma 4/36, Ravinder 3/31) .      A fluent 95 by Ankit Chillar helped Darling Frontline Club beat Delhi Colts Club by 77 runs and enter the quarterfinals of the CSM Professional cricket league at the CSM ground.  The scores: Darling Frontline Club 270 for six in 30 overs (Ankit Chillar 95, Samarth Seth 48, Sandeep Saini 34) beat Delhi Colts Club 193 in 27.3 overs (Ankit Negi 43, Tushar Tyagi 42, Ronak Singh 3/31) .
31 December 2020||Warangal:,||Arjun, Simha do the star turn||Hyderabad: Leg-spinner G. Arjun’s seven for 13, including a hat-trick, and H.K. Simha’s 139 (157b, 12x4, 7x6) helped Baalaji CC defeat Mahmood CC by 155 runs in the A1-Division three-day league cricket championship here on Wednesday. In other matches, centuries by Yash Kapadia (194, 246b, 25x4) and A. Varun Goud (132, 110b, 22x4, 1x6) for Deccan Chronicle , N. Anirudh Reddy (119, 131b, 15x5, 3x6) for Jai Hanuman and Anirudh Yadav (110, 141b,16x4) and Dheeraj Goud (105 n.o., 133b,15x4) for Apex CC were some of the highlights.  The scores: Second day: Group A: BDL 138 in 41.4 overs & 100/3 in 19 overs (B. Revanth 31, Hima Teja 30 batting, Rahul 3/14) vs Deccan Chronicle 479/8 in 90 overs (Yash Kapadia 194, A. Varun Goud 132, Srikar Reddy 45, M.A. Adnan 56).   Central Excise 285 in 73 overs & 38/0 in 5 overs vs SBI 326/8 in 90 overs (Daniel Manohar 53, Akash Bhandari 50, Ahmed Quadri 86, Vishal Sharma 35, Alfred Absolem 30 n.o., Dane Johnson 4/77).   Income Tax 490 in 89.3 overs (Deepak Dixit 32, Y. Shravan Kumar 3/38) vs Jai Hanuman 472/9 in 90 overs (Rohit Rayudu 97, N. Anirudh Reddy 119, Sai Purnanand Rao 33, N. Surya Teja 52, Irfan Khan 92, Harshavardhan Singh 42, Raju Yadav 4/37).   Group-B: Concorde CC 239 in 64.3 overs & 131 in 22.3 overs (Ashish Srivastav 3/22) lost to Cambridge XI 377 in 81.2 overs (Rishikesh Sisodia 80, Syed Askari 76, Sagar Chaurasia 54, Ashish Srivastav 31, M. Pratyush 4/81).   MP Colts 288 in 79.2 overs & 217/9 in 40 overs (A. Akash 67, A. Vaishnav Reddy 44, Md. Kayyum 3/31, Sunil Arvind 3/42) vs Combined District 152 in 30.4 overs (G. Ganesh 40, Praneeth Raj 4/47, Gireesh Goud 5/28) & 40/2 in 6.2 overs.   Ensconse 221 in 66.2 overs &103/5 in 23 overs (Sai Vrath 34) vs Zinda CC 230 in 69.4 overs (Shashank Lokesh 89, Atul Vyas 3/55, Syed Mehdi Hasan 3/35).   AOC 367/9 in 90 overs & 44/1 in 7 overs vs Gemini Friends 200 in 69 overs (Alankrit Agarwal 54, Chintal Satish 38, Sagar Sharma 3/48).   Continental 270/7 in 86 overs (S. Vaishnav Reddy 71, M. Samhith Reddy 55) vs Hyderabad Bottling.   Group-C: Jai Bhagwathi CC 182 in 55 overs & 107/6 in 33 overs vs Apex CC 362/7 in 85 overs overs (Anirudh Yadav 110, Ranjith 56, Dheeraj Goud 105 n.o., Gopi Verma 56).   Mahmood CC 120 in 43.3 overs & 137 in 28.2 overs (P. Durga Balaji 30, Vasant Bung 35, G. Arjun 7 /13) lost to Balaaji CC 412 in 86.3 overs (Siddharth Naidu 73, H.K. Simha 139, Geeta Krishna 45, Ganesh 50, Lokesh Reddy 4/49).   Charminar CC 237 in 52.1 overs & 231/9 in 40 overs (K. Ali Diamond 60, Aditya Mangat 50, N. Sathwik Reddy 38, G. Trishank Gupta 33) vs Rohit XI 263 in 63.3 overs (N. Nitin Sai Yadav 49, V.K. Siddharth 60, Md. Adnan Ahmed 4/55).   Sec’bad Nawabs 401/9 in 90 overs & 211/1 in 28 overs (Jaidev Goud 31, Takshit Rao 88 batting, Harish Thakur 73 batting) vs Gouds XI 207/10 in 55.5 overs (Rahul Varkey 86, Krithik Reddy 37, B.K. Ranganath 4/49, P. Govind Kaustub 3/53).   Sportive CC 365/8 in 90 overs bt Sri Chakra 91 in 28 overs (Koushik 44, Anuj Yadav 3/25, Abhishek Murugan 3/33) & 133/5 in 40 overs (M. Pranay Kumar 37, Koushik 45).    Sports Authority of Telangana State will organise a cricket tournament for Telangana medical college doctors at the Lal Bahadur Stadium here from January 1 to 3, according to A. Venkateshwar Reddy, SATS chairman. Mr. Reddy said the three-day tournament is in recognition of the outstanding service of doctors during the pandemic. About 100 doctors will be felicitated every day during the tournament.     Nalgonda Dependables scored a six-wicket win over Khammam Lions in the TCA Kakatiya Cup T20 league cricket championship.  The scores: Khammam Lions 70 in 19.3 overs (Ch. Raju Yadav 3/12) lost to Nalgonda Dependables 71/4 in 9.4 overs.   Palamuru Pirates 159/9 in 20 overs (Vinay 46, G. Bhanu 40, G. Shashivardhan 3/33)vs Medak Masters 159/8 in 20 overs (N. Naveen Kumar 69).   Medak Masters 20/0 bt Palamur Pirates 8/1 - via super over.   Adilabad Arrows 69/8 in 15 overs (Amarnath 3/14, Sumith Reddy 3/16) lost to Medak Masters 72/6 in 12.4 overs.
31 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Pran, Neeraja win titles||Pran Praveen and B. Neeraja won the men and women’s singles titles in the State squash championships at the National Games Squash centre here on Wednesday. The second seeded Pran Praveen led the top seeded Rejin Raj when the latter pulled out due to an injury. The top seeded B. Neeraja beat Subhadra K. Sony 11-7, 15-13, 11-8 in the women’s final. Siddhanth Patil completed a double by winning the boy’s under-19 and under-17 title.  The results (finals): Pran Praveen bt P.V. Rejin Raj 11-5, 11-9, 6-11, 7-3 (retired).   Boys: Under-19: Siddhant Patil bt Alok S. Biju 12-10, 11-3, 2-11, 11-7.   Under-17: Siddhant bt Alfeen Nazreth 11-5, 11-4, 8-11, 11-4.   Under-15: Omkar Vinod bt V.S. Pranav 11-4, 11-7, 11-2.   Under-13: Ryan Ohio bt Abid Muhammed 11-4, 11-2, 11-8.   Women: B. Neeraja bt Subhadra K. Sony 11-7, 15-13, 11-8.   Girls: Under-15: Aleena Nazreth bt Riya Mary Joe 11-0, 11-2, 11-5.   Under-17: B. Nikitha bt Subhadra 12-10, 11-5, 11-6 .
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Chethan shines as Saraswathipuram SC reigns||A stroke-filled 73 (57b, 8x4, 1x6) by L.R. Chethan, ably supported by opener Yahaswin Gowda 39 (32b, 4x4, 1x6) set up Saraswathipuram SC’s 32-run win over RBNCC in the final of the KSCA Mysore zone T20 tournament 2019-20,on Wednesday.  The scores:   Saraswathipuram SC 164/4 in 20 overs (L.R. Chethan 73, Yashaswin Gowda 39) bt RBNCC 132 in 18.5 overs (Kruthik Krishna 59, Uttam Gowda three for 33, M.R. Raghu two for nine).
31 December 2020||SONEPAT,||Aditya, Divya triumph||Aditya defeated second seed Pratyushraj Goel 4-6, 6-2, 7-5 in the under-14 boys final of the AITA Championship series junior tennis tournament at the Shantima Tennis Academy. In the girls’ final, top seed Divya Ungrish outplayed Kumkum Kumari 6-2, 6-0.
31 December 2020||MELBOURNE,||Warner, Pucovski return; Burns dropped||David Warner and Will Pucovski have been included in Australia’s 18-man squad for the third Test but Joe Burns has been dropped after twin failures in Melbourne. All-rounder Sean Abbott has also been included after recovering from a calf strain.
31 December 2020||MELBOURNE,||Teams’ travel to Sydney pushed back||The Indian and Australian teams will continue to train in Melbourne for few more days and travel to Sydney only three days prior to the third Test beginning at the SCG on January 7. Usually the teams land in Sydney on the eve of the New Year.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 08:10 IST,||Sudoku - December 31, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Jotting down emotions on paper||Hi uncle, how are you? Thank you for protecting us and not going home…   You help us stay home...thank you for that…  A little one scribbles in English, filling in colours wherever possible, in a letter addressed to a frontline worker. The identities of the writer and receiver are masked, but the message tugs at one’s heartstrings. COVID-19 has taught us many things: of which, expression of gratitude, seems to be the biggest takeaway. And, many have been doing so through intimate forms of communication — many letter-writing initiatives, pandemic-led and otherwise, cropped up across the country.  Endless gratitude University students Tara Luthra and Anshi Gupta, who used to write to each other regularly, started Write to Recognize to encourage a contributing mentality among people. Though the initiative was discontinued after a successful run till the end of September, it was an enriching experience for them. Inspired by the UK-based Crisis Project which was directed at NHS workers, the duo sent letters to frontline and essential workers across the country. “To begin with, it was heartwarming to see many people wanting to remain anonymous. They did not want any credit for this,” recalls Tara adding that a lot of the letters came from those who managed to return home through the Vande Bharat mission. “Kids who travelled back home chose to write to the pilots and crew involved in the mission.” What piqued their interest was probably how basic the format was and also the fact that the letters were sent out to not just doctors and nurses, but also to officials distributing rations, security guards and watchmen, adds Tara. “People started nominating those who touched their lives,” she adds. To spread some cheer, Coimbatore-based graphic designer Shuruti Vengatesh started sending postcards to friends during the initial days of lockdown. “Most of them were away from their families,” says Shuruti. Sending letters and postcards has always been an essential part of her life. “My love for them started with birthday cards I received every year from my grandfather. I still remember the thrill of opening and reading them,” she says. In June, she launched an initiative called Make Mail (www.makemail.in). Now, Shuruti sends out free handcrafted postcards to people who register through the website. “I have realised that WhatsApp messages and e-mails cannot replace the pleasure of waiting for a postcard and then reading and re-reading it. As I have a full-time job, I have restricted the number of postcards to 20 each month,” she says. Each of Shuruti’s postcard features a painting and a personal message. “My clients are from all age groups. Some order for themselves but most of them ask me to send it to their friends, children, parents and partners,” she says. In November, she did a campaign aimed at introducing postcards to kids. “Many parents signed up and I outlined their kids’ favourite cartoon characters in the cards. Children painted them after they received it,” she says. So far Shuruti, has sent around 300 postcards to the US, Australia, the UK and cities across India. Looking ahead As new initiatives surfaced, existing letter writing companies seem to have seen an unprecedented rise in business. Bengaluru-based The Indian Handwritten Letter Co. (TIHLC) is testament to this. “We are one of the few businesses that has seen an upgrade. We have doubled orders and brought on board more writers,” says Anubhav Ankit, co-founder. Before, the company had 40 to 50 odd writers (300/400 letters in a month) from across the world, which has now climbed up to 75 to 80 writers and 1,500-odd letters a month. The demand has brought in more styles, fonts and formats too, to the table. Anubhav thinks that this interest towards letter writing is here to stay. “Apart from it being ‘cool’, a letter is tangible. You can keep it somewhere, forget about it and be surprised when you find it again later.” A lot of people in the cities have been going back to their hometowns and connecting with family. “After they return to city life, they are left with the need to communicate with family back home, in a more intimate way.” Letters in regional languages have also seen a rise. Everything from love letters, apology letters, cover letters, anniversary and festival letters to business letters make appearances in TIHLC. “8% of the personal letters we get, comprises love letters,” says Anubhav. And, a surprisingly large number of personal letters are addressed to the Prime Minister of India, Anubhav adds with a laugh.  (With inputs from   Susan Joe Philip)
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||RSVP for tiffin||It would be no exaggeration to say that people remember a wedding based on the food that was served. The kalyana virundhu (wedding feast) involves a series of intense discussions between the family and caterers. With COVID-19 forcing a cap on the number of guests and social distancing norms, this year celebrations shifted to small-format weddings at home and virtual platforms. Lately, families have been finding inventive ways to share the joy, and the feast. The muhurtha sappad (wedding feast) is now being packed for elderly relatives and close friends in the city who are unable to attend, much to the delight of virtual guests and caterers. The idea was to ensure that older members of the family, who could not attend the wedding, could still participate via the wedding feast, making the experience more enjoyable. Mathangi Srinivasamurti of Weddings and Marigold, a city-based wedding planning company, recently organised the home delivery of a wedding feast, which went viral on social media. She says, “Many caterers have begun to deliver food packed in disposable containers. But this particular home delivery went viral mainly due to meticulous planning and smart packing: the containers and hand-woven basket were given as return gifts,” says Mathangi. Each basket had a meal for two packed in two hot boxes and four airtight containers. The bag also contained the traditional bakshanam (sweets and savouries) and thamboolam (bag with betel nut and leaves) . Apart from sending the link to the webcast of the wedding proceedings, the groom’s father, was particular about making guests feel included in the celebrations. Which is why he was keen on home delivering elaborate kalyana sappadu . Says Mathangi, “We had to ensure that the food reached 85 locations (total of 225 meals, 23 items in each) around the same time that the muhurtham ended, so they could watch the wedding in a relaxed manner and enjoy the sumptuous meal.” Home-delivered wedding feasts are catching on fast. Retired banker MK Shankar, who had his daughter’s wedding during the lockdown, says that he could invite just 40 guests to the venue and so, with the support of his caterer Arr Vee Caterers, he sent the wedding meal to 20 more relatives. Raghni Muralidharan of Renaissance Weddings says that she had conducted similar weddings in September. “Serving a sumptuous celebratory meal is deep-rooted in our culture, which is why even during the pandemic, families take the effort. For the weddings that I organised, we shared the link to the live telecast with the guests at home and ensured the meals reached them on time. For smaller events, guests are happy to take away packed meals and eat it at home.” Soumya Ramesh of Arusuvai Caterers, that has catered to about 12 weddings with home-delivered lunches, says it has become the norm these days. “We normally pack all items except rice and request the guests to keep rice fresh in their homes. But of late, we have started to pack premixed rice dishes such as sambar rice, rasam rice, vathakulambu rice and morekulambu rice, and to an extent avoid liquid food,” she says. Bharath Varadarajan of Arr Vee Catering Services says that since July, the firm has catered to over a dozen weddings, home delivering muhurtha sappad to elderly relatives. “Sending food to senior members of the family is such a wonderful gesture as well. I guess the trend is here to stay,” Bharath says and adds, “People are becoming aware of using less plastic for packaging food, and a young couple who are celebrating their kid’s ayush homam insisted that we use eco-friendly material even if it means more expenditure.” Some of the five-star hotels in the city are also gearing up. Says Zubin Songadwala, area manager South ITC Hotels South and general manager ITC Grand Chola,““We have also hosted virtual weddings wherein we have packed food for guests and delivered it. We also have guests choosing from our Gourmet Couch menu for small gatherings — it is a responsible dining initiative with mindfully curated menus from our restaurants.”
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The show must go on||Imagine a filmmaker sitting in one part of Chennai, and directing actors performing sequences in another neighbourhood. In any other year, we would have laughed about this, but 2020 made it a reality. Imagine a family gathered in front of their smart TV on a Friday to watch its matinee idol’s latest film, barely minutes after its release. In another year, we would have scoffed at this scenario, but again, 2020 made it a reality. Filmmaking has radically changed post the pandemic, with writers conceptualising lighter subjects that involve a minimum number of actors and production crew. While several industries have faced the repercussions of the pandemic, the film industry has managed to hold its own despite the numerous challenges posed. MetroPlus tracks down the movers and shakers of South Indian cinema who have been up and about working on films even as we sat at home watching them:        (With inputs from   Saraswathy NagarajanandSangeetha Devi Dundoo)
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||An active start to 2021||“There is a big cycling community in Chennai, and challenges like these are what keep them going,” says We are Chennai Cycling Group (WCCG) member Rishi Budhrani. He is talking about WCCG’s eight-day commute challenge and distance challenge, the group’s maiden events for 2021. Rishi helps coordinate the Anna Nagar chapter of the group, that has been engaging with Chennai’s cyclists since 2012. Each of its events has a simple premise, he says. For instance, the eight-day commute challenge is just that — for at least eight days in January, participants have to switch to cycles for their daily commute, instead of cars, two-wheelers or even public transport. The distance challenge is more tough. It requires participants to cover between 1,200 kilometres and 5,000 kilometres for four different difficulty levels — which is why, “For this particular challenge, you have to register in teams of four. Between the four of you, you can get it covered,” says Rishi. WCCG has more such challenges scheduled throughout each year, for all its 14 chapters from Anna Nagar to Tondiarpet. Since most of these events can be completed by participants in their own time and space, tracked via the STRAVA app for verification — they can continue on schedule without the need for people to gather. The group mandates masks and helmets.  To register for challenges and figure out which city chapter you fall under, visitwww.chennaicyclists.comor the WCCG Facebook page.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||A DJ in your bedroom||Every year, on the evening of December 31, Princes Street Gardens in Edinburgh erupts into an iconic street party, with torch light processions and entertainment at the annual Hogmanay Festival. This year, COVID-19 may have brought all physical celebrations to a grinding halt but revellers and organisers remain undaunted. The show must go on and the Hogmanay Festival has responded with innovation, bringing the first fully online celebration in the festival’s history. “We’re showing a three-part show (for free), with each part available at 7 pm (GMT) on December 29, 30 and 31 on www.edinburghshogmanay.com,” says a spokesperson from Underbelly, which is organising the festival, adding that they have been working on the digital celebration since July. Last year, the event saw 1,85,000 attendees, with 26% of the audience coming from Europe, India, China, Australia and the US. For the current edition, the team has worked with Jackie Kay, Scotland’s national poet, whose new poem forms the background for the show. “Visual development artist Gary Wilson has created a series of artwork that has been interpreted by drone company Celestial, while Scottish fusion band Niteworks has provided a new soundtrack. The show weaves in a story that starts in the Scottish highlands and then moves to the iconic Forth Bridges before arriving into Edinburgh, the home of Hogmanay. The drones dance and move in the air as we tell the story. The music and narration by actors David Tennant, Siobhan Redmond and Lorne MacFadyen provide a very emotive event,” says the spokesperson.   US-based Eschaton that started in March this year has always been virtual and hosted its events over Zoom. Created by Brittany Blum and Tessa Whitehead — veterans in immersive theatre, Eschaton is a mix between a virtual nightclub and an interactive performance venue. In a maze of rooms, it features dozens of world-class performers across music, cinema, dance, performance art, drag, burlesque, karaoke and more. Expect the unexpected. To welcome 2021, the club presents Eschaton NYE: The Dissolution, “a 60-minute, all virtual, champagne-toasting, midnight-kissing bash”. Priced at Rs. 1,830, the ticket (available on www.chorusproductions.com) will also give you access to an additional 60 minute after-party hosted by nightlife icons Brita Filter, Susanne Bartsch and Amanda Lepore. However, the timing of the do — Friday, January 1, from 9.30 am to 11.30 am IST — does not coincide with New Year’s Eve in most countries. Despite that the organisers say they have attendees from all over the world. “After so much time without in-person events, gatherings, and world travel this past year, guests are embracing the opportunity to celebrate as a global community virtually,” say the promoters of the event.   With everyone trying to innovate, here’s a first: Ever heard of a charity rave? Beatboxer SK Shlomo’s Rave to The Moon is a free event that attempts to get participants to dance and move about, so the number of collective steps taken by them works out to the average distance it would take to reach the moon. To participate log on to https://ravetothemoon.tv/   Closer home, a number of Indian DJs who normally spend their New Year’s Eve behind the console are opting to take it easy this time and spend time with their families. Mumbai-based DJ Suketu says he may just start a live set from his home if he feels like it on that evening. The cool thing about live streaming parties is that anybody and everyone can access it. Grandparents, grandchildren, parents, get them all to groove with you! Kochi-based actor and DJ Sekhar Menon will be livestreaming his set featuring trance, techno, house and the works on his website, www.sceneturbo.com. The party starts at 9.30 pm on December 31 and goes on till 12.30 am. “There will be no gimmicks. Just some good music to set the tone for the new year. It is a practical and safe way to have fun,” says Sekhar. This is the first time Sekhar is livestreaming a New Year’s act and he says the experience will be different for sure, but not less exciting in any way. So will he miss the crowds? “A bit yes, but this is the age of bedroom DJ-ing. I guess we adapt to the times,” he says. Joining him will be DJ Stalwart and DJ Mc Manchild. To buy the password, log on to www.sceneturbo.com. It is priced at Rs. 200.  With inputs from      Anasuya Menon
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||A year of hope and cheer||At The Big Barbeque, celebrate the New Year with a large spread of about 150 dishes and unlimited mocktails, and live music. There will be a live pasta counter, Mongolian-style live grills (veg and non-veg, 10 types in each), achaat corner, a live kulfi counter and more. While vegetarians can savour dum aloo Peshawari , dal makhani , paneer kadai and pineapple raita , non-vegetarians can pile their plates with murg dum biryani, crab curry or Mangalorean fish curry. For those interested in healthy eating, there is a salad bar that serves the local kosambari and continental salads. The dessert counter promises the best of Indian sweets — gulab jamun , suji halwa , coconut barfi — as well as almond brownies, carrot cake, chocolate pie and more. The special menu is on December 31 and January 1, for lunch and dinner.  @The Big Barbeque, OMR. For reservations, call: 8880355777
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The shape of meals to come||It isn’t over yet. Although 2020 is drawing to a close, COVID-19 and its gnarly web of associated challenges, from lockdowns to the fear economy, will continue to cast their shadows over the next few years, shaping restaurants and influencing meals. However, the battered industry is fighting back. The challenges triggered invention, innovation and creativity as the virus taught people they need to join hands to survive, and changed dining out in unprecedented ways. What will your next dinner out look like? Survival of the quickest “It is a blood bath,” says serial restaurateur M Mahadevan who launched the popular Hot Breads chain, and now has a presence around the world. Speaking from Dubai, he says 40% of their 100 plus restaurants have closed down and “another 30% are hanging... if the situation continues there will be more closings. We have no choice. It is about survival now.” However, the team has fought back, focussing on retaining jobs with innovations like a first-of-its-kind 10-foot-high dispenser machine that serves hot meals from their speciality restaurants, enabling no contact, pandemic-appropriate dining. “We are managing with whatever we have locally. We are learning to cut costs without compromising on quality, and live lean. We need to be tech-friendly as we tread into the unknown… it’s a whole new brand,” he says. The pandemic has exposed cracks in the industry prompting restaurants to rethink design and menus, and most importantly focus on staff well-being. “Ours is a people business more than food business. The team matters most,” Mahadevan states. With only the serious players left standing after pruning their businesses, restaurants will be leaner, but stronger, necessarily run with conviction and empathy. Luxury cloud kitchens “All the scum created by the industry, the snobbishness of five-star hotels, the pretentiousness has been destroyed. We are at Ground Zero,” says Chef Vikramjit Roy, from Delhi. After working with some of the country’s most exclusive luxury restaurants, including Pan Asian at Chennai’s ITC Grand Chola and Tian at ITC Maurya in Delhi, Vikramjit launched Hello Panda, a delivery kitchen, in May, despite peak pandemic anxiety.  Buoyed by the success, they added Ginger Garlic, offering comfort Indo-Chinese food, and then recently were able to open a sprawling, state-of-the-art kitchen in Vasant Kunj along with their latest brand, Park Street Rolls & Biryani. The three brands are Delhi-based now, but the team is looking to expand and Chennai is next on their radar. All takeaway outlets, they represent a new era of feisty, organised, chef-led cloud kitchens. “In 2021, we will see more strong, concept-led takeaways. The landlords’ thirst for rent is always going to be high, so brands need to think of products that can hold their own three years down the line,” says Vikramjit. “Customers are looking for a place with a story. And now, everything has to be fabulous, from food to packaging.” Successful takeaway kitchens are likely to birth restaurants after proving their mettle and creating a loyal customer base. “This has been a good year for individuals who have entrepreneurial skill. Small restaurants that were chef-led started doing well. People are realising that there has to be heart in spaces,” adds Vikram. Restaurants that multi-task Through the worst of the year, many chefs rose to the challenge of keeping their doors open and stoves on, despite shortages of staff and breakdowns in the supply chain. In return, customers rallied around their favourite restaurants to keep them in business. So not surprisingly, there has been a return to restaurants as community spaces, with chefs, vendors and customers building on bonds forged through the pandemic’s challenges, continuing to support each other. With ‘Work From Home’ becoming the norm, and many companies letting go of expensive offices to save costs, expect to spend more time working from cafes. Anticipating a surge in demand for co-working spaces, SOCIAL Works, which comes under the umbrella of Impresario Handmade Restaurants by Riyaaz Amlani, is doubling its co-working spaces across cities. Riyaaz says that they plan to “not only bring hyper-local communities offline once more, but also provide culinary escapism”. Design interventions have also been planned to counter 2020’s physical-distancing induced loneliness. “People will have their own little booths while being in a social environment, we call this ‘Social With Distancing’,” he adds. Small towns are their main focus for expansion as they have seen the biggest recovery there. The group is also building up on their cloud kitchen vertical and plans to introduce seven brands in the coming months. The backyard gourmet When the lockdown began in March and groceries were a challenge to procure, people turned to local farms and backyard gardens. Indigenous fruits and vegetables, native greens and foraged wild herbs were rediscovered. Amateur cooks began experimenting at home, led by bright young chefs who generously shared their time, recipes and techniques on Instagram stories, Lives and Cookalongs. Mumbai-based Chef Thomas Zachariah, who has one lakh eight thousand followers on Instagram, taught viewers how to cook intuitively through lockdown using seasonal, local greens by demonstrating recipes such as Kashmiri haak te thool with cauliflower and radish leaves, Sindhi sai bhaji with amaranth and fenugreek leaves, and Oria dahi potala with pointed gourd. “By virtue of being stuck at home, most people took to cooking and they made comfort food. Our comfort food is whatever is native to us. Whatever we grew up eating…” says Thomas, adding, “The response was incredible. Each of the recipes was shared over 1,000 times.” The interest in local food also prompted a number of talented home cooks to start cloud kitchens offering regional specialities. While not all of them will survive the year, they have filled a gap in the market for home-style, regional meals, and 2021 will see more players in this space. It is likely that consumers will continue to hanker for food that reminds them of less complicated times. As Thomas states, “The impact of 2020 is going to last for a couple of years. We are going to look for comfort for a while as we navigate our way through next year.”
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Glued to the screen||The pandemic had a big impact on the film industry across the country. According to a rating agency, the Rs. 23,600 crore-worth film business in India is likely to shrink to around Rs. 12,500 crore. During lockdown, when theatres were shut for months, audiences moved to streaming platforms, which meant a paradigm shift for the movie business. The Indian dream factory where stars ruled changed in 2020. The biggest players to gain were OTT services, which now virtually dictates terms to the industry. Seventeen Tamil films had a direct release on streaming platforms, the biggest of them being Suriya’s Soorarai Pottru . Though theatres are open now, Kollywood is still facing a challenge since the overall capacity has been brought down to 50% of the 1,200-plus screens across the State, out of which only 30-35% gets filled up. The up-and-running cinema halls have limited shows and mostly operate only during the weekend when occupancy barely manages to touch double digits. All that might probably change on Pongal 2021, when Vijay's Master arrives on the big screen. As leading theatre owner Tiruppur Subramaniam says, “There has been a huge shortage of star-driven Tamil content to feed the theatres. But, we are sure Master will kickstart the revival.” Where's the money, honey? Caught in an unprecedented situation, the Tamil film industry tried its best to salvage with the content it had. Film financiers, once the backbone of the industry, are trying hard to recover dues. All of them had taken a loan when theatres were operational, but are now at wits’ end with some smart producers bypassing the route,heading to OTT platforms. Almost all financiers have tentatively stopped funding new films. Shooting is on for a couple of projects, with little clarity over possible release dates. Meanwhile, over 40 to 50 films, including those with well-known stars, are ready for theatrical release, but their way forward seems blurry. Disappearing distributors Once upon a time, Tamil Nadu had the best film distribution network in India. However, that has been in decline in the past few years. In 2020, producers are directly engaging with theatre owners to get screens. Gone are the days of Minimum Guarantee (MG) or even advances, which were once a norm. The only silver lining among all this setback was that producers managed to reduce the Virtual Print Fee (VPF) by almost 60% (theatres screen films via Digital Service Providers (DSP) who charge VPF). This fee has long been a bone of contention between producers and exhibitors as to who would cough it up. Senthil Kumar of Qube Cinemas says, “2020 has been the worst for the film industry, and now we are on the road to recovery.” ‘Adapt and reinvent’ Despite theatres re-opening, there were little to no audiences and a few cinema halls were shut during weekdays. The biggest irony was that mass films like Soorarai Pottru and Mookuthi Amman were released on OTT platforms when theatres had re-opened. The future looks bleak, though single-screen owners feel the way forward is to ‘adapt and reinvent’, and convert the theatre into two or three 100-seater screens. Coimbatore’s veteran exhibitor Balasubramaniam of Baba Complex explains, “There is lack of fresh star-driven Tamil content, so occupancy remains very low. I’m running it more for prestige and for my employees’ sake. Once more star films release, I’m sure audiences will start coming for the big screen experience.” The OTT storm COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown has totally changed the way a film is consumed. In Tamil cinema, though only 17 films released directly on streaming platforms, the impact it created was much bigger than the other 81 films that released in theatres. As SR Prabhu, leading Tamil film producer, says, “OTT is a game changer, and another medium and a new revenue stream for Tamil cinema. The release of Suriya’s Soorarai Pottru directly on OTT and becoming one of the top five hits of the year among Indian language films, is a clear indication of which way the wind is blowing. However, you cannot get the kind of movie experience of the big screen on OTT. I feel both have to co-exist with each other; theatrical viewing will still remain popular as outdoor entertainment while OTT will be home watching-like television.” In the pre-COVID world, the Tamil industry used to churn out nearly 200 films a year, and all of them took the same route: theatrical release, digital and television premiere. The current scenario has made things complicated, because the streaming platforms prefer to “cherry pick” their releases. In the first quarter of 2021, theatres are heavily depending on Master to revive their business while OTTs have Bhoomi , Chakra , Teddy and probably Sultan . Tremors in the star system Streaming platforms are changing the way creators are thinking. Earlier, A-list directors would try getting dates of the stars , but now, they are looking at doing projects for streaming majors. The response to the recent Netflix anthology Paava Kadhaigal and earlier Amazon Prime’s Putham Pudhu Kaalai seems to have pushed filmmakers to think of newer subjects. A spokesperson of a leading OTT platform, requesting anonymity, says, “We sometimes opt for star films because of the actor’s loyal fan base and the need to expand our subscriber base. 2021 is going to be a defining year for streaming platforms in regional markets.”
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||RSVP for tiffin||It would be no exaggeration to say that people remember a wedding based on the food that was served. The kalyana virundhu (wedding feast) involves a series of intense discussions between the family and caterers. With COVID-19 forcing a cap on the number of guests and social distancing norms, this year celebrations shifted to small-format weddings at home and virtual platforms. Lately, families have been finding inventive ways to share the joy, and the feast. The muhurtha sappad (wedding feast) is now being packed for elderly relatives and close friends in the city who are unable to attend, much to the delight of virtual guests and caterers. The idea was to ensure that older members of the family, who could not attend the wedding, could still participate via the wedding feast, making the experience more enjoyable. Mathangi Srinivasamurti of Weddings and Marigold, a Chennai-based wedding planning company, recently organised the home delivery of a wedding feast, which went viral on social media. She says, “Many caterers have begun to deliver food packed in disposable containers. But this particular home delivery went viral mainly due to meticulous planning and smart packing: the containers and hand-woven basket were given as return gifts,” says Mathangi. Each basket had a meal for two packed in two hot boxes and four airtight containers. The bag also contained the traditional bakshanam (sweets and savouries) and thamboolam (bag with betel nut and leaves) . Apart from sending the link to the webcast of the wedding proceedings, the groom’s father, was particular about making guests feel included in the celebrations. Which is why he was keen on home delivering elaborate kalyana sappadu . Says Mathangi, “We had to ensure that the food reached 85 locations (total of 225 meals, 23 items in each) around the same time that the muhurtham ended, so they could watch the wedding in a relaxed manner and enjoy the sumptuous meal.” Home-delivered wedding feasts are catching on fast. Retired banker MK Shankar, who had his daughter’s wedding during the lockdown, says that he could invite just 40 guests to the venue and so, with the support of his caterer Arr Vee Caterers, he sent the wedding meal to 20 more relatives. Raghni Muralidharan of Renaissance Weddings says that she had conducted similar weddings in September. “Serving a sumptuous celebratory meal is deep-rooted in our culture, which is why even during the pandemic, families take the effort. For the weddings that I organised, we shared the link to the live telecast with the guests at home and ensured the meals reached them on time. For smaller events, guests are happy to take away packed meals and eat it at home.” Soumya Ramesh of Arusuvai Caterers, that has catered to about 12 weddings with home-delivered lunches, says it has become the norm these days. “We normally pack all items except rice and request the guests to keep rice fresh in their homes. But of late, we have started to pack premixed rice dishes such as sambar rice, rasam rice, vathakulambu rice and morekulambu rice, and to an extent avoid liquid food,” she says. Bharath Varadarajan of Arr Vee Catering Services says that since July, the firm has catered to over a dozen weddings, home delivering muhurtha sappad to elderly relatives. “Sending food to senior members of the family is such a wonderful gesture as well. I guess the trend is here to stay,” Bharath says and adds, “People are becoming aware of using less plastic for packaging food, and a young couple who are celebrating their kid’s ayush homam insisted that we use eco-friendly material even if it means more expenditure.” Some of the five-star hotels in the city are also gearing up. Says Zubin Songadwala, area manager South ITC Hotels South and general manager ITC Grand Chola,““We have also hosted virtual weddings wherein we have packed food for guests and delivered it. We also have guests choosing from our Gourmet Couch menu for small gatherings — it is a responsible dining initiative with mindfully curated menus from our restaurants.”
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Jotting down emotions on paper||Hi uncle, how are you? Thank you for protecting us and not going home. You help us stay home...thank you  A little one scribbles in English, filling in colours wherever possible, in a letter addressed to a frontline worker. COVID-19 has taught us many things, of which, expression of gratitude, seems to be the biggest takeaway. And, many have been doing so through intimate forms of communication — letter-writing initiatives, pandemic-led and otherwise, cropped up across the country. Endless gratitude University students Tara Luthra and Anshi Gupta, who used to write to each other regularly, started Write to Recognize . Though the initiative was discontinued after a successful run till the end of September, it was an enriching experience for them. Inspired by the UK-based Crisis Project which was directed at NHS workers, the duo sent letters to frontline and essential workers across the country. “To begin with, it was heartwarming to see many people wanting to remain anonymous. They did not want any credit for this,” recalls Tara adding that a lot of the letters came from those who managed to return home through the Vande Bharat mission. “Kids who travelled back home chose to write to the pilots and crew involved in the mission.” What piqued their interest was probably how basic the format was and also the fact that the letters were sent out to not just doctors and nurses, but also to officials distributing rations, security guards and watchmen, adds Tara. To spread some cheer, Coimbatore-based graphic designer Shuruti Vengatesh started sending postcards to friends during the initial days of lockdown. “Most of them were away from their families,” says Shuruti. Sending letters and postcards has always been an essential part of her life. “My love for them started with birthday cards I received every year from my grandfather. I still remember the thrill of opening and reading them,” she says. In June, she launched an initiative called Make Mail (makemail.in). Now, Shuruti sends out free handcrafted postcards to people who register through the website. “I have realised that WhatsApp messages and e-mails cannot replace the pleasure of waiting for a postcard, then reading and re-reading it. As I have a full-time job, I have restricted the number of postcards to 20 each month,” she says. Each of Shuruti’s postcards features a painting and a personal message. “My clients are from all age groups. Some order for themselves but most ask me to send it to their friends, children, parents and partners,” she says. In November, she ran a campaign aimed at introducing postcards to kids. So far she has sent around 300 postcards to the US, Australia, the UK and cities across India. Looking ahead As new initiatives surfaced, existing letter writing companies have seen an unprecedented rise in business. Bengaluru-based The Indian Handwritten Letter Co. (TIHLC) is testament to this. “We are one of the few businesses that has seen an upgrade. We have doubled orders and brought on board more writers,” says Anubhav Ankit, co-founder. Before, the company had 40 to 50 writers (300/400 letters a month) from across the world. That has now climbed up to 75 to 80 writers and 1,500-odd letters a month. A lot of people in the cities have been going back to their hometowns and connecting with family. “After they return to city life, they are left with the need to communicate with family back home, in a more intimate way.” Letters in regional languages have also seen a rise.  (With inputs from   Susan Joe Philip)
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The show must go on||Imagine a filmmaker sitting in one part of Chennai, and directing actors performing sequences in another neighbourhood. In any other year, we would have laughed about this, but 2020 made it a reality. Imagine a family gathered in front of their smart TV on a Friday to watch its matinee idol’s latest film, barely minutes after its release. In another year, we would have scoffed at this scenario, but again, 2020 made it a reality. Filmmaking has radically changed post the pandemic, with writers conceptualising lighter subjects that involve a minimum number of actors and production crew. While several industries have faced the repercussions of the pandemic, the film industry has managed to hold its own despite the numerous challenges posed. MetroPlus tracks down the movers and shakers of South Indian cinema who have been up and about working on films even as we sat at home watching them:        (With inputs from   Saraswathy NagarajanandSangeetha Devi Dundoo)
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||A DJ in your bedroom||Every year, on the evening of December 31, Princes Street Gardens in Edinburgh erupts into an iconic street party, with torchlight processions and entertainment at the annual Hogmanay Festival. This year, COVID-19 may have brought all physical celebrations to a grinding halt but revellers and organisers remain undaunted. The show must go on and the Hogmanay Festival has responded with innovation, bringing the first fully online celebration in the festival’s history. “We’re showing a three-part show (for free), with each part available at 7 p.m. (GMT) on December 29, 30 and 31 on www. edinburghshogmanay.com,” says a spokesperson from Underbelly, which is organising the festival, adding that they have been working on the digital celebration since July. Last year, the event saw 1,85,000 attendees, with 26% of the audience coming from Europe, India, China, Australia and the U.S. For the current edition, the team has worked with Jackie Kay, Scotland’s national poet, whose new poem forms the background for the show. “Visual development artist Gary Wilson has created a series of artwork that has been interpreted by drone company Celestial, while Scottish fusion band Niteworks has provided a new soundtrack. The show weaves in a story that starts in the Scottish highlands and then moves to the iconic Forth Bridges before arriving into Edinburgh, the home of Hogmanay. The drones dance and move in the air as we tell the story. The music and narration by actors David Tennant, Siobhan Redmond, and Lorne MacFadyen provide a very emotive event,” says the spokesperson.   U.S.-based Eschaton that started in March this year has always been virtual and hosted its events over Zoom. Created by Brittany Blum and Tessa Whitehead — veterans in immersive theatre — Eschaton is a mix between a virtual nightclub and an interactive performance venue. In a maze of rooms, it features dozens of world-class performers across music, cinema, dance, performance art, drag, burlesque, karaoke and more. Expect the unexpected. To welcome 2021, the club presents Eschaton NYE: The Dissolution, “a 60-minute, all virtual, champagne-toasting, midnight-kissing bash”. Priced at Rs. 1,830, the ticket (available on www. chorusproductions.com) will also give you access to an additional 60-minute after-party hosted by nightlife icons Brita Filter, Susanne Bartsch, and Amanda Lepore. However, the timing of the do — Friday, January 1, from 9.30 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. IST — does not coincide with New Year’s Eve in most countries. Despite that the organisers say they have attendees from all over the world. “After so much time without in-person events, gatherings, and world travel this past year, guests are embracing the opportunity to celebrate as a global community virtually,” say the promoters of the event.   With everyone trying to innovate, here’s a first: Ever heard of a charity rave? Beatboxer SK Shlomo’s Rave to The Moon is a free event that attempts to get participants to dance and move about, so the number of collective steps taken by them works out to the average distance it would take to reach the moon. To participate log on to https://ravetothemoon.tv/   Closer home, a number of Indian DJs who normally spend their New Year’s Eve behind the console are opting to take it easy this time and spend time with their families. Mumbai-based DJ Suketu says he may just start a live set from his home if he feels like it on that evening. The cool thing about live streaming parties is that anybody and everyone can access it. Grandparents, grandchildren, parents, get them all to groove with you! Kochi-based actor and DJ Sekhar Menon will be livestreaming his set featuring trance, techno, house and the works on his website, www.sceneturbo.com. The party starts at 9.30 p.m. on December 31 and goes on till 12.30 a.m. “There will be no gimmicks. Just some good music to set the tone for the new year. It is a practical and safe way to have fun,” says Sekhar. This is the first time Sekhar is livestreaming a New Year’s act and he says the experience will be different for sure, but not less exciting in any way. So will he miss the crowds? “A bit yes, but this is the age of bedroom DJ-ing. I guess we adapt to the times,” he says. Joining him will be DJ Stalwart and DJ Mc Manchild. To buy the password, log on to www.sceneturbo.com. It is priced at Rs. 200.  With inputs from      Anasuya Menon
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||Facial recognition technology: law yet to catch up||There are currently 16 different facial recognition tracking (FRT) systems in active utilisation by various Central and State governments across India for surveillance, security or authentication of identity. Another 17 are in the process of being installed by different government departments. While the FRT system has seen rapid deployment by multiple government departments in recent times, there are no specific laws or guidelines to regulate the use of this potentially invasive technology. This, legal experts say, poses a huge threat to the fundamental rights to privacy and freedom of speech and expression because it does not satisfy the threshold the Supreme Court had set in its landmark privacy judgment in the ‘Justice K.S. Puttaswamy Vs Union of India’ case. In 2018, the Delhi police became one of the first law enforcement agencies in the country to start using the technology. It, however, declined to answer to a Right to Information (RTI) query on whether it had conducted “privacy impact assessment” prior to deployment of the facial recognition system (FRS). Advocate Apar Gupta, co-founder of Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), in his RTI application had also asked the Delhi police whether there are any guidelines, policies, rules or standard operating procedure governing its use of facial recognition technology. The Delhi police vaguely replied, “The FRS technology may be used in investigation in the interest of safety and security of general public”. In the same RTI reply, the Delhi police also stated that the use of facial recognition technology was authorised by the Delhi High Court. Function creep However, advocate Anushka Jain, associate counsel (Transparency & Right to Information), IFF pointed out that the police got permission to use the FRS by an order of the Delhi High Court for tracking missing children. “Now they are using it for wider security and surveillance and investigation purpose, which is a function creep,” Ms. Jain said. A function creep happens when someone uses information for a purpose that is not the original specified purpose. In December last year, The Hindu reported that the Delhi police, with the help of automated facial recognition system (AFRS), was comparing the details of people involved in violence during the anti-Citizenship Act protests in Jamia Millia Islamia with a data bank of more than two lakh ‘anti-social elements’. Ms. Jain said: “The function has widened at the back end and we don’t actually know for what purpose they might be using it and how they are being regulated and if there is any regulation at all”. “This might lead to an over-policing problem or problems where certain minorities are targeted without any legal backing or any oversight as to what is happening. Another problem that may arise is of mass surveillance, wherein the police are using the FRT system during protest,” Ms. Jain said. If someone goes to a protest against the government, and the police are able to identify the person, then there might be repercussions, she argued. “This obviously has a chilling effect on the individual’s freedom of speech and expression and right to protest as well as my right to movement”. “This might lead to government tracking us all the time,” she added. Proportionality test Vidushi Marda, a lawyer and researcher at Article 19, a human rights organisation, said the Supreme Court in the Puttaswamy judgment ruled that privacy is a fundamental right even in public spaces. “And if these rights needs to be infringed, then the government has to show that such action is sanctioned by law, proportionate to the need for such interference, necessary and in pursuit of a legitimate aim,” Ms. Marda said. She flagged various issues with the AFRS, an ambitious pan-India project under the Home Ministry which will be used by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) and various States’ law enforcement departments. “The IFF filed a legal notice to the Home Ministry asking under what legal basis was the AFRS built, since, as per the Puttaswamy judgment, it does not meet the threshold of proportionality and legality,” Ms. Marda said. “The basis of the AFRS is a Cabinet note of 2009. But the Cabinet note is not a legal substance, it’s a procedural note at best. So it does not form a valid legal system based on which the AFRS can be built,” she added. Questionable accuracy Ms. Jain, who is currently working on Panoptic, a project to track the deployment and implementation of FRT projects in the country, said that 100% accuracy in finding matches has not been achieved under this technology. “In case an inaccurate system is installed, two things can happen. There can be a ‘false positive’ wherein somebody is recognised as somebody they are not or ‘false negative’ wherein the system refuses to recognise the person as themselves. In case of a ‘false positive’, she gave example of the police using the FRT system to identify and arrest somebody who is not the suspect. If a ‘false negative’ occurs when the government is using the FRT system to provide its schemes, then this could lead to many people facing exclusion from such government schemes, Ms. Jain added. “These FRT systems are being developed and deployed across India without any legal framework in place, which creates a lot of problems. If you are caught hold off by the police through the FRT system, what do you do? What are your remedies? There is no framework in place where you can even question them,” she pointed out. Ms. Mishi Choudhary, technology lawyer and digital rights activist, said, “Many cities and states in the U.S. have either completely banned the usage or impose moratorium on the usage of facial recognition tech”. “Companies like IBM, Microsoft have decided not to sell these technologies to law enforcement at all. Even Amazon has imposed a moratorium. Facial recognition technology has not only been invasive, inaccurate and unregulated but has also been unapologetically weaponised by law enforcement against people of color,” Ms. Choudhary added. “In India, we have no law to protect people, no guardrails about usage of data by private players or government. We hear several news on police abuse even without the aid of technology. Facial recognition is perfect form of surveillance that builds tyrannical societies. It automates discriminatory policing and will exacerbate existing injustices in our criminal justice system,” Ms. Choudhary said. Mr. Gupta gave a similar view. “India is facing a facial recognition pandemic — one without any safeguards or remedies for the harms of exclusion, profiling and surveillance. Without urgent action, such systems of mass surveillance will erode democratic liberties and threaten the rights of lakhs of Indians,” said Mr. Gupta
31 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Congress, BJP win one seat each in Haryana mayoral elections||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday won the election for the mayor’s post for Sonipat and Panchkula municipal corporations respectively. Former Union Minister Venod Sharma’s Haryana Jan Chetna Party (V) candidate and his wife Shakti Rani was elected mayor of Ambala. The elections for the posts of mayor and ward members for three municipal corporations, along with Rewari municipal council and municipal committees of Dharuhera, Uklana and Sampla were held on December 27. Contesting the municipal bodies election on the party symbol in Haryana for the first time, the Congress recorded a landslide win in Sonipat with the party candidate Nikhil Madaan, a close confidante of Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda, trouncing his nearest rival and BJP candidate Lalit Batra by over 13,000 votes, the highest victory margin for the post in the three corporations. Close on the heels of Baroda by-poll win, the victory reaffirmed the Hoodas’ political influence in Sonipat. The BJP managed a narrow win in Panchkula with its candidate Kulbhushan Goyal defeating Congress candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia by just 2,057 votes. In Ambala, Ms. Rani defeated BJP’s Vandana Sharma by 8,084 votes. Congress’ Meena Aggarwal with 13,797 votes stood a distant fourth. Congress State chief Kumari Selja said that party had fared badly both in Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha elections in Ambala and this election was a challenge for them. She, however, added that the party won one of the three elections for mayor’s post and lost in Panchkula by a whisker. The BJP also won the election for the post of president in Rewari municipal council. Though the Congress represents Rewari in Vidhan Sabha, its candidate, Vikram Yadav, stood a distant third and polled 15,271 votes. The Jannayak Janta Party lost both Uklana and Dharuhera president posts to Independents.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||New Year plan: blood test, not alcometer||For the safety of people during New Year celebrations, Delhi Traffic Police has decided not to use alcometers due to COVID-19 but they will get blood tests done to check cases of drunk driving. On Wednesday, Delhi Traffic Police has issued a traffic advisory for New Year’s eve, which will be applicable to all private and public transport vehicles and will come into effect from 8 p.m. on Thursday in the national capital. Special arrangements have been made for the areas in the vicinity of Connaught Place. Manish Aggarwal, Joint CP (Traffic), said that alcometers (device to measure alcohol content in a breath sample) will not be used in the Capital due to the COVID-19 outbreak. He added that action will be taken if anybody is found driving in an inebriated state. “A team of doctors will be deployed at Parliament Street police station to take blood samples of drivers who were either found in inebriated state or involved in rash driving. In the rest of Delhi, offenders will be taken to nearby hospital for medical test to confirm alcohol presence,” said Mr Aggarwal. No vehicular traffic will be allowed in the inner, middle and the outer circle of Connaught Place without valid passes. Limited parking space for vehicles with valid passes will be available in Connaught Place on first come-first serve basis. Unauthorised or wrongly parked vehicles shall be towed away and prosecuted, the advisory stated. Alternative routes Mr. Agarwal said alternative routes have been arranged for commuters travelling to New Delhi railway station. However, routes to the Old Delhi railway station will not be affected, he added. Traffic arrangements have also been made at areas having high footfall like Saket, Greater Kailash, Lajpat Nagar, New Friends Colony, Hauz Khas, Defence Colony, Vasant Vihar, R K Puram, Nehru Place, Dwarka, Palam airport, Rajouri Garden, Ashok Vihar, Model Town and Mayur Vihar, the advisory stated. Strict action shall be taken against drunken driving, stunt-biking, over speeding, reckless driving, zig-zag and dangerous driving, it said. For Friday, elaborate arrangements have been made for the area in and around India Gate for regulation of both pedestrian as well as vehicular movement. In case of heavy pedestrian movement, vehicles may not be allowed to go through the C-Hexagon, India Gate area, after 10 a.m, and diverted, officials said. Visitors are advised to use public transport as there is an acute shortage of parking space at India Gate, it said. “We request people to check the status of place they will be visiting before leaving their house because many of the public places are shut due to COVID-19,” Mr. Aggarwal advised.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Singer Jazzy B, ex-DIG Jakhar support protesters||While the talks between leaders and Ministers were underway at Vigyan Bhavan, at the Singhu border, Punjabi singer Jaswinder Singh Bains a.k.a. Jazzy B and Punjab’s Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Lakhwinder Singh Jakhar, who resigned earlier this month, cheered the protesting farmers. Addressing the crowd from the stage, Mr. Bains said, “Get stronger. We only have to move forward and not take any step back.” The singer also said that the protesters are being called out for eating pizzas and almonds but that’s the nature of the Sikh community. “ Asi chardi kala che rehnde ne [we live in a state of positivity and optimism],” he said. Mr. Bains claimed that he was offered a stay in hotels during his visit to the Singhu border but he stayed inside his car instead to feel like a part of the protest. Mr. Jakhar, who resigned as DIG (Prisons) recently in support of the farmers said that they were being called terrorists but were in fact protectors of the nation. “Most farmers’ sons are in the Army and they call us terrorists and Khalistanis. They also question where the funds are coming from to feed so many people. I would like to say that, since childhood, we are taught about langars and serving the community,” he said, adding that the government wanted farmers to become slaves to corporates “but they won’t and will rule their fields like kings”. He ended by asking their “brothers abroad” to extend support for the protest in all the ways possible. Not fully optimistic Protesting farmers, on Tuesday, said that while they hoped for a positive outcome to the talks between leaders and the government, they weren’t optimistic that the outcome would be as they hoped. “The government has spoken to our leaders five times before this and it’s unlikely that they will agree to the demands. The deadlock will continue though we hope it ends,” said Gurmeet Singh (48) from Rupnagar. Standing next to him, Iqbal Singh (43) said that if the deadlock continued, “We will lock our houses in Punjab and Haryana, bring all the family members here and seize Delhi… our Gurus had won Delhi 18 times, we will win for the 19th.” This is the first protest in which government is giving people something and they don’t want it, said Pradeep Singh from Fatehgarh Sahib. “People think we are having fun here. I sell milk for a living. I have left it to be taken care of by a boy I hired. It’s so cold here at night. One can’t imagine the condition we bath in. It’s not easy,” he said.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||AAP instals 5 Wi-Fi hotspots at Singhu for protesting farmers||The Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday installed five Wi-Fi hotspots at the Singhu border, where farmers are protesting, the party said. After installing the five free Wi-Fi hotspots, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said: “We hope that each farmer here at the Singhu border will now be able to make full use of the Wi-Fi facility and see their aged parents, talk about his day with his anxious wife, or share a joke with his friend. Farmers are our Gods and there can be no limit to serving our God, our annadaata . Sewaadar Arvind Kejriwal and we at the Aam Aadmi Party will stand by our farmer brothers and sisters till the end.” Meanwhile, AAP MLA Atishi wrote to the Delhi Police Commissioner and appealed to file an FIR against BJP MP Ramesh Bidhuri and associates. She also met the DCP (South East) and submitted a complaint against Mr. Bidhuri and associates for allegedly assaulting AAP supporter Jitu Saini and contractor Sudhir Bidhuri. “Police officers have told me personally that they are directly under pressure from the Union Home Ministry, so they cannot take any action in such matters,” Ms. Atishi said.
31 December 2020||chandigarh,||Punjab govt. to lift night curfew from January 1||The Punjab government on Wednesday decided to lift the night curfew from January 1, 2021 and advised the public to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. An official statement said restrictions regarding night curfew in all cities and towns and closing down hotels, marriage halls etc by 9.30 p.m. would remain till December 31, 2020. Both these restrictions would no longer be applicable from January 1, 2021 onwards due to recent downtrend in COVID-19 cases. “Furthermore, the ceiling of 100 persons and 250 persons in all indoor and outdoor social gatherings would be applicable till December 31. It has been decided that these restrictions are further relaxed to 200 persons and 500 persons respectively from January 1,” it added.
31 December 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Wing to probe crimes against women, children||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday announced the creation of a special wing in the State police to deal with offences against women and children. Addressing the valedictory session of the 62nd senior police commissioners’ conference, Mr. Patnaik said, “crime against women and children remains our focus area. I announce the creation of a special wing in Odisha Police to look after offences against women and children.” The Chief Minister said he expected that with these initiatives, quality services could be provided to women and children. Mr. Patnaik also expressed concerns over low conviction rates. “All possible steps should be taken to enhance conviction rates by factoring in modern technology into the investigation,” he said. He said the government was aware of the need to strengthen the civil police in the State, and in view of increasing demands for police services, six new police stations had been sanctioned, which were made functional from Wednesday. “Further, 905 additional posts under various ranks have been sanctioned for strengthening police stations by surrendering equal number of posts elsewhere,” the Chief Minister said.
31 December 2020||New Delhi,||Prioritise enforcement of COVID norms: L-G to police||Delhi Police personnel, in addition to keeping an eye on drunken drivers and possible instances of crime, will have another significant duty to discharge on New Year’s eve. Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has directed the Delhi Police to prioritise the enforcement of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour along with the safety of women during the New Year celebrations here on Thursday. At a review meeting, which he chaired at Raj Niwas, Mr. Baijal reviewed law and order arrangements with Delhi Police top brass where he also issued directions to step up police presence at key areas. “Chaired meeting with @DelhiPolice. Besides other issues, reviewed arrangements for upcoming NEW YEAR celebrations [sic],” the L-G tweeted. “Advised @DelhiPolice to strengthen presence in key areas, ensure strict enforcement of COVID compliant behaviour, keep a strict vigil to ensure safety of women and check any instance of drunken driving [sic],” he said in a subsequent tweet.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man, wife held for selling NRI’s property||A man, who fraudulently sold the property of an NRI woman in south Delhi at a throwaway price, was arrested along with his wife, a senior police officer said on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Maninder Shah Singh (68). Police said they had received a complainant from Motian Devi Lamba, an NRI based in London. The complainant said that she had purchased a property located in Greater Kailash in 1973. She had entered into an agreement to sell the property with Maninder Shah Singh in 2010. As per the agreement, 51% of the money will be taken by the complainant and the rest by Mr. Singh. She had given him an SPA (Special Power of Attorney) also. Later, she came to know that Mr. Singh has further entered into an agreement to sale with M/s Skylink Construction Pvt. Ltd. for a total sale consideration of Rs. 27 crore. He also took Rs. 25 lakh in advance without the consent and knowledge of the complainant. The officer said that Ms. Lamba cancelled the said agreement and SPA in favout of Mr. Singh by way of publication in 2011. This fact was also conveyed by way of legal notice to Mr. Singh. After receiving the legal notice, Mr. Singh hatched a criminal conspiracy with his wife and tampered with the SPA executed by the complainant in favour of her son Juginder Lamba by changing the name of original attorney to Manju Devi, the officer said. On the basis of the forged SPA, Mr. Singh and his wife sold the property and executed a sale deed, the officer added.
31 December 2020||Guwahati,||‘Assam spent Rs. 1,032 cr. on COVID-19 fight’||Assam has so far spent Rs. 1,032.49 crore on expenses related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The amount includes Rs. 172 crore that the National Health Mission spent on testing and purchasing of protection kits and life-saving drugs, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told the Assembly. The Minister, in a written reply, said Rs. 513.61 crore was provided to districts for expenditure on infrastructure, activities and management of COVID-19 treatment. Another Rs. 4.15 crore was released to various medical colleges.
31 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Restrictions at Rajiv Chowk metro on Dec. 31||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Wednesday said that commuters will not be permitted to exit from the Rajiv Chowk metro station from 9 p.m. onwards on New Year’s eve as a measure to ease overcrowding at the stations. In a statement issued, the public transporter said, “To ease overcrowding on New Year’s eve exit from Rajiv Chowk metro station will not be allowed from 9 p.m. onwards.” The DMRC, however, added that entry of passengers will be allowed till the end of metro services. “Entry of passengers will be allowed till the departure of the last train from the station,” the DMRC said.
31 December 2020||December 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The shape of meals to come||It isn’t over yet. Although 2020 is drawing to a close, COVID-19 and its gnarly web of associated challenges, from lockdowns to the fear economy, will continue to cast their shadows over the next few years, shaping restaurants and influencing meals. However, the battered industry is fighting back. The challenges triggered invention, innovation and creativity as the virus taught people they need to join hands to survive, and changed dining out in unprecedented ways. What will your next dinner out look like? Survival of the quickest “It is a bloodbath,” says serial restaurateur M. Mahadevan who launched the popular Hot Breads chain, and now has a presence around the world. Speaking from Dubai, Mahadevan says 40% of their 100 plus restaurants have closed down and “another 30% are hanging... if the situation continues there will be more closings. We have no choice. It is about survival now”. However, the team has fought back, focussing on retaining jobs with innovations like a first-of-its-kind 10-foot-high dispenser machine that serves hot meals from their speciality restaurants, enabling no contact, pandemic-appropriate dining. “We are managing with whatever we have locally. We are learning to cut costs without compromising on quality, and live lean. We need to be tech-friendly as we tread into the unknown… it’s a whole new brand,” he says. The pandemic has exposed cracks in the industry, prompting restaurants to rethink design and menus, and most importantly focus on staff well-being. “Ours is a people business more than food business. The team matters most,” Mahadevan says. With only the serious players left standing after pruning their businesses, restaurants will be leaner, but stronger, necessarily run with conviction and empathy. Luxury cloud kitchens “All the scum created by the industry, the snobbishness of five-star hotels, the pretentiousness has been destroyed. We are at Ground Zero,” says chef Vikramjit Roy, from Delhi. After working with some of the country’s most exclusive luxury restaurants, including Pan Asian at Chennai’s ITC Grand Chola, and Tian at ITC Maurya in Delhi, Vikramjit launched Hello Panda, a delivery kitchen, in May, despite peak pandemic anxiety.  Buoyed by the success, they added Ginger Garlic, offering comfort Indo-Chinese food, and then recently were able to open a sprawling, state-of-the-art kitchen in Vasant Kunj along with their latest brand, Park Street Rolls & Biryani. The three brands are Delhi-based now, but the team is looking to expand and Chennai is next on their radar. All takeaway outlets, they represent a new era of feisty, organised, chef-led cloud kitchens. “In 2021, we will see more strong, concept-led takeaways. The landlords’ thirst for rent is always going to be high, so brands need to think of products that can hold their own three years down the line,” says Vikramjit. “Customers are looking for a place with a story. And now, everything has to be fabulous, from food to packaging.” Successful takeaway kitchens are likely to birth restaurants after proving their mettle and creating a loyal customer base. “This has been a good year for individuals who have entrepreneurial skill. Small restaurants that were chef-led started doing well. People are realising that there has to be heart in spaces,” adds Vikram. Restaurants that multi-task Through the worst of the year, many chefs rose to the challenge of keeping their doors open and stoves on, despite shortages of staff and breakdowns in the supply chain. In return, customers rallied around their favourite restaurants to keep them in business. So not surprisingly, there has been a return to restaurants as community spaces, with chefs, vendors and customers building on bonds forged through the pandemic’s challenges, continuing to support each other. With ‘work from home’ becoming the norm, and many companies letting go of expensive offices to save costs, expect to spend more time working from cafes. Anticipating a surge in demand for co-working spaces, SOCIAL Works, which comes under the umbrella of Impresario Handmade Restaurants by Riyaaz Amlani, is doubling its co-working spaces across cities. Riyaaz says that they plan to “not only bring hyper-local communities offline once more but also provide culinary escapism”. Design interventions have also been planned to counter 2020’s physical distancing-induced loneliness. “People will have their own little booths while being in a social environment, we call this ‘Social With Distancing’,” he adds. Small towns are their main focus for expansion as they have seen the biggest recovery there. The group is also building up on their cloud kitchen vertical and plans to introduce seven brands in the coming months. The backyard gourmet When the lockdown began in March and groceries were a challenge to procure, people turned to local farms and backyard gardens. Indigenous fruits and vegetables, native greens and foraged wild herbs were rediscovered. Amateur cooks began experimenting at home, led by bright young chefs who generously shared their time, recipes and techniques on Instagram stories, Lives and Cookalongs. Mumbai-based chef Thomas Zachariah, who has one lakh eight thousand followers on Instagram, taught viewers how to cook intuitively through lockdown using seasonal, local greens by demonstrating recipes such as Kashmiri haak te thool with cauliflower and radish leaves, Sindhi sai bhaji with amaranth and fenugreek leaves, and Oria dahi potala with pointed gourd. “By virtue of being stuck at home, most people took to cooking and they made comfort food. Our comfort food is whatever is native to us. Whatever we grew up eating…” says Thomas, adding, “The response was incredible. Each of the recipes was shared over 1,000 times.” The interest in local food also prompted a number of talented home cooks to start cloud kitchens offering regional specialities. While not all of them will survive the year, they have filled a gap in the market for home-style, regional meals, and 2021 will see more players in this space. It is likely that consumers will continue to hanker for food that reminds them of less complicated times. As Thomas says, “The impact of 2020 is going to last for a couple of years. We are going to look for comfort for a while as we navigate our way through next year.”
