31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Active cases fall below 6 lakh after 85 days||India’s active COVID-19 caseload has fallen below six lakh for the first time in nearly three months (85 days) with 5.94 lakh active cases on Friday. The active caseload was 5.95 lakh on August 6, said a Health Ministry release. “Presently, the active cases comprise only 7.35% of the total positive cases of the country standing at 5,94,386. This has strengthened its trend of steady decline. India has also sustained its high number of recoveries. The total recovered cases stand at 73,73,375. India continues to be the topmost country with the maximum number of recovered cases globally. The difference between active cases and recovered cases is consistently increasing and stands at 6,778,989 on Friday,” said the release. Recovery rate is 91% The Ministry added that 57,386 patients had recovered and had been discharged in the last 24 hours whereas the new confirmed cases were 48,648. The national recovery rate has progressed to 91.15%. Of the new recovered cases, 80% are observed to be concentrated in 10 States and UTs. The Ministry said, “A total of 563 case fatalities have been reported in the past 24 hours. Of these, 81% are concentrated in 10 States/UTs. Maharashtra has reported the highest single day deaths (156), followed by West Bengal with 61 cases.” Giving details of the COVID-19 tests, it said several States/UTs had exceeded the advised number of tests. “The national average of tests per day per million population stands at 844. The figure for Delhi and Kerala has exceeded 3,000.” Kerala contributed the maximum with more than 8,000 to the single day recoveries followed by Maharashtra and Karnataka with more than 7,000 recoveries each, said the Ministry. It added that Kerala was still reporting a very high number of new cases with an average of over 7,000 cases daily, followed by Maharashtra and Delhi with more than 5,000 cases each. As on Friday, Kerala reported 6,638 new cases while Maharashtra reported 6,190. Delhi’s highest spike Delhi, meanwhile, reported its highest single day spike yet with 5,891 new cases, taking its total case tally to over 3.81 lakh. It also recorded 47 new fatalities, pushing the death toll to 6,470  (With inputs from PTI)
31 October 2020||Belagavi,||Grants for Vijayapura city have gone up to Rs. 195 cr. after I spoke out, says Basanagouda Patil Yatnal||BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal said in Vijayapura on Friday that he would not say that B.S. Yediyurappa would remain the Chief Minister for an eternity or complete his term in office. “Like other MLAs and Ministers, I will not say he will stay Chief Minister for three years. I am not among the leaders who declare that Mr. Yediyurappa’s tenure will last as long as the Sun and the Moon,’’ he said, after inaugurating some civil works in the city. He defended his statement made last week where he had said that Mr. Yediyurappa would not remain Chief Minister for long as the party high command was fed up with him. “In saying that, I was not taking any anti-party stand. I was only raising my concern about the Chief Minister cancelling the pre-approved grant of Rs. 125 crore for Vijayapura city. Once I spoke about it, other MLAs also joined the chorus. Today, the Chief Minister held a meeting of the Urban Development Department in Bengaluru and approved a grant of Rs. 1,350 crore to 10 city corporations in the State. What is more, the share of Vijayapura has gone up to Rs. 195 crore from Rs. 125 crore,” he said. “However, before I spoke about this, the files were not moving. The Chief Minister cancelled the approval despite repeated requests. I must have gone to meet the Chief Minister several times. He kept saying he would approve it, but he did not. I was forced to speak against this,” he said. “But some leaders began questioning why I spoke against my own Chief Minister and brought in issues of party discipline. That is all fine when the government works to fulfil our demands and works sought for by the MLAs are done. Otherwise, what other way is left for us? How do I answer my voters if I don’t keep my promise of developing my area?” he said. He said that he had no grandiose dreams of becoming the Chief Minister. “When I am not being made a Minister, how can I aspire to be the Chief Minister?” he said. When reminded that Basavaraj S. Horatti of the Janata Dal(S) had supported the idea of Mr. Yatnal becoming the Chief Minister, he said that almost all leaders from North Karnataka were supportive of the idea. “But there is no chance, as of now,” he said.
31 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Two food joint employees injured in fight with four customers in city||Two employees of a food joint in Falnir here were injured after a brawl with customers that was followed by one of the customers opening fire here on Friday. According to eyewitness accounts, four customers had a heated exchange with employees of MFC food joint after having tea at the joint at about 6 p.m. The four banged the table they were sitting at and this led the food joint staff to catch hold of them. Following an exchange of blows between the two groups, two customers started running away. As one of the food joint employees gave a chase to them, employees of MFC Fresh Mart that is nearby, joined the food joint staff to catch the customers who were fleeing. One of the customers then opened fire at an employee before going away in a vehicle with another customer, near Indira Hospital. While MFC employee Usman suffered a minor injury on his leg in the firing, his colleague Shaif had a cut injury on his hand and chest during the exchange of blows. Both are undergoing treatment at a private hospital and are said to be out of danger. The Mangaluru South Police said that two customers caught by the food joint staff also suffered minor injuries and they have been admitted to the Government Wenlock Hospital. The police said that the fire arm used by a customer appears to be an air pistol. The police have collected blood stain samples found near the Indira Hospital. Special police teams have been formed to trace those who fled, the police said.
31 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Elephants damage crops in plantation near Belthangady, leave behind calf||A herd of wild elephants, including a calf, barged into a farm of an agriculturist at Kadirudyavara in Belthangady taluk of Dakshina Kannada late on Thursday and caused extensive damage in the plantation which had arecanut and banana crops. Belthangady Range Forest Officer Tyagaraj said that in addition to the calf there were five adult pachyderms. They damaged crops in the plantation that belonged to Deekaiah Gowda. The herd was in the farm till early Friday. While returning, the calf could not join the herd and hence, was stranded in the plantation. People noticed the calf and informed the police and the Forest Department. The calf was sent back to the forests by noon. The herd has been moving in the same area for the past few days. But it had not entered any farm land earlier. Forest Department is now keeping a vigil in the area, he said.
31 October 2020||MYSURU,||Covishield showing ‘good’ immune response among volunteers||Covishield, the COVID-19 vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University and pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca, has reportedly shown a “good” immune response among volunteers in the trials at JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (JSSAHER) in Mysuru. One volunteer, who received shots as part of the phase 2 and phase 3 trials, told The Hindu that he got tested for antibodies about 25 days after the first dose was administered and found that a good amount of antibodies had been generated. “Another friend also got tested and had a similar result,” said the volunteer. All the volunteers, before taking part in the trials at JSSAHER, underwent tests for COVID-19 and for the presence of antibodies. Only those, who tested negative for both, were enrolled in the trials. Reliable sources confirmed that many volunteers, after receiving the vaccination, got tested for antibodies at private laboratories. These tests had shown that the vaccine had helped develop a good immune response, the sources added. Tests under way However, officials at JSSAHER said Covishield’s immunogenicity tests to determine the presence of antibodies are still under way as part of the trial. “The blood samples that were collected before and after the vaccination have been sent to the designated laboratories as advised by the sponsors to test the immunogenicity of the vaccine. There will be a centralised assessment of the antibody titers of all vaccine participants from different sites,” said Pro Chancellor of JSSAHER B. Suresh. Out of an estimated 1,200 volunteers in the clinical trials of Covishield, produced by Serum Institute of India (SII), across 18 different sites, over 100 volunteers were enrolled by JSSAHER. “Ours is the largest site and we are among the few sites chosen for immunogenicity tests,” Dr. Suresh added. The results of the immunogenicity test are communicated to the sites only at the completion of the trial. “We use the scientific data to further our scientific pursuit,” he said. However, SII will share the data with the Drugs Controller General of India to seek clearance for manufacturing and marketing the vaccine. SII has already ramped up its production facilities to start large-scale manufacture and at least a few million doses should be available soon after the clearance is given, said Dr. Suresh, adding that he expected the clearance to come by next February-March.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Social distancing goes for a toss in Sadar Bazar||All efforts to enforce social distancing guidelines in the run-up to Deepavali are falling flat in Delhi’s Sadar Bazar area, India’s biggest wholesale market for household items. Visitors and shop owners have resolutely refused to adhere to any safety protocols, lament police. Delhi Police had prepared a crowd management plan from October 16 to November 16 for the festive season, especially for the Sadar Bazar area that has around 40,000 shops and notches up a daily footfall of around 1,00,000. The measures include appeals through public address systems installed at 40 locations to maintain distance and wear masks. Anto Alphonse, DCP (North), said extra personnel have been deployed in the area. “A team of policemen roam the market and fine visitors for not wearing masks or not following social distancing norms. To decongest the lanes and enable smooth pedestrian movement, we have earmarked dedicated parking areas for shop owners, their employees and shoppers,” he said. “We held a meeting with around 30 market associations and discussed measures such as thermal screening and distribution of hand sanitisers besides putting up posters related to COVID-19 guidelines,” said Mr. Alphonse. The elaborate efforts, however, aren’t paying off. ‘Time to recoup losses’ Anurag Agarwal, a dry fruits wholesaler, said crowds are unavoidable during festive season. “Our sales have dropped 50% from last year. After acute losses due to lockdown, the time has come to recoup some of those losses,” he said. Mr. Agarwal, however, claimed most shops ensure that customers enter wearing masks and sanitise their hands. Rakesh Gupta, another shop owner, said some listen, most don’t. “I got my entire staff of six tested for COVID-19 as we are exposed to scores of visitors coming from various parts of Delhi and other States,” he said.
31 October 2020||Kolkata,||Protests erupt in Bengal over custodial death, BJP calls bandh||Protests erupted in West Bengal’s Birbhum district on Thursday over the alleged custodial death of a 15-year-old boy at Mallarpur area in the district. Angry villagers blocked the national highway since Friday morning by burning tyres on the road. There were also reports of some clashes with the police. According to family members of the deceased, the boy was arrested for an alleged theft and the family was informed that he would be released soon. The boy’s father alleged that his son was beaten to death in the police station. Shyam Singh, Birbhum district superintendent of police, said the boy went to the toilet in the night and killed himself. “We have ordered a magisterial probe and a post-mortem by a three-member medical panel as per the guidelines laid down by the National Human Rights Commission,” Mr. Singh said. 12-hour bandh Meanwhile, the State unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has called a 12-hour bandh in Mallapur on Saturday. Dilip Ghosh, the State unit president of the BJP raised questions over how a minor could kill himself in the police station. “He was treated like this because his family members are BJP supporters,” Mr. Ghosh said. Saumitra Khan, president of West Bengal Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha and other party supporters demonstrated outside the Mallarpur police station in the evening. Only a couple of days back the BJP leadership had hit the streets in Kolkata over the alleged custodial death of Madan Ghorui, a BJP worker from Patashpur in Purba Medinipur district. The Calcutta High Court had directed a fresh post mortem in the case. In July this year a 21-year-old migrant worker died by suicide in Birbhum district after he was allegedly tortured in police custody. Disciplinary action was taken against the officer-in-charge and the duty officer of the police station where the migrant worker was detained.  Kolkata Suicide Helpline : 033 24637401 / 033 24637432
31 October 2020||Pune,||Recoveries cross 15 lakh in State||With 8,241 more COVID-19 patients being discharged in Maharashtra on Friday, the cumulative recoveries have crossed the 15 lakh mark to touch 15,03,050. In contrast, only 6,190 new cases were reported, taking the State’s total case tally to 16,72,858. With 127 more deaths, the total toll has reached 43,837. The total number of active cases has dipped further to 1,25,418 and the recovery rate has risen to 89.85%. The State’s case fatality rate currently stands at 2.62%. “Of 89,06,826 laboratory samples tested so far, 16,72,858 (18.78%) have returned positive, with 69,000 samples being tested across the State in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune district reported 752 cases to take its tally to 3,33,106, while 14 deaths saw its toll climb to 6,671. As per the district administration, the recovery rate is 93.79% and active cases stand a little over 12,200 — a notable reduction from 40,000 in September. 1,145 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 1,145 new cases to take its case load to 2,56,505, of which 19,027 are active. With 32 fatalities, the city’s toll has risen to 10,261. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 295 cases as its tally crossed 80,500. With six deaths, its death toll has risen to 2,042.  Nagpur reported 532 new cases, taking the district’s total tally to 1,01,873, of which 5,369 are active. Five deaths saw the toll rise to 2,727. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported just a single death, taking its toll to 1,407. As many as 260 new cases saw its tally rise to 47,373, of which 4,612 are active. Sangli reported 109 cases and three deaths as the district’s tally reached 46,671, of which 2,960 are active. Its death toll has risen to 1,529. Kolhapur recorded just 69 cases to take its case load to 47,163, of which 1,112 are active. Two fatalities pushed its death toll to 1608. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 500 fresh cases as its tally reached 93,938, of which only 4,920 are active. With a lone fatality, its death toll has touched 1,540.  Just 56 cases in Jalgaon Neighbouring Jalgaon reported just 56 new cases and a single death as its tally reached 53,473, of which only 2,146 are active, while its death toll stands at 1,345. A total of 25,29,462 people across the State are in home quarantine and 12,411 are in institutional quarantine facilities.
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||KCR to inaugurate Rythu Vedikas today||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will inaugurate ‘Rythu Vedika’ sheds of the government aimed to help farmers organise themselves for a wide range of benefits at the mandal headquarters village of Kodakandla in Jangaon district on Satruday afternoon. He will visit a forest in the vicinity and address a public meeting to explain the conceptualisation of the vedikas. Members of farmers coordination committees at village, mandal and district levels in erstwhile Warangal will attend. The president of State-level farmers coordination committee Palla Rajeswara Reddy told The Hindu that the vedikas were an added facility provided to farmers after investment support, life insurance of Rs. 5 lakh and 24x7 free power supply. They were places where they could share best practices in agriculture and listen to scientists and officials. A release of the CMO said the government proposed construction of 2,601 Rythu Vedikas in the State for Rs. 572.22 crore with each unit costing Rs. 22 lakh. Of this amount, the agriculture department will contribute Rs. 312.12 crore at Rs. 12 lakh per unit as its share and the balance Rs. 260.10 crore at Rs. 12 lakh per unit will be pooled from Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme funds. The 2,601 Rythu Vedikas will include 2,462 in rural and 139 in urban clusters which may or may not have gram panchayats. There were 74 clusters having the gram panchayats and 65 without them. Twenty-two donors in rural areas and two in urban areas bore the full construction cost. As many as 139 vedikas came up on donated land. The construction of 1,951 sheds was completed while work was in progress in 650 others. The government had initiated construction of the vedikas in all agriculture extension extension officers clusters. They were the first of the kind in the country envisaging platforms to motivate farmers and help them attain higher income levels.
31 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Recovery rate crosses 96% in State||The State reported 2,886 new COVID infections and 17 new deaths in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. The infection tally increased to 8,20,565 and the death toll reached 6,676. For the first time, the recovery rate crossed 96% and reached 96.08%, with the total recoveries going up to 7,88,375. In the past day, 3,623 patients have recovered, leaving 25,514 patients active. The death rate stands at 0.81% and the active cases account for 3.11% of the total infections. The positivity rate of the 84,401 samples tested in the past day was 3.42% and the overall positivity rate of the 79.46 lakh tests conducted so far slightly came down to 10.33%. Three districts reported no new deaths, and Krishna continues to witness more deaths as well as tops the districts with highest death rate. It reported three new deaths in the past day. Guntur, Chittoor, Visakhapatnam, Anantapur and Kadapa reported two new deaths each while West Godavari, East Godavari, Prakasam and Vizianagaram reported only one new death each. West Godavari reported 493 new cases in the past day, the highest. It was followed by Krishna (448), East Godavari (405), Guntur (385), Chittoor (296), Visakhapatnam (152), Anantapur (151), Kadapa (148), Prakasam (146), Nellore (80), Srikakulam (77), Vizianagaram (69) and Kurnool (36). The district infection tallies are: East Godavari (1,15,373), West Godavari (85,258), Chittoor (77,991), Guntur (66,896), Anantapur (64,436), Kurnool (59,434), Nellore (59,410), Prakasam (59,267), Visakhapatnam (55,700), Kadapa (51,911), Srikakulam (43,865), Vizianagaram (39,230) and Krishna (38,899).
31 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,||10th century stone idol of Sun God found in farmland||A stone idol of Sun God (Surya), dated back to 10th century, was found in the farmland of Harijan Vannurappa at Kalagodu village in Gummagatta mandal of Anantapur district on Friday. While Vannurappa’s son Nagendra was tilling the land, his plough hit the two-feet granite stone idol with two lotus flowers in both hands. He immediately informed Rayadurg Heritage Association secretary Gudekota Siva Kumar, who after inspecting the idol and cleaning it, sent pictures of it to historian Emani Siva Nagireddy, who is CEO of Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravati. The historian, based on the sculpting style of the idol, confirmed that it belonged to the period of the Nolamba kings, who ruled the region (large parts of Karnataka and some areas in Andhra Pradesh now) for over 300 years. Situated on the banks of the Vedavathi river, the iconography is similar to some other sculptures found in this region and the locals said there could be some more such sculptures in the vicinity. The local police and revenue officials were immediately informed about the finding and as suggested by Mr. Siva Nagireddy, the idol would be preserved in the archaeological museum in Anantapur.  Local Bommakkapalli Rajarajeswari temple priests performed puja to the idol terming it as a good omen.
31 October 2020||KAKINADA,||Seven killed as van with wedding party rolls down hill in East Godavari district||Seven persons of a marriage party were killed and one was seriously injured when a minivan, in which 16 persons were travelling, rolled down the hill top at the Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple at Thantikonda village under Rajamahendravaram Urban police limits in East Godavari district on Friday. The bridegroom’s family from Tagorepalem village in Gokavaram mandal and the bride’s family from Velugubanda village in Raja Nagaram mandal had come to the temple to perform the marriage. While returning after the wedding around 2.30 a.m., the van, instead of taking the road downhill, rolled down the stairs and overturned, according to Rajamahendravaram Urban Superintendent of Police Shemushi Bajpai. Police suspect that a mechanical problem in starting the vehicle could have led to the van going off the path. At least five persons, including three women, died on the spot. The bride and the bridegroom are safe. One person, S. Venkata Lakshmi, has been shifted to the Government General Hospital in Kakinada for further treatment. The deceased are Y. Sridevi, Y. Naga Srilakshmi, Kambala Bhanu, Simhadri Prasad, vehicle driver P. Narasimha Dora, S. Gopala Krishna and Ch. Hema Srilatha, all belonging to East Godavari district. Naidu expresses grief Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu expressed shock and profound grief over the deaths. Calling the accident ‘very unfortunate’, he conveyed his deep sympathies to the bereaved family members. The TDP leader said that the government should ensure proper treatment to those who sustained injuries and provide all possible assistance to the families of the victims.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||New wage code bars bonus for those facing sex abuse charges||Those indulging in sexual harassment in any form could run the risk of losing out on bonus dues from their employers, thanks to a provision in the Code on Wages that the government is currently framing rules for. Among other things, the Code on Wages lays down norms for annual bonus dues, replacing the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965. The new Code, expected to become operational once the government notifies the rules, includes ‘conviction for sexual harassment’ as a ground for denying bonus As per the extant law, bonus is barred only in case of employees dismissed for fraud, violent conduct and theft or sabotage. “This is a brilliant nudge to get people to be on their best behaviour in the workplace,” said Rituparna Chakraborty, executive vice-president of Teamlease Services Limited. “The prospect of losing one’s benefits may make employees more careful of their conduct and they should be made aware of this provision. Money is important to everyone, after all, so this serves as an additional deterrent apart from the Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) law of 2013,” she said. As per the POSH law guidelines, firms are required to form an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) to inquire into complaints of sexual harassment at the workplace. The Committee must make recommendations to employers on the action required after inquiry. “If the ICC upholds a complaint, it could be construed as a conviction,” Ms Chakraborty said, adding the ICC has the powers to decide if someone is guilty and report it to the police, though not all sexual harassment cases translate into a police case. While the other disqualification triggers for withholding bonus dues, like theft and violent conduct are restricted to actions on an employer’s premises, the trigger referring to conviction under sexual harassment doesn’t include such a condition.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Import barriers will not be perpetual’||Any tariff protection to promote local manufacturing in India will come with an in-built sunset clause, NITI Aayog Vice-Chairman Rajiv Kumar said on Friday, asserting that the country’s self-reliance mission must not be equated to it becoming a ‘protectionist’ and closed economy. The government is set to extend the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for manufacturing pharmaceuticals, medical devices and electronics announced under the AtmaNirbhar Bharat package to six more sectors, he said. “We will pursue self-reliance; we will want to give our domestic entrepreneurs the best situations to go forward. We will, while attracting FDI, also repose our faith and trust in those who have already invested in India. We want to recognise them by giving them much better logistics, infrastructure and more flexibility in the use of land and labour,” he said. Explaining the rationale for the PLI schemes that, he said, will soon become valid for ‘nine to 10’ sectors from four at present, Mr. Kumar said this is meant to incentivise investors already in the country to put up globally comparable capacities in scale and competitiveness. He emphasised that India’s efforts towards self-reliance were not dissimilar to what other nations are doing to insulate themselves from global supply chain shocks and revive the economy. ‘In global context’ “But it will be done in a global context. It will be done with India remaining open and trying to regain its share in global and regional production chains, it will be done with respect to rule-bound multilateral trading orders. It will not imply in any sense any form of isolation, closed economy or protectionism,” he said. Mr. Kumar added that the country will do its best to increase the share of trade in its gross domestic product (GDP). “If there is any support given to domestic enterprises, it will all be targeted towards creating globally competitive capacities and any support that we give them through tariffs would have an in-built sunset clause. I wanted to emphasise India’s commitment to a global economy with open order,” Mr. Kumar said in an address to the Confederation of Asia-Pacific Chambers of Commerce and Industry. The government recently barred the import of several products, ranging from split air-conditioners to certain types of TVs while imposing higher import duties or curbs on other items.
31 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,||No death in U.T. for third day in a week||For the third day in a week, Puducherry did not record any COVID-19 death on Friday even as health authorities proposed an increase in RT-PCR test numbers. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi after a review meeting with officials said RT-PCR test numbers would be increased following the ICMR observation that while there was a decline in cases overall, test positivity rates were not coming down to satisfactory levels probably due to high disease transmission in certain pockets/clusters. A qualitative case analysis to identify the source of infection — markets, marriage halls, restaurants, bars or workplaces — and higher surveillance of schools are among the recommended measures. A. Anbarasu, Secretary, Relief and Rehabilitation, has been tasked with framing an action plan to implement measures recommended by the ICMR. A COVID behaviour survey as suggested by the ICMR would be conducted in Puducherry, Ms. Bedi said. ICMR senior scientist Prabhdeep Kaur had recommended such a survey on the lines of one held recently in association with Chennai Corporation that assessed safety compliance with regard to masks. The survey of 3,600 persons across several spots in Chennai found that only 30 per cent wore masks correctly to cover their nose and mouth while another 20 per cent wore masks improperly. A team of experts would continue to audit each case of fatality, Ms. Bedi said. The Pondicherry University would disseminate awareness messages on its community radio while University students would contribute to raise awareness. Meanwhile, Puducherry recorded 149 new cases in the last 24 hours. The new COVID-19 cases were confirmed during the testing of 3,560 samples while 128 patients were discharged from hospitals during the last 24 hours. Puducherry accounted for 97 of the new infections followed by Karaikal (27), Mahe (12) and Yanam (13). The test positivity rate was 4.18%, case fatality rate 1.70% and recovery rate 87.59%. The overall tally stood at 34,908 after the transfer of two cases to Tamil Nadu, Director of Health and Family Welfare S. Mohan Kumar said. The tally is 592 deaths, 3,739 active cases and 30,577 recovered patients. Of the 3.05 lakh samples tested so far, 2.66 lakh samples were negative.  Test positivity rates are not coming down to satisfactory levels probably due to high disease transmission in certain pockets/clusters
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,||How law varsities are becoming more diverse||Access to the national law universities (NLUs) in the country was earlier restricted to the well-heeled and students from big cities. However, the efforts of a city-based non-profit is helping bring diversity in these university campuses by ensuring that students from low socio-economic and disadvantaged backgrounds too get an opportunity to study in these institutions. Increasing Diversity by Increasing Access to Legal Education (IDIA) was founded in 2011 by the late Shamnad Basheer, who was an intellectual property law expert. The organisation trains and mentors students to crack competitive examinations to get into these universities. This academic year, as many as 21 IDIA scholars have already got into NLUs – which is their highest ever since inception, and around 30 students are expected to get admissions. IDIA funds their education and continues to mentor them once they get into these universities. One of their trainees - Jai Singh Rathor from Patna - bagged the third rank in the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2020 and has joined the National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru. He said that he wanted to pursue law but was sceptical as it was an expensive course. “The annual fees at the law universities is more than my father’s annual income and I knew that I had to get a scholarship if I wanted to pursue this,” he said, adding that he learnt about IDIA through a social networking site. Apart from financial hardships, he faced another setback as his family members fell ill. Despite all the challenges, ask him what kept him going and he said, “People from lower middle class families like mine have to fight, if not we will not survive. When I saw my father, who runs a kirana shop, stand in his shop for 12 hours, I knew I had to make him proud.” Like Jai, 69 other students from across the country were chosen as IDIA trainees and underwent training for over a year. Explaining how the trainees are shortlisted, Shishira Rudrappa, Managing Trustee of IDIA said, “We conduct a preliminary assessment to check if the candidates have an aptitude towards law. We also do due diligence to ensure that they are from underprivileged communities.” The trainees are trained at coaching centres and are also assigned mentors – which consist of students studying in law universities. IDIA has 22 state chapters which are run from 22 law universities. Another trainee, Abhishek Kumar – a visually impaired student from Koriviched – a village in Telangana district, has secured a seat in National Law University Delhi this year. He says that it would have been impossible to achieve this without IDIA and his mentor Pooja Bharadwaj. He was inspired to pursue law after IDIA members conducted a sensitisation programme at his college. “As somebody who struggled to get two meals a day, I wanted to pursue a career where I could help people. I chose law as I feel that it will help me bridge the gap between the have and have nots,” he said. Abhishek’s mother, a widow, and his elder brother, are daily wage labourers. He lost his vision in an accident when he was 14 years old and says that his urge to make it “big” has only increased since. During the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Rudrappa says that IDIA also tried to break the digital divide by providing students gadgets and also paid their internet bills so that they could attend online classes. Eighteen-year-old Yashwant Kumar, who hails from Masaurhi in Patna, secured the 48th rank in CLAT and has got a seat in NLSIU Bengaluru. He said he would be the first person in his family to pursue a graduation course. Besides this year, as many as 74 of the IDIA trainees have got into NLUs. As for the long term plans of the organisation, Mr Rudrappa said, “Our founder Shamnad Basheer would say that there should be a time when IDIA ceases to exist and all law universities should become more inclusive.”
31 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab police file chargesheet in Hoshiarpur rape-murder case||The Punjab police on Friday presented the ‘challan’ (chargesheet) in the Hoshiarpur rape-murder case of a six-year-old Dalit girl in a special court, after completing investigations into the incident in just over a week. A special prosecutor has been appointed for expeditious proceedings in the case, in which the State government has sought a fast-track trial to ensure speedy justice for the minor victim, daughter of a migrant labourer in Tanda village. The accused, Gurpreet Singh, allegedly took the girl to his home and raped her. Later, he, along with his grandfather Surjit Singh, allegedly killed her and then burnt the body. Both the accused in the case were arrested on the night of October 21, hours after the six-year-old was raped and murdered. CM’s deadline Taking note of the incident, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had directed the police to submit a chargesheet in court within 10 days. The police submitted their final report in the special court of Neelam Arora in nine days after completing the probe within just eight days of the incident, said an official statement. Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said utmost vigil was practised during the course of the probe, which was “carried out expeditiously without compromising on quality at any stage”. “Forensic teams were called in to collect evidence from the scene of the crime, while technical evidence and DNA samples were taken for forensic examination to state-of-the art labs. The post-mortem examination of the deceased has been conducted by a board of medical officers,” the DGP said.
31 October 2020||Belagavi,||Opposition to Maharashtra Cabinet members deciding to wear black badges tomorrow||Kannada organisations have raised objections to reports that Maharashtra Cabinet members are planning to wear black badges on Rajyotsava day. The Belagavi-based Action Committee of Kannada organisations, a federation of pro-Kannada associations, has written to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa urging him to register his disagreement with the Maharashtra government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “We saw reports in some Marathi newspapers that the Maharashtra Cabinet had decided to wear black badges on Rajyotsava day. The Maharashtra government has taken this decision based on a request by Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti leaders from Belagavi. This is nothing but an attempt at appeasement politics. “This could have been ignored if non-State actors were involved in such petty politics. But this is a direct attack by one State against another. It is against the spirit of federalism and an insult to the Union government’s stand that has accepted the demarcation of States. “Speaking about a matter that is sub-judice amounts to contempt of court as the border row is before the Supreme Court. Such things should not be allowed,’’ the activists said in the letter. “We have warned of a district-wide agitation if the State government does not take it up with the neighbouring State,’’ Ashok Chandaragi, convenor of the committee, said. Every year, MES leaders and members in Belagavi observe Rajyotsava as a “Black Day” to express their dissatisfaction against inclusion of Belagavi in Karnataka. They take a cycle rally around the city holding black posters. They have been demanding inclusion of Belagavi and some other cities and villages into Maharashtra. As on Friday, the city police have not given them permission to them to take out the rally.
31 October 2020||NICE,||Second arrest after France knife attack||Mourners lit candles and prayed silently on Friday to honour the three people killed in a French church by a young Tunisian extremist, as France heightened security at potential targets at home and abroad amid geopolitical tensions around published cartoons mocking the Prophet of Islam. Meanwhile, investigators detained a second suspect in Thursday’s attack, a 47-year-old man believed to have been in contact with the assailant the night before, according to a judicial official who was not authorised to be publicly named. The attacker, Ibrahim Issaoui, was seriously wounded by police and hospitalised in life-threatening condition, authorities said.
31 October 2020||Kolkata,||The hospital where many icons fought for life||In July 1980, when Uttam Kumar — Bengal’s biggest star till date — suffered a third heart attack on the set of Ogo Bodhu Sundori , he was rushed to the Belle Vue Clinic in south Kolkata, where he died several hours later, aged 54. Today, 40 years later, Uttam Kumar’s contemporary Soumitra Chatterjee — about a decade younger, equally acclaimed and, with time, almost as popular — is battling for his life at the same hospital. Between then and now, the hospital, built by the Birla family in 1967, has witnessed several icons recovering from their ailments — or breathing their last. Precisely six months after Uttam Kumar’s death, Belle Vue received another celebrity patient: Kishore Kumar, the country’s most popular playback singer who had lent his voice to Uttam Kumar for several hugely popular songs. Kishore Kumar was in Kolkata — then Calcutta — at the time because his son Amit Kumar’s marriage was being fixed. For some reason the alliance was called off and Kishore Kumar, disturbed by the turn of events, suffered his first heart attack. He was taken to Belle Vue, where he remained for 24 days. Since he was advised bed rest for six months, several of the songs he was to record went to Amit Kumar. In 1992, the hospital admitted another famous patient and soon found itself mentioned in newspapers across the world. It was on January 29 that year that filmmaker Satyajit Raywas brought here. On March 16 a three-member delegation from the Oscar committee visited him here and presented the golden statuette for lifetime achievement and recorded an acceptance speech. He died on April 23, aged 70. What makes Belle Vue synonymous with celebrity? “For us human life is most important. You will notice that we never advertise, we have developed a brand value through word of mouth,” said Dr. Rahul Jain, an internal medicine specialist at the hospital. Like Satyajit Ray, the legendary Suchitra Sen, who paired with Uttam Kumar in close to 30 films, also spent her final days in this hospital in 2014. “She was very affectionate towards the doctors looking after her. That’s the USP of this hospital: the excellent doctor-patient relationship. I was a part of the team that was monitoring her and got to observe her closely,” said a doctor who did not wish to be identified. On October 6, Ray’s favourite actor Soumitra Chatterjee got admitted here after he showed symptoms of COVID-19. He later tested negative for the virus, but the infection impacted his vital organs and he now remains critical.
31 October 2020||Belagavi,||Bodies of two children retrieved from river||The police retrieved the bodies of two children who had been washed away in the Malaprabha in Bachinagudda village in Bagalkot district on Friday. Mahantesh Hiremath (12) and Praveen Ronad (11) were washed away when they went for a swim in the river near their village on Thursday. A team of police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel located the bodies two kilometres away from the village on Friday. A case has been registered. Theft A gang of men struck at a medical shop in Inam Hongal village in Belagavi district and took away a box of masks, along with some medicine and cash. The shop owner said in his police complaint that the gang which had opened his shop door using duplicate keys had taken away the box of masks and a pack of pain relieving medicine. It had also taken away Rs. 6,000 that was in the cash box. A case has been registered.
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,||IIMB, NLSIU to continue with online classes||Amidst fears of COVID-19 cases rising in winter, many educational institutions in the State, which do not come directly under the purview of the State government, have decided against opening their campuses to students after Deepavali. The National Law School of India University, Bengaluru, has decided that the academic term from November to January will be held online. Kanishka Singh of the Student Bar Association of NLSIU said that they wanted online classes keeping in mind the health concerns. The Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, which has been conducting online classes since June will continue to do so until further notice. Some students, who faced network connectivity issues, are allowed on the campus but still continue to attend classes from their hostel rooms. The managements of a few private universities that have completed a semester through online classes said they would hold examinations on the campus in November after students get parental consent.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||No deaths in 17 districts||The State on Friday reported 3,589 new cases taking the total number to 8,20,398. With this, the positivity rate for the day came down to 3.47%. With 49 new deaths, the toll rose to 11,140. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. With as many as 17 districts reporting zero deaths on Friday, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.36%.  At 2.7%, the CFR in Dharwad is the highest in the State followed by Bidar (2.4%), Dakshina Kannada (2.2%) and Koppal (2.1%) as on October 29. Chitradurga has the lowest CFR at 0.5%. Although Bengaluru Urban contributes 34.5% of the total deaths in the State and has the highest deaths per million at 397, the CFR stands at 1.1%. As many as 8,521 persons were discharged on Friday taking the total number of recoveries to 7,49,740. Of the remaining 59,499 active cases, 935 patients are being monitored in ICUs. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,811 cases taking the tally to 3,34,848. With 27 of the 49 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose to 3,847. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 37,534.  As many as 1,03,281 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 79,369 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 78,04,312.
31 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Govt. slashes tuition fees in private schools by 30%||The State government has decided to slash 30% of the tuition fees for the academic year 2020-21, which was allowed to be collected by the managements of the private unaided educational institutions. An order issued by the Principal Secretary, School Education, B. Rajasekhar on Friday said that private unaided schools should collect only 70% of the tuition fees from parents, of what they had collected during the last academic year (2019-20). The decision to slash the tuition fees by 30% has been taken considering the recommendations of the Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory Monitoring Commission (APSERMC) and in consultation with the Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department and the views offered by the Director of School Education and the Commissioner of Intermediate Education. The statement said an appropriate fee structure relevant for the full academic year and further particulars would abide by the decision of the Regulatory and Monitoring Commission and further orders of the High Court.
31 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Tourists miss out on chilly Agency weather||Agency areas of Visakhapatnam such as Lambasingi and Chintapalli, which recorded temperatures below 15 degrees Celsius during the past few days, would have been chock-full of tourists now but for the COVID-19 scare which is keeping them away. But for the pandemic situation and the restrictions on free movement of people, there would have been a heavy inflow of tourists from different parts of the State and also from neighbouring Odisha and distant West Bengal from Dasara itself. Chintapalli recorded 14.7 degree Celsius on Friday and the temperature at Lambasingi is estimated to be generally 1 to 2 degree C below that of Chintapalli.  “The tourist season begins from Dasara but this year we have lost the Dasara crowd due to the pandemic,” says Divisional Manager of AP Tourism Development Corporation Prasada Reddy.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Governor grants assent to horizontal quota Bill||Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Friday granted assent to the Bill that provides a 7.5% horizontal quota in undergraduate medical courses to students of government schools who have qualified in NEET. The decision came after the Solicitor-General said that the Bill was in consonance with the Constitution and less than 24 hours after the State government issued an executive order under Article 162 of the Constitution to create the quota. The Bill was passed in the Assembly on September 15.  Legal opinion A release from the Raj Bhavan said the Governor had sought the legal opinion of the Solicitor-General through a September 26 letter, and his opinion was received on Thursday. In his reply, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said Article 15 [5] of the Constitution “specifically provides that the State is empowered to make a special provision by law for the advancement of any socially or educationally backward classes of citizens insofar as such special provisions relate to admission to educational institutions, including private institutions whether aided or unaided by the State”. He said Article 14 provides for equality before law and equal protection of law within the territory of India. “It is settled law the equality code under the Indian Constitution provides for an equal treatment among equals and allows unequal treatment amongst unequals”. He said the permissibility of differential treatment to a socially and educationally backward class is premised on the basis of the principles under Article 14 that “permits classification on the basis of intelligible differentia and rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved”. In this case, the Solicitor-General said, the identification of such a socially and backward class has been supported by a report of a commission (under the chairmanship of retired Justice P. Kalaiyarasan). “The said intelligible differentia would enable the State to make provisions of affirmative action to such identifiable socially and educationally backward class”. He said this might be subject to rigours of judicial review and other constitutional principles that entailed an upper limit of reserved posts or seats in a given exam as well as the principles laid down by the Supreme Court in Ashok Kumar Thakur vs Union of India (2008). CM calls on Governor In the evening, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami called on the Governor to thank him for granting assent to the Bill. He was accompanied by Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. Addressing journalists after the meeting, Mr. Jayakumar said the admission process would start this year itself. “The Health Department is taking necessary steps. Very soon, you can expect it [counselling]. The government’s ultimate intention is to provide the reservation from this year itself and government school students must have the opportunity to become doctors,” the Minister said. According to him, it was the governments headed by the AIADMK, at different points of time, that had taken steps to provide the highest quantum of reservation in the medical college admission. “In the last nine years alone, we have created 3,050 seats. After Mr. Palaniswami took over as Chief Minister, 1,940 seats have been created. During the DMK regime, between 2006 and 2011, only 300 seats were created,” the Minister said.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Registration Dept. sets single day record||The Department of Registration on Thursday created a record by registering the highest number of documents in the State on a day. Through the network of 575 sub-registrar offices, it registered 20,307 documents and earned Rs. 123.35 crore through the sale of stamp duty and registration fees. Beela Rajesh, Secretary, Commercial Taxes and Registration, said this record was achieved at a time when limited tokens for registration were issued during the COVID-19 lockdown. Of the 20,307 documents registered, the Chennai zone accounted for 3,604, generating 48.72 crore in revenue. The zone has 63 sub-registrar offices. October performance Ms. Rajesh said the Department had done exceptionally well for October this year, compared with the same month last year, by earning Rs. 1,096 crore through the registration of more than 2.80 lakh documents, as against only 2.01 lakh documents registered and a revenue of Rs. 884.99 crore. Value-wise, it had earned the highest revenue for this financial year, marching ahead of the revenue of Rs. 1,064 crore earned in September of the financial year 2020-21, she said. With the State having come out of the intense lockdown from July, the Department had earned higher revenue and registered an increased number of documents in August and September. Safety measures Ms. Rajesh said strict instructions had been given to all officials at the sub-registrar offices to ensure physical distancing and compulsory wearing of masks and take other safety measures. She said 100 tokens were issued daily at offices having one sub-registrar and 200 tokens were issued at offices manned by two officials. A senior official said that in the 63 sub-registrar offices in the city, six offices are managed by two officials. They are Guduvanchery, Thiruporur, Kundrathur, Red Hills, Chennai South Joint 1 and Kancheepuram Joint 2.  This record was achieved at a time when limited tokens for registration were issued during the COVID-19 lockdown Beela Rajesh Secretary, Commercial Taxes and Registration
31 October 2020||NICE,||New arrest after France church attack||Mourners lit candles and prayed silently on Friday to honour the three people killed in a French church by a Tunisian extremist, as France heightened security at potential targets amid geopolitical tensions around published cartoons mocking the Prophet of Islam. Investigators have detained a second suspect in Thursday’s attack. The 47-year-old man is believed to have been in contact with the assailant the night before, according to a judicial official. The attacker, Ibrahim Issaoui, was seriously wounded by the police and hospitalised in life-threatening condition.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Full moon festivities||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Track takeover||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||For a living||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Out of line||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Enlightening on virus||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Critical point in war against COVID-19’||As active cases plateau in India, Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia, warns of a second wave of the COVID-19 infection. She says fatigue among healthcare workers is no surprise and we must do all we can to help them, and take every precaution to reduce the risk of transmission.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Encroachment at the time of pandemic||
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||New rules bar bonus for those facing sex abuse charges||Those indulging in sexual harassment in any form could run the risk of losing out on bonus dues from their employers, thanks to a provision in the Code on Wages that the Centre is currently framing rules for. Among other things, the Code on Wages lays down norms for annual bonus dues, replacing the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965. The new Code, expected to become operational once the government notifies the rules, includes ‘conviction for sexual harassment’ as a ground for denying bonus payouts to employees.
31 October 2020||Kolkata,||WB covid wrap||West Bengal on Friday registered 3,979 new COVID-19 cases taking the tally in the State to 3,69,671. The State also registered 59 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the fatalities in the State to 6,784. With more discharges than the number of infections, the active cases dropped to 36,999. West Bengal on Friday also reported the highest single-day recovery of 4,015 COVID-19 patients, taking the total number of cured people to 3,25,888, according to a health department bulletin. The discharge rate also marginally increased to 88.16%. The case positivity ratio is steadily rising and increased to 8.19%. While in other States there has been a drop in infections and deaths, in West Bengal the cases and deaths have been on an upward curve Of the 59 deaths in the past 24 hours, Kolkata and North 24 Parganas both recorded 18 deaths each. The COVID-19 toll in Kolkata reached 2,190 and in North 24 Parganas 1,559. Of the total deaths in the State (5,705 patients) at least 84.1% had co-morbidities. The remaining 15.9% (1,079) had no co-morbidities.In the past 24 hours Kolkata recorded 880 new cases while North 24 Parganas recorded 866.
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||EC revokes Kamal Nath’s status as star campaigner||The Election Commission on Friday revoked the status of Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath as a star campaigner for the party in the ongoing State Assembly by-polls for “repeated violation of Model Code of Conduct”, an EC order said.
31 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||‘Half of Bhubaneswar has COVID antibodies’||Half of Bhubaneswar’s popu-lation may have been exposed to COVID-19 and developed antibodies, according to the third sero-survey conducted by the Regional Medical Research Laboratory. The survey was carried out from October 16-18 and over 1,403 samples were taken.
31 October 2020||SRINAGAR,||Car used to kill three BJP men seized||J&K police on Friday seized the car used to kill three BJP workers in south Kashmir on Thursday evening, as it started a manhunt to trace the attackers who, they have said, belong to the Lashkar-e-Taiba and The Resistance Front. The three men were shot dead in Kulgam’s Y.K. Pora area.
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Bad roads: 31 teams to oversee repairs||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) engineers have been directed to prioritise on repairing 1,300 km of prominent roads. As many as 31 teams have been constituted for this purpose.
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||EC revokes Kamal Nath’s status as star campaigner||The Election Commission on Friday revoked the status of Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath as a star campaigner for the party in the ongoing State Assembly bypolls for “repeated violation of Model Code of Conduct”, an EC order said.
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||JNU violence: court rejects prof.’s plea||A Delhi court has declined a plea by a JNU professor, who was allegedly injured during an attack by an armed mob inside the campus on January 5, seeking registration of an FIR in the matter. The court rejected the plea noting that an FIR has already been lodged regarding the incident.
31 October 2020||new delhi,||New cases above 5,000 for third straight day||Delhi on Friday reported its highest single-day spike yet with 5,891 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to over 3.81 lakh. It also recorded 47 new fatalities, pushing the death toll to 6,470. This was the third straight day when over 5,000 cases have been reported in a day in Delhi.
31 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||Star Air to operate special flights||Star Air has announced its plan to operate special flights on the Kalaburagi-Mumbai route on November 11 and November 17, to cater to passenger demand in the upcoming festive season. A Star Air flight (OG-9141) will take off from Kalaburagi airport at 10.20 a.m. and reach Mumbai at 11.30 a.m. Similarly, a flight (OG-9142) will leave Mumbai at 12.05 p.m. and land at Kalaburagi airport at 1.15 p.m. on these two days.
31 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||Old buildings in Dharwad to be surveyed||Learning lessons from the building collapse incident of 2019 in Dharwad, the district administration would be issuing directions to municipal corporations and local bodies to conduct a survey of old buildings in the district, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has said. Mr. Patil was speaking at a function after a mock drill by NDRF.
31 October 2020||Mumbai,||Cash-strapped MSRTC seeks govt funds to pay salaries||The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has sought Rs. 3,600 crore from the State government for the payment of salaries and other essential expenses, Transport Minister Anil Parab said on Friday. “The State-run corporation has not paid the salaries of its employees for the last three months,” the minister said. Mr. Parab, who is also the chairman of the MSRTC, told reporters it was trying to raise money through external means too. “Paying salaries before Deepavali is the priority and we will borrow money if needed,” he said. The MSRTC needs Rs. 292 crore per month for paying salaries. The cumulative losses of the State transport body have ballooned to over Rs. 5,500 crore, the minister said.PTI
31 October 2020||Mumbai,||Sharad Pawar holds hour-long meeting with Uddhav Thackeray||Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar held an hour-long meeting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday, sources said. The meeting at the Chief Minister’s official bungalow, Varsha, took place days after Mr. Pawar said he would take up with Mr. Thackeray the issue of rising onion prices and the flood relief package from the Centre.PTI
31 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Corpn. invites applications for ward committees||In another leap towards constituting ward committees in the city, Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has invited applications from civil society members willing to become members of such committees. Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar issued a public notification in this connection on Thursday.
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||1,531 COVID cases in Telangana||Telangana recorded as many as 1,531 COVID – 19 positive cases on October 29, taking the total number of positive cases in the State to 2,37,187. The total number of active cases now stands at 18,456, and the number of those who have recovered at 1,048. The State tested as many as 43,790 samples on October 29, and the total number of tests stands at 42,40,748.
31 October 2020||MYSURU,||‘COVID-19 test must for factory workers’||All factory workers in Mysuru are now supposed to undergo the COVID-19 test with Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri making the test mandatory in an effort to control the spread of the pandemic. On Friday, Ms. Sindhuri sought the support and cooperation of the industrialists for getting the tests done on all workers and staff.
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,||A dusty turf battle in the dryland of Sira||The dry and dusty region of Sira in Tumakuru has been witnessing an interesting political battle as the traditional rivals in the Vokkaliga heartland — the Congress and the JD(S) — are sweating it out even as the BJP is trying to wrest the seat. A mini-battle over the Vokkaliga leadership is unfolding here between JD(S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar.
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Toddler falls into 10-ft deep lift pit, dies||A two-year-old boy, the son of a labourer couple, succumbed to his injuries hours after he fell into a pit dug for a lift shaft at an under-construction building site in Kodipalya, near Kengeri Gate on Friday morning. The child’s parents, who hail from Vijayapura, work on the site as construction labourers and watchmen, and lived in a temporary shed on the site.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Malabar naval exercise to kick off next week||The first phase of the Malabar Naval exercise including Australia along with Japan and the U.S., is scheduled to be held next week off the Visakhapatnam coast. This is the first time Australia will be joining the exercise after 2007 and it will bring all four countries of the Quadrilateral grouping together for military games. Over three years after Canberra’s request to join the exercise, last week India announced that Australian Navy would participate in Malabar 2020. “Phase 1 of the Exercise Malabar 2020 involving participation by Indian Navy, United States Navy, Japan Maritime Self Defence Force, and Royal Australian Navy is set to commence off Vishakhapatnam in Bay of Bengal from November 3 to 6,” a defence official said on Friday. The second phase is scheduled to be held from November 17 to 20 in the Arabian Sea, another official said. The planning conference for the exercise was held virtually to work out the modalities. Malabar began as a bilateral exercise between India and the U.S. in 1992 and became trilateral in 2015 with the addition of Japan. Phase-1 of Malabar will see participation of U.S. guided missile destroyer USS John S McCain , Australian long range frigate HMAS Ballarat with integral MH-60 helicopter, and Japanese destroyer JS Onami with integral SH-60 helicopter, the first official said. The Indian side for Phase-I led by Rear Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan, Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Fleet, will see participation of destroyer INS Ranvijay , stealth frigate INS Shivalik , off-shore patrol vessel INS Sukanya , fleet support ship INS Shakti and submarine INS Sindhuraj, the official said. “In addition, Advanced Jet Trainer Hawk, long-range maritime patrol aircraft P-8I, Dornier maritime patrol aircraft, and helicopters will also be participating in the exercise,” the official said.
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana unveils electric vehicles policy||A policy to promote usage, ownership and manufacture of electric vehicles (EVs) as well as encourage setting up of allied infrastructure such as charging stations through a bouquet of incentives and facilitation measures was unveiled on Friday by Telangana government. It is a comprehensive policy and drafted in consultation with industry and other public policy institutions, Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao said at the launch of the Telangana Electric Vehicle & Energy Storage Policy 2020-2030. “We believe EV adoption will increase with the policy,” he said, announcing an EV cluster each is to be developed at Chandanvelly in Ranga Reddy district and in Divitipally, Mahbubnagar. There also plans to develop a mobility cluster, details of which are likely to be made public next month. Telangana is also keen on promoting an automobile cluster in Zaheerabad on about 1,000 acres. Mr. Rao assured the cap on the number of vehicles that will be eligible for incentives – by way of road tax and registration fee exemption – will be extended if a need arises. “I shall go to Cabinet and plead for further increase in the number,” he said, inviting industry to come and make Hyderabad their manufacturing base. Local production is the key to achieve price/performance parity and enable faster adoption of electric vehicles, he said. He also stressed the need for the Departments of Industries, IT, Transport and Environment to work cohesively for the policy objectives to be achieved. The policy launch function, in which Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar and Forest Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy as well as senior officials participated, saw a number of companies committing investments on EV projects.  MoUs signed  Mytrah Energy signed an MoU for an electric bus manufacturing unit with an investment of Rs. 2,000 crore. The project is expected to generate direct and indirect employment opportunities for 6,750 people. Olectra signed an MoU regarding a Rs. 300 crore electric bus manufacturing project, which is expected to generate employment for 3,500 people. Three-wheeler EV maker ETO Motors signed an MoU for a manufacturing unit with an investment of Rs. 150 crore. The firm said it will bring direct and indirect employment opportunities to about 1,500 people. Gayam Auto Works and PUR Energy submitted letters of intent regarding their project plans to invest Rs. 250 crore and Rs. 500 crore respectively. The Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI) also signed an MoU with the State government. Addressing the meeting, Mahindra & Mahindra MD and CEO Pawan Goenka said the company’s tractor plant in Zaheerabad was one of the largest. There were plans to make it the sole manufacturing location for a new tractor series “being developed actually in Japan,” which will lead to doubling of employment at the facility from the existing 4,500 people. The company is also looking to “bring our next phase of expansion in electric vehicles.” The policy, he tweeted, “covers demand generation, charging infrastructure, EV manufacturing and as a first, even incentivises Electric Tractors. I am sure this policy will help to catalyse EV movement.” Actor Vijay Devarakonda, who is a promoter of Hyderabad-based startup Watts & Volts Mobility, also addressed the meeting. In a press release, CII Telangana said the policy indicated the State government’s commitment to develop a complete ecosystem domestically around EVs.
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Two-year-old falls into lift pit, dies||A two-year-old boy, the son of a labourer couple, succumbed to his injuries hours after he fell into a pit that had been dug for a lift shaft at an under-construction building site in Kodipalya, near Kengeri Gate on Friday morning. The child’s parents, who hail from Vijayapura, work on the site as construction labourers and watchmen, and lived in a temporary shed on the work site. The police suspect that the child, Vinod Kumar, may have followed his mother to the under-construction building when she went to work. “He was playing in the compound of the building, while the parents were working elsewhere in the same building. The boy went near the lift shaft, which is around 10 feet deep. It was filled with water from recent rains. However, he lost his footing and fell into the pit,” said a police officer. Workers in the area saw the boy fall but could not prevent him from falling. They immediately rescued him from the pit. “Vinod was still alive when he was pulled out of the pit, but had a head injury. He was rushed to a nearby private hospital but died a few hours later,” a police official said. The Kengeri police have registered a case of causing death due to negligence against the building owner. The lift shaft was kept open with no safety precautions or barricades to prevent anyone from falling. “Given that the pit was around 10 feet deep and was filled with water, it was a potential danger to even adults working at the site. We are investigating the case,” the police said.
31 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala’s positivity rate unchanged at over 12%||Kerala reported 6,638 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, testing 53,981 samples. The test positivity rate was 12.29%, in the 12%-14% band seen in recent days. Of active cases, 806 patients were critically ill, in ICUs, with 230 requiring ventilator support. Fresh deaths added to the State’s official list on Friday stood at 28. These occurred between October 17 and 27. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for seven, Kozhikode five, Malappuram and Thrissur three each, Ernakulam, Kottayam, and Kollam two each, and Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta, Wayanad, and Kannur one case each. Thrissur district reported 1,096 cases, Malappuram 761, Kozhikode 722, Ernakulam 674, Alappuzha 664, Thiruvananthapuram 587, Kollam 482, Palakkad 482, Kottayam 367, Kannur 341, Pathanamthitta 163, Kasaragod 133, Wayanad 90, and Idukki 76 cases. Andhra Pradesh reported 2,886 new infections and 17 new deaths on Friday. The positivity rate for 84,401 samples was 3.42% and overall positivity rate of 79.46 lakh tests 10.33%. Three districts reported no new deaths, and Krishna district three deaths. Guntur, Chittoor, Visakhapatnam, Anantapur and Kadapa reported two deaths each while West Godavari, East Godavari, Prakasam and Vizianagaram reported one new death each, West Godavari reported 493 new cases, the highest. It was followed by Krishna (448), East Godavari (405), Guntur (385), Chittoor (296), Visakhapatnam (152), Anantapur (151), Kadapa (148), Prakasam (146), Nellore (80), Srikakulam (77), Vizianagaram (69) and Kurnool (36). The district infection tally was as follows: East Godavari (1,15,373), West Godavari (85,258), Chittoor (77,991), Guntur (66,896), Anantapur (64,436), Kurnool (59,434), Nellore (59,410), Prakasam (59,267), Visakhapatnam (55,700), Kadapa (51,911), Srikakulam (43,865), Vizianagaram (39,230) and Krishna (38,899). Telangana added 1,531 cases on Thursday. The State tested 43,790 samples. There were six more fatalities. Greater Hyderabad recorded 293 cases, Medchal-Malkajgiri district 120, Rangareddy 114 , and Bhadadri Kothagudem 96. People with moderate to severe symptoms were asked to report to notified government hospitals. Seven districts, including Chennai, accounted for more than half of the 2,608 new cases reported in Tamil Nadu on Friday. The new cases pushed the State’s tally to 7,22,011. About 62% of the new cases were reported in Chennai, Coimbatore, Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Tiruppur, Erode and Salem, while the remaining districts had less than 100 cases each.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Chennai bureaus)
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||EC revokes Kamal Nath’s status as star campaigner||The Election Commission (EC) on Friday revoked the status of Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath as a star campaigner for the party in the ongoing State Assembly by-polls for “repeated violation of Model Code of Conduct (MCC) and for completely disregarding the advisory issued to him”, an EC order said. The EC said the entire expenditure on any campaigning by Mr. Nath for the November 3 by-election would be borne by the candidate in whose constituency he campaigns. The expenditure of star campaigners’ events, travel and stay is borne by the party and is not added to the candidate’s spending, which is limited. “...the Commission has carefully considered the matter and has observed with displeasure that Shri Kamal Nath despite being a leader of a political party is repeatedly violating the provisions of Model Code of Conduct and breaching the ethical and dignified behaviour,” the EC order said. The EC had issued an advisory to Mr. Nath on Monday for violation of the MCC and the EC’s advisory to candidates and parties against any speech or actions against the dignity of women for his remarks calling a woman candidate an “item”. The EC had advised him not to use such language in public utterances. The EC said another complaint had been brought to its notice from the Madhya Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party that Mr. Nath had on October 13 called Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan “ nautanki ke kalakaar ” (an artist in a street play) and that he should go to Mumbai to act. The EC said it had received a report from the Chief Electoral Officer of the State with a transcript from a spech that quoted Mr. Nath as saying “ aapke bhagwan toh voh mafia hai ” (Your god is mafia).
31 October 2020||Morena,||‘Congress govt. played tricks with the people’||Ahead of bypolls to 28 seats caused by the defection of Congress MLAs, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan believes supporters of Jyotiraditya Scindia who've been fielded by the BJP on 19 of the 28 seats have assimilated well into the party.  Madhya Pradesh is holding an election after two years to decide the fate of the government. In 2018, the Congress won. Has people's perception changed since then? How is your election strategy different this time? The BJP is a party with a difference. Our strategy is very simple as we live among common people. Serving selflessly is our aim. We act together for the nation’s interest as a family. And it is not a party which is run by a single family. People of Madhya Pradesh have already seen the Congress-led State where there was no talk of real development. Good governance measures of our party in the past 15 years speak for themselves and voters have shown faith in us. Whereas, the 15-month Congress government played tricks with people instead of keeping promises. Their own senior leaders were fed up with their misleading governance and corruption. They were unaware of the common man’s problems. I am sure the voter of Madhya Pradesh has been a keen observer and they know the difference between our governance and theirs. You will see their verdict soon. How do you view Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia’s role in the byelection? Mr. Scindia is a mass leader and a respected member of the BJP. He holds strong public support, and is working hard to make the BJP win the byelection. Most seats are in the Gwalior-Chambal region, the Scindia stronghold. How did you reconcile your older, committed cadre and leaders with the Scindia supporters who were their political adversaries in the past but are now BJP candidates? The BJP is a democratic organisation where leaders emerge through their own excellence, capabilities and hard work. It is a big family. New members of our party have assimilated very well into it and have a unanimous thought process with the other members. They are one now. Each member is a dedicated one who is looking forward to the upcoming election and the development of the State. We are confident the BJP will win. How challenging has campaigning been during the COVID-19 pandemic? Do you believe political parties and leaders are not taking the threat posed by the disease seriously? Yes, it is a challenging situation and it is not just about campaigning. The whole world is facing this threat and we have to learn to live with it by taking all precautions. As a public representative, I can’t stay away from common people for long and the same is the case with all other representatives too. Life needs to go on, but we should never forget to follow safety guidelines. I believe all political parties, leaders and members are well aware of the threat of COVID-19 and are following the safety measures while campaigning. Defections from the Congress are still continuing What do you believe is the primary cause of this series? They were very disappointed and fed up with the working style and ill practices of Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh. They saw a ray of hope and positivity in the BJP.  The new members of our party have assimilated very well
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We are at a critical juncture in fight against COVID-19; it’s time to be more alert’||Poonam Khetrapal Singh , regional director, WHO South-East Asia, speaks about a second wave of COVID-19 infection, fatigue among healthcare workers/general public and how countries in the northern hemisphere continue to be at a critical juncture in the fight against the pandemic :  We are now witnessing a second wave of COVID-19 infections across Europe and the U.S. What would public health experts attribute this to? Where does India stand? We are at a critical juncture in this pandemic, particularly in the northern hemisphere. In India, recently we are seeing active cases plateau. Like the rest of the world, the country remains vulnerable to COVID-19. Now is the time to be even more alert. The pandemic is still not behind us. Our efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 transmission need to be more vigorous now. Governments across the world need to continue to further strengthen implementation of core public health measures — test, detect, isolate and treat — and continue to provide essential services. But, all of us, as individuals, we have our own responsibility: we must practise physical distancing, hand and respiratory hygiene, and wear a mask when needed. We cannot let our guard down. Are you seeing COVID-19 fatigue in various countries among the general public and healthcare workers? The pandemic has impacted lives and livelihood. We understand the difficulties people continue to face — working from home or losing income, children being schooled remotely, not being able to celebrate milestones with friends and family or not being there with them in the most difficult times — it’s very tough and the COVID-19 fatigue is real. Health workers, who have themselves gone through immense stress and trauma, are still on the front line, taking care of patients, and it is no surprise if they too are getting tired. And in addition, we do not know how long this pandemic will last. We must do all what we can to protect health workers, and the best way to do that is for all of us to take every precaution we can to reduce the risk of transmission, for ourselves and others. People must maintain physical distance, wear mask, clean hands regularly, cough away from others, avoid crowds or meeting friends and family unless absolutely needed. Governments must continue to strengthen pandemic response, which includes core public health measures and maintaining and restoring essential health services impacted by the COVID-19 outbreak. We must do all we can to break the virus transmission chains. What measures are the international agencies suggesting to tackle and live with this virus in the long term? Till such time there is a vaccine or a medicine to protect the world from COVID-19, our best defence against the virus remains the core public health measures we know to break the chain of transmission: hand hygiene, physical distancing, respiratory etiquette and masks. Should schools be allowed to risk having children back? Now we know that this group can act as spreaders and super-spreaders? From a public health perspective, deciding to close or re-open schools should be guided by a risk-based approach, taking into consideration the epidemiology of COVID-19 at the local level; the capacity of educational institutions to adapt their system to operate safely; the impact of school closures on educational loss, equity, general health and well-being of children; and the range of other public health measures being implemented outside school. Decisions on full or partial closure or reopening should be taken at a local administrative level, based on the local level of transmission of COVID-19 and the local risk assessment, as well as how much the reopening of educational settings might increase transmission in the community. Are international agencies talking about a long-term work/study from home for people/services that can be managed in this manner? While the pandemic affects lives and livelihoods, it forces people to think of ways to overcome the challenges that COVID-19 forced upon them. With lockdowns imposed in several parts of the world, many organisations moved to working from home as a precautionary measure from the very start of the pandemic. Many organisations continue to provide their staff the option to work remotely, wherever feasible, even after lockdowns have been lifted. Whether or not this will become a part of a new work culture globally, remains to be seen.  The pandemic is still not behind us. Our efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 transmission need to be more vigorous now
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Irregularities galore in flood relief in Hyderabad||Distribution of cash relief to the flood affected households, which ended on Thursday, was riddled with several gaps as could be visible from the protests and complaints from across the city. With the GHMC elections just a whistle away, the failed distribution could hang like an albatross around the ruling party’s neck, it is feared. With notification for the polls due any time after November 15, distribution of Rs. 10,000 per family as cash relief was seen as an expedient measure to ameliorate the disgruntlement of the flood affected people. Until it had backfired, that is. With no proper survey carried out about the actual number and identification of sufferers, and the payment mode being cash rather than direct benefit transfer to the bank accounts, as many irregularities as possible are reported to have crept in. Thousands of city residents, flood affected as well as unaffected, who have not received any relief are left seething with anger. At a few locations such as Nagole, residents held the distribution officials hostage, demanding relief amounts. GHMC officials had to seek help from the police to get their colleagues released. At several locations, people’s ire was directed towards the corporators, who, they alleged, were getting the relief distributed to their own supporters and followers. At Nandanavaram Colony near Karmanghat, the flood affected had blocked the road and gheraoed the corporator. At Champapet too, the flood affected persons conducted a sit in on the road, raising questions about them not receiving any relief. In Gudimalkapur division, locals protested distribution of relief only to about 50 people, whereas there were 300 families affected by floods. Residents of B.S.Maktha, Subhani Masjid and Hari Gate expressed anger that the local leaders were ensuring relief only to their kin. “The officials, accompanied by the local leaders, had taken my details, and asked for my mobile phone number. After they entered the details, an OTP came to my mobile, and they made me share that too. Later, without giving any cash, they left,” said Nikhat Fatima, a resident of Shankar Nagar. Distribution had also been done at several locations which had not suffered any loss due to floods. At such locations too, the relief distribution was limited to select few, which left many others disgruntled. Officials under the condition of anonymity, admit that the whole scheme for distribution of relief has been a botched up operation. “Those who have not lost anything in the floods were given Rs. 10,000. Whoever had Aadhaar card, claimed the amount, and several beneficiaries were also brought in from outside the city,” an official shared. Instructions from higher ups too were conflicting, from one extreme to the other, he said.
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Even as AITUC turns 100, challenges seem endless||The country’s first national trade union, All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), turns 100 on Saturday. The State unit of the union will mark the day with an event in Bengaluru, reflecting on the past as well as the daunting task the unions face in bringing together workers in the post-liberalisation era. It was in 1942, more than two decades after 64 unions came together to form the AITUC in 1920 at Mumbai, that the union organised the working class in textile mills of Bengaluru, mines in Hutti and Kolar, besides beedi and tiles industries. Once home to over a lakh public sector workers, Bengaluru’s industrial growth has post-1990s been marked by a steep rise in employees in the high-paying IT sector and the garment sector at the other end of the spectrum, posing a challenge to unionisation. “The real estate boom in the 90s has led to rapid de-industrialisation in the city. PSUs have cut down workforce and emphasis now is on contract and outsourcing. This is the greatest challenge before the working class movement,” said AITUC general secretary (Karnataka) D.A. Vijaybhaskar. The founding of AITUC itself was part of the workmen struggle to demand a 10-hour working day and dearness allowance that brought together a wide spectrum of workers. Freedom fighters Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Lala Lajpat Rai were instrumental in forming the union. The first Congress of AITUC was held on October 31, 1920, by which time Tilak had died. Rai presided over the congress of AITUC at Empire Theatre in Bombay. The success of the Quit India movement in 1942 depended on the participation of textile mill workers. In post-Independent India, establishment of major public sector industries led to the emergence of powerful unions in Bengaluru. “On the back of a string of struggles, M.C. Narasimhan was elected to the Mysore State Assembly from KGF in 1957. In subsequent years, trade union leader such as M.S. Krishnan and B.V. Kakkilayya were elected,” said Mr. Vijaybhaskar. When the industrial workers in Bengaluru were part of the struggles in the 1970s and 1980s, more than one lakh PSU workers took part, and in one instance workers went on strike for three months, AITUC (Karnataka) vice-president M.D. Harigovind recalled. As the contour of industrial relations have changed in the current times when several labour rights won through decades of struggle have been diluted, AITUC will focuse on organising workers from the informal sector, Mr. Vijaybhaskar said.
31 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pursuing money trail in Bineesh Kodiyeri case: ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) investigation into Bineesh Kodiyeri on drug trafficking-related money laundering charges in Karnataka showed signs of extending to Kerala on Friday. In a filing in the court of the Special Judge, Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), Banglore, the ED said it was pursuing the shadowy money trail in the case. (The high-profile indictment of Bineesh, second son of Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, the State secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)], on Thursday had convulsed Kerala politics and arguably put the Left Democratic Front (LDF) on the defensive.) The agency required to ‘unearth’ the illegal money routes and identify Bineesh's benefactors in the country and abroad. It deemed Bineesh uncooperative during questioning and cagey about his source of wealth and investments. The ED has frozen Bineesh's known assets in Kerala. However, the agency required to verify reports that Bineesh had sunk his allegedly illegitimate earnings into real estate, cinema, hotel, plantation and forex businesses in Kerala. The arrest of one Muhammad Anoop, a Kochi resident, on drug charges by the Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) in Bangalore in April had led to the arrest of Bineesh by the ED on Thursday. The ED described Anoop as a ‘drug peddler.’ It said a massive infusion of funds into Bineesh’s accounts from questionable sources often preceded his periodic cash transfers to Anoop. Bineesh could not explain the fund transfers and was ‘completely evasive in his replies.’ Investigators said Anoop was a front (Benamidar) for Bineesh. They said Anoop ‘indulged in the sale and purchase of narcotics’ and was ‘closely associated with Bineesh.’ Anoop reckoned Bineesh his ‘boss’ and did his employer's bidding. The ED said Bineesh wielded ‘considerable power and influence.’ He could ‘scuttle the investigation and destroy evidence’ in the case. Investigators said Bineesh held ‘many bank accounts.’ They accused him of committing the offence of money laundering by transferring/layering of vast proceeds of crime into various accounts. The ED had kept the NCB in the loop. The agency was likely to examine Bineesh after November 2, when his time in ED custody ends.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||As prices soar, NAFED to import onions||The central cooperative, NAFED, will soon begin importing onions in a bid to tame soaring prices, Food and Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal said on Friday. The government is already facilitating import of the kitchen staple by private traders, with 7,000 tonnes of the bulb already having arrived in the country, and another 25,000 tonnes expected to arrive before Deepavali. In the week since the Centre imposed stock limits, invoking the provisions of the newly amended Essential Commodities Act, the all-India average retail price of onions has continued to rise, increasing by Rs. 10 to almost Rs. 66 per kg, although Mr. Goyal emphasised that prices have largely remained stable over the past three days. He expressed hope that the expected arrival of the new kharif crop next month would also help to cool down prices. Dwindling buffer Although NAFED had created a buffer stock of one lakh tonnes from the rabi crop, from which it has been releasing stock into retail markets directly and through State governments, it has already disposed of 40%, and another 25% is expected to be lost to damp and rot.  Onions are already being bought from Egypt, Afghanistan and Turkey by private traders at market rates, with the Directorate General of Foreign Trade facilitating import by waiving quarantine and fumigation requirements. Onion exports were banned last month, and exports of onion seeds were also prohibited on Thursday. With regard to potatoes, whose all-India retail average prices are hovering around the Rs. 42 per kg mark, Mr. Goyal said that 30,000 tonnes have been imported from Bhutan. Import duties have been cut from 30% to 10% until the end of January.
31 October 2020||BENGALURU,||Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Goa best governed States: report||Kerala was adjudged the best governed State in the large States category, while Uttar Pradesh ended at the bottom in the Public Affairs Index-2020 released by the Public Affairs Centre here on Friday. The city-based not-for-profit organisation, headed by former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) Chairman K. Kasturirangan, said in its annual report that the States were ranked on governance performance based on a composite index in the context of sustainable development. Four southern States — Kerala (1.388 PAI Index point), Tamil Nadu (0.912), Andhra Pradesh (0.531) and Karnataka (0.468) stood in the first four ranks in the large State category in terms of governance, it said. At the bottom Uttar Pradesh (-1.461), Odisha (-1.201) and Bihar (-1.158) were at the bottom of the ranking. In the small State category, Goa ranked first with 1.745 points, followed by Meghalaya (0.797) and Himachal Pradesh (0.725). The worst performers in the index with negative points were Manipur (-0.363), Delhi (-0.289) and Uttarakhand (-0.277), according to the report. Union Territories Chandigarh emerged at the top in the category of Union Territories with 1.05 PAI points, followed by Puducherry (0.52) and Lakshadweep (0.003). Dadar and Nagar Haveli (-0.69), Andaman, Jammu and Kashmir (-0.50) and Nicobar (-0.30) were the worst performers. According to the PAC, the governance performance is analysed in the context of sustainable development defined by the three pillars of equity, growth and sustainability. Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Kasturirangan said: “The evidence that PAI 2020 generates and the insights that it provides must compel us to reflect on the economic and social transition that is under way in India.”
31 October 2020||PALAKKAD,||9.8 km around Silent Valley becomes eco-sensitive zone||The Centre has notified 9.8 km around the boundaries of the Silent Valley National Park as an eco-sensitive zone. A notification issued on Wednesday says that 148 sq km area will be eco-sensitive and several new restrictions on human activities will be imposed in the area. Silent Valley officers were, however, not aware of the notification. They say it is too early to comment on the impact of the notification. The State government will now have to prepare a zonal master plan in two years for implementing the eco-sensitive zone. Apart from local people, departments of environment, forest and wildlife, agriculture, revenue, urban development, tourism, rural development, irrigation and flood control, local bodies, and public works will have to be consulted in the preparation of the master plan. The master plan will demarcate all existing human activities, including settlements and agricultural lands. There will be fresh restrictions on construction, quarrying, air pollution, effluent discharge, and vehicular traffic. Forest officers say it is too early to describe how exactly it will be. The notification says there will be a ban on mining, quarrying, and setting up of pollution causing industries and new hydroelectric projects. There will be restrictions on hotels and resorts and other construction activities and felling of trees. A monitoring committee under the chairmanship of the Palakkad Collector will have supervisory powers to ensure compliance with the restrictions in the eco-sensitive zone. The committee will have a tenure of three years. The Silent Valley National Park is one of the most popular biodervisity-rich forests in the country. A large part of Silent Valley still remains untouched by human beings. It has a large variety of flora and fauna. As many as 17 species of its flora had been red-listed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).
31 October 2020||KOCHI,||Govt. backs survivor’s plea in actor rape case||The Kerala government on Friday supported in the High Court the plea for a change of trial court by the survivor in the woman actor sexual assault case in which actor Dileep is one of the accused. When the petition filed by the survivor came up before Justice V.G. Arun, Senior Public Prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy submitted that a fair trial in the case would not be possible before the additional special sessions judge. In fact, the Special Prosecutor appointed to conduct the trial had suffered extreme difficulties owing to the hostile and partisan attitude of the sessions court, he said. The survivor was harassed during the trial by the counsel of the accused and the trial court did not prevent the counsel from asking defamatory questions. The court had violated the in-camera proceedings norms by allowing around 20 lawyers inside the court when the survivor was examined. The conduct of the court was biased, which was detrimental to the interest of the judicial system as well as the survivor, Mr. Chakravarthy said. The court adjourned hearing on the petition to November 2.
31 October 2020||SRINAGAR,||‘I was stopped from attending prayers’||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah was prevented by the authorities from attending a Friday congregation in Srinagar on the occasion of Id-e-Milad, the birth anniversary of prophet Muhammad. “They [security forces] didn’t allow me to offer [Friday] prayers, despite it being a revered day,” Dr. Abdullah said. The National Conference alleged that Dr. Abdullah’s residence was blocked by the security forces since Friday morning and termed it an “infringement of the fundamental right to pray.” “We strongly condemn the actions of the administration. This marks a new low in the curtailment of fundamental rights of the people of J&K. He was slated to go to Hazratbal in order to participate in the religious congregation,” People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) spokesman Sajad Lone said. Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said the move “exposes the Government of India’s deep paranoia and their iron fist approach towards J&K.” Meanwhile, constituents of the PAGD, in a bid to widen its base, visited Ladakh’s Kargil district on Friday to galvanise support for the pre-August 5 position, the first since the special status of J&K was ended last year. The delegation headed by Omar Abdullah met local party leaders, members of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council-Kargil and leaders of religious seminaries “to discuss the current situation in J&K.” ‘Restore rights’ Addressing a public gathering in Drass, Mr. Abdullah said the August 5 decision was forcibly implemented. “We haven’t accepted it and will fight for the restoration of all that has been snatched.” He said the delegation met leaders of the Kargil Democratic Alliance. “All of us [are] united that the pre-August 5th, 2019 position must be restored,” Mr. Abdullah said. He was accompanied by leaders from the PDP and the Awami National Conference. “We have come here to assure you [people of Ladakh] about the fight we have started and take you along in this fight. People of Ladakh are in our mind and heart,” Mr. Abdullah said. This is the first time that leaders from J&K have travelled to Ladakh, which was carved out as a separate Union Territory last year.
31 October 2020||Jaipur,||Rajasthan govt. set to bring Bill to counter Centre’s farm laws||The Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan is likely to introduce an amendment Bill to counter the Centre’s new farm laws when the State Assembly convenes on Saturday. The fifth session of the current Assembly was adjourned on August 24 and the House will resume its business on October 31, according to the Rajasthan Legislative Secretariat. The Rajasthan government’s move to introduce the amendment Bill comes days after the Punjab Assembly adopted a resolution against the farm laws and unanimously passed four Bills to counter the Centre’s contentious legislations. Earlier, the Congress leadership has suggested to States where the party is in power to pass laws of their own, negating the Central legislations. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, too, had said that his government will bring a Bill on the lines of Punjab. The Union government, however, has been saying that the laws passed by Parliament recently amid a vociferous protest will raise farmers’ income, free them from the clutches of the middlemen and usher in new technology in farming. On Friday, Speaker C.P. Joshi visited the State Assembly to oversee the preparations and issued instruction to deal with the coronavirus threat. Extensive arrangements have been made keeping in mind the precautions to be taken to tackle coronavirus, an official statement said. The government is also likely to bring a Bill to make the wearing of masks mandatory in the State.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Telangana unveils electric vehicles policy||Three-wheeler EV maker ETO Motors signed an MoU for a manufacturing unit with an investment of Rs. 150 crore. The firm said it will bring direct and indirect employment opportunities to about 1,500 people. Gayam Auto Works and PUR Energy submitted letters of intent regarding their project plans to invest Rs. 250 crore and Rs. 500 crore respectively. The Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI) also signed an MoU with the government. Addressing the meeting, Mahindra & Mahindra MD and CEO Pawan Goenka said the company’s tractor plant in Zaheerabad was one of the largest. There were plans to make it the sole manufacturing location for a new tractor series “being developed actually in Japan,” which will lead to doubling of employment at the facility from the existing 4,500 people. The company is also looking to “bring our next phase of expansion in electric vehicles.” The policy, he tweeted, “covers demand generation, charging infrastructure, EV manufacturing and as a first, even incentivises Electric Tractors. I am sure this policy will help to catalyse EV movement.” Actor Vijay Devarakonda, who is a promoter of Hyderabad-based startup Watts & Volts Mobility, also addressed the meeting. In a press release, CII Telangana said the policy indicated the State government’s commitment to develop a complete ecosystem domestically around EVs.
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka spending at previous year’s level||Despite receiving only one-eighth of their budgeted revenues and sharp fall in central grants amidst the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, Karnataka and a few States maintained their spending at previous years’ level during the first quarter and later in this financial year (2020-21), according to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The RBI’s report on annual State finances said the Karnataka government has maintained its expenditure level this year largely by implementing policy measures such as freezing dearness allowances (DA) and suspension of encashment facility of earned leave of government employees. Karnataka has also rationalised travel, vehicle and other expenses. While States such as Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Mizoram, Odisha, and Telangana deferred payment of part or full salary, wages and bills, Maharashtra cut the salary of its employees. Kerala and Tamil Nadu too suspended encashment facilities of earned leave for its staff. Karnataka and other States have been able to maintain previous years’ expenditure also owing to borrowings in the form of State development loans (SDLs) through the RBI. Karnataka raised Rs. 34,000 crore SDLs this fiscal year as on October 29, 2020, to bridge the revenue gap due to disruption in economic activity by COVID-19.  Large deficits The RBI said on the whole, States’ fiscal response to COVID-19 would reflect in a larger increase in revenue expenditure in 2020-21 than budgeted. “These spending coupled with revenue receipts shortfall are likely to convert revenue surpluses as budgeted in 2020-21 into large deficits,” it said. Before COVID-19, Karnataka’s gross fiscal deficit to gross state domestic product (GSDP) was 2.6% while primary deficit to GSDP was 1.3%. Karnataka and other States’ fiscal deficit in 2020-21 is expected to breach 4% of the GSDP target owing to slowdown in revenue and excessive borrowings, RBI said. Act amended Karnataka amended the Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2002, and raised its borrowing limit from 3% to 5% of the GSDP. The State’s total borrowing is expected to cross Rs. 85,000 crore in 2020-21. The finances of States have taken a body blow in the first half of 2020-21. “The pandemic may alter budget estimates significantly, eroding the gains of consolidation secured in the preceding three years,” notes RBI. The associated increase in indebtedness was coupled with persisting losses of power distribution companies (DISCOMs) and rising government guarantees for borrowing loans, it said. The RBI said when the pandemic broke out, the country had comfortable food stock, which further increased to 629.99 lakh tonne by end of September. The enhancement in area under wheat cultivation during the rabi sowing season by 7.3% in Karnataka, Bihar, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and West Bengal, helped replenish food stock, it said.  Impact on federalism The report also noted the pandemic’s impact on governance. “The pandemic has changed the landscape of sub-national government functioning and finance. It may also leave lasting scars on federalism in India,” it said.  COVID-19 pandemic may alter budget estimates significantly, eroding the gains of consolidation secured in the preceding three years. RBI report on annual State finances
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana Minister in a fix over chat screenshots||Controversy engulfed Minister Gangula Kamalakar after his name was linked to messages of chatting with a married woman that went viral on social media on Friday. Screen shots of messages sent in the name of the Minister through mobile phone to the woman surfaced in Karimnagar in the morning. By afternoon, the ‘chatting issue’ reports went viral on social media platforms landing the Minister in embarrassment. When contacted, Mr. Kamalakar said the controversy over his name cropping up in a personal chat with a married woman as a conspiracy. A Telugu TV channel aired breaking news of linking the Minister (without naming him) with the chat. Speaking to The Hindu about the circulation of screen shots of the video chat and the ‘breaking news’, the Minister brushed it aside saying it was a conspiracy. “The screenshots of chat were fake and anyone can create fake profiles,” the Minister holding portfolios of Social Welfare along with Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs said over phone. Some persons jealous of ‘my political rise’ could be behind the conspiracy,”said Mr. Kamalakar. As the screen shots of the chat started circulating locally in Karimnagar, speculative reports about the consequences of the ‘chat leakage’ flooded social media. Unconfirmed reports said that Intelligence authorities started inquiring about the issue. The All India Congress Committee spokesman Dasoju Sravan dared Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to drop Mr. Kamalakar from the Cabinet. He demanded SHE teams of police to initiate criminal action against the Minister.
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||TSRTC union threatens hunger strike||The Road Transport Corporation Employees Union has threatened to go on hunger strike even as they alleged that Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has not kept his promises a year after trade unions went on strike. According to T Raji Reddy of the Road Transport Corporation Employees Union , those who have retired are yet to receive arrears since 2018. He also said that pay scale revision had been overdue since 2015. “The promises which the Chief Minister made have not been kept. We have been drawing attention, time and again, to these issues but there is no response. There is also a need for the RTC management and the government to talk to the unions as was the case in the past. Since these promises have not been kept, we are going to go on a hunger strike from December 1,” Mr Reddy said. TS-AP stalemate He said that owing to the stalemate between the State transport undertakings of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on resumption of services between the two States, private operators had been making the most of the situation. This, he said, had hurt the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC). “We are asking that an agreement be reached soon. It is a loss to the RTC,” Mr Reddy said. Meanwhile, officials said the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation had been plying between 2.5 lakh and 3 lakh km per day within the Greater Hyderabad Zone. Efforts were on to improve services and frequency. “We are doing all that we can to give passengers good service and connectivity,” an official said. However, the number of kilometres run is less than pre-COVID period. For instance, according to data obtained under the Right to Information Act, 2005, the number of kilometres run in the GHZ in 2018-19 was 33.94 lakh km and in 2019-20, it was 28.05 lakh. The occupancy for 2018-19 was 70.21 and for the subsequent year was 69.24. Occupancy after resumption of services on September 25 was much lower on account of the pandemic. “We are taking all precautions, including sanitising of buses and other measures. We are also appealing for public cooperation,” an official said.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Import barriers not to be perpetual: NITI Aayog||“But it will be done in a global context. It will be done with India remaining open and trying to regain its share in global and regional production chains, it will be done with respect to rule-bound multilateral trading orders. It will not imply in any sense any form of isolation, closed economy or protectionism,” he said. Mr. Kumar added that the country will do its best to increase the share of trade in its gross domestic product (GDP). “If there is any support given to domestic enterprises, it will all be targeted towards creating globally competitive capacities and any support that we give them through tariffs would have an in-built sunset clause. I wanted to emphasise India’s commitment to a global economy with open order,” Mr. Kumar said in an address to the Confederation of Asia-Pacific Chambers of Commerce and Industry. Mr. Kumar also called for a more empathetic and humane approach to assess economic growth beyond GDP numbers and flagged concerns about the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the onset of technologies like robotics, machine learning and artificial intelligence on job creation.
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||BJP leader Vijayvargiya violated model code: EC||The Election Commission (EC) on Friday found BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya in violation of the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) for calling Congress leaders Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh “chunnu-munnu” while speaking at a rally in the ongoing Madhya Pradesh bypolls campaign. The EC had issued a notice to Mr. Vijayvargiya on Monday for his remarks made at a rally in Sanwer, Indore, on October 14. In his response to the notice on Tuesday, the BJP leader denied the allegation and said the remarks quoted in the notice were in “complete misunderstanding of the context”. The EC said it had considered the matter and was of the view that Mr. Vijayvargiya had violated the MCC’s para two, which states: “Criticism of other political parties, when made, shall be confined to their policies and programme, past record and work. Parties and candidates shall refrain from criticism of all aspects of private life, not connected with the public activities of the leaders or workers of other parties. Criticism of other parties or their workers based on unverified allegations or distortion shall be avoided.”
31 October 2020||Khagaria,||Nitish attacks Lalu on women’s welfare||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday appealed to people to not “get misled” by those who “ignored” women and backward classes during their rule. At an election rally, he said, “They are talking today, but what was the condition of women earlier? They were ignored.” Without naming RJD chief Lalu Prasad, Mr. Kumar said, “When he was sent to jail, he installed his wife (Rabri Devi) on the chair, but did nothing for the welfare of the women otherwise.”
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||Centre denies claim of Chinese transgression||The Press Information Bureau (PIB) has denied claims made by Ladakh’s former Member of Parliament Thupstan Chhewang that the Chinese troops have further transgressed into Indian territory and occupied positions in Finger 2 and 3 of north bank of Pangong Tso (lake). In the news report carried by The Hindu , Mr. Chhewang, a former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Ladakh said he had received information from locals living in forward areas along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh that Indian soldiers were living in tents and it was not adequate for them in the sub-zero conditions. Reacting to the report, PIB Fact check posted on Twitter, “@the_hindu citing a claim, has published that Chinese troops have further transgressed into Indian territory and occupied positions in Finger 2 and 3 of the north bank of #PangongTso Lake. #PIBFactCheck: It is a #Fake news. @adgpi has refuted this statement” Responding to PIB’s tweet, Mr. Chhewang told The Hindu on Friday that he stood by his claim. India and China have been engaged in a military standoff in eastern Ladakh for the past five months.
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||SC issues ‘mirror order’ in child custody case||The Supreme Court has applied the principle of “mirror order” in a child custody case where one of the estranged parents is living abroad, in Kenya. When a competent court in India passes a series of the conditions for the transfer of custody of a child to a parent living abroad, an identical or mirror order is passed by an equally competent court to ensure that the conditions are met. It ensures that contradictory judicial orders are not passed and is considered a remedy against transnational parental abduction of children. “The mirror order is passed to ensure that the courts of the country where the child is being shifted are aware of the arrangements which were made in the country where he had ordinarily been residing. Such an order would also safeguard the interest of the parent who is losing custody, so that the rights of visitation and temporary custody are not impaired,” a Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit endorsed the principle in a recent judgment. The judgment was based on a petition regarding the custody of a child whose father is based in Kenya and the mother is in India.
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Laxity in probing cases of crimes against journalists’||The International Press Institute (IPI) on Friday said the impunity with which crimes against journalists are committed continued to rise as governments had failed to probe the cases. Ahead of the International Day to End Impunity for Crimes against Journalists on November 2, the Vienna-based IPI said in a statement that 52 journalists, including two in India, had died due to their work since October 2019, of which 24 were murdered in targeted attacks, according to the IPI’s “Death Watch”.  The IPI, which is an international network of editors, journalists and media executives, said its analysis of the cases had found the governments’ response “alarmingly insufficient”. Out of the 52 cases, arrests had been made in only 10 cases, five each in the Americas and Asia, it said. “The unbroken cycle of impunity for crimes against journalists fuels further violence against the press at a time when the free flow of news is more valuable than ever,” IPI deputy director Scott Griffen said.
31 October 2020||KOCHI,||KSDMA justifies removal of sand from Pampa||The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has justified the removal of sand from the Pampa river before the National Green Tribunal (NGT), claiming that the tribunal lacked the jurisdiction over the decisions taken under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. A report has been filed before the Southern Bench of the tribunal that took suo motu notice of a report ‘Forest dept. told to permit sand removal from Pampa’ published in The Hindu on May 30. The State respondents were told to file their independent responses as well regarding the circumstances under which the National Disaster Management Act was invoked for the purpose of desilting. They were asked to explain the circumstances that led them to take such an immediate action without following the necessary procedures. The member-secretary of the KSDMA said in his report that only the Supreme Court or the Kerala High Court can entertain any suit or proceedings in respect to the orders issued by the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), Pathanamthitta. The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had issued a notification on March 3 this year stating that dredging and desilting of dams, reservoirs, weirs, barrages, river, and canals for the purpose of its maintenance, upkeep, and disaster management did not require any prior environmental clearance, it said. The sand removal had snowballed into a controversy after the State Forest Department revoked an order issued by the District Collector, Pathanamthitta, permitting Kerala Clays and Ceramic Products to transport costly river sand from Triveni at Pampa. The Opposition had accused the government of having used flood preparedness as a cover to bypass the Forest Conservation Act to accord financial advantage to the public sector entity. The KSDMA has now recommended the Forest Department to prepare a disaster management plan explaining the measures and funds for maintaining the depth and width of river channels within forest areas every year. It should ascertain the usable sand content in the deposited debris and utilise it for construction works connected to the Rebuild Kerala Initiative and major government projects, according to the report.
31 October 2020||PALAKKAD,||Mahila Morcha leader quits BJP in Palakkad||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the district has suffered a setback with a few local leaders quitting the party, raising allegations of corruption and favouritism. Mahila Morcha leader and BJP Alathur constituency vice president Prakashini Narayanan resigned from the party along with a few others on Friday. She alleged that she did not expect any better treatment from the party that it could not give to national executive member Sobha Surendran. She said women were getting sidelined in the BJP. Ms. Surendran had expressed her displeasure with the party leadership the other day over “lack of consideration” for her in the party. She had made public her unhappiness over having been made party vice president in the State. Ms. Prakashini’s resignation from the party is viewed by linking it with the movement of Ms. Surendran. OBC Morcha Alathur constituency treasurer K. Narayanan and RSS chief sikshak N. Vishnu were among those who resigned from the BJP along with Ms. Prakashini. They accused BJP leaders at the local level of resorting to corrupt practices and misappropriating funds. Their main target was K. Karthikeyan, BJP general secretary in the Alathur constituency. BJP district leaders said Ms. Prakashini’s resignation was a matter of local concern, and that it would not have any impact on the party at the district or higher level.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Rules bar bonus for those facing sex abuse charges||The ICC will inquire into complaints of sexual harassment at the workplace. The Committee is required to make recommendations to employers on the action required pursuant to its inquiry in such complaints. “If the ICC upholds a complaint, it could be construed as a conviction,” Ms. Chakraborty said, adding that the ICC has the powers to decide if someone is guilty and report it further to the police, though not all sexual harassment cases translate into a police case. Interestingly, while the other disqualification triggers for withholding bonus dues, like theft and violent conduct are explicitly restricted to actions on an employer's premises of the employer, the trigger referring to conviction under sexual harassment doesn’t include such a condition about the location of the incident. “At this point, it is not clear if sexual harassment incidents or related crimes against women outside the workplace could lead to dismissal of employees with loss of bonus payments. But yes, harassing a co-worker irrespective of where it is done, should come under this provision's purview,” according to a labour law consultant, who requested anonymity. “Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code, an employee shall be disqualified from receiving bonus under this Code, if he is dismissed from service for –– fraud; or riotous or violent behaviour while on the premises of the establishment; or theft, misappropriation or sabotage of any property of the establishment; or conviction for sexual harassment,” section 29 of the Code on Wages states.
31 October 2020||Hassan,||KSE: Shivamogga district administration will maintain Sigandur temple accounts||The Shivamogga district administration will maintain the accounts of Sigandur Chowdeshwari Temple at Sigandur in Sagar taluk, said Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa, who is also Minister in charge of Shivamogga district, on Thursday. He spoke to presspersons after chairing a meeting of the advisory committee of the temple, constituted by the Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner in the wake of the recent controversy over temple administration. Receipts for offerings Both S. Ramappa, head of the trust, and Sheshagiri Bhat, chief priest, Mr. Eshwarappa said, would continue with their responsibilities as they had done all these years. The advisory committee had unanimously decided to instruct the Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner of Sagar sub-division to keep the accounts of the temple. “The officers will ensure devotees get receipts for their offerings. And, the officers will also keep the records of expenses incurred for the activities in the temple,” he said. This was the first meeting of the committee and the members resolved to hold similar meetings at least once a month to review. “This is a temporary committee in the wake of certain developments in recent days. We will meet once a month and review the developments,” Mr. Eshwarappa said. Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra, MLA Hartal Halappa, Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar, Mr. Ramappa, and Mr. Bhat attended the meeting.
31 October 2020||SRINAGAR,||Car used to kill 3 BJP men seized||J&K police on Friday seized the car used to kill three BJP workers in south Kashmir on Thursday evening, as it started a manhunt to trace the attackers who, they have said, belong to the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and The Resistance Front (TRF). The three were shot dead in Kulgam’s Y.K. Pora area on Thursday. “Militants from the LeT and the TRF had come in a vehicle and resorted to indiscriminate firing at the BJP youth leader Fida Hussain and his two colleagues. They fled in the same vehicle,” Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said. The vehicle was seized near Achabal area of Anantnag district in south Kashmir on Friday. “According to our technical and human intelligence, the three militants involved in the attack included two local militants, Nisar Ahmed Khanday and Abbas Sheikh. Sheikh was earlier with the Hizbul Mujahideen and later joined the LeT. The third one may be a foreigner,” Mr. Kumar said PM condemns attack Prime Minister Narendra Modi condemned the killing and expressed his condolences to the families. The National Conference party, Peoples Democratic Party, CPI(M), Congress and J&K Apni Party also condemned the attack.
31 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||More testing kiosks for pilgrims||The State government will set up more kiosks for conducting antigen tests on pilgrims during the two-month Mandalam-Makaravilakku season that begins at the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala on November 16. Minister for Devaswoms Kadakampally Surendran said pilgrims arriving by train should go to the testing centre nearest to the railway station. Only those with COVID-19-negative certificate would be allowed to proceed to the temple from the base camp at Nilackal, he added. Court directive The decision that the pilgrims should undergo the test 24 hours before reaching Nilackal was taken on the basis of a court directive and to ensure that the protocol was followed strictly. Pilgrims would be allowed to rest at the base camp adhering to physical distancing norms and following the COVID-19 protocol, he said. Steps would be taken to disinfect the areas where pilgrims stayed. Reviewing the arrangements made for the pilgrimage on Friday, the Minister said that department-wise preparations for the pilgrimage season were in their last leg.
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||Minister gets 1-day ban on campaigning||The Election Commission on Friday barred Madhya Pradesh Higher Education Minister Mohan Yadav from campaigning on Saturday for the November 3 bypolls after finding him in violation of the Model Code of Conduct.
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||Congress asks govt. to clarify on ‘incursion’||Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Friday asked the Union government to “clarify” on the claims made by a former BJP MP from Ladakh that Chinese troops have further transgressed into Indian territory. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted,“The soldiers of the country, despite living in ordinary tents in severe cold, stand up to the attack of China. While the Prime Minister of the country moves around in an Rs. 8400 crore aircraft, he is afraid even to take the name of China. Who got acche din?”
31 October 2020||Guwahati,||Court seeks response on NRC entries||The Gauhati High Court has asked Assam’s coordinator of National Register of Citizens to explain how the names of some ineligible people crept into the update list of citizens released on August 31, 2019. The court directed coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma to submit an affidavit on the inclusion of such people within three weeks. The directive was issued a week ago after the court heard a petition by Rahima Begum, a resident of Mukalmua in Nalbari district. A Foreigners’ Tribunal had in 2019 declared her as a non-citizen but she was among the 31.1 million out of 33 million applicants whose names were included in the NRC. “This is not an isolated case. Let the coordinator file a comprehensive affidavit and bring on record the situations along with necessary particulars, where inroads into the list may have been created by individuals, who are undeserving and not legally entitled to be included in it,” the court said.
31 October 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha requests WII to conduct fresh study on Olive Ridley turtle movement||The Odisha government has requested the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) to conduct a fresh study for identifying the movement of endangered Olive Ridley sea turtles, which would help the State renew its conservation efforts along its coast. K. Sivakumar, WII scientist, said the State has emphasised on working with the local community for conservation.
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||CBI registers fresh bank fraud case against Siddhi Vinayak Logistics||The Central Bureau of Investigation has registered a fresh case against Surat-based Siddhi Vinayak Logistics Limited and others for allegedly cheating the erstwhile Andhra Bank of over Rs. 89 crore. The company, which had taken loans of about Rs. 2,000 crore from 13 banks, is already facing probe by multiple agencies.
31 October 2020||GUWAHATI,||Prime accused absconding in JEE fraud case in Assam||The Assam police are yet to nab the prime accused in the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) proxy candidate case. The police said efforts were on to nab Bhargav Deka, owner of a Guwahati-based coaching institute that allegedly provided a substitute to take the test on behalf of candidate Neel Nakshatra Das to eventually score 99.8%.
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. seeks comments on draft IR Code rules||The Union Labour and Employment Ministry on Friday published the draft rules framed under the Industrial Relations Code, 2020, that would require firms with 300 or more workers to seek government approval for lay-offs 15 days prior to the intended action. For retrenchment and closure, the establishments would have to apply for permission 60 days and 90 days ahead of the actions respectively.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Scattered rainfall to continue over southern T.N. for two days||Scattered rainfall will continue over southern Tamil Nadu and one or two places in northern parts in the next two or three days, the meteorological department has said. Thursday’s cyclonic circulation lies over the Tamil Nadu coast and the adjoining south-west Bay of Bengal, and this would have an impact on the State. For the second consecutive day, the weather station at the DGP office received a heavy rainfall of 11 cm. Highest amount This was the highest amount recorded during the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Friday. The other weather stations that received rainfall included Mandapam in Ramanathapuram district and Anna University (6 cm). Since October 1, Nungambakkam in Chennai has received 32 cm of rainfall, which is in excess by 6 cm for the month. Thursday’s heavy rain has helped the monthly rainfall to end with a surplus. S. Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology, Chennai, said the wet weather over the State would continue till the first week of November; thereafter, there might be a slight lull and the north-east monsoon would gather pace. Light to moderate thundershowers would occur at a few places in southern Tamil Nadu and at one or two places in the northern coastal areas in the next two or three days. There might be a heavy rainfall at one or two places in Cauvery delta districts such as Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur. In Chennai, light rains were likely in some areas till Sunday and the maximum temperature would be around 32 degrees Celsius, he said.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NEET Bill: T.N.’s executive-order route has parallels in 1990s||The AIADMK government’s decision of taking the executive order route on the 7.5% horizontal quota for students of government schools in admissions to undergraduate medical courses, pending Governor Banwarilal Purohit’s assent to a Bill on the same subject (which has since received his approval), has parallels to what the Jayalalithaa regime did in the 1990s. On November 16, 1994, the then Chief Minister, Jayalalithaa, announced changes in the allocation of portfolios of four Ministers. An order was issued, taking recourse to the Tamil Nadu Government Business Rules — an uncommon option. That was the period when differences between Jayalalithaa and Governor M. Channa Reddy were out in the open. Of the six Ministers, two — K.A. Sengottaiyan and D. Jayakumar — still hold portfolios. On October 8, 1994, her advice, indicating changes in the subjects of the Ministers, was conveyed formally to the Governor, but there was no word from the latter, till November 15, according to the then Chief Secretary, N. Haribhaskar, who recalled the sequence of events in an affidavit filed before the Madras High Court in December 1994. The former official said there was an “urgent need felt in public interest by the Chief Minister” to have the re-allotment effected. This was why the government order was issued. The Chief Minister, in her affidavit, stated that there was “neither illegality nor irregularity” in her action. Her action was performed, exercising powers under Explanation I to Business Rule 5, and orders issued thereunder, she had submitted. In February 1995, the High Court upheld the decision of the government and noted that the Governor had subsequently approved the changes. Another decision that hogged limelight later was the first extension of service for Mr. Haribhaskar himself, who was due for retirement on November 30, 1994. The files concerning the proposal on extension were sent to the Governor on October 24 that year, and they were returned to the office of the Chief Secretary on November 28, with Dr. Reddy disapproving the proposal to extend Mr. Haribhaskar’s service. But the Chief Minister, on November 24, cleared the proposal, again, invoking the Business Rules. This matter too became a subject of litigation before the High Court, which, in December 1995, cleared the Chief Minister’s action. Mr. Haribhaskar got two more extensions and remained in service till June 1996.  Another decision that hogged limelight later was the first extension of service for the then Chief Secretary N. Haribhaskar, who was due for retirement on November 30, 1994
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||57 locations in city are prone to waterlogging, says Corporation||The Greater Chennai Corporation has identified waterlogging in 57 locations during the rain on Thursday after the onset of the northeast monsoon, according to Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash. “Excess rain and local blockages led to waterlogging in some areas on Thursday from early morning till noon. The number of vulnerable points has been reduced from 851 in 2014 to 19 in 2019 because of the construction of stormwater drains in the Cooum and Adyar basins using funding from the World Bank. Minor setbacks were reported in some areas on Thursday,” he said. “There was no waterlogging in areas with critical infrastructure on Thursday. Water drained in five minutes in such areas. We have to develop infrastructure in the Kosasthalaiyar and Kovalam basins. The entire city will have an integrated stormwater drain network in two and a half years. Currently, the city has 2,500 km of drains,” Mr. Prakash said. Pointing to rain gauge records of excess rainfall in areas such as Parry’s Corner, Mylapore, Nungambakkam and Kodambakkam, he said the rainfall was more than 22 cm on Thursday, the highest in a single day in October after 1969. “We are planning to desilt drains throughout the year. A team of five officials, headed by the Assistant Engineer, in the 200 wards has been formed to prevent inundation. Desilting work is set to be completed shortly. There will be a permanent solution to the flooding issue,” Mr. Prakash said. Stressing the need for resilient infrastructure and a standard operating procedure for management of stormwater drains, Mr. Prakash said the civic body had been increasing the number of special equipment for desilting drains and canals. “We have imported 36 equipment to desilt canals, such as Otteri Nullah and Captain Cotton Canal,” he said. Explaining the issues caused by illegal sewage connections in stormwater drains, Mr. Prakash said over 90,000 buildings had been letting sewage in stormwater drains in an illegal manner. “We are plugging them. Over 26,000 buildings have sewage connections. Of the 210 tanks in the city, we will complete restoration of 33 in 10 days. More waterbodies will be restored. We will get the capacity to store 1 tmc ft of water by restoring all waterbodies,” the Corporation Commissioner said. On Friday, workers were found replacing pipes in NSC Bose Road to prevent waterlogging near the Madras High Court. Some shops were flooded in the area on Thursday. The wide footpaths developed along the road were dug up on Friday to replace old pipes to drain stormwater. “The Corporation should have done proper work during the construction of the footpaths a few years ago. They have not designed them properly to prevent silt from accumulating in the pipes. Desilting has not been done,” a shopkeeper said.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||105 bulls from Germany land at Chennai airport||The Chennai airport on Friday saw some new visitors, who had arrived all the way from Germany. Around 7.30 a.m., in a flight from Germany via Doha, 105 bulls came by cargo to the city. According to officials of the Airports Authority of India, the bulls were brought to the city by the National Dairy Development Board. Sources said it is very likely that these bulls had been flown into the country for breeding purposes. “The bulls were flown in 105 wooden boxes and each of them weighed about 250-300 kg. In total, the cargo weighed about 35 metric tonnes. We get cows or bulls once in a year or once every two years perhaps. Soon after the arrival of the flight, the cargo was cleared, based on license and permissions. The animals were then taken out of the airport on trucks,” an official said. The animals will stay in Chennai at the animal quarantine for the mandated period.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TN Registration Department sets single day record||The Department of Registration on Thursday created a record by registering the highest number of documents in the State on a day. Through the network of 575 sub-registrar offices in the State, the department registered a total of 20,307 documents, earning Rs. 123.35 crore through stamp duty and registration fees. Dr. Beela Rajesh, Secretary, Commercial Taxes and Registration, said this record was achieved at a time when limited tokens for registration were issued during the COVID-19 lockdown. Of the 20,307 documents registered, Chennai zone accounted for 3,604 and generated a revenue of Rs. 48.72 crore. The Chennai zone has 63 sub-registrar offices. Ms. Rajesh said the registration department had done exceptionally well for October this year when compared to the same month last year by earning Rs. 1,096 crore through the registering of more than 2.80 lakh documents, against the registration of only 2.01 lakh documents and a revenue of Rs. 884.99 crore last year. Value-wise, the department has earned the highest revenue for this financial year marching ahead of the revenue of Rs. 1,064 crore earned in September this fiscal, she said. With the State having come out of intense lockdown from July, the department has been showing positive signs, earning higher revenue and also registering more number of documents in August and September. Ms. Rajesh said strict instructions had been given to all the officials in the sub-registrar offices to maintain physical distancing among the officials and the visitors, compulsory wearing of masks, and taking other safety precautionary measures. She said 100 tokens were being issued daily in offices having one sub-registrar and 200 tokens in offices manned by two officials. A senior official of the department said that in the 63 sub-registrar offices in the Chennai city, six were managed by two officials.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Electricity demand in Tamil Nadu fell 2% in September, says power authority||Tamil Nadu’s electricity demand fell nearly 2% to 8,313 million units in September 2020 from 8,482 million units in the same period last year, according to data from the Central Electricity Authority. Though the State’s demand in September recovered compared to the previous months, it was below the national average. The all-India demand increased 4% to 112,581 million units in September this year from 108,250 million units in the same month last year. Economic activity Power demand is one of the metrics used to measure the level of economic activity. Tamil Nadu has the highest number of factories among the States. The growth in all-India demand in September was led by the western and northern regions, which saw an increase of 9.2% and 6.2% respectively. The southern region’s demand was down about 3.8% to 25,274 million units from 26,263 million units in the same month last year. Tamil Nadu further relaxed the lockdown in September, even allowing big showrooms and shopping malls to reopen, as part of the Union government’s Unlock 4 guidelines. Demand up in August The State’s power demand had rebounded in August and September this year since the lockdown to curb COVID-19 was imposed in March. However, the recovery has been slower. Demand crashed 26.5% in April and 14.5% in May, amid the complete lockdown. In September, Tamil Nadu’s peak demand was 14,700 MW, down about 1.92% from 14,988 MW in the same month last year. The peak demand has recovered from a low of 11,435 MW in April. From April to September, demand declined nearly 13% to 49,976 million units from 57,360 million units in the comparable period last year. RBI report The Reserve Bank of India’s recent report on ‘State Finances: A Study of Budgets of 2020-21’ said the finances of the State distribution companies were likely to weaken further during 2020-21 as the lockdown had crippled power demand, especially in the lucrative industrial and commercial segments, while their cost structure was rigid owing to minimum commitments for power off-take in long-term power purchase agreements.  Though the State’s demand in September recovered compared to the previous months, it was below the national average
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC refuses to direct Centre to pay dues||The Madras High Court (HC) refused to issue a direction to the Centre to release Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation of Rs. 12,250 crore to the Tamil Nadu government. However, the court expressed “hope and trust” that the money would be disbursed in due course, taking into account the financial difficulties faced by the State due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha ruled that the Centre was not under mandatory compulsion to strictly follow a timeline in compensating the States once in two months for shortfalls in GST collections; hence, the court could not be expected to issue a positive direction to release the amount. Case dismissed The judgement was passed while dismissing a case filed by activist G. Sundarrajan of Poovulagin Nanbargal to implement Section 7 of the Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act of 2017 in letter and spirit, and consequently compensate the loss suffered by the State due to the shortfall in GST collections from April 1 to August 31. The Bench agreed with petitioner’s counsel M. Radhakrishnan that the Act requires the Centre to pay the GST dues once in two months during the transition period of the first five years from when individual States shift from their local tax regime to the GST system, a uniform tax structure to be followed by all States across the country. Though Section 7 uses the term “shall”, such usage, by itself, would not make it a mandatory obligation on the part of the Centre to compensate the losses within the prescribed time limit, the judges said. ‘Not mandatory’ The judges cited a few Supreme Court verdicts to drive home their point that the object of an enactment should be considered in its entirety while interpreting its contents. “In the considered opinion of this court, the mere employment of the word ‘shall’ cannot be construed as mandatory in the light of theratio decidendilaid down in the above cited decisions and it depends upon the context and purpose of legislative intent also,” the Bench, led by Justice Sathyanarayanan, observed. The Act does not speak about the consequences of not adhering to the timeline fixed under it for compensating the States for shortfall in GST collections. “Therefore, it could be construed as only directory and not mandatory,” the Division Bench said. The judges went on to observe: “It is not as if the first respondent [Centre] is not going to compensate the States, in the light of the above cited provisions, and whatever difficulties faced by the Government of Tamil Nadu in lieu of the economic meltdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic may have equal application to the Union of India also.” During arguments, Mr. Radhakrishnan pointed out that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in August this year, calling for release of the GST compensation of Rs. 12,250 crore immediately for Tamil Nadu. The contents of the letter were also released to the media. Petitioner’s argument “Ideally, the State government should have approached the High Court seeking a direction to the Centre. Since it has not done so, the petitioner had come up with the present case because it was not just the government but the people of the State who were being deprived of the finances required to implement various welfare schemes,” argued Mr. Radhakrishnan. Taking these submissions into consideration, the High Court, in its verdict, said: “This court hopes and trusts that the first respondent would take into account the difficulties being faced by the States, especially the State of Tamil Nadu in light of the contents of the press release dated August 31,2020issued by the Director of Information and Public Relations.”  This court hopes and trusts that the first respondent [Centre] would take into account the difficulties being faced by the States...
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ABVP defends Subbiah||The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) has supported the nomination of Subbiah Shanmugam, its national president and head of the Department of Surgical Oncology, Government Kilpauk Medical College, as a board member of the proposed AIIMS in Madurai. Dr. Subbiah Shanmugam was accused of harassing an elderly woman. CCTV footage showing him urinating outside her apartment went viral. A complaint was filed against him. Dilipan, central executive committee member of the ABVP, said: “There are elements like the DMK and the VCK which are spreading malicious allegations over a past issue, which was resolved amicably. The ABVP condemns this kind of attitude. Their motive of raking up the issue is to postpone the establishment of the AIIMS in Tamil Nadu and divert the attention [from the Manusmriti controversy].” “Just because someone has given a complaint against him, he is not guilty. Until it is proved, he is innocent,” Mr. Dilipan said. He reiterated that the issue had been resolved amicably. “It has been officially resolved. It is an internal parking lot issue between two families and the complainant has officially withdrawn the case,” he said. He alleged that political parties were “hitting below the belt” and said this was the first time a Tamilian was appointed to the board of a national organisation. Asked whether the ABVP had opened an inquiry against Dr. Subbiah Shanmugam, Mr. Dilipan said the ABVP’s national team could answer the question.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister, A-G defend executive order on quota Bill||Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam on Friday defended the executive order issued to provide 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical admissions to NEET-qualified State government school students, when its related Bill was awaiting the Governor’s assent (since granted). He pointed out that the government order (G.O.) had “clearly stated” that “pending decision by the Governor”, it had taken certain “policy decisions”. Mr. Shanmugam, who is considered a key player behind the move, told The Hindu that as powers of the executive are “co-extensive with those of the legislature” under Article 162 of the Constitution, the government was “fully empowered” to act in this regard. The government had to issue the order in view of the “urgency” of the matter, as counselling would begin shortly for admissions to undergraduate medical courses under the State quota. However, when the government proposed an ordinance in June, NEET had not even been held. When the Assembly adopted a Bill on the quota in mid-September, NEET had just been conducted, the Minister said. Rationale behind G.O. Explaining the rationale behind the executive order, Advocate-General Vijay Narayan said the Puducherry administration too had taken the route of executive order for 10% horizontal reservation. The most important feature of the Mandal Commission’s recommendations — 27% quota for Other Backward Classes in education and employment in Central government institutions — was carried out through an executive order, which, in the Centre’s parlance, was called “Office Memorandum”, he said. As a piece of legislation becomes a law only after the Governor’s assent, the G.O. in question will be subsumed in law, naturally, once the approval comes. Even in the eventuality of his assent not being given, the G.O. will stand, as there is no law on the given subject, he added. A senior government official said the general legal position concerning internal reservation, as was the case with the 7.5% quota, was that executive orders would do. The scheme of quota for ex-servicemen or differently-abled persons was implemented only through executive orders. At the same time, the idea behind enacting a law for government school students was to provide “greater strength” to the proposed quota scheme, he added. The official clarified that the G.O. was drafted in such a manner that the move was not in conflict with the position of the Governor.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s own revenue up by over 7% in Sept.||Tamil Nadu’s own tax revenue increased by 7.2%, to Rs. 8,938.22 crore in September, when compared to Rs. 8,340.56 crore in the same period last year, according to provisional figures of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). The growth was driven by increase in land revenue, stamp and registration fees and liquor revenue. The State derives its own revenue, called State’s own tax revenue (SOTR), from stamp duty and registration fees, value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, excise duty on liquor, motor vehicle tax and the States Goods and Services Tax. SOTR accounts for 70% of Tamil Nadu’s total revenue. Among the SOTR components, land revenue jumped by over 300%, to Rs. 17.16 crore in September, from Rs. 4.27 crore in September 2019. Another SOTR component, the State excise duties (which reflects liquor revenue), grew by 19.6%, to Rs. 712.74 crore in September, from Rs. 595.74 crore in the same period last year. Revenue from stamps and registration fees increased by 12.6%, to Rs. 1,102.09 crore in September, from Rs. 978.65 crore in the same period last year. Sales tax (which includes VAT on petrol, diesel and liquor) increased by 3.27%, to Rs. 3,887.20 crore in September, from Rs. 3,764.06 crore in the same period last year. The State Goods and Services Tax increased by 7.4%, to Rs. 3,219.03 crore in September, from Rs. 2,997.84 crore in the same period last year. SOTR has shown a positive growth for the second time since July, since the lockdown to curb COVID-19 was imposed in mid-March. However, the State’s financial position will remain challenging, amid rising expenditure towards controlling the pandemic on the one hand and slower growth in revenues on the other. For the first half of fiscal 2020-21 (April-September 2020), SOTR declined by nearly 25%, to Rs. 36,907.46 crore, from Rs. 49,069.12 crore in the comparable period last year. The State’s fiscal deficit, so far in 2020-21 (till September), stood at Rs. 31,205.59 crore. The revenue deficit so far in 2020-21 (till September) stood at Rs. 23,591.04 crore. Amid a deficit situation, Tamil Nadu has borrowed Rs. 54,000 crore from April 7 to October 20, from the market, through issue of State development bonds, which is 88% more than the Rs. 28,690 crore borrowed in the same period last year.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nitty gritty of quota being fixed||With the Governor giving his assent to the Bill that provides 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students in undergraduate MBBS admissions, a gazette notification is expected to be issued for the same by Friday night. Publication in the government gazette is usually considered sufficient to comply with the legal requirements for public notice. The government will also have to notify the day from which it will become effective, and that will probably be done on Saturday, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. “We have put together several elements of a prospectus, but we are waiting for legal vetting before it can be finalised and released to the public,” he added. While the exact calculation for this year is yet to be revealed by the government, it can be said, at this stage, with the available seat matrix from the last year (2019-2020), that a minimum of 303 seats will be available under the reservation. In the MBBS course in government medical colleges, 15% seats are set aside for the All-India Quota (AIQ) and the remaining 85% is available in the State quota (SQ), following the rule of reservation. So, in the 23 government medical colleges, where the total number of seats are 3,250, AIQ seats will number 506, leaving the State with 2,744 seats. A further 127 seats will come to the State’s kitty from Rajah Muthiah Medical College, 65 from ESIC, K.K. Nagar, and 55 from IRT, Perundurai. In private self-financing colleges, 65% seats will be given to SQ, and 50% seats in private self-financing minority colleges will go to SQ. Based on this, SQ will get a total of 1,052 seats from 14 self-financing colleges. This tots up to 4,043, and 7.5% of that is 303. The seat matrix for this year will be different, but this number is likely to go up, because 3,400 seats are now available in the newly-established government medical colleges, and the final position on self-financing colleges is not yet clear. Since 2017, with NEET in place, only 14 students from government schools have got MBBS seats. Dr. Radhakrishnan reiterated that the integrity of the 69% reservation would not be affected. “It will neither increase nor decrease,” he added.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seven districts account for 62% of cases||Seven districts, including Chennai, accounted for more than half of the 2,608 fresh COVID-19 cases in the State on Friday. The new infections pushed the State’s tally to 7,22,011. About 62% of the new cases were reported in Chennai, Coimbatore, Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Tiruppur, Erode and Salem, while the remaining districts saw less than 100 cases each. In Chennai, 723 persons tested positive for COVID-19, while Coimbatore reported 228 cases. There were 158 cases in Chengalpattu and 149 in Tiruvallur. Tiruppur registered a marginal rise in cases, as 145 more persons tested positive for the infection. Erode and Salem had 115 and 114 cases respectively. Chennai’s tally moved closer to the two lakh-mark. A total of 1,99,173 persons have tested positive for the infection in the city so far. Chennai is followed by Chengalpattu (43,481) and Coimbatore (43,008). Presently, 23,532 persons, including 7,254 in Chennai, 2,411 in Coimbatore and 1,638 in Salem, are under treatment. A total of 3,924 persons were discharged on Friday, while 38 persons (17 in private hospitals and 21 in government facilities) succumbed to the infection. This took the total number of persons discharged to 6,87,388 and toll to 11,091. A total of 13 persons died in Chennai, while there were three deaths each in Coimbatore and Thanjavur. Among the deceased were two persons in their 50s who had no co-morbidities. In the last 24 hours, 77,356 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested to 98,85,443.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents use vehicle stickers to curb illegal parking in Alwarpet||Fed up with unauthorised parking and people drinking behind abandoned vehicles, the Seethama Colony Residents Association has issued stickers to car owners to streamline parking and also help the police tow away abandoned vehicles. There are close to 350 cars in the colony and most of them are parked in the respective houses or apartment complexes. “Many unknown vehicles are parked in the lane. Using this as a cover, people used to drink behind the cars and vans. We requested the traffic police to remove such vehicles. However, in the process, they locked some belonging to residents,” said Suresh Krishnaswamy, secretary, Seethamma Colony Residents Association. Made compulsory To prevent this confusion, the association started distributing stickers to car owners residing in the street. The stickers are non-transferable and should be displayed compulsorily, and should have the vehicle number written on the reverse side and a contact number. “Residences, flats and individual homes will have to make adequate provisions for vehicles to be parked on their premises. Only in exceptional cases can they park on the streets and even then only next to their residences. If they are found parking elsewhere, then the owner will be contacted and asked to move the vehicle,” Mr. Krishnaswamy said. After this initiative, the traffic police have been finding it easy to identify abandoned vehicles and remove them. “Enforcement becomes easier when residents also cooperate,” a police officer said.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IGCAR develops tech for breast cancer||In a significant development that may lead to early detection of breast cancer, the Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research (IGCAR) at Kalpakkam has come up with a thermal-imaging technology. B. Venkatraman, director, Safety, Quality & Resource Management Group, IGCAR, said usually mammography would be done to detect breast cancer; ideally, it should be done only on women aged over 40. But it was done now for anyone who had to be tested.  “This thermal-imaging technology is a low-cost and non-invasive method based on non-ionizing radiation. Using this, cancer cells can be found at a very early stage itself, thereby making the treatment much easier and keeping the mortality rate much lesser,” he said. MoU signed A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between IGCAR and Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER) for the transfer of technology as part of the inauguration of the IGCAR incubation centre on the occasion of the 111th birth anniversary of Dr. Homi Jehangir Bhabha, father of the Indian atomic energy programme, on Friday. Another important MoU was signed between IGCAR and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)–KrishiVigyan Kendra, Perambalur, for extending the shelf life of agricultural products through the application of ionising radiation. “The incubation centre will make all efforts to closely interact with farmers in the neighbourhood areas to increase the awareness of this technology and further accelerate efforts so that the benefits of the technology fully reach them,” according to a release. MoUs for a few other technologies were also signed. Among them were an autonomous gamma dose logger for measuring environmental radiation, which is low-cost and can be used in border areas to track the movement of radioactive materials, and a portable air volume sampler for collection of suspended particulate matter to monitor the levels of pollution. Replying to a question, IGCAR director Arun Kumar Bhaduri said the fast breeder reactor at Kalpakkam was in the final stage of commissioning, but he did not comment further.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Smaller parties feel Rajinikanth has not shut political doors yet||While actor Rajinikanth’s admission about his fragile health amid the pandemic has given rise to serious doubts about his political entry, smaller players and newer entrants into Tamil Nadu’s political landscape have not given up on him yet. Some regional players feel that even if he eventually makes a “no show”, the ground could still be fertile for a third front to take on the Dravidian majors. Though Mr. Rajinikanth and Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan have had diametrically opposite views on issues, Mr. Haasan has openly expressed his desire to work with him “if the need arises”. MNM functionaries felt such a “blockbuster” alliance was necessary to take on the two well-entrenched Dravidian parties. If Mr. Rajinikanth remains politically aloof, will the MNM join an electoral front led by the DMK or the AIADMK? According to MNM general secretary (party organisation) C.K. Kumaravel, Mr. Haasan, while determined not to align with the BJP and the two big Dravidian parties, wants to form a third front with like-minded parties. “There is a sizeable population which is looking for a change,” he said. Often seen as Mr. Rajinikanth’s natural ally, the BJP, also remains hopeful. “Mr. Rajinikanth has not taken any decision. He has just said that the facts about his health are true and that he will decide on the next course of political action after consulting his fan clubs,” pointed out party spokesperson K.T. Raghavan.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kindness, empowerment and more in Farishtha||“A world without differences, which celebrates diversity in a positive way” is what Khatija Rahman said when asked to describe her recently released Tamil single Farishtha ( Farishton in Hindi). The young singer has collaborated with her father, music composer A.R. Rahman, for the song in both Hindi and Tamil. A three minute and forty second animated music video was released on October 28, and Ms. Khatija said working on the song was an experience she cherished. “I had the opportunity to share my ideas and reflect on what I would like to sing about through the process,” she said. Composed by Mr. Rahman, the song has lyrics by Mashook Rahman in Tamil and Munna Shaokath Ali in Hindi. The A.R. Rahman Foundation’s renowned Sunshine Orchestra, too, was part of the project. The animated music video follows the pilgrimage of a young girl Amal. Ms. Khatija said they were keen on having a video that appealed to people across age groups. “Animated movies are something that most of us love, irrespective of age. We often want to become a part of that world and I wanted that effect to come through here,” she said. Artist and designer Sam Madhu was the creative director for the project and additional animation was by Ek Number Studios. “I truly hope each person can be a Farishtha or an angel in somebody’s life. Just a kind gesture, however small, would go a long way and make someone happy,” the singer said. She credited singer Lata Mangeshkar as being her greatest inspiration. “Feedback from my father and my teachers has helped me evolve my style of music over the years,” she added. Earlier in September, Ms. Khatija had collaborated with musician Ricky Kej and had sung for her first single, Iltaja . “Independent music projects are a great opportunity for musicians to experiment and dabble in a variety of styles. It is an exciting time for such music projects and collaborations,” said the singer, who is also a director and trustee at the A.R. Rahman Foundation.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Australian High Commissioner to India calls on Prince of Arcot||Barry O’Farrell, the Australian High Commissioner to India, called on the Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, at Amir Mahal on Friday during his visit to the city. He extended greetings to the Prince of Arcot on the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi. Mr. O’Farrell learnt about the history of the Nawabs of the Carnatic/Arcot who were sovereign rulers of this part of the country during seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries. The Prince noted that the cordial relationship between the two countries must continue to grow in many aspects in the coming years. He also offered a shawl and memento to Mr. O’Farrell. Mr. O’Farrell was accompanied by Susan Grace, the Consul General of Australia; Jack Taylor, Second Secretary, High Commission, New Delhi; and Andrew Collister, Second Secretary, Consulate General, Chennai. Judith Ravin, the Consul General of the United States of America in Southern India, Chennai, and Begum Sayeeda Abdul Ali were among those present on the occasion.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Raj Bhavan felt Bill had national repercussions||There was “no deliberate intention” on the part of Governor Banwarilal Purohit to delay his assent to the Bill on 7.5% horizontal reservation for NEET-qualified students of State government schools in admissions to undergraduate medical courses, it is learnt. The Governor wanted to get the opinion of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, before giving his nod, to ensure that the legislation, which had “repercussions at the all-India level”, was examined comprehensively. The fact that the request sent by the Governor’s Secretary, Anandrao V. Patil, on September 26, to Mr. Mehta, gave a detailed account of the issue, is a reflection of Mr. Purohit’s interest in the matter. As soon as the SG’s opinion was received on Thursday evening, the Governor decided to give his assent the next day. The Governor was cognisant that the SG would have to be given sufficient time. The time required by him to clear the legislation was discussed with a delegation of Ministers, who met him about 10 days ago. Eventually, it was agreed that it would take at least three weeks. It was also pointed out that on many occasions, the Governor was said to have cleared files immediately.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New way to detect breast cancer on anvil at IGCAR||In a significant development that could lead to early detection of breast cancer, the Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research (IGCAR) at Kalpakkam has come up with a thermal imaging technology. B. Venkatraman, director of the Safety, Quality and Resource Management Group at IGCAR, said usually mammography was done to detect breast cancer and ideally should be done only for women over 40. But it was now being used for anyone who had to be tested. “This thermal imaging technology is low cost and non-invasive, based on non-ionizing radiation. Using this, the cancer cells can be found at a very early stage itself. The treatment becomes much easier and the mortality rate much lower,” he said. An MoU in this regard was signed between IGCAR and Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research as part of the inauguration of the Incubation Centre of IGCAR on the occasion of the 111th birth anniversary of Dr. Homi Jehangir Bhabha on Friday. Another MoU was signed between IGCAR and the Indian Council for Agricultural Research — Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Perambalur, for extending the shelf life of agricultural products by using ionising radiation. Replying to a question, IGCAR director Arun Kumar Bhaduri said the fast breeder reactor at Kalpakkam was in the final stage of commissioning, but he did not elaborate further.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cooptex hosts Diwali expo||Cooptex is conducting ‘Diwali special expo’, an exhibition of handlooms at the C.P. Art Centre, Eldams Road, Alwarpet, till November 2 between 10 a.m. and 8 p.m. The expo will have saris, ready-made shirts and home furnishings. A discount of 30% is being offered. For more details, contact 81899 13599.
31 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Suspect in T. Nagar burglary held in Cheyyar||A special team of police personnel has apprehended a suspect who was part of a gang which committed a major burglary of more than 4 kg of gold and diamond jewellery from a jewellery-manufacturing unit in T. Nagar, according to sources. Last week, Tharun, one of the three partners who runs the unit, lodged a complaint with the Mambalam police alleging that gold, diamond and silver articles worth over Rs. 4 crore had been burgled from their premises. The police suspected that the offence was perpetrated by a gang.  Five police teams Five teams were constituted to trace the suspects. The teams conducted an enquiry and Suresh alias ‘market’ Suresh and his girlfriend from Putlur were arrested by the Thiruvallur district police three days ago in connection with another offence. Based on information given by them, police nabbed Appunu alias Venkatesan in Cheyyar, Tiruvannamalai. “He was interrogated. Very soon, we will crack the case and show arrest of all suspects in the case,” a police officer said.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fire guts godown||A fire broke out at a godown storing textile goods in Lotus Ramasamy Nagar in Royapuram on Friday. No one was trapped inside, sources said. Personnel of the Fire and Rescue Services worked for three hours to contain the flames. Eight water lorries and fire tenders rushed to the spot to put off the blaze, which erupted around 1 p.m. Thick smoke billowing from the building quickly enveloped the entire area. Personnel from the fire station in Royapuram and those from other stations, such as Washermanpet, Vyasarpadi, Tondiarpet and Esplanade, were pressed into service. They brought the fire under control by 4 p.m. The Royapuram police registered a case.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC pulls up UGC over cancellation of arrear exams||The Madras High Court on Thursday came down heavily on the University Grants Commission (UGC) for filing an evasive counter affidavit to a case filed against State Government’s decision to cancel arrear examinations of all arts, science, engineering and Master of Computer Application students except for those pursuing final year this academic year. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha wondered how the UGC could file a counter affidavit without commenting on the main crux of the case. In the counter affidavit, UGC Under Secretary Umakant Baluni had not offered any comment on the correctness or otherwise of the State Government’s decision to cancel the arrear examinations. V. Sudha, advocate for UGC, apologised for the mistake and undertook to file an additional affidavit by November 20. AL. Ganthimathi, advocate for the AICTE, told the court that her client did not favour of cancellation of the examinations. Justice Sathyanarayanan wondered why arrear examinations can't be held in online mode. As special government pleader E. Manoharan sought time, the judges adjourned the case to November 20.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin thanks Governor for clearing Bill||DMK president M.K. Stalin thanked Governor Banwarilal Purohit for granting his assent to the Bill providing 7.5% horizontal reservation for NEET-qualified students of State government schools for admissions to undergraduate medical courses. “After 45 days, the Governor has given his nod. He had no other option,” he said in a social media post. He said the protest organised by his party and the observation made by the Madras High Court may have been factors behind the Governor changing his mind and clearing the legislation. “Whatever it may be, it is a victory for social justice. Social justice will always win,” he added. CPI (M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan termed the Governor’s move a victory for the united fight put up by the people of Tamil Nadu. A ploy to put the legislation on the back burner has been defeated, he said in a statement, pointing out that the Governor had granted his assent amid protests.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CSIO demonstrates UV-based disinfectant||A product to disinfect objects and food items using ultraviolet irradiation, developed by a city-based start up, was demonstrated virtually by the Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) on Friday. Shekhar C. Mande, Secretary, CSIR and Director General, CSIR, and other senior officials of the CSIR-CSIO and from Raymold Luminaries at the CSIO facility participated in the virtual event. According to a release from the CSIR-CSIO, the products are designed to effectively disinfect surfaces of items such as grocery, fruits, vegetables, wallets, goggles, cell phones, laptops and PPEs in domestic settings. In professional applications, they will disinfect surfaces and the air in large spaces in hospitals and other healthcare facilities, offices, industries, shopping malls, airports, and other public areas, the release said.
31 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for medical seat fraud||A 50-year-old person was arrested by the Arumbakkam police for cheating a woman after receiving Rs. 45 lakh two years ago by promising to get her son a medical seat in a private college. According to the police, the complainant is Revathi, 45, a resident of Arumbakkam, whose son had completed Plus Two. Suspect Uma Maheswaran, 50, a resident of Virugambakkam, claimed he could get a medical seat for her son and received Rs. 45 lakh from her. Whenever asked about the seat, he would be evasive and eventually went on the run. Following this, Ms. Revathi lodged a complaint.
31 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Railway suppliers seek payment of dues||The Railway Suppliers’ Association here has appealed to the Union Minister for Railways to take steps to clear the dues to Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) at the earliest. In a release, the Association said the MSME Ministry had written to nearly 2,800 companies asking them to make pending payments to the MSMEs by this month end. The Railway Board also urged its bill-paying officials to clear the dues to MSMEs without delay. However, there were units with payments due for almost a year. While the Railways had introduced an online system to pay the bills for regular store items, payments were not made immediately for non-regular purchases. While the MSMEs faced penalty for delayed supplies, there was no such clause for delayed payments from the Railways. It should pay interest to the MSMEs for the pending amount. Similarly, zones that defaulted in payments regularly should be identified. Since the supply chain and logistics were yet to be streamlined, after relaxations in lockdown, the MSMEs should not be taken to task for delay in supply.
31 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘SC student admitted to government school’||With the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) demanding an explanation from the School Education Department for alleged denial of admission to a Scheduled Caste (SC) student in the Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Thondamuthur, the department officials said on Friday that the boy has been admitted to the school. Officials said that the boy was asked to pay additional fees to enrol in English medium at the school in September, which his parents refused to. However, the boy was enrolled in Class XI English medium on September 7 and he has started attending online classes, the officials said. The NCSC had sent a notice to the Director of School Education on October 22 based on a complaint lodged by the coordinator of Coimbatore District Federation of SC Organisations M. Nagendran. The complaint alleged that the boy was denied admission due to his caste. Chief Educational Officer P. Usha had submitted a report on this issue to the School Education Department. Meanwhile, Mr. Nagendran has accused the staff members of the school of discrimination against the boy. The officials have denied this charge.
31 October 2020||Coimbatore Bureau,TAMIL NADU||Three deaths, 228 new cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district reported three COVID-19 deaths and 228 fresh cases on Friday, taking the district’s overall tally to 43,008. The deceased were aged 87, 67 and 59, the media bulletin said. Of the 43,008 cases, 40,041 have recovered and 2,411 were active. The number of recovered patients in the district crossed the 40,000 mark on Friday. Coimbatore district has so far reported 556 deaths. A total of 557 patients were discharged from various hospitals on Friday. 145 cases in Tiruppur Tiruppur district reported two deaths and 145 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 12,644 cases. The deceased were aged 81 and 88. Of the 12,644 cases, 11,448 have recovered and 1,005 were active. The district has so far reported 191 deaths. As many as 100 patients were discharged from various hospitals.  Two deaths in Salem Of the 170 cases reported in Salem district, 151 were indigenous. Nineteen patients had returned from Madurai, Namakkal and Coimbatore. Two patients aged 77 and 67 died. Namakkal district reported 46 fresh cases. According to health officials, five patients had returned from Tiruchi, Salem and Karur.  33 cases in the Nilgiris In the Nilgiris, 33 people tested positive for the disease. The total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the Nilgiris stood at 6,589. The toll increased from 38 to 39 on Friday, while the district administration said that 253 people were under treatment. 115 cases in Erode Erode district reported 115 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 10,338. While 39 persons were discharged, 901 persons continued to be under treatment.  Krishnagiri district recorded 39 cases and Dharmapuri 14.
31 October 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Focus on land acquisition for projects: Collector||S.P. Karthikaa took charge as the 43rd District Collector of Dharmapuri on Friday. Addressing the media on the sidelines, Ms. Karthikaa said, special attention would be given to expediting the land acquisition processes for various projects. There is a continuous demand for the expedition of the Enekolputhu Canal Project. The land acquisition process was heading towards completion for the project. Similarly, a detailed project report with an estimate of Rs. 450 crore has been sent to the Central Government for implementation of Part II of Hogenakkal Drinking Water Project under the Jal Jeevan Mission, the Collector said. Speaking on the yet to be established SIPCOT Industrial estate, the Collector said the land acquisition works will be expedited. The Chief Minister had announced a textile park in the industrial estate, which will have the potential to curb outmigration. The land acquisition works will be expedited for the textile park as well, Ms. Karthikaa said. The Collector also announced that a targeted 10,000 houses was proposed to be constructed under the Slum Clearance Board in about 11 locations in the district. The proposals are under way and the process will be expedited for the same. On the pandemic, the Collector urged the public to exercise caution, especially in the view of the festival season. Public were urged to follow protocols and avoid crowding during festival shopping.
31 October 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||‘Makkal Neethi Maiyam has a good chance in 2021 polls’||All the 30% undecided votes may be cast in favour of actor-turned politician Kamal Hassan, said Makkal Neethi Maiyam State general secretary Muruganandam here on Friday. Speaking to reporters, he said that the days of electing the DMK or the AIADMK was past. “The people are not keen to elect Stalin or Edappadi to power. They want to put an end to the 50-year Dravidian rule in Tamil Nadu,” he said. The AIADMK cannot come to power in the 2021 elections, he said. He added that the AIADMK party had ruined the State in many spheres. When compared to other States, Tamil Nadu has been pushed to the bottom in many sectors, he alleged. “The AIADMK government has kept the finances in such a poor shape that only by selling liquor, the government can function,” he charged. Makkal Neethi Maiyam founder Kamal Hassan was open to have an alliance with any ‘like minded’ parties which has secular credentials. As for Rajnikanth, if he had no plans to start a political party, even those votes may turn in favour of MNM, he added.
31 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Online coaching for NEET low-scorers’||Students of State-run schools who scored low marks in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) will be given online coaching for the second time, said School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan at Gobichettipalayam on Friday. Speaking to the media, the Minister said that 303 students who studied in government schools were ready to pursue medical courses in the current academic year. “To enable low-scorers in NEET to score more marks, opportunity will be provided for them to undergo online training for the second time,” the Minister said and added that they will be provided training along with the current Plus Two students. He said that a total of 9,438 government school students had applied for online coaching so far.
31 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man held on murder charge||A 42-year-old man from Salem was arrested for murdering a labourer in the city on Thursday. The body of a man was found on Brindha Street and the Erode Town police were alerted. Inquiries revealed that Lakshmanan of Four Road in Salem had committed the crime. He told the police that he used to sleep outside the shops at Manikoondu area during night hours. He became friends with Perumal of Tiruchi. A dispute broke out between the two over earnings and Lakshmanan took out a knife and slit the throat of Perumal. Lakshmanan left the spot and Perumal died after walking for a few metres.
31 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Move to set up compost yard on bus stand premises opposed||With the suburban bus stand constructed at Anakalpalayam in 2014 yet to become functional, villagers oppose the Modakurichi Panchayat Union’s decision to establish a compost yard on the premises to convert vegetable waste into organic fertilizer. The bus stand, near the Armed Reserve Ground on the Erode Outer Ring Road, was constructed at a cost of Rs. 1.53 crore under the Scheme Component of Pooled Assigned Revenue (SCPAR) and has 10 bays to accommodate buses. However, the bus stand was not put to use since it was constructed and remains idle. The panchayat decided to convert a portion of the premises as compost yard to convert the vegetable waste collected from the households into organic fertilizer. On Thursday, officials came to the premises and started to dig a pit using an earthmover. As the news spread, villagers gathered on the premises and opposed the move to establish the yard. They said that efforts should be made to make the bus stand functional. They warned of protest if the officials went ahead with the move to establish the compost yard on the bus stand premises.
31 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Online coaching for NEET low-scorers: Minister||Students of the State government schools, who had scored low marks in National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), would be given online coaching for the second time, said School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan at Gobichettipalayam on Friday. The Minister said that 303 government school students were ready to pursue medical courses in the current year. “To enable low-scorers in NEET to score more marks, opportunity will be provided for them to undergo online training for the second time,” the Minister said and added that they would be provided training along with the current year Plus-Two students. He said a total of 9,438 government school students had applied for undergoing online coaching so far.
31 October 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||New Collector takes charge||S. Malarvizhi took charge as Karur Collector on Friday. She succeeds T. Anbazhagan, who was transferred and posted as Collector of Madurai district. Ms. Malarvizhi had started her career as an IAS officer in 2009 and had served as Collector of Sivaganga and Dharmapuri districts earlier.
31 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Widened road is more of a bane than boon||Accidents have increased on the Moondrumavadi-Iyer Bungalow road ever since it was widened by the State Highways department last year. A variety of factors are attributed to the rise in accidents - reckless driving, inconsistency in construction of parapet along a Public Works Department channel that runs along the road, and absence of street lights. With the elevated highway project under way on New Natham Road, many road users prefer to take the Moondrumavadi- Iyer Bungalow Road to reach Mattuthavani and nearby places. S. Nagendran, a shopkeeper near Moondrumavadi, said the speed of vehicles crossing this stretch has increased drastically after the widening of the road. “Especially youngsters travel on this stretch at a very high speed. Vehicles that emerge out of the numerous residential areas on both sides of the main road clash with the speeding vehicles, leading to accidents,” he said. Every day at least one accident occurs at the intersections on Moondrumavadi-Iyer Bungalow road, said M. Bose, a resident of Kannanendal. “It is extremely dangerous at the junction that leads to Kannanendal,” he said. With vehicles criss-crossing the stretch at a high speed, it had become dangerous for pedestrians to cross the road, said C. Maheshwari, a resident. Also, the absence and inconsistency of parapet along the PWD channel poses a risk to road users. At many places the road goes up and down and is not on the level of the channel. There is no parapet at several places along the channel. Many two-wheelers and cars have accidentally fell into the channel, said Pon. Balakrishnan, secretary of Meenakshi Nagar and Sasi Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association. “In many instances, the vehicle users were seriously injured and there were occasions when we used a crane to lift the vehicles from the channel,” he said. Garbage in channel The water channel is full of garbage dumped by e residents and shopkeepers. Adding to the problems is the poor illumination, especially between Moondrumavadi and Kannanendhal junction, said S. Nagu, a shopkeeper near Mahalakshmi Nagar. “The lamp posts are located wide apart and many street lights are dysfunctional,” he said. The residents want speed breakers along the stretch to reduce the speed of vehicles and to prevent accidents. “Also, parapet has to be constructed along the entire channel to prevent vehicles from falling into it,” said Mr. Balakrishnan. K. Prasanna Venkatesan, Divisional Engineer of the State Highways department, ruled out construction of speed breakers. “The speeding vehicles must be monitored and controlled by the police personnel,” he said. The inconsistency in the level of the road and parapet along the channel was a result of the State Highways department and PWD working on two different projects simultaneously. “We are preparing a proposal for construction of the parapet along the entire channel,” he added.  There were occasions when we used a crane to lift vehicles from a PWD channel  Pon. Balakrishnan  Secretary, Meenakshi Nagar and Sasi Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association
31 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A subdued celebration in Madurai||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin paid respects to the statue of freedom fighter, Muthuramalinga Thevar at Goripalayam junction here on the occasion of his guru puja on Friday. The CM and his cabinet colleagues garlanded the life-size statue early in the morning. They also paid floral tributes to the portrait of the leader at the junction. A large number of AIADMK cadre stood en route and greeted the Chief Minister. A huge posse of police personnel, led by Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha, was deployed in the city to provide bandobust. Later, Mr. Stalin, accompanied by his party leaders I. Periyasamy, P. Moorthy and others garlanded the bronze statue. The leaders also paid homage to the statues of freedom fighters Marudhu Brothers at Teppakulam before proceeding to Pasumpon. With the COVID-19 restrictions imposed, the crowd from other districts, especially western districts that make a stop-over at Goripalayam junction on their way to Pasumpon, was absent. Besides, the officials had convinced the political leaders and leaders of various organisations to desist from taking out processions from various parts of the city towards Goripalayam junction with milk pots and sprouts. The police had also denied permission for public address system for the celebration in the city. Leaders of various political parties, including Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP Su. Venkatesan, garlanded the statue. Men, women and children participated in large numbers in the afternoon to garland the statue.
31 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Report sought on Siddha dispensaries in temples||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought a report from the State government on the number of Siddha dispensaries opened in temples and the number of the dispensaries that were currently functioning. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi sought the report from the State government in a public interest litigation petition filed by Jeyavenkatesh from Madurai, the Managing Trustee of Indian Medicine Welfare Trust. The petitioner, a Siddha practitioner, said that the government in 1970 had passed an order to appoint Siddha doctors in temples having an income of Rs. 1 lakh. However, such posts were not filled for a long time, he said. Therefore, the State government must take steps to increase the number of Siddha practitioners and appoint them in temples that come under the control of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, the petitioner said.
31 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||New Collector takes charge||T. Anbalagan took charge as the new Collector of Madurai district on Friday. He served as Collector of Karur district from March 2018 to October 29, 2020. Mr. Anbalagan graduated in mining engineering from the College of Engineering, Chennai, in 1993. He was the topper in 2001 batch Deputy Collector examination (Group -1). He had served as Revenue Divisional Officer at Cheranmahadevi in Tirunelveli district, and District Revenue Officer in Chennai district. Mr. Anbalagan had worked in Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, Tamil Nadu Medicinal Plant Farms and Herbal Medicine Corporation, Greater Chennai Corporation and Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu, before he was elevated to Indian Administrative Service.
31 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Set up Siddha institute in city’||Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association has urged the Chief Minister to recommend setting up the proposed All India Institute of Siddha in Madurai district. In a petition, MADITSSIA president B. Muruganantham said the Chief Minister had written to the Prime Minister proposing to establish the All India Institute of Siddha in Chennai. Siddha medicine was given importance and practised widely in Tamil Nadu. In Madurai, Siddha medicine was being practised for many decades. There were more than 25 Siddha drug manufacturing units in the district. Chennai already had Siddha Central Research Institute. The construction of All India Institute of Medical Sciences was under way in Madurai. So, the city would have the necessary infrastructure to house the Siddha facility too.
31 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks report on sand mining||To ascertain whether sand mining was taking place in Kottakarai river in Ramanathapuram district, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court appointed an advocate commissioner to inspect the region. Hearing a public interest litigation petition filed in this regard, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi appointed advocate P. Ganapathi Subramanian as the advocate commissioner in the case. The court directed him to inspect the region and file a report after it was alleged that in the name of taking excess sand from a patta land nearby, sand was being excavated from Kottakarai river to a depth of five to ten feet. The court also directed Special Government Pleader J. Padmavathi Devi to get a report from the district authorities on the number of licences granted for quarrying ‘savudu’ and excess sand in the past five years. The case was adjourned to November 11.
31 October 2020||MADURAI/THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi’s tally crosses 15,000-mark||With the addition of 71 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, Thoothukudi’s overall case count crossed the 15,000-mark to reach 15,017. After 64 people were discharged from hospitals, 475 patients are undergoing treatment in the district, which has marked a death toll of 130. Madurai recorded 38 new cases, which took the total number of cases in the district to 18,691. The district had registered 51 cases on Thursday. Sixty-three people were discharged on Friday, leaving 524 active cases. There was one fatality, which raised the district’s death toll to 418. Kanniyakumari added 36 cases to have a case tally of 14,879, with 463 active cases, even as 75 people were discharged from hospitals. As the district lost two more lives to the viral infection, its death toll rose to 244. The infection tally of Tirunelveli moved up to 14,194 with the admission of 18 new cases to hospitals. With 40 people having been discharged, the district has 198 active cases. Sivaganga reported 17 new cases, which raised the tally to 5,882. There were 10 discharges in the district, which has 138 active cases. The overall death toll is 126. Theni accounted for 16 fresh cases to have a tally of 16,223, with 66 active cases. There were 43 discharges from hospitals. The district’s death toll stands at 193. There were 14 fresh cases reported in Virudhunagar, which now has a total case count of 15,419, with 173 active cases. The district marked 15 discharges. The death toll of the district remains at 220. Nine people tested positive in Dindigul, taking up its case count to 9,767. Hospitals discharged 50 people, and the district has 92 active cases. It has recorded an overall death toll of 185. Ramanathapuram’s fresh case count was five on Friday. The district’s tally rose to 5,993, with 92 active cases. The district, which has so far reported 130 deaths, marked the discharge of 11 people. Tenkasi recorded only four new cases to have a tally of 7,814. After 21 people were discharged from hospitals, the district has 54 active cases.
31 October 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Fisherman goes missing as giant wave overturns boat||A fibreglass country-boat capsized at the entrance of Thaengaipattinam fishing harbour on Friday, following which the owner of the boat is missing. Four others aboard the boat, who sustained injuries, managed to swim ashore. According to eyewitnesses, boat owner M. Jesudasan, 53, of Vallavilai ventured into the sea in his fibreglass boat on Friday along with four others around 10 a.m. When the boat was caught in a huge wave, it was tossed up in the air and overturned on landing. With another giant wave hitting the boat, it banged against the groyne. Though other fishermen rushed to the spot in two boats, they could rescue only the four fishermen. Mr. Jesudasan could not be traced. The rescued fishermen were rushed to the hospital for treatment.
31 October 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Part of hospital building did not collapse, was demolished: Minister||A section of the first floor above the portico, being constructed at the Namakkal government medical college hospital that is coming up near the Collectorate, was found to have collapsed in the early hours of Friday. While certain Opposition parties alleged flaws in construction, Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani contended that the structure was brought down by officials after certain issues were noticed in the construction. “There was no human error here. Authorities had noticed certain issues in the welding of supporting structure and the structure was immediately brought down by authorities for reconstruction. No one was injured in the incident”, he said. The Minister denied allegations made by Namakkal MP A.K.P. Chinraj about the quality of construction, and said that bureaucrats had been employed by the government to check the quality of construction. Mr. Thangamani said he visited the site of a fire at Pallipalayam, where two persons died in the blaze caused by a cracker burst on Thursday. He said solatium would be provided to the affected soon.
31 October 2020||NAMAKKAL/SALEM/COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Searches by I-T Dept. at Namakkal continue||Searches by officials of the Income Tax Department at 22 locations in the State concluded in some places and continued in others. According to sources in Namakkal, the searches are continuing at the residence and office of V. Sathyamoorthy, a civil contractor in Namakkal. The raids began on the premises on Wednesday. The contractor is reportedly involved in the construction of Namakkal Government Medical College and Hospital. Close to 20 I-T officials are said to be involved in the searches. I-T officials continued the search operations at Nandha Educational Institutions in Erode for the third consecutive day. While the searches were completed at the schools and colleges, the officials continued to inquire with the staff at the administrative office of the institution located on Erode – Perundurai Road. Sources claimed that the I-T sleuths had sought details from managers of two nationalised banks with which the institution was having bank accounts. Hospitalised In Coimbatore, the searches got over at the residence of R. Krishnan alias Paiya Gounder, who is also the DMK Coimbatore urban west unit in-charge. Mr. Gounder was hospitalised on Friday afternoon after he complained of high blood pressure. Doctors advised him rest.
31 October 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Senior citizen raises trees, takes care of them around temples as own progeny||Defying age, a 75-year-old man has dedicated his life to growing trees around temples in Keezhapuliyur, and tends to them on a daily basis. V. Karuppaiah can be found watering the trees near any of the 10 temples in Keezhapuliyur at any given time during the day. With no children, Karuppaiah looks at the trees as his progeny. His affinity for the trees got higher after the death of his wife three years ago, villagers say. “I planted the first bunch of trees here in 1977 when many trees were chopped down,” he said. He planted two saplings for every tree which was cut down. “They needed wood for the temple chariot but survival of trees is as much important,” he added. The Dharmakartha (official caretaker) of all ten temples in the village for over 25 years, Mr. Karuppiyah has taken it upon himself to ensure green cover around the village. “It used to be like a forest when I was growing up, with animal sightings every once in a while, but once trees were felled, the animals left. I wish to bring them back and see at least a few animals here before I die,” he said, nonchalantly. Devotees stop to wish Mr. Karuppiyah as they pass by him. “Each of the bricks in this temple was laid by the hard work and prayers of the people. We were able to collect Rs. 4.5 crore and the construction was completed in 2019,” he said. My only way of leaving a legacy is through these trees, Mr. Karuppiyah said. “I do not have children and someday, when someone resting under these trees thanks God for the shade in the scorching heat, I will be happy,” he added. When asked how many trees he has planted in total, Mr. Karuppiyah smiled. He plants a new set of trees every four to five years. “Last year alone, I planted 200 saplings. The funds for these come from local donors, contacts in the government departments and from Mr. Karuppiyah’s own pocket. “What do I need money or savings for? What I get for taking care of the temple, I give back,” he said.
31 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bulk testing to be carried out at industrial sites||The Health Department will carry out the second round of bulk testing at industrial sites as part of increasing RT-PCR tests for COVID-19. The first phase of testing of employees working in industries operating in Puducherry was carried out by the officials of the Department of Industries and Mobile Testing Team, Department of Health and Family Welfare Services. District Collector T. Arun issued an order stating that in line with the Government of India mandate to increase the testing for COVID-19, it has been decided to perform a second round of testing in government institutions / industrial establishments as a measure to keep continued check on the spread of COVID-19 infection in industrial work environments. According to the order, the Deputy Labour Commissioner, Labour Department, is to provide roster of factories to be visited along with the schedule. The Labour Department shall intimate the visit to the factories concerned and arrange for one Data Entry Operator for making entries, seating and other arrangements to the team. The Inspector of Factories and Medical Officer (Labour Department) shall co-ordinate with the Health Department Team. The Registrar, Mahatma Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Dental Sciences, Puducherry shall form six teams with a supervisor each to visit the industries and other institutions as per the daily roster.  The Deputy Labour Commissioner, Labour Department, is to provide a roster of factories to be visited, along with the schedule
31 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||PEC inks MoU to boost student innovation||The Atal Incubation Centre of the Pondicherry Engineering College Foundation has signed an industrial partnership with a city-based ocular devices company to stimulate student innovation. According to a press note, the MoU between AIC-PECF and Appasamy Ocular Devices established collaboration in a range of areas including joint research initiatives with respect to innovative technology and product solution and organising innovation challenges to identify potential innovators and hand hold them in scaling up their innovation. The agreement also involves industrial know-how and hands-on exposure to early stage entrepreneurs and student entrepreneurs, access to the company’s mass production facility where AIC-PECF Startup incubatees can realise their innovations into scalable products. Entrepreneurial mentoring, product development, validation technological and funding support are other areas. This MoU is considered as an important step taken ahead in engaging ecosystem stakeholders in Puducherry. The MoU was signed in the presence of R. N. Kasthuri, chairman, Appasamy Ocular Devices, Kannan, Director and R. Sundaramurthy, Executive Director – AIC-PECF and Operations team of AIC-Pondicherry Engineering College Foundation. Atal Incubation Centre - Pondicherry Engineering College Foundation (AIC-PECF) is fully supported and funded by Atal Innovation Mission (AIM), NITI Aayog, Government of India. AIC-PECF was initiated to provide a platform to assist and enable young entrepreneurs to initiate startups for the commercial exploitation of technologies developed by them, the press note said.
31 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||PIMS to offer OP services to recovered patients||The Pondicherry Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) will be running outpatient services specifically to cater to patients who have recovered from the COVID-19 infection. According to a press note, this followed reports of many recovered persons developing a range of medical and psychological problems such as chronic cough, shortness of breath, tiredness, sleep problems, depression and anxiety in the weeks following recovery from the illness.  Two days a week PIMS has so far admitted and treated more than 1,200 patients with COVID-19 and now plans to provide follow up OP care to these patients as well as others treated elsewhere. The clinic will run in the afternoons on Tuesdays and Fridays at the medicine outpatient department. A multidisciplinary team, comprising of doctors from general medicine, pulmonology, psychiatry and physiotherapy, will be available for addressing the possible problems of these recovered patients.
31 October 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Thevar Jayanthi passes off on a peaceful note in Ramanathpuram||Offering tributes at the ‘samadhi’ of Muthuramalinga Thevar at Pasumpon village, marking his 113th ‘Jayanthi’ and 58th guru puja on Friday, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said after M.G.Ramachandran became Chief Minister, Thevar Jayanthi celebration was being conducted as a function by the State government. In a brief interaction with media persons, he said the AIADMK had recognised the services of Muthuramalinga Thevar, who had fought along with leaders like Subash Chandra Bose against the British regime. As a parliamentarian and member of the Legislative Assembly too, his contributions were praiseworthy. He made a lot of sacrifices for the community that he spent at least one-fifth of his life time in prisons. Following the legacy of late MGR, the then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa installed a bronze statue of Thevar in Nandanam, Chennai in 1994, and in 2014, she ordered a 13.5 kg gold armour to cover Thevar statue at his samadhi. To a query on the executive order given by the State government on 7.5 % horizontal quota, he said there was neither a representation from the opposition parties nor from the public. The AIADMK govt. was committed to ensuring the welfare of the masses, he said. “I studied at a government school... I can understand the hardships of the students passing out of government-run schools.” He also said the order would come into effect from this year. In an apparent reference to DMK president M.K. Stalin, the CM said “some people are trying to make politics out of reservation, but the AIADMK had issued the G.O keeping in mind the future of the student community”. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Ministers R.B. Udayakumar, Sellur K. Raju, C. Vijaya Baskar, R. Kamaraj, G. Baskaran, O.S. Manian and MPs K.P.Munusami and O.P. Raveendranath Kumar, MLAs Manikandan and Sathan Prabhakar and former Minister Natham Viswanathan placed wreaths at the samadhi. Opposition leaders DMK president and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly M.K. Stalin paid tributes to Thevar by placing a wreath at the samadhi. He was accompanied by former Ministers I. Periasami, Suba Thangavelan, K.N. Nehru, Sattur Ramachandran and MLA Thangam Thennarasu. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Stalin said Thevar was very close to the downtrodden and served them till the end. On the allegation that the DMK was indulging in politics over the 7.5 % horizontal quota for government school students, he said only after the DMK’s agitation, did the government issued the order. “I had thanked the government yesterday itself. He also thanked the Governor,” he said. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader and MLA T.T.V. Dhinakaran, Pulavar Sevanthiappan (MDMK) and MLA Malaysia Pandian (Congress) also paid tributes. BJP State president L. Murugan, national secretary H. Raja, State Youth Wing president Vinoj and State vice-president Nainar Nagendran paid tributes.
31 October 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Crane hits Pamban rail bridge||A crane involved in the construction of a new Pamban rail bridge dashed against one of the pillars of the old railway bridge and this led to suspension of train services on the bridge in the small hours of Friday. The crane, which was installed on a floating structure drifted away due to strong wind and dashed against one of the pillars, according to a railway source. The accident is said to have occurred after 1 a.m. As a precautionary measure, the incoming Sethu Express from Chennai was stopped at Mandapam Railway station. However, after railway engineers inspected the bridge and certified its physical stability, train services resumed in the afternoon. In the evening, the train left Rameswaram and was operated over the Pamban bridge as usual.
31 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel undergo training in disaster rescue techniques||Police personnel from Salem City and Rural limits are undergoing training by disaster response force from Chennai to handle rescue operations, especially during the monsoon season. On Friday, police personnel from Salem City police underwent training at Puthueri Lake on rescue techniques during floods during North-East monsoon. An eight-member team from Commando Training School is conducting the training and mock drill for the personnel. About 60 personnel from city police and 55 from rural police underwent the training. They were given training on techniques in rescuing persons from buildings during the floods and how to bring them to safe shores. They were trained in methods to use life-jackets and rubber boats, police officials said. Officials added that personnel are also given training on using equipment like chainsaw, which could be used in situations requiring removal of trees. Officials said that police are also trained in providing first-aid. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger said that there are a few areas near Mettur dam which are vulnerable to floods and necessary safety precautions have been taken.
31 October 2020||THANAJVUR,TAMIL NADU||Demo for festival advance||Demonstrations demanding bonus and festival advance for transport corporation employees were held at three places in Thanjavur on Friday. The protest was jointly organised by labour unions affiliated to opposition parties in front of the State Express Transport Corporation depot near the Old Bus Stand and near the State Transport Corporation depots at Jabamalaipuram and Karanthattankudi in Kumbakonam. The demonstrators raised slogans demanding 25 percent bonus and disbursement of Rs. 10,000 as festival advance. They had also demanded that the bonus should be extended to all employees, including the daily wage workers and those who have completed 30 days of service. Disbursement of 15 months DA arrears was also demanded.
31 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Technical competitions held online||The Bon Secours College for Women, Thanjavur, has adopted the online route for conducting technical competitions. The College’s Department of Computer Applications christened its technical competitions as ‘online talent hunt’ Spanning over three days, the online talent hunt event also encompassed workshops and seminars. A technical session by S.J.Sathish Aeron Joseph, Head of Computer Applications, J.J.College of Arts and Science, Pudukottai, on the first day was followed by an online workshop on ‘Advanced Python Programming’ handled by Aavudaiappan of Pantech Solutions, Tiruchi. On the final day on Friday, an ‘International E-Seminar on Advanced Computing Techniques in Machine Learning and IOT (ACTMI’20) was held. A.Tony Ignatius, Senior Systems Engineer, IBM, USA, addressed the participants on ‘IOT enabling technologies’ and A. Arun Gnanaraj, Software Project Manager and Solutions Architect, Dubai, on ‘Recent Research Advances on Interactive Machine Learning’. Rev. Sr. Cathelina, Principal, and R. Gomathiyayam, Head, Department of Computer Applications, facilitated the participants to derive the utility of the programme.
31 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Schoolteacher convicted||P. Ansari, a teacher in Aviniyapuram Crescent Higher Secondary School, Thiruneelakudi, was pronounced guilty of joining service by producing ‘bogus’ certificates/documents and sentenced to three years rigorous imprisonment with fine by the Judicial Magistrate Court, Thiruvaiyaru. The CBCID police that took up for investigation the complaint lodged by the Chief Education Officer, Thanjavur, on January 11, 2002, with the Thiruneelakudi police that Ansari and another person M.P. Aameena had joined the service by producing forged documents, filed charge sheets against Ansari, Aameena and two others Stephan and Kannaiah, who had reportedly assisted the duo in obtaining bogus. During the course of the hearing, Aameena and Kannaian passed away. Based on the evidence, the Judicial Magistrate Court Thiruvaiyaru declared that Ansari and Stephan had committed the crime and also imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000.
31 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Webinar for students on ‘Think Big’||Students learnt to draw inspiration and motivation from positive peer influence at a webinar organised by the Inner Wheel Club of Tanjore. Hundreds of students from SASTRA Deemed to be a University participated in the webinar on the topic ‘Think Big’ addressed by Brinda, Associate Professor, SASTRA, and other eminent persons. They cautioned students against getting deceived by the thought that colleges were meant for enjoyment, and urged them to stay focussed on knowledge acquisition. Instead of being carried away by the negative impact, the students should consider only those who could inspire and motivate them positively as their peers, the speakers emphasised. Stating that the programme would set a new benchmark in the history of Inner Wheel Clubs, Nirmala Venkatesan, president, IWC, hoped that all other IWCs in Inner Wheel District 298 would also follow suit for betterment of younger generation.
31 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Implement pension scheme’||The Grama Kovil Pujarigal Peravai has urged the Tamil Nadu government to implement the pension scheme for village temple priests as announced by the former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Addressing a consultation meeting of the peravai members in Thanjavur district at Kumbakonam on Thursday, the peravai founder, S. Vedhantham said that after late Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi formed a welfare board for Grama Kovil Pujaris, his successor the late Jayalalithaa had announced that village temple priests would be provided with Rs. 3000 as pension every month. But, the announcement remains on paper, he said and added that the government should extend Rs. 72,000 as annual salary to extricate them from penury. Mr. Krishnasami, deputy president, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, and others participated in the meeting.
31 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Holy flagmast installed||A new 60-feet high holy flagmast was installed at Sri Sarangapani temple, Kumbakonam, on Friday. The new mast weighing around 2.50 tonnes replaces the old dilapidated one that was installed at the temple during 1937. The teak wood for the mast was imported from Malaysia last year and chiselled according to the silpa sastra on the temple premises. Ravinarayanan of Bengaluru, a member of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam Trustee Board, sponsored the entire cost of installation Rs. 25 lakh, according to the temple authorities.
31 October 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Delayed onset of monsoon has salt producers elated||While the delay in the onset of northeast monsoon has in fact angered the farming community, salt producers here are elated as they could extend the current season for three more weeks to achieve annual production of 21.25 lakh tonnes. Since procurement price of salt is also very decent this year, the salt producers are really jubilant. As the northeast monsoon usually commences in October, the salt producers used to wind-up their operations by September every year and stock their produce to be sold till mid-January. Salt producers having their pans in Veppalodai, Tharuvaikulam, Ayyanarpuram, Muthaiahpuram, Mullakkaadu, Arumuganeri areas would either wait for bulk orders between September and January or go in for value addition like iodization, packeting etc during this period with an eye on getting more price for their product. Though the period between January and September is the ‘salt production season’, the pandemic seriously affected production in March last for a week. However, like farming, salt industry too resumed operations that went on smoothly till September-end with sunny days and strong winds that are important for increased salt production. Even as salt producers were thinking that the season would close by September-end, delay in start of monsoon gave them three more weeks of production. With the extended season, the district has so far produced 21.25 lakh tonnes of salt till third week of October. Secretary of Small Scale Salt Producers’ Association, A.R.A.S. Dhanapalan, said the increased production of salt was due to the steps taken by Collector Sandeep Nandur during the lockdown in March. “When police stopped the workers and the producers from going to saltpans during the lockdown, the Collector came to our rescue saying that supply of salt, an essential commodity, should not get affected. Hence, we could achieve 85% of our capacity, which was 17.50 lakh tonne last year. We’ve already sold 14 lakh tonnes of salt and 7.25 lakh tonnes of salt is stored in the pans,” Mr. Dhanapalan said. Salt price is also on an encouraging note this year as a tonne of salt was being sold anywhere between Rs. 1,200 and Rs. 1,700 based on the quality. “The increased production and decent price this year will help us settle any outstanding. We’re quite satisfied with the season this year,” said A. Antony Dhanaraj, a salt producer having saltpans near Tharuvaikulam.
31 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||RPF bolsters safety of lone women train passengers||The Railway Protection Force of Tiruchi Division has begun implementing 'My Saheli', a pro-active initiative aimed at enhancing safety of women passengers travelling alone in express trains throughout their journey till their destination. The initiative has been put in place consequent to a direction from the RPF headquarters at New Delhi. A separate team comprising RPF Woman Sub Inspector and a couple of Constables has been constituted in Tiruchi Junction to implement the initiative for trains originating from here. In respect of trains originating from other places in Tiruchi Division and where there were no RPF women personnel, the RPF male staff in uniform were performing the task. Under this initiative which was put in place in Tiruchi Division a few days ago, the RPF team would access the passenger reservation chart well in advance to find out details of women passengers travelling alone in express trains. Presently, all express trains were being operated only with reserved compartments during the COVID-19 pandemic. The team would approach the women passengers concerned travelling alone and inform them about the RPF Security Helpline number '182' to contact in case of any emergency situation besides building confidence in them that their safety would be ensured during their journey till their destination. The team would note down the seat number and the coach number in which women passengers were found travelling alone and pass on the same information to the RPF Divisional Security Control room at Tiruchi, RPF officers told The Hindu . The team would also ascertain from such women passengers about the destination station in which they were going to alight. The information from the security control room would be passed on to the RPF personnel deployed in stations in which the express trains would halt enroute to ensure that women passengers travelling alone were safe. The information was being uploaded in a google excel sheet for other railway divisions and zones to access them. The officers say personal information including the name of the passenger would not be sought from the women passengers. The team had been circulating pamphlets containing the RPF Security Helpline Number 182 during such interactions with the passengers to sensitise them about the facility that could be made use of in case they felt insecure during the journey. The initiative was being implemented in trains including the Tiruchi - Chennai - Tiruchi special train that is operated on the mainline section via Thanjavur, Kumbakonam and Mayiladuthurai; Mayiladuthurai - Mysore - Mayiladuthurai Jan Shatabdhi expresses; Karaikal - Ernakulam- Karaikal expresses and Tiruchi - Howrah- Tiruchi expresses, say the officers. The 'My Saheli ' initiative has been put in place in all the zonal railways across the country on the direction of the Director General, RPF, say the officers. Upon alighting at the destination station, the women passengers would be asked by the RPF team in that station about their travel and if they had encountered any disturbance or harassment during the course of their journey. Feedback would also be ascertained from them about the security aspect and corrective measures taken if any unsatisfactory feedback came through, a senior RPF officer said. The same procedure would be followed by the RPF teams of other zones and divisions for trains coming to Tiruchi Junction or to stations falling under the Tiruchi Division. RPF officers say escort teams were being deployed on board express trains originating from Tiruchi Division. The train escort system has been resumed ever since the rail services recommenced during the current lockdown period.
31 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||211 fresh cases, seven deaths in central region||The central districts on Friday recorded a further drop in COVID-19 cases with 211 patients testing positive for the viral infection. Seven deaths - three in Thanjavur, two in Tiruvarur and two in Nagapattinam were reported. A 51-year-old man who suffered an acute respiratory distress syndrome, and a 65-year-old man and a 76-year-old woman, both with comorbidity of diabetes, succumbed to the infection in Thanjavur. A 50-year-old man and a 70-year-old woman, both with a preexisting condition of diabetes, died in Tiruvarur while in Nagapattinam, a 60-year-old woman succumbed to the infection.  47 test positive A total of 47 patients tested positive in Thanjavur, even while continuing its record of reporting the highest number of cases in the district. In Tiruvrur, 37 patients tested positive while 34 new cases were reported in Tiruchi, among whom many were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. Meanwhile, a total of 31 patients who were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Friday. A total of 34 fresh COVID cases were reported in Nagapattinam district too. Patients in the district were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. In Karur, 27 fresh cases were recorded, among whom were residents of Tharagampadi, Thanthonrimalai and Vennamallai. Travellers from Tiruchi and Namakkal also tested positive. Pudukottai reported a significant drop with only 19 patients testing positive on Friday. Among them, 19 were inter-district travellers, primary contacts and patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses. A total of eight patients tested positive in Ariyalur, of whom two hailed from Ariyalur, two from Thirumanur, one from Sendhurai, one from Andimadam and two from Jayankondam block in the district. Meanwhile, in Perambalur, five patients tested positive. Of the five, two hailed from the Perambalur block, one from Veppanthattai, two from Veppur blocks. Meanwhile, 364 fresh throat swabs were lifted and sent for testing in the district.
31 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Workshop overhauls DEMU diesel power cars||The over 80-year-old Golden Rock Railway Workshop here has ventured into a new activity of overhauling Diesel Power Car (DPC) that hauls DEMU (Diesel Electric Multiple Unit) trains. The Railway Board, New Delhi, has allotted 10 DPCs to the workshop to carry out major overhauling during the year 2020-21 fiscal. Among the 10 DPCs, three pertain to the Tiruchi Railway Division which had been operating DEMU trains in various sections before the lockdown was announced. The workshop had received one DPC from Tiruchi Division during September for overhauling and completed the task within a month. This is the first time that the workshop had carried out overhauling of a DPC, its Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram told The Hindu . The Tiruchi Division had been sending the DPCs to the Loco Works at Perambur in Chennai for major overhauling all these years. Mr. Shyamadhar Ram said DPCs from Bengaluru and Konkan Railway would be sent to the workshop in the coming months for overhauling. The core activities of the workshop had been to carry out periodic overhauling of broad gauge diesel locomotives and passenger coaches besides manufacture of container wagons for the Container Corporation of India and overhauling and manufacture of steam locomotives being operated in the hilly Nilgiri Mountain Railway section. Mr. Shyamadhar Ram said the workshop equipped itself with necessary infrastructure requirements to take up the new activity and all test stands were developed in-house for overhauling the first DPC belonging to Tiruchi Division. A host of works were carried in the first overhauled DPC. As part of the overhauling work, all control system rubber cables in the driver's cabin were replaced with E beam cables for improved reliability. The CFL-type tube lights in the passenger seating area were replaced with energy efficient LED lights for better illumination. The exterior colour of the DPC has been changed with a new scheme for aesthetic look and its front lookout glasses completely renewed for perfect visibility, Mr. Shyamadhar Ram said. The first overhauled DPC is to be flagged off at the workshop premises on Saturday.
31 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested||The city police on Friday arrested four persons on the charge of kidnapping a 12-year-boy here on Thursday. Special teams were on the lookout for two more persons who are alleged to be involved in the kidnap. Police sources said the boy was kidnapped by the gang to extract money from his family. Those arrested were Manickapandian, Saravanan, Selvakumar and Sathishbabu. A car-borne gang which had kidnapped the boy on Thursday evening abandoned the minor and the vehicle a few hours later after chased by the police. The boy was rescued and the vehicle confiscated. Video grabs generated from the surveillance cameras enabled the police in determining the colour of the vehicle and its model based on which the action by the police began to apprehend the kidnappers and to rescue the boy.
31 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||Water level at Mettur dam stood at 100.3 feet on Friday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 7,680 cusecs and the discharge 12,000 cusecs.
31 October 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Aippasi festival to be held as usual||The administration of Swami Nellaiyappar – Gandhimathi Ambal Temple here has decided to conduct the ‘Aippasi festival’ as usual following protest by devotees with the backing of various Hindu outfits here on Friday. However, the procession will be conducted inside the temple. Usually, it is conducted along all the four Car Streets. After the administration of Swami Nellaiyappar – Gandhimathi Ambal Temple here decided to put on hold the ‘Aippasi festival’ including the celestial wedding in view of the pandemic situation as it would attract huge crowd, devotees backed by Hindu Munnani and other Hindu outfits announced that they would stage a dharna near the flag-mast on the temple premises and chant continuously ‘Ohm Namasivaaya’ on Friday till permission was granted. Since, the protesting devotees, through social media, made an appeal to all political parties to support their agitation like the support extended by the political parties to Christians after 86 cemeteries were vandalised by miscreants, MDMK’s Tirunelveli City district secretary K.M.A. Nizam and office-bearers of Naam Thamizhar Katchi and Samaththuva Makkal Katchi too joined them even as they were staging a dharna. This forced the temple authorities to hold talks with the devotees. Led by Tahsildar of Tirunelveli, Bhagavathi Perumal, the officials including Assistant Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Shankar, and Assistant Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli, Satish Kumar, held talks with the protesting devotees, who were firm in their demand that the ‘Aippasi festival’ – right from flag hoisting to procession of Swami and Ambal around the temple – would be conducted as being done in the past. After prolonged talks, the officials agreed to conduct all rituals as usual right from flag hoisting on Saturday (October 31). However, the procession of Swami and Ambal would be conducted inside the temple to avert mobilisation of huge crowd. Instead, Swami and Ambal would be brought to the main entrance of the shrine during the procession to enable the devotees to have a dharshan, the officials said. Accepting it, the devotees gave up the agitation and disbursed.
31 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Centre may reconsider decision, says Minister||The Central Government, which has nominated surgical oncologist and ABVP’s national president Shanmugam Subbiah as one of the board members of AIIMS, Madurai, may take appropriate action if the charges against him are brought to its notice, Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju said. He added that his appointment should be reconsidered if the charges against him are true. “If the matter [harassment charges by an elderly woman against Dr. Subbiah] is brought to the knowledge of the Centre, which has handpicked him for the AIIMS Madurai board, it will take appropriate action against him,” Mr. Raju said, after garlanding the statue of Muthuramalinga Thevar in Kovilpatti, on Friday, marking his 113th birthday. Dr. Subbiah was in the news recently after he allegedly urinated at the doorstep of his neighbor, following a dispute over parking of his car.
31 October 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||MSU submits Rs. 10.20-cr. proposal to augment research facilities||The Manonmaniam Sundaranar University has submitted a proposal for Rs. 10.20 crore to the Department of Science and Technology (DST) under its Promotion of University Research and Scientific Excellence (PURSE) programme to fine-tune and augment existing research facilities. Under the PURSE programme, DST intends to provide support to performing universities across the country essentially for research man-power cost, augmentation of equipment and computational facilities, research consumables, organization of scientific conferences / workshops, travel and maintenance of the facilities. Hence, the MSU has submitted the Rs. 10.20 crore-worth proposal to take its research activities to the next level, K. Pitchumani, Vice-Chancellor, MSU, informed in the 51st Standing Committee on Academic Affairs (SCAA) meet held here on Thursday in which good number of the members participated remotely. Since, the MSU is pursuing research activities in the fields of biotechnology, geo technology, marine biology, information technology, the Central assistance, if sanctioned, will catalyse the researches in a big way. The Vice-Chancellor informed that 147 teachers of MSU and 262 teachers of the affiliated colleges underwent a week-long training on online teaching, which was offered by the Department of Science and Technology. Since the pandemic situation had forced the teachers to rely on the online platform for conducting classes, the training module designed by the DST was very much helpful for the teachers, he said. Dr. Pitchumani said the Department of Information and Broadcasting had given its nod for starting the production of content for ‘Gyanvani Educational Service’ through the Department of Communication of MSU. “Infrastructure required for this ambitious project is being created on an outlay of Rs. 20 lakh,” he said. The Vice-Chancellor lauded the teachers for having successfully conducted the online semester examination and timely completion of the valuation of answer scripts and informed that work on the Central Instrumentation Facility would commence on the MSU premises shortly.  The SCAA meeting gave its nod for additional diploma courses to be offered by the MSU and the affiliated colleges. Moreover, the Bachelor of Arts programmes being offered by MSU would have a separate papers for ‘Professional English’ in the first two semesters. “These programmes will equip the students with employable skills and transform them into entrepreneurs,” Dr. Pitchumani said.
31 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Child dies after mother feeds cow dung powder||A 24-year-old woman fed water mixed with synthetic cow dung powder to her two daughters, aged six and one, before consuming it on Thursday. The one-year-old died. According to police, the woman was living with her daughters near Avinashi. Her husband, a construction worker, was staying elsewhere. The woman was said to be depressed after the death of a relative early this month. No financial or family issues were identified during the investigation, the police said . A relative of her husband, who visited the house on Thursday evening, rushed the three to a private hospital at Thirumuruganpoondi. However, the one-year-old died before reaching the hospital. The condition of the woman and the older child was said to stable on Friday. The Avinashi police registered a case under Sections 302 (Punishment for murder) read with 309 (Attempt to commit suicide) of the Indian Penal Code against the woman. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
31 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Cardiologist, son washed away in river||A cardiologist and his son were washed away in River Amaravathi near Udumalpet on Friday. Police said that N. Jothilingam (42), a cardiologist at a government hospital in Chennai, along with his children Sarweshwar Raja (11) and 14-year-old daughter reached his hometown Kaniyur near Udumalpet on Thursday. On Friday afternoon, the three visited a temple near the river and the children decided to take a dip. The girl was caught in the water current and she was rescued by her brother. After the rescue, the boy was pulled by the current and the father stepped in to rescue him. However, the two were washed away. The bodies were fished out by personnel from the Fire Station and sent to Udumalpet Government Hospital for autopsy.
31 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Landscape challenge mars probe into wildlife crimes in the Nilgiris||Over the last few years, the Gudalur forest division has emerged as one of the most difficult landscapes to manage in the Nilgiris in terms of preventing wildlife crimes, forest department officials say. Since 2018, there have been multiple deaths of elephants caused by country-made explosives to the more recent use of improvised projectiles to cause injuries to a tusker and a leopard. The officials claim that till date, the people responsible for these deaths are yet to be arrested, due to the unique challenges posed by the landscape that limits the scope of investigation. Forest officials who have worked in the landscape told The Hindu that the Gudalur Forest Division posed serious challenges that were not seen anywhere else in the State. “In Gudalur, the landscape is such that boundaries between human settlements and forests are not well-defined. Moreover, wildlife presence outside the forests is also extremely high, meaning people have more interactions with wildlife,” said one of the officials. Contiguous with Nilambur and Wayanad (both in Kerala), and used by elephants to make their way to the Mukurthi National Park from the Sigur plateau, the division is surrounded by districts that are known to be awash with both legal and illegal firearms, says a conservationist familiar with the landscape. Another hurdle to the investigation is the difficulty in identifying the precise crime spot. “As both the forests and habitations are not well defined, an animal that was poisoned or injured in one location can move several kilometres away from the site where the offence occurred before dying. This makes it almost impossible to pinpoint the accused without collecting evidence,” says a forest official. “The prevalence of legal firearms in the surrounding regions means that ammunition too is available freely, which invariably is sometimes used to hunt wildlife,” he says. N. Mohanraj, a Nilgiris-based conservationist, says the Gudalur forest division requires more support from the government. “First, there needs to be stronger financial support for the division. More anti-poaching watcher camps and quick dispensation of compensation to farmers and livestock owners is required to prevent an antagonistic relationship between humans and wildlife,” he said. Forest officials suspect that the motive for the shooting of the elephant and the leopard could be in retaliation to the problematic interactions, such as crop-raiding or cattle lifting. If farmers and livestock owners can be assured that they will be compensated in a timely manner, they will not take matters into their own hands and retaliate, says another conservationist.
31 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac outlets raided for overcharging consumers||For the first time, sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) raided three Tasmac shops in Vellore district, based on information that liquor was being sold at a higher cost than the maximum retail price printed on the label and in the black market, and seized unaccounted money from the shops on Friday. As part of the Vigilance Week celebrations, the DVAC’s Vellore wing had advertised the complaint numbers across the district. Seeing this, many people called up and provided information on liquor being sold at a higher price in three Tasmac shops and in the black market before and after the shops were closed. The team, headed by DVAC Deputy Superintendent of Police K.S. Hemachitra, inspectors S. Vijay, M. Rajnikanth and S. Vijayalakshmi and 15 other personnel raided the shops numbered 11340 and 11120 in Penathur on the road leading to Amirithi and shop number 11111 near the old bus stand. They inspected documents and accounts of the shops from 8 p.m. on Thursday to 7 a.m. on Friday. “Since it is a dry day on Friday due to Milad-Un- Nabi, we got information that alcohol was being sold in black. While beer was charged Rs. 10 more than the MRP, Rs. 5 extra was collected for other types of liquor. When we checked the accounts, we found that during the regular sales itself overcharging was done,” said a DVAC source. On average, each shop made anywhere around Rs. 6 lakh to Rs. 7 lakh in sales a day. “Apart from this, around Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000 is earned due to over pricing and selling in black. During the raid, we seized Rs. 60,000 from the three shops together,” added the source. Employees’ plea Sources from the Tasmac employees’ association condemned sale of liquor in black, but wanted the government to create an atmosphere, like in Kerala, which discouraged MRP violation. “The cost of broken bottles should be borne by the government like in Kerala. Here, the staff have to bear it. Besides, EB bill is paid by the staff first and then claimed as very few shops have direct meter connection,” said a member. He said that the staff in Kerala were well paid and got all allowances. “A supervisor there gets Rs. 40,000 as salary, here it is Rs. 11,000. Most of those working in Tasmac shops are contract employees. Besides, Tasmac should ensure a queue system and billing too,” he added.
31 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||VIT engineering subjects among top eight in India||Engineering and technology subjects at the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) have been ranked among the top eight universities in India and among the top 501-600 universities in the world, according to the recently-released World University Rankings by Subject 2021 by the Times Higher Education (THE), U.K. According to a release from the varsity, the subjects are general engineering, electrical and electronic engineering, mechanical engineering, civil engineering, and chemical engineering. The VIT computer science course is ranked among the four universities in India, and in the band of 30-400 universities of the world in the ranking. The weightage for subject rankings (in computer science and engineering and technology) are teaching (learning environment) 30%, research (volume, income and reputation) 30%, citations (research influence) 27.5%, international outlook (staff, students and research) 7.5% and industry income (innovation) 5%, the release said. The ranking uses 13 calibrated performance indicators to provide the most comprehensive and balanced comparisons, and all data are independently audited by professional services firms.  The ranking uses 13 performance indicators to provide balanced comparisons
31 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Contribution of elders to society praised||The Government Vellore Medical College and Hospital (GVMCH) celebrated the United Nations International Day for Older Persons on the hospital premises on Thursday. The theme of the event was “Pandemics - do they change how we address age and ageing.” The importance of elderly and their contribution to their families, communities and societies was emphasised. R. Selvi, dean, GVMCH, inaugurated the event. “Every year, October 1 is observed as the International Day for Older Persons by the United Nations. This year marks the 30th anniversary of the same and marks the launch of the decade of healthy ageing (2020-2030),” said Bijin Oliver John , assistant professor of Geriatric Medicine, GVMCH. He said that during the event 70-year-old Pitchandi, who was infected with COVID-19 and admitted in Government Vellore Medical College Hospital and recovered completely, shared his views on how to maintain fitness and health in old age by proper exercise and diet. “A pledge emphasising the need for care and protection of elderly was undertaken by the dean and all healthcare workers of the hospital. This event marks the beginning of other programmes planned to launch the decade of healthy ageing,” added Dr. Bijin Oliver John. R. Rajavelu, medical superintendent; Mohammad Ghani, vice-principal; Inbaraj, resident medical officer; and S.P. Kumaresan, professor and head of the Department of General Medicine and Geriatric Medicine Unit, took part in the event.
31 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||61 new cases in Vellore district||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 17,834 with 61 new cases reported on October 30. While 17,116 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district is 413. The death toll stands at 305. In Ranipet district, 34 cases were reported positive, taking the total to 14,822. In Tirupathur, the total number of positive cases stood at 6,612 with 27 new cases on Friday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 63 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 17,563. Out of this, 16,952 have been discharged and there are 350 active cases.
31 October 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Domestic workers asked to register with welfare board||Department of Labour has asked domestic helps to register themselves with Domestic Workers’ Welfare Board through the website of Tamil Nadu Unorganised Workers’ Welfare Board. In a statement, Assistant Director (Social Security Scheme), Hema, has said that the workers can login on to the websitewww.tnuwwb.inand register themselves under the Domestic Workers’ Welfare Board. Workers who have already registered themselves can use the same website for renewal. The workers should upload their age proof, family card (smart card), Aadhar, community certificate, mobile phone and savings bank account. Eligible workers would be registered within 30 days of uploading their details and the message would be delivered to them through short messaging service. The statement added that the workers can then download their identity card of the welfare board from the website. Domestic workers can avail various benefits upon registering their names with the website.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Governor grants assent to quota Bill||In his reply, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said Article 15 [5] of the Constitution “specifically provides that the State is empowered to make a special provision by law for the advancement of any socially or educationally backward classes of citizens insofar as such special provisions relate to admission to educational institutions, including private educational institutions whether aided or unaided by the State”. He said Article 14 provides for equality before law and equal protection of law within the territory of India. "It is settled law the equality code under the Indian Constitution provides for an equal treatment among equals and allows unequal treatment amongst unequals". He said the permissibility of differential treatment to a socially and educationally backward class is premised on the basis of the principles under Article 14 that "permits classification on the basis of intelligible differentia and rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved". In this case, the Solicitor-General said, the identification of such a socially and backward class has been supported by a report of a commission (under the chairmanship of retired Justice P. Kalaiyarasan). "The said intelligible differentia would enable the State to make provisions of affirmative action to such identifiable socially and educationally backward class". He said this might be subject to rigours of judicial review and other constitutional principles that entailed an upper limit of reserved posts or seats in a given exam as well as the principles laid down by the Supreme Court in Ashok Kumar Thakur vs Union of India (2008). Addressing journalists after the Chief Minister met the Governor, Mr. Jayakumar said the admission process would start this year itself. “The Health Department is taking necessary steps. Very soon, you can expect it [counselling]. The government’s intention is to provide the reservation from this year itself,” the Minister said. He said it was governments headed by the AIADMK, at different points of time, that had taken steps to provide the highest quantum of reservation in medical admissions. “In the last nine years alone, we have created 3,050 seats. After Mr. Palaniswami took over as Chief Minister, 1,940 seats have been created. During the DMK regime, between 2006 and 2011, only 300 seats were created,” he said.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four die in road accident at Kangeyam||Four persons were killed in a road accident at Kangeyam here on Friday morning. Police said that three businessmen from Karnataka – Paramesh (42), Halesh (38) and Mohanaji (29) – were heading to Theni to purchase equipment. While they were travelling via Kangeyam, driver Afsar Ali fell asleep and their car first hit a two-wheeler and then a truck. The two-wheeler rider, Balan (37), died on the spot. Kalaivani (42), who was riding pillion, and the four car passengers suffered multiple injuries and were rushed to hospitals in Kangeyam and Erode. Paramesh, Halesh and Mohanaji died during treatment. Kangeyam police have registered a case against the car driver.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for illegally obtaining RC smart cards||The District Crime Branch on Friday arrested a man on charges of illegally obtaining registration certificate (RC) smart cards for nine vehicles at Pollachi Regional Transport Office. The police said in a release that the accused, Angulingam, under the pretext of assisting four-wheeler owners in completing various formalities at the office, stole the usernames and passwords of the RC smart cards of the nine vehicles from the computers. Using these, he obtained new RC smart cards which were registered in his name as well as in the name of his wife and brother. Based on a complaint from the Regional Transport Officer (Pollachi), the District Crime Branch registered a case and arrested Angulingam at Nallur near Tiruppur. Two men washed away Two men were washed away in River Noyyal near Thondamuthur on Friday. The police said that N. Tamilselvan (31) and B. Prabhakaran (29) fell into the river whey they attempted to take a photo close to it around 5.45 p.m.. Fire service personnel recovered their bodies.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reflection of normalcy||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In the wilderness||
31 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||BJP leaders considering a compromise in plan to avoid voting in bank polls||It seems that the BJP leaders in Belagavi district are considering a compromise in their plans to avoid voting in the District Central Cooperative Bank elections. They may have to form alliances with Congress leaders to ensure that their nominees win unopposed. BJP leaders Balachandra Jarkiholi, Laxman Savadi and Umesh Katti tasked with ensuring smooth elections to the bank are facing eight additional candidates for the post of 16 directors in the bank. The competitors include three from the taluks and five in the allied sector constituencies. Party leaders have been holding a series of meetings to convince candidates of the need to withdraw from the elections to director posts now, and for electing the chairman and the vice-chairman of the bank, later. On Thursday, BJP senior leaders held a joint press conference in a private hotel owned by Mr. Katti to say that they had buried their differences and that they would remain united for the next two decades. As the press conference ended, BJP leaders, however, remained closeted in a meeting hall at the hotel for hours. BJP leaders say that their biggest challenge is in Khanapur where Congress MLA Anjali Nimbalkar has entered the fray against her political rival and Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti leader Arvind Patil. “Both are adamant that they will not withdraw. But we need to convince one of them to leave the field,” said a BJP leader who is involved in the negotiations. If Mr. Patil moves out, Dr Nimbalkar would become the first woman director of the 102-year-old prime lending institution in North Karnataka. She would also be the lone Congress member in the bank. Mr. Savadi and the Katti brothers are considered traditional rivals in the district cooperative sector. In 2015, Ramesh Katti, former MP and brother of Umesh Katti, won over Mr. Savadi by one vote. The clout of the Katti brothers is said to hold sway across parties and they seem to enjoy the tacit support of the Jarkiholi brothers. Mr. Savadi looks to the Sangh Parivar affiliated Sahakara Bharati for guidance. He is supported by MP Anna Saheb Jolle and MLA Mahantesh Dodagoudar. Dr. Nimbalkar’s nomination is seen as a move by Congress leader Satish Jarkiholi to plant a loyalist in the bank. Mr. Patil is a known loyalist of Mr. Savadi. “Messages are being sent regularly to Mr. Satish Jarkiholi and Mr. Savadi to talk to their candidates and see whether they are willing to take a foot backwards. But there are no clear signals,” the BJP leader said. Guru Metgud, who had filed his nomination paper from Bailhongal, announced that he would withdraw from the race to enable the unanimous election of Satish Kadadi, son of Eeranna Kadadi, BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member. “There are multiple candidates from Ramdurg, but they can be easily talked into quitting,’’ said another leader. Withdrawal of nomination papers is scheduled for Saturday. Polling, if needed, will be held on November 6.  On Thursday, senior party leaders held a joint press conference in a private hotel to say that they had buried their differences but they remained closeted in a meeting hall at the hotel for hours after the press conference ended
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A dusty turf battle in the dryland of Sira||The dry and dusty region of Sira in Tumakuru has been witnessing an interesting political battle as the traditional rivals in the Vokkaliga heartland — the Congress and the JD(S) — are sweating it out even as the BJP is trying to wrest the seat. A mini-battle over the Vokkaliga leadership is unfolding here between JD(S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar. Meanwhile, fresh from victory at K.R. Pete in Mandya, the BJP, which has never won in Sira, is looking to repeat its feat there. The byelection here was necessitated by the death of JD(S) legislator B. Sathyanarayana. Initial setback The JD(S) suffered initial setbacks with many of its local leaders deserting it as the top leaders dithered on candidate selection. The party finally announced ticket for Ammajamma, the wife of the late legislator who reluctantly agreed to contest. On the other hand, the Congress announced T.B. Jayachandra as its candidate early on while the BJP candidate, Rajesh Gowda, son of former MP for Chitradurga Moodalgiriyappa, started election work even before the party announced his candidature. While the JD(S) is banking on sympathy votes for Ammajamma, especially from women, it is also hoping that the presence of Mr. Deve Gowda will swing the community votes. People could be particularly sympathetic to Mr. Gowda, who had a rather humiliating defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Tumakuru, party sources said. On the other hand, the Congress is projecting the work of Mr. Jayachandra, especially those related to water, as an important issue in this water-starved constituency. The faction-ridden Tumakuru Congress has united behind the former Minister, much to his relief. The BJP, which has deployed a large battalion of leaders, including B.Y. Vijayendra, son of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, has been talking of the absence of development over decades and is seeking a chance for its candidate. It looks to be a daunting task for the saffron party, which received just about 2% and 9.5% of the total votes polled in 2013 and 2018, respectively. However, the K.R. Pete experience shows that the BJP increased its vote share from just 5.6% in the 2018 elections to 39.41% in the 2019 bypolls. In the 2008 and 2013 Assembly elections in Sira, the Congress recorded 45% and 46% of the vote share, respectively; it dropped to 36% in 2018. The JD(S) had a 41% vote share in 2018, up from about 35% in 2013. “The BJP may not be able to get such a huge swing in Sira. Mr. Deve Gowda’s active role in this election could stem those hopes. The BJP, however, is likely to improve in vote share this election,” a local leader said. Sources in the Congress said that unlike the JD(S) and BJP, they have not been able to do as much micro-level campaigning across four hoblis, which could turn out to be an issue. “The personal touch always works well,” a Congress source said. Caste issues In 2018, 84.31% of the voters turned up at the polling stations. Under the gloom of the pandemic, parties are keeping fingers crossed about voter turnout. “Development works and water are important issues. However, the caste matrix and emotional appeals could make a big difference,” a leader said. All three candidates from the major parties in the fray are Kunchitiga Vokkaligas.
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli violence case: Ex-mayor absconding||Former mayor R. Sampath Raj, who was named in the charge sheet in the D.J. Halli riots case, is allegedly absconding after being discharged from a private hospital where he had been treated for COVID-19. Sleuths from the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police have launched a drive to track him down and arrest him. The CCB had filed an interim charge sheet on October 12, in which they had described R. Sampath Raj as an absconding accused. The charge sheet claims he was part of the conspiracy in the violence on the night of August 11 in which the house of Pulikeshinagar MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy was set on fire. Days before the charge sheet was filed, Sampath Raj had failed to respond to two summons to present himself for interrogation, prompting the CCB to call him an “absconding accused”. However, he had tested positive for COVID-19 and was under treatment in a private hospital. When alerted of this development, the CCB had served a notice to the hospital management asking to be intimated before Mr. Raj was discharged. On Friday, the CCB learnt that Mr. Raj had been discharged on October 14, and the hospital had not informed them about the same. Mr. Raj’s house is locked. He and his family members are incommunicado. “His associates claim that he is being treated in the hospital, but that is not true,” said a police official. The police are searching for the former mayor and said he will be arrested soon. As the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over the probe, they have also been searching for Mr. Raj, sources said. Meanwhile, the CCB has served another notice to the hospital management for not abiding by its earlier notice asking to be intimated of Mr. Raj’s discharge.  His associates claim that he is being treated in the hospital, but that is not true A police official
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Norms for Rajyotsava||While the campaign in the run-up to the bypolls is seeing several violations of the COVID-19 protocol, there are fears that the Rajyotsava celebrations on November 1 might also see more congregations. In light of this, the State government has issued guidelines for maintaining social distancing during the hoisting of the flag on Karnataka Rajyotsava Day on Sunday and has permitted the participation of a maximum of 100 people at various functions. All organisers have been told to keep sanitisers at the venue and to ensure that participants wear masks and maintain social distancing during the flag-hoisting ceremony and other events during the day. There is a ban on taking out any kind of procession. Guidelines issued by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar have asked all organisations to hold a minimum number of cultural events with limited participants. Permission from local authorities is mandatory for such programmes. The organisers of Rajyotsava events are to discourage the participation of those prone to infection, including senior citizens, children and those with co-morbidities. The guidelines warn of action under the Disaster Management Act against those who flout the norms.
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Water woes on campaign trail||In water-starved Sira, much of the talk ahead of the bypolls has been around what political parties have done or plan to do to quench the thirst of the locals. Congress candidate T.B. Jayachandra has been talking about the work he took up to provide water during 2013-18 as Minister, especially the completion of work on 108 barrages out of 121 in the taluk and the bringing of drinking water from Hemavathi reservoir. He has also said the latter move was opposed by JD(S) leaders. Picking up the theme of water, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, campaigning in Sira on Friday, countered Mr. Jayachandra, arguing that it was he who had released funds to build canals to bring water to the taluk, during his earlier tenure as Chief Minister. While Hemavathi waters have been diverted to fill the Sira and Kallambella tanks, Madlur tank, in the same series of tanks, is yet to be filled up. Mr. Yediyurappa assured the voters that he would immediately order that the tank be filled up. Meanwhile, on Friday, former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy threatened to take out a padayatra from Sira to Bengaluru if the State government failed to fill 65 tanks in the taluks as promised. Addressing a rally in Sira, he said that he had approved a Rs. 850-crore project to tide over the water crisis during 2006, and that the DPR was ready when he stepped down. The project was not taken up by successive governments, he claimed. He also clarified that 19 tmcft of water to Tumakuru, Kolar, Chickballapur, and Chitradurga was being drawn through the Upper Bhadra project since adequate water was not available in Hemavathi river. This statement gains significance in light of the JD(S) facing flak for allegedly not allowing water supply from Hemavathi river.
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||History being replaced by mythology: Shah||Veteran actor Naseeruddin Shah called for people to fight for their right to democratic dissent, which, he said, is increasingly being interpreted as sedition at a time when history is being replaced by mythology. He was speaking at the virtual release of Halla Bol: Safdar Hashmi Savu Mattu Baduku, a Kannada translation of Sudhanva Deshpande’s book on the playwright and director Safdar Hashmi. The book has been translated to Kannada by M.G. Venkatesh. Safdar Hashmi was fatally injured in an attack on the theatre group when Halla Bol , a street play on exploitation and rights of factory workers, was being performed near Delhi in January 1989. At the book launch, Mr. Shah said that the life, achievements and murder of Safdar Hashmi was a testimony as to why fascist powers and forces were so terrified about the lives of activists and intellectuals, who are being hounded in the country today. “It is high time we stand in solidarity with jailed activists and intellectuals like Varavara Rao and Anand Teltumbde,” he said. “When I read the English and Hindi versions of Halla Bol , I was informed, amused, raged, disturbed and moved. He [Safdar Hashmi] took plays to factories, schools and streets, and informed people about their exploitation and rights. It is from his life I realised that even an actor’s life can be of use and impactful,” he added. M.G. Venkatesh, translator of the book, said that the thoughts and writings of Safdar Hashmi are more relevant now than at the time he was killed. “The current regime is diluting labour laws, not only in a dangerous way but also in a way that insults labourers,” he added. Author Sudhanva Deshpande spoke about the assassination of editor-activist Gauri Lankesh. “The killing of Hashmi stirred the need for the defence of freedom of art and expression,” he said. Actor Achyuth Kumar said that the times had not changed much. “Hashmi was killed when the Congress was in power, and Gauri Lankesh was killed by the fundamental right wing. This is the way ruling dispensations suppress the voices of people. They just kill them,” he said. Writer Bolwar Mahammad Kunhi said that we are fighting two types of viruses now. “It is said that a vaccine for COVID-19 will be available in the future. But who will and how can a vaccine be invented for those who suppress dissent, spread hatred and eulogise killings and violence?”
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||50% of postal ballots in Sira are already in||More than 50% of the voters eligible for postal ballot in Sira Assembly constituency have exercised their franchise already. According to data shared by the Election Commission, as many as 8,707 eligible voters, who were aged above 80, were persons with disabilities, or were COVID-19 patients, had been mapped and Form 12D had been given to them. Out of this, the BLOs had collected 5,019 12D forms. As on Friday, the commission said, as many as 4,687 postal ballots from this category of people had been received for the Sira byelection. Besides, three postal ballots had been received from those on election duty. However, the response to the postal ballot facility for the same category has been poor so far in R.R. Nagar. With there being 6,433 eligible persons, 3,484 12D forms had been given out. As on Friday, election officials had received 225 postal ballot from this category.
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More marshals to keep watch in R.R. Nagar||To ensure that the bypoll campaigns in Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituency do not become super-spreaders of COVID-19, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has deployed additional marshalsin the nine wards that come under it. While they had one marshal each earlier, now four additional marshals have been deployed for mask operations, apart from eight mobile squad marshals. They will be deployed for the remainder of the campaign period. The number of cases filed by marshals against citizensfor not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing has, on average, been over 2,500 a month in R.R. Nagar zone. Col. Rajbir Singh (retd), the BBMP’s chief marshal officer, said that the additional marshals deployed in the wards had started making announcements on loudspeakers, especially near locations where campaigns and public rallies were being taken out. On Friday, complaints were filed against both the Congress and the BJP for not following COVID-19 norms whilst campaigning. While an FIR was registered against J.S. Girish and other BJP agents by the Yeshwantpur police, the Jalahalli police registered a case against Congress party workers. In both cases, the complaint cited violation of COVID-19 norms, as more than 50 people had participated in the road show for which permission had been granted.
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Holding elections during pandemic is a blunder, says health expert||With campaigning for the November 3 byelections in the State nearing closure, more and more COVID-19 protocol violations are visible in the poll-bound constituencies of R.R. Nagar in Bengaluru Urban and Sira in Tumakuru district. The violations have been so rampant that C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said holding elections during this pandemic was a blunder. “We do not know if the Election Commission consulted experts and the Indian Council of Medical Research before declaring the polls,” he said. “Crowding cannot be avoided during elections. With door-to-door campaigning, there are chances of the virus spreading from house to house. Moreover, air pollution and the cold season will only add to the spread,” he said. Asserting that gram panchayat elections should not be held now, Dr. Manjunath said, “If the local body polls are held, infections will spread and cancontribute to a second wave in the State. We are only talking about a post-festival surge, but what about a post-election surge?” 10 cases so far The office of the Chief Electoral Officer has booked 10 cases so far for COVID-19 protocol violation in these constituencies. Sources said the Election Commission was helpless as campaigning cannot be avoided during elections. “The onus is on people to safeguard themselves,” a source said. While two cases have been booked in R.R. Nagar (one each against the BJP and the Congress), eight cases have been booked in Sira. While two are against the JD(S), three are against BJP and one against the Congress. The remaining two cases are against individuals participating in the rallies. According to officials, all these cases are over violation of social distancing norms during campaign meetings and processions. The case against the Congress in R.R. Nagar is for not following COVID-19 protocols during a meeting in a closed space. Sanjeev Kumar, Chief Electoral Officer, said these cases have been booked under the Disaster Management Act and are “as serious as” poll code violation cases. The punishment includes both penalty and conviction, he said. “It is a serious criminal offence if people are endangering the lives of others by not following the COVID-19 norms.”
31 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kannada books at discount||The Kannada Sahitya Parishat outlet will offer discount on books between November 1 and 30. To mark Kannada Rajyotsava, the parishat has decided to sell all its publications at 10% to 75% discounted rates. The books include dictionaries, biographies, compiled literary volumes, and so on. Some of the major discounted books are Kannada-Kannada dictionary (1-8 volumes), and Dalit literature volumes will be available at 50% discount. KSP president Manu Baligar in a release urged book publishers, literary enthusiasts, students, and research scholars to make use of the opportunity. The books will be sold between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. at Book Selling Section, on the premises of Kannada Sahitya Parishat, Pampa Mahakavi Road, Chamarjpet, Bengaluru.
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Submit Digital Life Certificate online: EPFO||Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), in view of the pandemic, will collect Digital Life Certificate (Jeevan Pramaan patra) for 2021 from Employee’s Pension Scheme pensioners through online mode. Regional PF Commissioner, RO, Bengaluru (Central), EPFO, in a release said EPS Pensioners may approach their pension disbursing bank branch or the nearest common service centre to submit the certificate. It can also be submitted through mobile via UMANG app, provided it is connected to a biometric device. The certificate is valid for 12 months from its submission.
31 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BU results||The Bangalore University (BU) has announced results of BCA and BBA 6th semester (freshers and repeaters), B.Ed (CBCS-2 years) 4th semester (F&R), B.Ed 2nd semester (Repeaters) and LLB (5 years) 1 to 9th semester (repeaters). Students can access the results on its website.
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR launches ‘Nanna Sakhi’||The Bengaluru division of South Western Railways (SWR) has launched the ‘Nanna Sakhi’ initiative for the safety of women travellers. Under this initiative, two teams comprising women Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel have been deployed at KSR Bengaluru and Yesvantpur stations.
31 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Post-poll testing||C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, said there was a need to conduct random testing in the constituencies after the byelections. “At least 20% of the population should be tested. Cases should be diagnosed, isolated and treated on a war footing.”
31 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Three arrested on charge of murder||The Hassan police have cracked a murder case within 24 hours of it being reported in Chananrayapatna taluk, arresting three persons, including the wife of the deceased. A car was found half-burnt near Mattanavile village in Channarayapatna taluk on October 28. The police found a dead body burnt inside the car. The Hirisave police registered the case. With the help of the chassis number of the vehicle, the police identified the deceased as Dinesh, 25, from Lakshmipura near Nuggehalli in Channarayapatna taluk. He was working as a driver in Bengaluru. R. Srinivasa Gowda, SP of Hassan, at a press conference on Thursday, said the police found that Dinesh had differences with his wife Abhilasha. The investigation revealed that Abhilasha, 22, murdered Dinesh with the help of his father Manjunath, 55, and brother Basavaraj, 21. The couple had been married for four years. Abhilasha had come to know about her husband’s extra-marital affair. According to the police, Abhilasha and her family hatched a conspiracy to murder Dinesh. They invited him to their house in Bengaluru on October 27 and killed him after hitting with him weapons. With the help of Babu, a driver, Manjunath took the car to Mattanavile village. After sending the driver back to Bengaluru, Manjunath set the car on fire after pouring petrol on it. The SP appreciated the efforts of Dy.SP B.B. Lakshme Gowda, CPI Kumar B.G, Hirisave PSI Srinivas, Channarayapatna PSI Vinod Raj in the investigation.
31 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||JD(S) leaders stage protest||Janata Dal (Secular) leaders staged a protest in front of the office of Assistant Commissioner in Hassan urging the officer to fix the date for the election of Hassan City Municipal Council’s vice president. They alleged that the officer was acting as per the wishes of the BJP. JD(S) Hassan taluk unit president S. Dyave Gowda said the election for president and vice president of Hassan CMC was scheduled on October 29. The JD(S) leaders reached the office of Assistant Commissioner, who was also returning officer, to submit the nomination papers for the post of vice president at 10.50 am. However, the office staff members informed the party leaders that the officer was not present. “We were denied an opportunity to file the nomination papers. Later, the officer did not accept our plea for an opportunity to file the nomination paper,” he said.
31 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Old buildings in Dharwad to be surveyed||Learning lessons from the building collapse incident of 2019 in Dharwad, the district administration would be issuing directions to municipal corporations and local bodies to conduct a survey of old buildings in the district, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has said. Mr. Patil, who is also the chairman of District Disaster Management Authority, was speaking at a function after a mock drill by a team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on rescuing survivors of a building collapse incident. He said that after the survey, the owners of buildings identified as unfit for occupation would be served notices issuing a warning and also asking them to submit certificates from competent authorities about the safety of their buildings. Action would be taken against those failing to fall in line, he said. Mr. Patil said that during building collapse, fire accidents and natural calamities, people caught in the incidents would panic. “However, if they are aware of how the rescue team will work in coordination to save them, they will respond positively and the rescue mission will succeed. The idea of the mock drill is to sensitise the public on how such rescue missions are conducted,” he said. Mr. Patil said that such mock drills would also help the public to understand how they should respond in such cases of crisis. Earlier, an NDRF team conducted a mock drill on a rescue mission during a building collapse on the premises of Dakshin Bharat Hindi Pranchar Sabha building. The authority organised the mock drill in association with NDRF and Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation. Over 40 personnel from NDRF Bengaluru conducted the mock drill to demonstrate how a rescue mission takes place during a building collapse. They demonstrated different methods of pulling out those trapped under debris, first aid, the use of dog squads to check for survivors, recovering bodies of the dead buried in the debris and other such operations. Superintendent of Police of Dharwad P. Krishnakant, Additional Deputy Commissioner Shivanand Karale, Assistant Commissioner B. Gopalkrishna, Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal, Deputy Commander of 10th battalion of NDRF Sukhendra Datta, team commanders Santosh Kumar and R.P. Choudhary and others were present. Prior to the mock drill, a review meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority was held.  Owners of buildings identified as unfit for occupation to be served notices asking them to submit safety certificates from competent authorities
31 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||South Western Railway launches ‘Integrity Pool’ to deal with corruption||“Integrity Pool”, an online forum to spread honesty, build good character and imbibing virtuous acts and an attempt to deal with corruption, has been launched by South Western Railway as part of Vigilance Awareness Week. According to a press release issued by South Western Railway, “Integrity Pool” has been conceived as a complementary strategy to vigilance activities. “Integrity Pool” website provides a web-based interface and repository to educate people and to give a forum to evolve various new departments on integrity, ethics and character. It encourages sharing acts of integrity seen in and around, and also understand what it means. It acts as a container of all such testimonials, with focus on railway persons, for enhancing overall increase in the intensity of honesty and ethical values, the release said. The portal has been launched as part of the Vigilance Awareness Week being observed in the railway zone from October 27 to November 2, which was inaugurated by General Manager of South Western Railway Ajay Kumar Singh through a virtual link by administering a vigilance pledge. According to the release, the web portal is user friendly where users will be able to submit integrity instances and also view the integrity pool. The other portal also has a repository of existing material on ethics and honesty, a forum for doing research on the subject. It can also be used for up-voting, social media sharing, integrity pool count and uploading the integrity pledge copies for display. As part of the Vigilance Awareness Week, judge A.V. Chandrashekar addressed the railway fraternity through a webinar on “Individual and Collective excellence for prosperity” on Thursday. Around 250 persons took part in it. For further details on integrity pool one can visit the website: https://bit.ly/3mijQVK, the release said.
31 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||University announces awards||Gulbarga University has announced Rajyotsava awards to be conferred on scholars, writers and artists from the Kalyana Karnataka region. Lakshman Kounte, Subbarao Kulkarni, Eshwar M. Ingin, Basavaraj Pujar and M. Bheemasen Gaikwad, Kapil P. Humnabad, Vijayabhaskar Sedam, Shivaraj Shastri, Mallikarjun Kadkol, Siddarama Honkal and Vadiraj Vyasamudra have been selected for their Kannada books. C.S. Ninganna (folklore), Gandhiji S. Molkeri and Hanumantappa Vallyapure (biography), Mahantappa Nandur (Vachana Sahitya), Mallikarjun Shetty (Social Science), Veera Hanuman (translation works), Kashinath Ambalagi (Hindi works), Abdul Rab Ustad (Urdu works), Shivanand Lengati (English works), Rajeshwari (Publisher), Siddaram Dadarao Vaghmore (flok artiste) will receive the award conferred by Gulbarga University. Pallavi Humnabad, Daulatraya S. Desai, Mallamma G. Patil will be conferred with the award for their artwork. S. Nandini will receive an award for her works in the field of Science. All the winners would get Rs. 5,000 cash prize. Writer Raghunath C.H. has won a gold medal and Rs. 5,000 cash prize, Renuka Ramanand the silver medal and Rs. 3,000 cash prize and Kanakraj Anarkatti will receive a bronze medal and Rs. 2,000 cash prize under the Jayateerth Rajapurohit Memorial Award for their achievements in the State-level competition.
31 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Corpn. invites applications from civil society members for ward panels||In another leap towards constituting ward committees in the city, Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has invited applications from civil society members willing to become members of such committees. Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar issued a public notification in this connection on Thursday. The civic body also tweeted stating: “As per the Constitution mandate, it is to form ward committees in each ward under the chairmanship of respective ward corporators; hence, application for the ward committees are invited by the Mangaluru City Corporation.” According to it, the committees will be headed by the councillors of the respective wards. Each committee will have three women members, three members from the general category, one member each from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and two members representing different organisations. Applications will have to be submitted by November 17, the notification said. They can be downloaded from the website,www.mangalurucity.mrc.- gov.in. They can be submitted online through e-mail:mccward- commitee@gmail.com. The hard copies can be submitted in the Surathkal, Central and Kadri zonal offices of the corporation. Civil society members can contact Ph: 0824-2220313 or 2220318 for details. They can contact Surathkal zonal office on Ph: 2220360, Central zonal office Ph: 2220313, and Kadri zonal office Ph: 2951144, the notification said. All city corporations will have to constitute ward committees under the Karnataka Municipal Corporations (Amendment) Act, 2011. In addition, the Lok Adalat had, on January 4, 2014, also asked Mangaluru City Corporation to constitute the committees. Civil society members had also approached the High Court of Karnataka seeking its intervention to make the civic body constitute ward committees. With no other way, the council of the city corporation gave its approval for constituting the ward committees in its meeting this August. Five years ago, the then council led by the Congress had declined to constitute the ward committees. Instead the council had in its October 2014 meeting presided over by the then Mayor Mahabala Marla resolved to constitute a three-member House committee to study the pros and cons of constituting them. The particular House committee did not submit any report to the council. The BJP, which returned to power after five years, had in its manifesto for the council elections last year promised that it will constitute the ward committees.
31 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kudmul Ranga Rao hostel for girls demolished for reconstruction||An 80-year-old pre- and post-matriculation hostel building for girls from the Scheduled Castes, which is named after Dalit reformer and freedom fighter Kudmul Ranga Rao, at PVS Circle here, has been demolished for constructing a new building. The building was built in 1940 on land given by the family members of Kudmul Ranga Rao. A new five-storey hostel will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 8 crore. It will be ready in a year, Dakshina Kannada District Social Welfare Officer Yogish S.B. said. Nearly 200 students were studying in the hostel. Apart from helping students in their academics, the hostel provided facilities for them to train themselves in art forms, including Bharatanatyam. After a part of the building collapsed, the department submitted a proposal in 2017 for reconstruction. It was in January 2018 that students were moved out of the building and housed in a rented building in Kodical. In view of the COVID-19 situation, there are no students in the hostel now, as they have gone back to their houses. Six months ago, the State government made budgetary allocation for the reconstruction of the building. The construction work will start shortly. “We hope to see the new building ready for use in the next academic year,” Mr. Yogish said. The new building will have rooms with wardrobes and study tables. Provision has been made for library, gymnasium and an assembly hall, he said. The department has pre-matriculation and post-matriculation hostels for Scheduled Castes boys in Kadri in the city. There is also a pre-matriculation hostel for girls near Urwa Marigudi.
31 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yakshagana Academy to present annual awards on November 8||Karnataka Yakshagana Academy will present its annual honorary award, Yaksha Siri, and a book award for 2019 to achievers from Dakshina Kannada at a function in the city on November 8. The function will be organised in the Tulu Bhavan at Urwa Stores. The annual honorary award will be presented to Chandrashekar Damle, a resident of Sullia in Dakshina Kannada and who is a doctorate degree holder from Pune University in Sociology. He has been active in many areas of Yakshagana, including being an amateur artiste, playwright, director and publisher. The honorary award carries Rs. 50,000 purse, a citation, a memento, a certificate, a petha and a shawl. The Yaksha Siri will be presented to Ubaradkka Umesh Shetty and Kuriya Ganapathi Shastri. It carries Rs. 25,000 purse, a certificate, a petha and a shawl. The book award will be presented to Gurudeva Prakashana, Odiyoor, and Krishna Prakash Ulithaya. It carries Rs. 25,000 purse, a certificate, a petha and a shawl. Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary and MLAs will be present on the occasion. There will be a talamaddale after the award presenting ceremony, said a release.
31 October 2020||Meghane (Shivamogga),KARNATAKA||A painful journey through the rough road to Meghane||“In the past 10 years, at least 70 women of Meghane have given birth during the journey of 5.5 km to the hospital,” says Praveen Kumar of Nagavalli in Sagar taluk. He owns a pick-up vehicle with four-wheel drive and often gets calls from Meghane on health emergencies. For him, it is a nightmare to drive with a person who is pregnant or ailing. “Given the rough road with ups and downs, women have given birth before reaching the pucca road,” he says. Similar is the experience of Raju Shetty, an areca grower of Meghane who also owns a four-wheeler. “I don’t know when the cries of the women in the village will reach the people in power,” he says. Meghane village, which sits atop a hillock amid lush greenery, has 64 houses. There are 323 voters in the polling booth of the village. Like many villagers in the area bordering Sagar and Bhatkal taluks, the residents moved to Meghane after they were evacuated for the Liganamakki dam. A majority of them are from the Maratha community. The entire area surrounding the village is part of Sharavathi Wildlife Sanctuary. The only connection to the outer world is a rough and narrow road. During the rainy season, the villagers avoid going down the hillock as it is a tedious task. Only in the time of health emergencies do they hire four-wheelers. Youngsters commute by two-wheelers occasionally. Many have suffered serious injuries after falling off their bikes while negotiating the risky path. Gowramma, 65, who was riding pillion last year, suffered fractures in her legs and has been bedridden since then. “If there had been a pucca road, my mother would have been healthy,” says her son Narayana. Kumar, a native of Meghane, died in an accident in Bhatkal, about 30 km away, in June 2019. The villagers carried the body on their shoulders for 5.5 km for the final rites in the village. Anganwadi staff members of the village have complained that they face difficulty in bringing foodgrains and eggs to the centre. Of the 100eggs they carry, 10 to 20 are lost on the road. After a long struggle, the villagers got power connection about 14 years ago. Now, the fight is on for a road. The villagers have resolved not to vote in any election, beginning with the gram panchayat polls, until their demands are fulfilled. “We have heard enough promises from the people inpower. This time, we have resolved not to budge,” says Raju Shetty, a villager. Letter to PMO The residents have submitted memoranda to elected representatives and officers repeatedly. In July 2016, an SSLC student, Vibhashree R. Shetty, wrote to the Prime Minister’s Office seeking a road for the village. The PMO wrote to the Chief Secretary of the State to take appropriate action. However, there has been no movement since.
31 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘COVID-19 test must for factory workers’||All factory workers in Mysuru are now supposed to undergo the COVID-19 test with Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri making the test mandatory in an effort to control the spread of the pandemic. During a meeting with the representatives of various industries and office-bearers of Mysuru Industries’ Association here on Friday, Ms. Sindhuri sought the support and cooperation of the industrialists for getting the tests done on all workers and staff. Mysuru Industries Association president and former MLA Vasu, Secretary Suresh Kumar Jain, District Health Officer Amarnath, Mysuru City Corporation Health Officer D.G. Nagaraj, heads and representatives of industries and officials attended the meeting. They was told to lay emphasis on the screening and testing of workers aged above 50 years and also those with co-morbidities. Whoever has symptoms had to be immediately tested and the Health Department should make the arrangements in this regard, the DC told the meeting. Sources in the Health Department told The Hindu that the department was already making arrangements to carry out testing for industry workers, covering all the industrial areas in the district, with focus on units in Mysuru and Nanjangud - a major industrial town. “Mass testing of the workers will be done in the next few days. The testing teams are being readied. Like how we are subjecting visitors at the palace to the test, in the same way will all factory workers be tested,” a health department official said. Doorstep tests Also, the Mysuru City Corporation has deployed mobile testing teams for doorstep tests and such teams would also be used so that testing target on the industry workers was met. The decision to test all factory workers gains importance since many workers had tested positive for COVID-19 in the past, resulting in the closure of units for many days as a precautionary measure.  Mass testing of workers will be done in the next few days. The testing teams are being readied. Like how we subject visitors at the palace to the test, in the same way will all factory workers be tested. Health Department official
31 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Classical Kannada centre to move to NCHS building on UoM campus||The Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada (CESCK), Mysuru, is moving to a new spacious building on the occasion of Kannada Rajyotsava here on November 1. The centre, which earlier functioned at the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL) on Hunsur Road and later moved to a housing quarter of University of Mysore (UoM) three years ago, is shifting to the National Centre for History of Science (NCHS) building in Manasagangotri. The shifting to the new spacious office space, provided by the UoM, is expected to boost the research activities of the CESCK, which was lacking an independent office space since its inception. The UoM has allotted a four-acre land on the Manasagangotri campus where the CESCK will be building its own campus. Until it relocates to its own campus, the CESCK will function at the NCHS building. An entire first floor of NCHS building had been allotted to the CESCK and the shifting process is almost done. Virtual Rajyotsava celebrations will begin at 2 p.m. on November 1, in view of COVID-19. Jnanpith awardee Chandrashekara Kambar, who is president of Kendra Sahitya Akademi, New Delhi, will be the chief guest. UoM Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar will be the guest of honour and CIIL Director C.G. Venkatesha Murthy will preside. Suman Dixit, Deputy Secretary, MHRD, New Delhi, and CESCK Project Director B. Shivarama Shetty will be present. Eminent Kannada scholars, who are the members of the Planning and Monitoring Board of CESCK, will attend. On the occasion, a work titled Lokopakaaram: Ondu Paramarshe will be released, besides the screening of a short video on the functions and activities of the CESCK. The entire event will be live-streamed on digital screens at the CIIL campus on Hunsur Road. The participants have been told to ensure all safety precautions are complied with. Prof .Venkatesha Murthy, who assumed charge recently, told a press conference here on Friday about the shifting of CESCK to NCHS building and the arrangements made for the relocation marking the Rajyotsava celebrations. The UoM has secured the Syndicate approval for handing over the 4-acre plot on the Manasagangotri campus to the State government for establishing the CESCK. Among the two locations suggested for CESCK, the land near the SJCE and CIIL, off Hunsur Road, was finalised and the same was placed before the UoM Syndicate for ratification. The issue over land for CESCK was unresolved for many years. The UoM was recently asked to hand over 10 acres of its land on the foothills of Chamundi to establish the centre. However, UoM has proposed to develop a campus for the School of Commerce, Business Management and Hotel Management and an information technology park on the 23-acre plot on the foothills of Chamundi. When an independent campus for CESCK was felt, the UoM was the first to offer a 3-acre land on the premises of the old Adult Education Department building on Hunsur Road. However, the search for the suitable land continued as the UoM land was already leased to some other department. The Department of Higher Education was subsequently requested to consider allotting the UoM land. The UoM later suggested alternative land for the same which was finally approved, realising the long wish of building the own campus of CESCK.
31 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||JSSAHER to carry out trials for Sputnik V||The JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (JSSAHER) in Mysuru will soon begin human trials for Sputnik V, a COVID-19 vaccine developed by Russia. The Hyderabad-based Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, which had received approval for clinical trials of Sputnik V in India, had chosen JSSAHER as one of the sites for the trials. “The site inspection has been completed and approved. We will begin trials soon after receiving clearance in the regard,” said JSSAHER Pro-Chancellor Suresh told The Hindu.  JSSAHER, which is already carrying out phase 2 and 3 trials for vaccine candidate Covishield, developed by Oxford University and pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca, will also begin in a week clinical trials of Novavax, another vaccine candidate developed by a U.S. biotechnology company. “We will be commencing phase 2 and 3 trials for Novavax in a week. If the ongoing trials for BCG booster dose in elderly people is taken into account, JSSAHER will be carrying out four human trials simultaneously,” Dr. Suresh said.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Colleges wary of resuming classes||Although the State government has given the green signal for colleges to conduct offline classes on a voluntary basis from November 17, many managements are in a dilemma over whether they should re-open or continue with online classes. Several college principals in Bengaluru told The Hindu that they are apprehensive about resuming physical classes even on a voluntary basis as it will affect students who don’t live in the city. “If we start classes on November 17 and students residing in other States come to attend classes, we are worried that these students will be left in the lurch if the number of COVID-19 cases increases during winter,” said Elizabeth C.S., principal of Jyoti Nivas College. She, however, said that they would follow the rules stipulated by the State government. C.B. Annapurnamma, principal, National College, Basavanagudi, said they are unsure about asking students to come to the campus. “We are worried as health experts say that the number of COVID-19 cases will increase from November.” The government’s directive to conduct both online and ‘offline’ classes is also proving to be a logistical problem. “We are unsure if we will have the staff strength to conduct offline classes for students who are willing to attend classes on campus and online classes for those who don’t want to take the risk,” Ms. Annapurnamma explained. K.R. Venugopal, Vice Chancellor of Bangalore University, said that affiliated colleges will be asked to conduct practical classes first and revision classes in a phased manner. No official order Universities and colleges are yet to receive an order from the State government on resuming classes or a detailed SOP on how to conduct classes. Education officials said the SOP is being framed and includes sanitising classrooms after every session, health screenings at entry points, and setting up of healthcare units on campus. Karisiddappa, Vice Chancellor of Visvesvaraya Technological University, said that they would follow the SOP to ensure that students’ health is not at risk. According to Amaresh Kadagada, State president, Students’ Federation of India, students who have to commute long distances are apprehensive about going to campus to attend classes as they are dependent on private transport. “In the best interest of students, the number of COVID-19 cases needs to decline before classes are conducted,” he said. Decision next week The State government is yet to take a call on when medical and dental colleges can resume offline classes. Sources said that it would be decided next week. Many medical and dental students have stated that they have got no practical exposure, making it very difficult for them to understand concepts.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bad roads: BBMP forms 31 teams to oversee repairs||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) engineers have been directed to prioritise on repairing 1,300 km of prominent roads. As many as 31 teams have been constituted for this purpose. BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta and Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, on Friday, chaired a meeting to review filling of potholes and road repairs. The meeting follows The Hindu ’s report on the poor condition of roads across the city where citizens had pointed out that the city resembled a war zone with potholes, bad reaches and ongoing development work. While the core zones will have two teams each that will place indents for hot mix from the civic body’s plant in Kannur, the remaining five outer zones will have three teams each. Engineers have been directed to fully utilise the hot mix plant, place indents for hot mix to fill potholes and repair bad reaches in their respective jurisdictions. Both officials said that the BBMP’s hot mix plant was under-utilised.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||To make them acceptable, waste processing plants to get mentors||Residents living around waste processing plants have often highlighted the mismanagement in the plants that is inconveniencing them day in and day out. Towards ensuring that the communities don’t suffer more, each processing plant will be ‘mentored’ by experts from the Technical Guidance Committee (TGC). This development comes after communities living around the waste processing plant in Chikkanagamangala, near Electronics City, wrote to BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta about the problems they were facing due to mismanagement. The BBMP has proposed to establish a waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at the site. Mr. Gupta told The Hindu that BBMP officials had visited the Chikkanagamangala plant to meet the staff, following which the issues were discussed with members of the TGC as well. “We discussed the problems faced by communities living around the plants in detail, and some solutions were recommended. We have decided to assign one TGC member to each of the processing plants for mentorship,” he said. He said that a technical team would be present in each plant to ensure scientific disposal of waste and also hear complaints from communities living near the plant. “By adopting better techniques, we hope the nuisance that is being experienced by the communities will be reduced significantly,” Mr. Gupta said and added that the process is being closely monitored by the Karnataka High Court and actions have been taken as per the court’s directions. Admitting that reports of most commissions on the functioning of waste processing plants point to mismanagement, as is being alleged by various communities, he said that with mentorship and technical leadership, such issues may see some resolution. He added that leadership was essential from people who are qualified and experienced. “This way, there will not just be proper supervision, but they will also be able to extract the right work,” he said.  By adopting better techniques, we hope the nuisance that is being experienced by the communities will be reduced significantly Gaurav Gupta, Administrator, BBMP
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Toddler falls into 10-feet deep lift pit, dies||“Vinod was still alive when he was pulled out of the pit, but had a head injury. He was rushed to a nearby private hospital but died a few hours later,” a police official said. The Kengeri police have registered a case of causing death due to negligence against the building owner. The lift shaft was kept open with no safety precautions or barricades to prevent anyone from falling. “Given that the pit was around 10 feet deep and was filled with water, it was a potential danger to even adults working at the site. We are investigating the case,” the police said.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||How law varsities are becoming more diverse||The trainees are trained at coaching centres and are also assigned mentors – which consist of students studying in law universities. IDIA has 22 state chapters which are run from 22 law universities. Another trainee, Abhishek Kumar – a visually impaired student from Koriviched – a village in Telangana district, has secured a seat in National Law University Delhi. He says that it would have been impossible to achieve this without IDIA and his mentor Pooja Bharadwaj. He was inspired to pursue law after IDIA members conducted a sensitisation programme at his college. “As somebody who struggled to get two meals a day, I wanted to pursue a career where I could help people. I chose law as it will help me bridge the gap between the have and have nots,” he said. Abhishek’s mother, a widow, and his elder brother, are daily wage labourers. He lost his vision in an accident when he was 14 years old and says that his urge to make it “big” has only increased since. During the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Rudrappa says that IDIA also tried to break the digital divide by providing students gadgets and also paid their internet bills so that they could attend online classes. Eighteen-year-old Yashwant Kumar, who hails from Masaurhi in Patna, secured the 48th rank in CLAT and has got a seat in NLSIU Bengaluru. He said he would be the first person in his family to pursue a graduation course. Besides this year, as many as 74 of the IDIA trainees have got into NLUs. As for the long term plans of the organisation, Mr Rudrappa said, “Our founder Shamnad Basheer would say that there should be a time when IDIA ceases to exist and all law universities should become more inclusive.”
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Sweet servings||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Star campaigners||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Techie held in drugs case||A software engineer, who allegedly procured synthetic drugs from other countries through the Dark Net to sell in Bengaluru, has been arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police. The accused, Sarthak Arya, is in his early thirties and works in a tech firm, said a police officer. The racket came to light after the CCB kept foreign mail divisions of several post offices in the city under surveillance given the rise in the number of incidents of people smuggling in drugs to the country. During a check, the team found a package containing narcotics at Chamarajpet Post Office. In an earlier case, postal personnel had been suspended for helping deliver certain packages anonymously, and a similar case was reported from Chamarajpet Post Office this year. Tracking down the narcotics parcel at Chamarajpet Post Office, CCB sleuths landed up at the residence of Sarthak in HSR Layout and found 4.99 grams of LSD and CBD oil among other narcotics.
31 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||664 cases in Alappuzha||The district registered a slight slump in daily COVID-19 cases on Friday. A total of 664 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day. Among the fresh cases, 629 patients contracted the virus through local contact, while the source of infection of seven others remains unidentified. Twenty-one people who had arrived from other States, six from abroad and one health staff also were diagnosed with the disease. The district recorded one COVID-19- related death. The deceased was identified as a 65-year-old man from Alappuzha. He died on October 25. The 664 cases include 107 logged from Alappuzha, 51 from Cherthala, 43 from Mararikulam South and 42 from Thanneermukkom. Meanwhile, 722 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 8,626. The police registered 34 cases and arrested 24 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 309 people for not wearing face masks and 1,071 for not maintaining physical distance. Another two cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under section 144 of the Cr.PC. Action was taken against 13 people in connection with the two cases. Ward 1, 5 and 14 in Thakazhi and parts of ward 14 in Vayalar, ward 1 in Thiruvanvandoor, ward 12 in Thanneermukkom grama panchayat along with ward 5 in Alappuzha municipality were declared as containment zones.
31 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Seafood park at Cherthala nearing completion||The mega seafood park being set up by the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) at the Industrial Growth Centre at Pallippuram near Cherthala is nearing completion. At present, three seafood companies and a packaging unit are operating in the food park. “The land in the park will be given to entrepreneurs on a 30-year lease. Twenty-eight plots have already been taken over by various entrepreneurs. With the completion of the park, an investment of Rs. 500 crore is expected. Once fully operational, the park would generate about 3,000 direct and indirect jobs. It will have food processing activities and value-added food production,” officials said in a statement. Govt. equity The seafood park is being constructed on 68 acres of land at a cost of Rs. 128 crore, with equity contribution from the KSIDC/State government worth Rs. 72 crore, grant-in-aid of Rs. 50 crore from the Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MOFPI) under the Mega Food Park Scheme and rest is a bank loan. The park has three components - a central processing centre for seafood collection, grading, quality inspection, freezing unit and cold store; a primary processing centre for seafood peeling, cleaning, sorting and ice planting from harbours; and collection centres. The primary processing centres at Thoppumpady, Vypeen and Munambam will also be connected to it. The park is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities like a warehouse, cold storage, deep freeze, deboning centre, fresh water among other facilities. The construction of a 3,000-metric tonne cold storage, a deep freezer with a capacity of 10-metric tonne per day and a deboning centre with a capacity of 10-metric tonne per day for fish thorn removal is in the final stages, the statement said. Fresh impetus The project is expected to give fresh impetus to the seafood processing and marketing sector, which has been hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic. According to officials, seafood exports declined by 23.96% during the April-August period compared to the corresponding period last year. Export earnings declined by 13.96% in the same period. In the next phase, the project will be expanded with another 16 acres. Meanwhile, protest is brewing against the laying of a pipeline from a wastewater treatment plant in the park to Kaithapuzha Lake. A protest proclamation convention organised under the aegis of the United Democratic Front on Friday urged the government to stop the work to direct wastewater into the lake. It was inaugurated by Shanimol Usman, MLA. Officials, however, said that only treated water would be let into the lake.
31 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Section 144 extended in Alappuzha district||With COVID-19 cases continue to spiral, District Collector A. Alexander has extended prohibitory orders clamped in the district under section 144 of the Cr.PC until November 15, 2020. As per the order issued by the Collector on Friday, assembly of more than five persons in public places has been banned. “Gathering of a maximum of 50 people for marriages and 20 people for funerals are allowed. Gathering of a maximum of 20 people are allowed for government functions/prayer/political, social and other cultural activities,” reads the order. Gathering at market places, bus stands, public transportation, offices, shops, restaurants, workplaces, hospitals, examinations, recruitments, industries, other commercial establishments and previously permitted primary, secondary and territory economic activities are also allowed by strictly keeping physical distancing and break the chain protocols.
31 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||COVID affects cardamom auction prices||As the main season for cardamom is coming to a close, COVID-19 has impacted auction and marketing with the prices remaining almost inflexible throughout the season. Sources said that auction was affected at the Spices Park in Puttady due to transportation problems for businessmen coming from Tamil Nadu. The main centres of cardamom auction are at Puttady and Bodinayakanur in Tamil Nadu. The farmers in the district depend on the cardamom auction at Puttady. The auction centre had remained closed for long. After the auction was reopened, the average prices remained below Rs. 1,500 per kg. Many small scale cardamom farmers had to sell the beans at below Rs. 1,000 per kg when the auction remained suspended. Those participating in the auction said that the cold response of the main buyers based at Mumbai was a reason for low prices. In August 2019, maximum price for cardamom reached Rs. 7,000 per kg from Rs. 6,000 in July. “It was usual that prior to the festival season in North India, the prices of cardamom rule high. In addition to North India, Saudi Arabia is the main buyer. The pandemic has affected the export orders and demand in North India,” said an official of an auctioning firm. The highest price quoted at the auction held in Puttady on Friday was Rs. 2,012 while the average price was Rs. 1,453. To assure better price and market for cardamom, the farmers group has formed a consortium of online auction companies and begun e-auction. The Vandanmedu Green Gold Cardamom Producer Company (VGCPC) and Vandanmedu Cardamom Growers Association started online auction for cardamom. The VGCPC conducted e-auction on Friday and 25,700 kg of cardamom was sold out. K S Mathew, director and chairman, VGCPC Company Ltd said that as per the new Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce Ordinance, 2020 anyone can conduct online sale for the produce without licence.
31 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||For Keralites, door opens to three other Dravidian languages||An 82-year-old class 4 dropout has brought out a dictionary that connects the four south Indian languages. The multilingual dictionary, a product of 25 years of toil by Thalassery resident Njattyela Sreedharan, is set to be released on November 1. In this dictionary, each Malayalam word has the corresponding words in Kannada, Tamil, and Telugu. For Malayalam words with many meanings, all the different versions are given in the other three languages. There are about 1.25 million words in the dictionary, priced Rs. 1,500, Mr. Sreedharan told The Hindu.  “In this age, when words and languages are slowly disappearing, the dictionary will be a guide and reference. Through this, even a common man will be able to get a grasp of the words used in the other three languages,” he added. After dropping out of school, he worked in a beedi factory in Palakkad. He took his ESLC exam (eighth standard public exam) in the meantime and learned Tamil too. He started devoting his time to studies and to teaching for literacy programmes. Soon, he developed an affinity for languages and began to focus on scripts, grammar, and colloquial usages of words. Idea sprouts While working as a blueprinter in the Public Works Department, Mr. Sreedharan got acquainted with T.P. Sukumaran, a professor at Nirmalagiri College, Kannur, who suggested a dictionary of dialects in Malayalam. Since he was familiar with Malayalam and Tamil, Sreedharan considered learning the other two major Dravidian languages, Kannada and Telugu, and compiling a dictionary linking all four. He learned Kannada from his colleague Govinda Naik and writer C. Raghavan, then stayed in Karnataka for several weeks for a deeper study. An officer at the District Agricultural Farm, Taliparamba, Eashwaraprasad Rao and his wife Seethamma helped him learn Telugu. Mr. Sreedharan then travelled to Nellore in Andhra Pradesh many times to interact with the local people and master the nuances of Telugu. 856 pages After his retirement in 1994, he diverted all his energy and resources into the dictionary. The State Institute of Languages, Kerala, helped him publish the Malayalam-Tamil dictionary in 2012. However, due to difficulties in proofreading and lack of experts to evaluate the work, the institute backed out of publishing the multilingual work. Now, the Senior Citizens Forum is bringing out the 856-page dictionary, which Mr. Sreedharan terms his ‘great accomplishment.’
31 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur district panchayat lauded for achievements||Ramachandran Kadannappally, Minister for Ports and Archaeology, said here on Friday that the Kannur District Panchayat had proved that natural and human resources were abundant in villages and if their potential was exploited, miracles could be achieved. He was speaking after inaugurating the Vision 2025 Development Seminar of the District Panchayat here. Mr. Kadannappally said that the District Panchayat was moving forward with modernisation by improving the technical, scientific and physical facilities. It was the long-term planning, activities and solidarity beyond party politics that enabled the District Panchayat to achieve this success. In his keynote address, District Panchayat President K.V. Sumesh said that the panchayat had made an effort to utilise technology in development and governance and it was a success. Agricultural villages The idea of self-sufficient agricultural villages had led to great progress. Significant achievements were the introduction of schemes to cultivate crops according to the nature of the soil in each region and to achieve self-sufficiency in the production of various grains and vegetables in 43 panchayats. The schemes implemented in collaboration with the grama panchayats to make fallow land cultivable were also effective. One of the major crises facing the agricultural sector was the shortage of labour. It was at that point that the reliance on mechanised farming began. The response was overwhelming. Another innovative concept was floriculture implemented in panchayats. There were groups in this field which had made a profit of Rs. 15 lakh, he said.
02 November 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Dept. head accuses Central varsity VC of harassing him||Head of the Department of Environmental Science and Chief Vigilance Officer of the Central University of Kerala, Kasaragod (CUK), Muthukumar Muthuchamy has accused the CUK Vice Chancellor of harassing and humiliating him as he allegedly refused to sign an inquiry report against a faculty member. In a complaint to the Central Vigilance Commission, Union Ministry of Human Resource Development, Chancellor and Members of the Executive Council, Dr. Muthuchamy alleged that Vice Chancellor H. Venkateshwarlu during his maiden visit to the department humiliated him in front of his colleagues and “threatened to remove him from his post”. He said the VC’s behaviour left him shocked and disturbed. He said that he suspected that it was in retaliation to his refusal to sign an ‘inquiry’ report. On October 7 and October 8, attempts were made to coerce him to sign the report. Dr. Muthuchamy said he was the convener of a three-member committee set up to probe the alleged ineligibility of K.J. Thomas, a faculty member in the Department of Physics. During a telephonic conversation, the VC had inquired about the report. Later on Mr. Thomas approached him urging him to sign a report prepared by him, allegedly under instruction from the VC. He said in the complaint that the inquiry committee had already submitted its report and it was approved by the Executive Council. A case filed by Mr. Thomas was pending in the court. Dr. Muthuswamy who belongs to the Scheduled Castes said he feared for his life. VC’s explanation The Vice Chancellor told The Hindu that he was just addressing a grievance raised by one of the students during his visit to the department. He said a research scholar had complained that she was facing difficulties as the Research Advisory Committee had not been constituted for over a year. “This annoyed me as students were suffering for the fault of the faculty and I warned the head of the department for the delay and punitive action,” he said. He said he understood that there were several differences of opinion among the faculty, which needed to be addressed. He said he did not aim to humiliate anybody and denied the charges that he tried to persuade Dr. Muthuswamy to sign the inquiry report. Prof. Thomas clarification Prof.K.J.Thomas clarified that all the allegations raised against him by the Chief Vigilance Officer of the University were baseless.  He further said that he had challenged the report submitted by the inquiry committee and the subject was pending before the court. There was an attempt to defame him by a group of people within and outside the university, he alleged.
31 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Child suicide notions debunked||The pandemic-induced lockdown had little bearing on child suicides, as 66 children had taken their lives between March 25 and July 8 compared to 83 such deaths during the same period the previous year. This was among the many notions debunked by a report on child suicides in Kerala drafted by a five-member committee appointed by the Social Justice Department. The committee, chaired by R. Sreelekha, Director General of Fire and Rescue Services, looked into 158 child suicides between January and July this year. About 74% of the victims were staying with their biological parents when they took the extreme step. The committee observed that so many children dying by suicide despite being in parental/family care was alarming and broke the notion that parental presence was an effective deterrent to child suicides. Only 15 victims were with a single parent. Also, 144 victims had siblings, which went against the grain that children without siblings are more prone to suicide out of loneliness. Poor communication The report observed that the correlation between three factors – place of suicide, type of family, and with whom the child was staying – clearly pointed to a lack of or inadequate support system within the family and breakdown of communication between parents and children. Most victims, 83%, took their lives at home and were closeted alone inside their room for long hours with little interaction with the rest of the family, hinting at scant attention given to children by parents at home. Most victims were from nuclear families without any alternative support system other than parents. In one case, parents came to know that their 17-year-old daughter was pregnant only from the post-mortem report. Unknown reasons Among the victims, 26 children had a trend of suicide running in the families. In 41 cases, the reason for suicide was ‘unknown,’ which the committee concluded may be because the victims were otherwise active and smart. Parental scolding triggered suicide in 19 cases and mobile phone addiction and failed affairs accounted for 12 and 14 deaths respectively. Trivial reasons like unmet demand for cycles and TV remote control also led to deaths. Unexpected cases Fifty children were good in academic and extracurricular activities, which hinted that their issues could have been overlooked. Girls accounted for 66% of 108 suicides in the age group of 15-18 years, while in the younger age group of 9-14, boys were among 30 out of the 49 victims. Only 11 victims had mental health problems.   Five-member committee looked into 158 child suicides between January and July this year
31 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Homestay operators stare at reversal of fortunes||On Thursday night, Usha Antony, who has been running a homestay just a stone’s throw away from the Fort Kochi beach for the past 13 years, received a call from one of her regular clients from France. That her client was cancelling travel plans in the wake of another lockdown in France was but the latest in a string of bad news since the outbreak of the pandemic in March when her homestay was shut. The reopening of tourist destinations, including Fort Kochi beach, from Sunday has been received with little enthusiasm, coming as it does after yet another blow in the form of postponement of the Kochi Biennale to next year. “We used to get regular clients, both domestic and international, during the Biennale, and we were looking up to it in this otherwise disastrous year. Now, even that hope stands dashed. Though we are ready to open from Sunday, there has been hardly any enquiries,” said Ms. Antony. The pandemic has been extremely harsh, especially on West Kochi, as it ended up with a slew of containment zones owing to large-scale virus spread. Various concerns “Homestays have been permitted to admit visitors for not more than seven days, but it remains to be seen as to how many operators in the highly dense West Kochi with families, including children and aged, will be enthusiastic about receiving visitors. Such concerns are relatively few for homestays in the eastern suburbs of the district,” said M.P. Sivadattan, director, Kerala Homestays and Tourism Society (Kerala HATS). However, Nidhin Narayanan, a homestay operator at Thrikkariyoor near Kothamangalam, is reeling under the maintenance cost running into lakhs of rupees, even as he makes last-minute preparations for reopening. “We have been receiving enquiries, though most of them are for one-day gatherings with no overnight stay. We have decided not to accommodate extra beds in rooms or serve food initially,” he said. The pandemic has also thwarted plans of prospective entrepreneurs like George T.J., who has been planning to open a homestay in Kothamangalam this season but has now postponed it to next year. Joseph M.M., who runs a homestay within the buffer zone of Thattekad Bird Sanctuary, is far from enthusiastic, since his primary target remains serious bird and wildlife enthusiasts, especially from abroad, and photographers rather than lay revellers. “Ours is an eco-friendly campus that enhances surrounding biodiversity and is meant for those who can appreciate it,” he said.
31 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Annual day fetes in schools go online||Annual day celebrations in schools are going online in the pandemic times. Many school managements decided to conduct the event online to kindle the spirit of togetherness and encourage students to showcase their talents despite the difficult times. Teachers said the intent of hosting annual day events online came based on the inference that efforts should be made to organise extracurricular initiatives as a tool to overcome the academic pressure and mental anxieties experienced by learners in the pandemic situation. “As there are logistical hurdles, we have confined the celebrations to children in junior classes. They can upload their individual performances online. There will be a common theme for the celebrations. Kids will be given various performance options,” they said. Those having a flair for drawing or painting can come up with their creative works based on the theme while children interested in dance and music can select either a dance or music. They can also speak for a few minutes on the theme of the annual day or come dressed up as characters connected with the common thread of the event. NEP recommendation Schools have also taken a cue from recommendations in the National Education Policy that gives emphasis on the holistic development of children. It had suggested easing out academic stress and incorporating co-curricular activities in mainstream education. A document on ‘School Education in COVID-19 times’ prepared by the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) had pointed out that school closure resulted in stress among children and their families. They were more likely to suffer from anxiety, depression and post-traumatic stress disorder during and after the epidemic, it said. The IAP suggested that schools could encourage students to undertake general reading, music, dance, drawing, painting, art and craft, poetry, story writing, mono acting and other indoor activities in these times.
31 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Patient’s kin allege prohibitive cost for COVID-19 treatment||The family of a patient admitted for a day at a private hospital in Ernakulam has alleged that the hospital quoted “high” prices for treatment after the patient tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. “We were asked for a deposit of Rs. 50,000 and told that the treatment cost could be about Rs. 11,000 for a single day and Rs. 22,000 if the patient was on ventilator. It could cost up to Rs. 2 lakh for COVID-19 treatment for 10 days,” said Sajith Kumar P.G., whose aunt was taken to a private hospital on Thursday evening after she complained of weakness. The 71-year-old then tested positive at the hospital. Sajith said they then insisted that she be shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kalamassery. After several calls to the hospital and the Health authorities, the patient was shifted to the MCH on Friday evening, he added. The bill for the day amounted to Rs. 19,784. After having raised an issue, the family was given a concession of Rs. 4,406, leaving them with a final bill of Rs. 15,377. The initial bill of over Rs. 19,000 includes a CT-scan worth Rs. 2,500, isolation and PPE charges worth Rs. 3,500, and COVID care charges worth Rs. 2,500, besides other consumables and laboratory charges for tests done. When she was admitted, doctors suspected a stroke and took a CT-scan, Sajith said. “We were told that they suspected a meningioma in the frontal lobe,” he said, adding that the rates for COVID-19 treatment at the hospital were not displayed, and the family was surprised, since they thought the charges for COVID-19 treatment had been capped at private hospitals. The public relations officer at the hospital said the issue had been a misunderstanding. “The patient was admitted with other problems, not COVID-19. Considering the cost of other treatments as well, somebody on duty then may have quoted the figure, but not authoritatively,” he explained. The hospital was mostly treating COVID-19 patients who test positive for the virus while being treated for other problems, he said. The official refused to specify what the cost of COVID-19 treatment at the hospital was. The hospital is not empanelled under the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi, he said.
31 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||UMTA to get going from tomorrow||The Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (UMTA) will turn a reality in Ernakulam on November 1. Minister for Transport A.K. Saseendran will inaugurate the functioning of the authority. It is expected to integrate different modes of public transport. In the first phase, the authority will have places under the Kochi Corporation under its jurisdiction, followed by those under the Goshree Island Development Authority (GIDA) and the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA), according to an official release. Around 1,000 private bus operators affiliated to various associations have formed six limited liability partnership (LLP) companies as part of the initiative. The formation of a society to bring the 15,000-odd autorickshaws operating in the region under it has also been completed.
31 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC reserves order on plea||The High Court on Friday reserved its verdict on the anticipatory bail pleas of dubbing artiste Bhagyalakshmi and two other women activists Diya Sana and Sreelakshmi Arakkal in a case relating to assaulting YouTuber Vijay P. Nair. When the petition came up for hearing, the counsel for the petitioner said they resorted to the acts to make some changes in the attitude of society. “Someone should come forward for a change,” he added. The court orally observed that if the petitioners were fighting for a change by taking law into their hands, they should be “bold enough to face its consequences.” “You are here to change the equations. You are fighting for the freedom. Those who took part in freedom struggle were ready to go to jails. Why should you be afraid of going to the jail,” the court asked the counsel for the petitioners. The counsel for Vijay Nair submitted that the petitioners had brought a nettle plant whose contact would cause itching on the human body. The petitioners’ intention of assaulting and humiliating him was clear.
31 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Roopesh gets nod for Internet access||Jailed Maoist leader Roopesh, who is being prosecuted in 39 cases in various courts, has been permitted to use the Internet for 45 minutes weekly to access the official websites of the Supreme Court and High Courts and various legal journals for conducting his trial. The facility will be available to Mr. Roopesh, who is conducting his cases himself as party-in-person in most of the cases, till the jail authorities provide him software-based law journals. The activist sought to get limited and indirect access to Internet for collecting legal materials such as judgements of the constitutional courts and statutes.  He submitted that the right to use internet had become a fundamental right protected under Article 19 of the Constitution.
31 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL kicks off auto feeder service||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) on Friday kicked off an auto feeder service from Petta metro station to provide last-mile connectivity to commuters. A total of 12 autorickshaws were engaged as part of the service to ensure availability of at least five vehicles at any time at the station. The services will be available to 16 locations from the station at rates fixed by the government, said a press release. D.K. Sinha, director (systems), KMRL, flagged off the first auto from the Pettah.
31 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi firm develops COVID-19 test kit||A Kochi-based manufacturer of medical devices, Agappe Diagnostics, has developed a test kit for SARS-CoV-2 based on RT-LAMP (Reverse Transcription Loop-mediated Isothermal Amplification) technology. The test kit, called MISPA LUME, is a confirmatory test that works faster than an RT-PCR test, according to Thomas John, Managing Director, Agappe Diagnostics. “A real time polymerase chain reaction test has high sensitivity and specificity, which makes it a good test. Similarly, LAMP has 100% specificity and 98.7% sensitivity. The advantage of the RT-LAMP is that it takes only 20 to 30 minutes to get results. Additionally, reagent storage and transportation for an RT-PCR test is to be at minus 20 degrees, which is challenging. For a LAMP test, transportation and storage can be at 2 to 20 degrees,” Mr. John said. Reduced cost An analyser for a LAMP test is more compact since the testing process involves only two steps as opposed to four steps in RT-PCR, he said. Thus, cost of manufacturing would be reduced by 30% to 40%. A release from the company said the analyser could process about 16 samples at a time. In a LAMP test, the sample is processed at a constant temperature as opposed to the temperature changes involved in a PCR test. “The kits were recently validated by the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation. Commercial production has begun and we are hoping to launch by November 10,” Mr. John added.
31 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC seeks government response on last rites||The Kerala High Court on Friday issued notice to the State government on a public interest litigation seeking a directive to the State government to hand over the body of those who die of COVID-19 to their relatives to perform the last rites, subject to adhering to the protocol. The petition was filed by Muhammed Haleem K.K. of Malappuram. He said that he and his relatives were not allowed to see the face of his 80-year-old mother who died of COVID-19.  Confusion According to him, there was confusion about the cremation/ burial/ last rites of persons who die of COVID-19 infection. Once a positive patient died, the Health Department took away the body to the cremation/ burial grounds where nobody was allowed to enter. The family members were thus deprived of their right to perform the last rites of the deceased. The petitioner pointed out that Article 21 of the Constitution provided various facets of right to life, which include the right to decent last rites to a deceased person in accordance with his/her religious beliefs.  Petition says that family members are deprived of their right to perform last rites of the deceased
31 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||674 test positive in district||s many as 674 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. Fifteen health workers tested positive, the source of infection of 198 people is unkown and 456 people contracted the infection through contact on the day. New cases of the infection were reported from areas including Fort Kochi, Thrikkakara, Thripunithura, Kalamassery, Kaloor, Elamkunnapuzha, Palluruthy, and Koovapady. A total of 741 people tested negative on Friday and 29,883 people remain in quarantine. As many as 12,325 people are being treated for the disease in the district and a majority of them are recovering at home. For testing, 5,191 samples were collected from government and private facilities. While 194 patients are admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital, 46 patients are being treated at PVS Hospital, 964 people are being monitored at FLTCs and 140 patients are at SLTCs. At private hospitals, 712 patients are being treated. Meanwhile, District Collector S. Suhas has extended Section 144 in the district till November 15 in view of the fact that efforts to ensure social distancing to control the pandemic have not been effective.
31 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC directs corporation to transfer funds||The Kerala High Court has directed the Kochi Corporation to transfer Rs. 4.88 crore to the District Disaster Management Authority for the restoration of Mullassery canal, 12 link canals between Atlantis and Vaduthala, Punchathodu, Kareethodu, and Chilavannoor backwaters. Justice Devan Ramachandran asked the corporation to transfer the amount in two weeks. The court told the Operation Breakthrough team to complete the work within 60 days of transfer of funds. It said the Operation Breakthrough team alone should take up the work.
31 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Four held on murder charge||The Infopark police on Friday arrested four persons in connection with the alleged laying of a honey trap and subsequent murder of a man on Sunday. The arrested are Anilkumar, Rajesh, 37; and Sanjay, 23, all residents of Kottayam; and Shanifa, 55, of Kollam. They were accused of conspiring to trap and later murdering Divakaran Nair, 64, of Kollam. The victim’s body was allegedly dumped in a secluded area near Brahmapuram on Sunday night and was found the next morning. The probe focused around an SUV that reportedly followed the autorickshaw in which the victim had travelled.
31 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Accused in murder case surrenders||An accused in the mass brawl allegedly among gangs involved in ganja trade, which led to the death of a youngster at INTUC Junction near Nettoor on the night of September 13, surrendered before the Ernakulam Judicial First Class Magistrate Court on Friday. Eswar K.B, 25, of Vyttila, was the ninth accused in the alleged murder case of 19-year-old Fahadh Hussain. He had been hiding in places like Munnar and then in Nagarcoil. He surrendered before the court after his anticipatory bail plea was rejected.
31 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ruckus in House case: Chennithala moves HC||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Friday moved the High Court seeking to implead him in a case filed by the State government challenging an order of the Thiruvananthapuram Chief Judicial Magistrate Court rejecting the pleas of the prosecution to withdraw the cases registered against Ministers E.P. Jayarajan and K.T. Jaleel and four LDF leaders in connection with the ruckus in the Assembly in 2015. Mr. Chennithala in his petition pointed out that constitutional immunity would be confined only to those acts which had a direct nexus to the right to speak or vote. The criminal acts perpetrated by the LDF leaders were in no way connected with the right of the members to speak or vote in the Assembly. “Legislative freedom cannot be construed as the freedom to commit crime by destroying public properties,” he said.
31 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Beaches set to reopen with strict controls||Tourist destinations in the district that are set to reopen on Sunday will allow only a specific number of passengers and vehicles at a time. At Cherai beach, not more than 150 visitors will be allowed on the walkway and 500 on the beach at a time, according to directions issued by the Department of Tourism. Similarly, parking will be allowed for 100 vehicles at a time. Not more than 200 visitors will be allowed at the Munambam beach, while parking will be restricted to 75 vehicles at a time. The corresponding numbers for Fort Kochi and Kuzhupilly beaches will be 500 visitors and 100 vehicles and 100 visitors and 40 vehicles respectively. In Mattancherry, only 100 visitors will be allowed at a time, with parking restricted to ‘minimal’, whereas at Kumbalanghi and Thattekkad, the numbers will be 50 and 20 and 50 and 30 respectively. The number of visitors to Muziris project sites will be restricted to 50 per site at a time, while parking will be restricted to 30 vehicles. The District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) plans to enhance the experience of visitors to these destinations with recreational activities. “Water sports and beach camping activities will be operational at the Munambam beach, while we are planning to introduce beach volleyball and other water sports training at the Kuzhupilly beach,” said S. Vijayakumar, secretary, DTPC, Ernakulam. Kumbalanghi will have boating using country boats, while boating will also be available at Fort Kochi and Kuzhupilly beaches and Mattancherry. Heritage walk along Muziris project sites will also resume. Homestays and service villas will be open to visitors along Cherai, Munambam, Fort Kochi and Kuzhupilly beaches and Mattancherry. The 300-odd homestays across the district remain hopeful of a gradual reversal of fortunes with the reopening of tourist destinations.  Water sports and beach camping will be held at the Munambam beach, while we are planning to introduce beach volleyball and other sports training at the Kuzhupilly beach S. Vijayakumar Secretary, DTPC
31 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||PC George moves HC seeking postponement of polls||PC George, MLA, has approached the High Court with a petition seeking adjournment of the local body polls to a date past the scourge of the pandemic and not in December this year. In his plea, Mr. George said the pandemic situation in Kerala, which had a high density of population and more number of vulnerable senior citizens, had worsened in the recent past with high test positivity rate.In this context, it could only ill-afford to deploy all its resources, currently engaged in fighting the lethal virus, for the conduct of the polls.
31 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Crackdown on fake Akshaya centres in Kollam begins||The district administration has started a crackdown on fake Akshaya centres that have been operating with similar names and logos. Kollam Collector has instructed all local bodies to take strict action against the parallel centres that had been offering all Aksahya services and other units operating without any license. The direction was issued after receiving several complaints about private online service providers that have been violating the norms concerned. Authorised The order issued by the Collector also says only authorised Akshya centres can offer various government e-services and trainings. According to officials, the fake units have been misleading the public by exhibiting logos and names that resemble original centres. Last year the authorities had received intelligence inputs about a number of units posing as Akshaya entrepreneurs facilitating e-services without any authorisation. It was also found that these centres have been misusing identity documents and charging extra than the approved rates for providing various services, officials said here. Illegal operations Since their illegal operations had been affecting the authorised centres, government had issued an order to regulate the number of centres, officials said. At present Kollam has 183 government approved Akshaya centres and only they have permission to provide e-district services related to ration card applications and social security pension mustering. The officials say that the unauthorised units have been using the Aadhar details of persons who approach them for various services to create IDs and facilitate e-services otherwise restricted to Akshya centres. Scam “Recently they had spread the news that the government is providing a special scholarship to all students called COVID-19 support scheme and charged Rs. 100 to Rs. 300 from every applicant. There was no such scheme and now some units have also started offering franchises that have no legitimacy,” said an official.
31 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||482 positive in Kollam||The district reported 482 new COVID-19 cases and 636 recoveries on Friday. Those who tested positive for SARS-C0V-2 include 474 contact cases, six persons with no known source and 2 health workers. The Health Department has also confirmed that the deaths of an 82-year-old Mundakkal resident and an 81-year-old Punalur resident are due to COVID-19. Cases with no known source have been reported from Ayalamon, Mayyanad, Eravipuram, Pavithreswaram, Kundara and Kadappakada. The health workers who tested positive include two Mayyanad and Mundakkal residents aged 25 and 36. The district currently has 16,297 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 3,37,815. While 2,773 people completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 80,845 primary and 7,610 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present Kollam has 6,406 active cases.
31 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Dalit forum opposes move on reservation||Dalit-Adivasi Mahasakhyam, a collective of various Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe organisations in the State, has demanded publishing of community-based data of government employees and those working in PSUs, boards, corporations, universities and other aided institutions. “After the information is published it can be found out who has claimed majority of the posts. Despite 10% reservation in government service, hundreds of vacancies in different departments are lying vacant,” said the leaders of the alliance at their State conference on Friday. The leadership also pointed out that Dalit Christians, a backward community like all other Dalits, have been fighting for reservation for over seven decades. “If the government and opposition believe forward communities are more deserving than them, they should make it clear,” they said. Observing that reservation has played a crucial role in the progress of Adivasi and Dalit communities, they said that widespread protests will be launched if the government makes any attempt to sabotage it. “Reservation is not about employment, but a factor that paved way for political headway and social-economic growth for the communities,” they said. Kerala Dalit Federation (KDF) State president and Dalit-Adivasi Mahasakhyam P. Ramabhadran inaugurated the conference while president and Aikya Mala Araya Maha Sabha State general secretary P.K.Sajeev presided over the function, a pressnote said.
31 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam tally is 367||As many as 367 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Friday. Of these, all but five contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 54 people above the age of 60 and 30 children. Among the local bodies, Kottayam and Changanassery municipalities reported 34 cases each. Chirakkadav panchayat reported 14 cases each. Meanwhile, the number of recoveries continued to remain at a higher rate with 1,007 patients testing negative. The district currently has 5,638 active cases.
31 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||722 new cases in Kozhikode||Kozhikode district recorded 722 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, of which 711 were those of local transmission. Five new patients had returned from other States. In six cases, the source of infection has not been determined. Meanwhile, 959 people were discharged from various treatment centres in the district. At present, there are 9,452 patients under treatment, and 26,738 people under observation. In Wayanad Ninety persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 from Wayanad district on Friday. As many as 88 of them contracted the disease through local transmission. Two new patients had recently returned from abroad. As many as 109 persons recovered on Friday. There are 828 active cases in the district at present. As many as 7,714 people are under observation. In Kannur In Kannur, 341 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. Of the new patients, 321 contracted the disease through contact, while four had returned from other States and three from abroad. Thirteen of the infected are health workers. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 133 more people tested positive on Friday. As many as 130 were infected through local contacts, while one person came from abroad and two from other States. There are 4,693 people under observation in the district.
31 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||BJYM activists take out protest march||Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) activists took out a protest march to the office of the District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) at Mananchira here on Friday, seeking the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in connection with the gold smuggling case. The march that commenced from Muthalakulam was stopped near the BSNL office at Mananchira. Riot police, deployed in large numbers, used water cannons to disperse the protesters after they attempted to break the police barricade. BJYM State president C.R. Praful Krishnan, who inaugurated the protest, deplored the attitude of the Chief Minister for clinging on to his chair despite such grave allegations raised against his office. If Mr. Vijayan had an iota of shame, he should step down immediately, he said. ‘Stir to continue’ Mr. Krishnan said his organisation would not go back on its agitation until the Chief Minister had resigned. The demonstrations would continue in the coming days as well, he said. BJYM district president T. Renish, State general secretary K. Ganesh and vice president B.L. Ajaysh addressed the protesters.
31 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Exporters’ forum seeks waiver of charge for ship crew change||The exporters’ forum members in the city have called upon the Ministry of Ports to waive the Rs. 3 lakh deposit sought by the Kerala Maritime Board to facilitate crew change of international ships. They also took up the issue with Minister for Ports Kadannappally Ramachandran when he visited the Beypore port for flagging off the new tug, Dhwani, on Thursday. A functionary of the exporters’ forum said such a hefty charge for securing the No Objection Certificate for the purpose was unheard of in the country and it was reportedly set by the Directorate General of Shipping. He said that such rules would put off the spirit of willing international vessel operators who had previously expressed interest in crew conducting change here. A leader of the Calicut Chamber of Commerce and Industry said the international ship operators from Suez and Persian Gulf had already been sent invitations for starting crew change at Beypore. The strange rules might dissuade them from trying it, he said. The exporters’ forum also called for more efforts on the part of the State government to promote the movement of cargo through seaports. They said that the cargo of handloom from Kannur and spices from Wayanad and perishables from Coorg, and footwear from Kozhikode were mostly shipped to the port by road using trailer trucks and the exporters had to pay Rs. 18,000 to Rs. 20,000 for this. Meanwhile, Mr. Ramachandran told the forum leaders that the possibilities of starting a vessel service between Kozhikode and Mangaluru was under consideration. The task was with the Kerala Shipping and Inland navigation Corporation, he said. During the discussions, the Minister also reviewed the scope of introducing other basic infrastructure apart from the Electronic Data Interface clearance facility that is required for speedy customs examination of the cargo. The possibility of opening a separate space for immigration and a port health office with better infrastructure were also discussed for the smooth functioning of international transshipment.
31 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||New bridge to be opened by December||The new bridge, which is being constructed across the Korappuzha river, on the national highway connecting Kozhikode city and Kannur will be opened by December. Construction work on the bridge continued to be brisk and almost 75% of the work has been finished. The new bridge was expected to be opened in April this year. However, the devastating floods last year and the COVID-19 situation delayed the work for several months. Public Works Department (PWD) officials said the finished work included construction of seven pillars and their spans of the 224- metre bridge. Two more spans have to be completed. Also, the completion of arches and approach roads was gathering pace. Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society Limited (ULCCS) is building the bridge at a cost of Rs. 27.17 crore. Old bridge Demolition work on the old bridge began in mid-December, 2018. The old bridge, which was constructed during the British era, became unmotorable due to the plying of heavy vehicles. The State government proposed the construction of a new bridge a few years ago. Then the Kerala Road Fund Board had channelised funds for the project through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board.
31 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||With Haritha Keralam project, Govt. ITI for Women turns ‘green spot’||The first phase of Green Campus, a joint initiative of Haritha Keralam Mission and Industrial Training Department to make select Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) green spots, has been completed in the State. Minister for Excise and Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan announced the completion of the projects in 11 ITIs in Kerala on Friday. In Kozhikode district, the Government ITI for Women was the selected project spot, where the State government spent Rs. 8.12 lakh for modernising the campus with an eco-friendly ambiance. A. Pradeepkumar, MLA, opened it at a district-level event. An aquaponics unit, biogas plant for treating degradable waste from the college canteen, compost unit, rainwater harvesting tank with 25,000-litre capacity and vegetable cultivation area were developed under the State-level scheme. The women’s ITI was selected for the project, considering its ambiance and the proper maintenance of the campus with the support of students.
31 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||New crematorium will have traditional funeral facilities: Kozhikode Corpn.||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation will take into consideration concerns expressed by the Hindu community in connection with the renovation of the Chalathara crematorium on Mavoor Road. A meeting convened by Mayor Thottathil Raveendran on Friday in this regard decided to include facilities for traditional funerals as well in the new plan of the crematorium after discussions with representatives of Hindu organisations and the architect. The participants of Friday’s meeting agreed with the present plan of the crematorium that included three gas furnaces and an electric furnace, while inclusion of traditional furnaces would be decided after further discussions. It was also decided to appoint a surveyor to inspect if the land of the crematorium had been encroached upon. Meanwhile, workers at the Chalathara crematorium will be temporarily accommodated at West Hill and Puthiyapalam crematoriums until renovation works are completed. Different organisations had launched a protest recently over the alleged neglect of tradition and rituals while renovating the Chalathara crematorium.
31 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Statewide protest against sexual assault on women||Social and cultural activists from all over the State and even some guests are to be part of the ‘Laksham Prathishedha Jwala’ being organised by several organisations across the State on November 1. Activists such as Dayabai, Erom Sharmila, Sunil P. Elayidom, Bishop Geevarghese Mar Coorilos, M. Geethanandan, Lucy Kalappurakkal, Nalini Jameela, and Harish Vasudevan; writers Sara Joseph, K.R. Meera, Anand, K. Satchidanandan, Balachandran Chullikkad, and Alankode Leelakrishnan; and film personalities such as Reema Kallingal, Kani Kusruthi, will take part in the protest as a response to the sexual violence against women, and violence against Dalits, Adivasis, and sexual minorities and other minority communities. The protest will be organised at 6 p.m.
31 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||NAPM to hold protests across State||Organisations and collectives under the aegis of the Kerala unit of National Alliance of People’s Movements (NAPM) is organising a chain of protests throughout the State on Saturday raising the slogan ‘We shall speak’. The protests are a continuation of the nationwide stir being organised by NAPM  from September 27 to December 10. In Kerala, the first phase of the protests will be held from 10 a.m. to noon raising issues such as Western Ghats protection, coastal area protection, justice for endosulfan victims, black soil mining, reservation, justice for women, farmers’ plight besides seeking justice in Walayar and Palathayi cases. The second phase is an online conference from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m.
31 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||482 cases in Palakkad||As many as 482 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Friday. While 258 of them contracted the infection through local transmission, the source of infection could not be ascertained in 217 cases. There were seven patients who came from abroad and other States. District officials said that 286 infected persons recovered on Friday.
31 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||163 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 163 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Friday. Of these, 150 people contracted the virus through local contact. The contact source of 29 people were yet to be traced. A bulletin issued here said among the local bodies, Eraviperoor panchayat reported 26 cases , followed by Thiruvalla municipality with 15 cases. With 271 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,464 active cases.
31 October 2020||THIRIVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||587 test positive in the capital||The COVID-19 test positivity rate in Thiruvananthapuram dropped significantly to 13.07% on Friday when 587 out of the 4,489 people who were subjected to testing during the last 24 hours were diagnosed with the infection. The high rate of recoveries also brought relief with 715 people testing negative for the SARS-CoV-2 on the day. The number of active cases in the district is 8,547. Among those who tested positive, 576 people acquired the infection through local transmission. The source of infection in 116 such cases were unknown. The caseload included 10 health-care workers and one imported case. Seven more recent deaths have been attributed to the disease. Barring a 28-year-old Thampanoor native, the other deceased were all senior citizens who hailed from Neyyattinkara, Valiyathura, Amachal, Pattom, Parangode and Kattakada. With these, the COVID-19 death toll in the district has gone up to 410. Under quarantine The district administration placed 1,716 under quarantine on the day, taking the number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 24,997 in houses and 171 in various institutions. New containment zones came into effect in Njanikunnu and Charuppara areas in Chayam, Tholicode grama panchayat; Enchappuri and Kokkottela in Aryanad grama panchayat. Several places were removed from the list of containment zones in the district. These include Vivekananda Nagar, Pathirapally residency, and Pai Nagar association areas in Poojappura, Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Moonukallinmoodu (except Kottapana area) in Neyyattinkara municipality; Puthanthope South in Kadinamkulam grama panchayat; Poozhanadu (except Moolamcose area) and Kunnanadu (except Chekkitavilakom area) in Ottasekharamangalam grama panchayat; Meenakal, Parandode and Puruthippara in Aryanad grama panchayat; Chekkady in Poovar grama panchayat; Mannottukonam in Kottukal grama panchayat; Kalumugham and Poovalangal in Thirupuram grama panchayat; Arattukuzhy, Manoor, Manathottam, Panachamoodu, Krishnapuram, Vencode, Mundanadu and Dalumugham in Vellarada grama panchayat; and Kaivankala and Karakkonam in Kunnathukal grama panchayat. Sectoral magistrates initiated action against 321 people in the district for violating prohibitory orders. While 33 people flouted COVID-19 protocol, as many as 64 people were fined by the officials. The district authorities have taken to task 15,486 people for various violations since the enforcement of the restrictions.
31 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF labours to fend off Congress, BJP allegations||Seemingly thrown off balance by the back-to-back arrests of M. Sivasankar and Bineesh Kodiyeri on money laundering charges, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) appeared labouring to shield itself from the searing anti-government propaganda campaign and aggressive street agitations unleashed by the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party.  CM yet to respond Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was yet to respond to Bineesh’s arrest. He had maintained the government was in the clear in the UAE gold smuggling and LIFE Mission cases. State secretary of the Communist Marxist Party of India (Marxist) Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had distanced the party from Bineesh and reiterated that the party would not protect wrongdoers. Despite the averments of the leaders, the CPI(M) appeared struggling to send a clear message to party workers to help them counter the Opposition’s campaign that the LDF had mislaid its moral compass and allowed leaders and their kin to enrich themselves illegally under the shade of power. Congress and BJP leaders have repeatedly used the CPI(M)'s proclaimed stance against corruption to assail the party and its leadership ahead of the local body polls. They have termed the view of the Communist Party of India (CPI) in the matter ambivalent. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran echoed the stance of the CPI(M) that Bineesh Kodiyeri was a private individual and did not represent the government or the LDF in any capacity. The Enforcement Directorate had merely advanced the Centre’s policy to unsettle non-BJP State governments by using federal law enforcement to discredit Opposition leaders and their kin. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, and BJP State president targeted Mr. Balakrishnan and Mr. Vijayan separately. Mr. Muraleedharan questioned the source of Bineesh’s wealth. He said the CPI(M) had lost its ethical moorings and mutated as a money-making machine for its leaders and their kin. Mr. Chennithala said Mr. Balakrishnan’s allegation that he had received an expensive watch as a gift from gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh had backfired. The ED had found that Mr. Vijayan’s former Principal Secretary Sivasankar owned it. Mr. Surendran said Mr. Vijayan knew who owned another watch gifted by Swapna to those at the apex of the government. He questioned the provenance of an expensive smartwatch allegedly owned by Mr. Vijayan. He said Mr. Vijayan had close links with Swapna and had introduced her favourably to the officialdom. The BJP and the Congress demanded that Customs investigate Mr. Vijayan on the charge of abetment to gold smuggling.
31 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two fish tanks in TTP ready for harvest||Public sector undertaking Travancore Titanium Products Ltd (TTP) is in the news for ‘fishy’ reasons. On Saturday, Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma will inaugurate a much-awaited harvest at the fish tanks on the campus. In April and May this year, TTP employees led by chairman A.A. Rasheed and managing director Georgee Ninan had deposited 6,000 fingerlings of Genetically Improved Farmed Tilapia (GIFT), grass carp, catla, rohu and Assam vala in two large tanks. Support to scheme The fish farming project was undertaken to support the ambitious Subhiksha Keralam food security project announced by the State government. Minister for Industries E.P. Jayarajan had inspected the aquaculture project, which is led by the Fisheries Department, on August 25. The harvest of the fully grown fish is being held on Saturday. As part of the Subhiksha Keralam project, TTP had set aside 10 acres on the campus for aquaculture as well as for vegetable farming. TTP was also selected for the State award for the best industry in Thiruvananthapuram district to implement the Subhiksha Keralam project. TTP was incorporated in December 1946, to produce pigment-grade Titanium dioxide from ilmenite.
31 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State records 6,638 new cases, 7,828 recoveries||Kerala reported 6,638 new COVID-19 cases on Friday when 53,981 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate that seems to have stabilised around 12-14 % these past two weeks remained at 12.29% on Friday. The State again reported more recoveries than new cases, with 7,828 patients leaving hospitals. The State’s active case pool has thus again come down to 90,565 cases on Friday, not yet crossing the one lakh mark. If the current weekly growth rate in cases is maintained by the State , it might be weeks before the active cases cross one lakh mark.  Of the active cases, 806 patients are being treated in ICUs with 230 requiring ventilator support. With the total recoveries till date reaching 3,32,994, the cumulative case burden has touched 4,25,122 cases. Cumulative toll The new deaths added to the State’s official COVID-19 death list on Friday is 28, taking the cumulative toll to 1,457. Of these deaths which occurred in the State between October 17 and 27, Thiruvananthapuram accounted for seven, Kozhikode five, Malappuram and Thrissur three each, Ernakulam, Kottayam, and Kollam two each, and Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta, Wayanad, and Kannur one case each. Of the new cases reported on Friday, 6,553 cases (98.7%) are locally acquired infections. This includes 700 cases wherein the authorities could not find an epidemiological link. The number of health-care workers who contracted the disease is 64. Among the districts, Thrissur reported 1,096 cases, Malappuram 761, Kozhikode 722, Ernakulam 674, Alappuzha 664, Thiruvananthapuram 587, Kollam 482, Palakkad 482, Kottayam 367, Kannur 341, Pathanamthitta 163, Kasaragod 133, Wayanad 90, and Idukki 76 cases. The active caseload in districts are fluctuating and Ernakulam, where the number of active cases had been on the slide has again come up to 12,323. Thrissur has 10,023 cases, Malappuram 9,736, and Kozhikode 9,609. Thiruvananthapuram, which for weeks had the highest active caseload, now has the fifth position with 89,547 cases.
31 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Administrative panels to be in charge||With the local body polls to be delayed on account of COVID-19, local bodies in the State where elections are scheduled will be governed by administrative committees after November 11. Until fresh elections are held, the local bodies will be governed by administrative committees consisting of three government officers or a special officer. The State government should appoint the committees/special officers through a gazette notification, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said. To enable this, the commission has informed the government that the elections will be held only after November 11.  Required by law The commission had issued formal orders on Wednesday stating that the elections to the municipal corporations, municipalities, and panchayats would be completed before December 31. The appointment of dates for filing nominations and other procedures had been deferred to a date after November 11. (The term of the present elected councils, except Mattannur municipality, expires on November 11). Wherever a new elected council has not yet been constituted when the term of the old one has ended, the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act and the Kerala Municipality Act require the government to appoint “a special officer or an administrative committee consisting of not less than three officers of the government” for interim governance until the elections are held. Appointed through a gazette notification, the committees/special officers cannot hold office for more than six months. The arrangements for the elections are in full swing in the State, the commission noted. However, it was decided to defer the appointment of dates for nominations and related procedures given “the extraordinary circumstances that exist in the State due to the COVID-19 pandemic”, it noted.
31 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Caring for mental health at local level||Mental health is something that rarely comes under the considerations of a local self-government body’s plans. But in Chirayinkeezh block panchayat in the capital, it is the centrepiece of the local body’s activities. In 2017, a project called ‘Suraksha’, aimed at community-based rehabilitation of mental health patients, was launched in the six grama panchayats coming under the block, the only such project under a local body in Kerala. Over the past three years, those with mental health issues were identified through an intensive grass-root level survey covering 1.83 lakh people, and provided support and treatment. The focus of the programme was in providing help at the community or local level than putting people in rehabilitation centres. The project that was conceptualised by a team led by E. Nazeer, social scientist at the Psychiatry Department in Government Medical College Thiruvananthapuram, and Anil Prabhakaran, Head of the Psychiatry Department, was adopted as a pilot project by the State government, which also appointed a monitoring committee for it. “Initially, we carried out door-to-door surveys in all wards, during which close to a thousand patients were identified. The primary focus of the programme was to provide the patients support at their own house. Weekly check-ups were arranged in the primary health centres. The doctors in these PHCs were provided training in handling mental health issues by the Medical College’s psychiatry department. Counselling, free medicines, and support were provided,” says R. Subhash, Chirayinkeezh block panchayat president. Monitoring committees Monitoring committees and task forces were formed from the ward to the block levels. A legion of health volunteers, anganwadi workers, junior public health nurses, and those with Masters in Social Work were mobilised for the survey. The Social Justice Department as well as the Health Department provided initial funds, while each of the grama panchayats also set aside Rs. 2 to 3 lakh each for the project. In the second phase, the project was extended to schools in these six panchayats. Following the survey, 1,200 students were identified as having mental health issues, learning disabilities, and issues at home. Continued support was being provided to these students. A paper analysing the project has appeared in the September issue of the Journal of Humanities and Social Science.
31 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SHRC orders probe into complaint against police||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has ordered the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Shanghumughom, to institute a probe into a complaint raised against the Vanchiyoor police for allegedly failing to register a child abuse case despite being directed by a doctor. Commission chairman Antony Dominic issued the order while considering the complaint submitted by a Vattappara native who alleged that her 11-year-old daughter was abused by the warden of an orphanage in Thiruvananthapuram in February. Following an examination in a Peroorkada hospital and later at the SAT Hospital, a gynaecologist had ordered the police to register case under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. FIR While the police registered a case after the Shanghumughom ACP initiated enquiry, the complainant alleged the police did not incorporate her daughter’s statement in the first information report (FIR). The commission instructed the ACP to investigate the case directly under the circumstances.
31 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kaivalya scheme, an asset for differently abled: Minister||The Kaivalya scheme will be an asset for the differently abled, Minister for Social Justice K.K. Shylaja said. She was speaking after inaugurating distribution of financial assistance under the Kaivalya- Comprehensive Employment Rehabilitation Scheme being implemented by the Employment Department under the Labour and Skills Department and Kerala State Handicapped Persons Welfare Corporation Ltd. as part of the 100-day action plan of the government here on Friday. The Minister said the State was implementing the project to equip the differently abled for self-employment. This would bring about a huge change in society. Minister for Labour and Skills T.P. Ramakrishnan said the Employment Department should take steps to provide money to those found eligible.
31 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Eleven ITIs declared green||Minister for Labour and Skills T.P. Ramakrishnan announced completion of the first phase of the green campus project implemented at State government’s Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) on Friday. Eleven ITIs were declared green in the first phase of the project, implemented by the Haritha Keralam Mission. The Minister said the State was making a serious attempt to conserve nature and reclaim the agricultural tradition, and it was a matter of pride that ITI students, trainers, and other employees were able to become a part of this responsibility. The greening drive is being implemented at many institutions by the Haritha Keralam Mission with the support of local self-government institutions. The Minister said the project would be extended to all the ITIs in the State. It will become a model for all educational institutions.
31 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Contest for start-ups||The Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM), in association with NASSCOM, is organising a five-day Corporate Demand Week from November 2, in a bid to provide the best business opportunities for start-ups. Corporate companies will seek innovative technical solutions for around 15 problems in fintech, enterprise tech, edutech, mobility, and HR tech sectors. Start-ups should submit solutions before November 22. For registration, visit: http://bit.ly/ksumcdw . For details, visit: https://business.startup mission.in/nasscom or contact: 9605206061.
31 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mahila Congress stir turns unruly||A demonstration taken out by the Mahila Congress turned unruly after a few activists attempted to enter the Secretariat premises. The police resorted to forceful measures when the activists refused to disperse. A few activists were injured in the melee. Later, the Youth Congress took out a protest march to the Cliff House. A few activists also managed to reach the main gate to the Chief Minister’s official residence. The protesters were blocked at the Devaswom Board junction and were arrested.
31 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held with ganja||A 27-year-old man was arrested from Thycaud on Friday for possessing 2kg of ganja, Balram Kumar Upadhyay, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City), said. The accused was identified as Vijayakanth of Jagathi. He fell into the hands of a City DANSAF (District Anti Narcotic Special Force) team while he was on his way to sell the banned substance. Vijayakanth is an accused in around 15 cases of theft and chain snatching, Mr. Upadhyay said in a statement.
31 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vakkom Moulavi memorial centre||The Vakkom Moulavi Memorial and Research Centre, established in memory of Vakkom Abdul Khader, will be formally launched on Saturday to coincide with the 88th death anniversary of the social reformer, who also founded Swadeshabhimani . Veteran journalist B.R.P. Bhaskar will deliver the inaugural lecture on the theme ‘Freedom and the press’.
31 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Changes in voters’ list: deadline ends today||Applications for inclusion in voters’ list for the elections to local bodies and complaints, if any, can be submitted up to October 31. A pressnote issued by the State Election Commissioner (SEC) said citizens who are unable to report for the hearing can submit the scanned copy of the application to the respective electoral registration officer in person or through a messenger or email. The SEC has also made online and video call facilities for the hearing. The supplementary rolls will be published on November 10.
31 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New school building inaugurated||District panchayat president V.K. Madhu inaugurated a new building for the Government Higher Secondary School, Tholikkode. An amenity centre for girl students under the district panchayat’s ‘Manasa’ programme and a gate also were inaugurated at the school. The new building was constructed at a cost of Rs. 35 lakh.
31 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Projects to develop ‘green islets’ under way||A project to develop ‘green islets’ in the district for restoring biodiversity will get under way in the district on Sunday, the Kerala Piravi day. Elected representatives of the people and government officials will plant a tree each for developing the green islets comprising not less than one cent each. The project is being implemented in 34 grama panchayats and the municipalities of Neyyattinkara, Attingal and Varkala in the districts.
31 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bonds to be issued||The government is issuing bonds worth Rs. 636 crore to mobilise funds for development activities in the State. The bonds will be auctioned on November 3 through the e-Kuber system at the Mumbai Fort office of the Reserve Bank of India. For the notification and details of the auction, visit www.finance.kerala.gov.in.
31 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Prohibitory orders in Thrissur till Nov. 15||District Collector S. Shanavas issued orders extending the prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Cr.PC in Thrissur for 15 more days from November 1. In the wake of the spurt in COVID-19 cases, the Collector had earlier declared Section 144 from October 3 to October 31. “The district is on the verge of a super spread of COVID-19. The span of the order needs to be extended for a period of 15 more days as the district is still facing a surge in cases in spite of the restrictions. Any laxity in following COVID-19 protocols will seriously endanger lives in large numbers,” said the Collector. Curbs on gatherings Gathering of more than five persons is prohibited in public places. A maximum of 50 persons will be allowed for weddings and 20 people can attend funerals. Government functions, religious functions, prayers, political and other social/cultural activities should not have more than 20 people. Markets, public transport systems, offices, other workplaces, examinations, recruitments and industries can function by strictly adhering to COVID-19 protocols. The District Police Chief, Thrissur city and rural, will implement the order. The Sectoral Magistrates should ensure that the order is strictly followed within their jurisdiction. Local bodies have been asked to disinfect public places in their respective localities.
31 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU course in nutrient management||The Kerala Agricultural University in collaboration with the Department of Agriculture Development and Farmer’s Welfare has started a 15-day online certificate course on Integrated Nutrient Management for fertilizer dealers in the State. The certificate course is organised in view of the orders issued by the Ministry of Agriculture Development and Farmers’ Welfare, Government of India. Mandatory It has been made mandatory for fertilizer dealers to undergo a certificate course of 15 days on Integrated Nutrient Management to obtain and retain their licence for fertilizer dealership. Agri-input dealers in the country are a prime source of farm information to the farming community, besides the supply of inputs and credit. However, the majority of these dealers do not have formal agricultural education. Extension professionals “It is to improve the technical competency of fertilizer dealers in agriculture, to help them aid farmers better and to mould them as para-extension professionals, an online certificate course on Integrated Nutrient Management has been introduced,” according to KAU sources. Fertilizer dealers and candidates who have passed Class X examination can attend this course. The fee is Rs. 7,500. The course will start with online theory classes for 2 hours daily for 15 working days and practical classes shall be conducted in the Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVK) of respective districts subsequently. Scientists of KAU working in relevant subject areas will be handling both theory online classes and practical classes. Practical classes will be conducted in batches as per COVID-19 norms. Hundred applicants have been selected for the first batch. The remaining applicants will be included in subsequent batches, the KAU sources said. Handbook KAU has also prepared a comprehensive handbook for the course, which will be made available to the trainees for reference. The certificate course was inaugurated by V.S. Sunil Kumar, Minister of Agriculture Development and Farmers’ Welfare, recently. R. Chandra Babu, Vice Chancellor, Kerala Agricultural University, presided. K. Vasuki, Director of Agriculture, Directorate of Agriculture Development and Farmers’ Welfare; Madhu Subramanian, Director of Research, KAU; Jiju P. Alex, Director of Extension, KAU; spoke at the function. The certificate course is conducted by the Central Training Institute, Mannuthy, in coordination with the Krishi Vigyan Kendras under the Directorate of Extension, Kerala Agricultural University.
31 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur posts highest number of cases in State||Thrissur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the State once again on Friday. While 1,096 fresh cases were reported, 778 persons recovered from the disease. Currently there are 9,916 active cases in the district and 72 patients from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 38,659 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district while 28,424 people recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 1,080 persons contracted the disease through local contact on Friday. Of them 130 are above the age of 60 years and 90 are children below 10. A tota of 6,269 persons are under home observation. As many as 1,030 new patients started treatment for COVID-19 on Friday. Of them, 312 people were admitted to hospitals and 718 are under home observation. On Friday, 6,730 samples were tested in the district.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Premium breeds add teeth to police dog squad||After a nine-month-long intense training at the Kerala Police Academy, Marly and Berty, two premium pedigree dogs, found new home at Aluva after being inducted into the dog squad of the Ernakulam Rural police on Friday. Marly is a Belgian Malinois, and Berty, a beagle, which is a much-sought-after pet dog breed. Belgian Malinois shot into fame after Cairo, a dog of the breed, helped the US Special Forces track down Osama bin Laden at his hideout in Abbottabad, Pakistan, in 2011. It was again in the news following the participation of Conan, another US military Belgian Malinois, in the raid that led to the killing of Islamic State chief Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. “Their reputation preceded their arrival thanks to their exceptional performance at the academy from where they passed out last week. They will add to the firepower of our dog squad,” said District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. Marly will add to the investigation prowess of the police in theft and murder cases, whereas Berty’s expertise is in detecting explosives, making her a valuable asset in policing sensitive installations like airports.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the agitation path||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||ED to probe Bineesh’s money trail||The ED has frozen Bineesh's known assets in Kerala. However, the agency required to verify reports that Bineesh had sunk his allegedly illegitimate earnings into real estate, cinema, hotel, plantation and forex businesses in Kerala. The arrest of one Muhammad Anoop on drug charges by the Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) in Bangalore in April had led to the arrest of Bineesh by the ED on Thursday. The ED described Anoop as a ‘drug peddler.’ It said a massive infusion of funds into Bineesh’s accounts from questionable sources often preceded his periodic cash transfers to Anoop. Bineesh could not explain the fund transfers and was ‘completely evasive in his replies.’ Investigators said Anoop was a front (Benamidar) for Bineesh. They said Anoop ‘indulged in the sale and purchase of narcotics’ and was ‘closely associated with Bineesh.’ Anoop reckoned Bineesh his ‘boss’ and did his employer's bidding. The ED said Bineesh wielded ‘considerable power and influence.’ He could ‘scuttle the investigation and destroy evidence’. Investigators said Bineesh held ‘many bank accounts.’ They accused him of committing the offence of money laundering by transferring/layering of vast proceeds of crime into various accounts.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Holding their ground on resignation||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Reminding the authorities||
31 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||5-year-old injured during house demolition||A five-year-old boy, identified as Naga Chaitanya sustained head injuries and was rushed to RDT Hospital at Bathallapalli in a grave condition when a team led by the Dharmavaram Revenue Divisional Officer tried to demolish houses at Marrimakulapalli in Tadimarri mandal of Anantapur district on Friday afternoon. Marrimakulapalli is one of four villages getting inundated in the district with the government deciding to store 9.5 tmcft of water in the Chitravathi Balancing Reservoir on the Anantapur-Kadapa district border. Around 180 oustees were agitating for compensation for their houses that they were going to lose, and did not allow anyone to enter the village till late Friday afternoon. At noon, the Revenue Divisional Officer and the Mandal Revenue Officer pacified the agitating youth and told them that they would take the issue to the notice of the higher officials and that a resolution would be done by Monday. Following their assurance, people had their lunch at the entrance of the village and left for their houses. Later in the afternoon, the Revenue officials allegedly came back with an earthmover and demolished the walls of one of the houses, which led to the damage of adjoining house in which the five-year-old boy was having lunch. The boy sustained a grave head injury and was shifted to hospital in the Revenue Department vehicle. Villagers furious The villagers immediately damaged the JCB and chased away the police and Revenue officials, and threatened to organise a mass sit-in in front of the Tadimarri Mandal Revenue Office on Monday if the issue was not resolved by then as the houses were getting slowly inundated in the backwaters of the Chitravathi Balancing Reservoir. The agitating youth also threatened to lift the gates of the reservoir and release water if the officials did not respond in time.
31 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan working against farmers’ interests: Congress||Lack of administrative experience is clearly visible in the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s 16-month rule, and it is working overtime against the interests of the farmers in a State that is predominantly dependent on agriculture, alleged the said Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee. Addressing a press conference on Friday, APCC president Sake Sailajanath and working president N. Tulasi Reddy hit out at the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government for supporting the Narendra Modi-led BJP government at the Centre on the power sector reforms, which would work against the farmers and privatise distribution companies. Mr. Sailajanath demanded convening of an all-party meeting to discuss on the farm distress, completion of Polavaram project and power meters for agriculture connections. “If the Jagan Mohan Reddy government does not call for an all-party meeting, the Congress will organise one and invite all political parties, who share similar views,” the APCC president said. The Chief Minister has only three options — fight against the Centre, surrender to Modi or resign and go home to continue his business — said Mr. Reddy. “During his 16-month rule, Mr. Jagan completely surrendered to Mr. Modi for the reasons best known to him,” said Tulasi Reddy.
31 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||After COVID lull, Horsley Hills back to buzz||Owing to the threat of COVID-19, hardly any activity was seen in the tourist destinations of Chittoor district, including the prime location of hill station Horsley Hills, since March. With revenue generation being hit badly, the tourism officials in the district were a worried lot and they expected that it would take time to limp back to normal. However, in contrast, the hill station achieved 100% target in September, followed by a little excess till date in October. Tourism Manager (Chittoor) D.V. Chandramouli Reddy told The Hindu that Horsley Hills constituted the major chunk of income for the sector in Chittoor district, followed by temple tourism and eco projects at Talakona, Kailasakona and Kuppam. “Much to our surprise, there is a full-fledged return of tourists at Horsley Hills in September first week. It continued and still goes strong in October. Interestingly, 90% of the footfall is from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, following full restoration of inter-State transportation,” he said. The official said that the target of Horsley Hills for the month of September was Rs. 50 lakh, through boarding and lodging for the tourists. “In August, the presence of tourists on the hills was discouraging and we thought it would continue. But, we could achieve the target for September. It’s a big record in these pandemic times,” said Mr. Chandramouli Reddy. At present, the hill station has as many as 50 rooms under control of the tourism wing, with Haritha restaurant for the visitors. ‘More facilities needed’ Jagannath Chowdary, a realtor from Bengaluru, who along with his four-member family visited the hill station, said that most of the Bengalureans experience a dull life during the lockdown period. “Poor or rich, people of Bengaluru love visiting places. A big chunk of picnickers don’t miss the opportunity to visit either Nandi Hills (near Bengaluru) or Horsley Hills at least once a year. Exactly, we came here in September last. Now we are here again. We need more facilities for tourists here,” he said. Singaravel (28), who works as an assistant director in Kollywood, said that he got married a few days before the COVID-19 lockdown. “For over three months, it’s like house arrest for us in Chennai. Till July, we could not enjoy our honeymoon. We find this Horsley Hills very convenient for us with a small budget, after my income got flattened due to COVID,” he said.
31 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Never let your guard down, health workers tell people||The week-long “Maskeh Kavacham” (facemask is the shield) programme concluded with a pledge by the COVID-19 task force personnel and public groups to not let the guard down against coronavirus, even though cases are on the decline in the district. Medical and paramedical staff, ASHA workers, staff of police and revenue departments attended the valedictory session at the Tower Clock junction at Nagari on Friday. Task Force special officer P. Ravi Raju administered the pledge to the gathering that that they would adhere to the guidelines and would take the message among public groups to fight the pandemic. The official said that due to the best efforts of the task force consisting of all departments, the spread was brought under control in Chittoor district, from a daily average of one thousand two months ago to below 250 at present. However, he observed, this scenario should not be taken for granted and there should not be any relaxed mood in the face of the threat of second wave of the virus spread. Public movement back on track Mr. Ravi Raju said in view of the public movement getting back on track at the border areas in Satyavedu, Nagalapuram, Pitchatur, Nagari, Nindra, Puttur and Karveti Nagaram mandals, the “Maskeh Kavacham” programme was widely undertaken in the region, prompting the public to compulsorily wear facemasks. He advised against using a handkerchief or a cloth to cover one’s face, a habit which, he said, was becoming rampant in rural areas. Municipal Commissioner Nagendra Prasad said that the COVID-19 rules were publicised in Nagari municipal areas, where the daily tally is hovering around 10, with focus on cottage industries such as powerloom units. Circle-Inspectors M. Rajasekhar (Nagari rural) and Maddaiachari (Nagari Urban) and senior medical officers of local Government area Hospital were present. A public awareness rally was undertaken from Clock Tower to municipal office circle.
31 October 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police to crackdown on illegal crackers’ sale||West Godavari Superintendent of Police (SP) K. Narayan Naik has directed the police officers to conduct raids and book those who store and sell crackers illegally ahead of Deepavali festival. Mr. Naik enquired about the wholesalers, retailers and manufacturers of fire crackers in the district. At a crime review meeting here on Friday, the SP took stock of the pending cases under POCSO and SC and ST (POA) Act besides sexual assault, murders, kidnap, thefts and other cases. He instructed the officers to file chargesheets in time and take up investigation in a fair manner. The SP asked the Eluru, Narsapuram, Kovvur, Jangareddygudem and Polavaram Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) to conduct surprise checks to prevent illegal hoarding of crackers in residential areas as a precautionary measure, by following the COVID-19 rules.  ASPs A.V. Subba Raju, C. Jaya Ramaraju, M. Mahesh, Dy. SPs O. Dileep Kiran, K. Nageswara Rao, M. Venkateswara Rao, K.V. Satyanarayana, Paideswara Rao and Krishnam Raju and other officers were present.  In Machilipatnam  Krishna district SP M. Ravindranath Babu conducted a virtual crime review meeting with Nuzvid and Nandigama police officers, from the district police office on Friday. He asked the officers to focus on crime against women and children, liquor smuggling and petitions received through Spandana. He directed the police to enlighten the public on the Police Seva app and Disha app. Mr. Ravindrabath Babu reviewed the investigation of different cases with the officers. He told the staff to be polite with visitors and render justice to them. Special Branch DSP Dharmendra, Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu, Nandigama DSP G.V. Ramana Murthy, Central Crime Station Dy. SP Murali Krishna and other officers were present.
31 October 2020||GUDIVADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civil Supplies Minister visits Police Open House||Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) on Friday expressed his appreciation for the police department for working selflessly during challenging times, even putting their lives at risk to serve the public. “Police personnel are discharging their duties round-the-clock without taking weekly offs for the last six months ever since the pandemic broke out. Thousands of police personnel have been affected by the virus,” Mr. Nani said. The Minister visited the ‘Open House’ arranged by the police in the town on Friday. Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu, who accompanied the Minister, explained the types of weapons displayed, communication systems and other equipment.  Mr. Ravindranath Babu, while expressing condolences to the bereaved families of the police, said the officers visited the houses of the slain policemen, and enquired about the education of their children, economic and health conditions of the family members. Gudivada Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) N. Satyanandam, CIs V. Durga Rao and Abdul Nabi and other officers were present.
31 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police clarify on handcuffing row||Amid a raging political controversy over some remand prisoners being handcuffed while they were being brought to Guntur sub-jail on October 28, a preliminary police investigation has pointed out 16 of the 42 remand prisoners being escorted by Armed Reserve Police, were accused of severe criminal offences, including charges of molestation, dacoity, and various charges under POCSO Act, and theft etc. In such cases, it becomes imperative for the police to hand cuff the remand prisoners as they can plan an escape from police custody or even launch an attack on the police themselves. The police took 16 persons into custody at Krishnayapalem when they allegedly tried to obstruct and manhandle a section of farmers supporting the three-capital proposal. The men along with other remand prisoners were subjected to COVID-19 screening tests at Sattenapalli sub-jail and later brought to Guntur court on October 28. The opposition Telugu Desam Party said that it condemns the police action and launched a five-day agitational programmes. On Friday, former Minister Nakka Ananda Babu led a protest by handcuffing himself along with other leaders. Out of 42 remand prisoners being escorted by the Armed Police, 16 have been charged with various sections of Prevention of Atrocities (SC/ST) Act. “The police have followed the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in toto while bringing remand prisoners with serious charges. But the department has taken action promptly suspending the six constables. The suspension has been revoked pending a departmental inquiry and we urge the people not to be carried away by such malicious propaganda aimed at tarnishing the image of the police,” said a senior police officer.
31 October 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIMS sees a decline in number of COVID patients||Ever since the government has notified Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) as one of four State-nodal hospitals, it started to receive a number of complicated cases from parts of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, East Godavari and Srikakulam districts. The cases include elderly persons affected with COVID-19, patients suffering from severe respiratory problems and other health issues. Despite all odds, VIMS played a pivotal role in treating COVID-19 cases in North Andhra region. Out of 2,700 patients who were admitted, nearly 2,400 patients have recovered and discharged from the hospital. VIMS has also successfully conducted C-section and normal deliveries of 105 pregnant woman, who were admitted to the hospital after being affected with coronavirus. “Unfortunately around 200 patients died due to COVID-19 and several due to pre-existing health issues. However, the death rate in ICU was very less,” said VIMS Director K. Satya Varaprasad. Now, decline in COVID-19 cases in North Andhra districts has given slight relief to the officials from VIMS. As on date, out of 650 beds in the hospital, just five beds are occupied, while during August, the number was hovering around 450. Apart from the decline in daily cases, herd immunity and availability of hospitals in other districts are some of the factors for this. CSR block at KGH is also sharing the patients, the officials said. According to Mr. Vara Prasad, they have sought the district administration to denotify the hospital from A to B category to treat regular patients also. However being a State-nodal hospital, the district administration is not able to take a decision. Fearing second wave, the State government also seems to be not inclined to denotify the hospital. “Many from the city, even Vizianagaram and Odisha utilise services in VIMS. We have requested the government to let us treat patients with other health issues also. Since VIMS has a vast campus, we can do that safely in other blocks,” the Director said.
31 October 2020||JAGGAIAHPET,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,000 liquor botttles seized, seven arrested in separate cases||In a major operation, the police seized about 1,000 bottles of Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) valued at about Rs. 6 lakh, being smuggled from Telangana, in separate cases on Friday. Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Vakul Jindal said the personnel seized Rs. 1.73 lakh cash, arrested seven persons and seized four vehicles. The police conducted raids on Andhra Pradesh-Telangana borders and seized the liquor stocks. The accused were shifting the liquor in different ways, Mr. Jindal said. During vehicle checks, the Jaggaiahpet police seized a four-wheeler in which the accused were smuggling 604 bottles by concealing them in cotton beds. They arrested D. Jaya Bharat Reddy and Sk. Kasim and hunt is on for the remaining accused. In another raid at Muktyala village, police arrested P. Koteswara Rao, B. Madhusudhan, K. Shravan and Nani, and recovered 302 bottles from their possession. Police seized Rs. 1.73 lakh cash from them, the ASP said. Police confiscated 95 bottles in a separate raid at Brahmamattapalli village in Chandarlapadu mandal and arrested T. Narasimha Rao and one smuggler, Narasimha Rao.
31 October 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea for four-lane roads in Kamalapuram||Member of Parliament (Kadapa) Y.S. Avinash Reddy has appealed to the Central government to develop four-lane stretches in Kamalapuram and Chilamakur towns of the Renigunta – Kadapa – Muddanur stretch of the national highway (NH-716). Based on a request from Jammalamadugu MLA M. Sudheer Reddy, Mr. Avinash Reddy sent a letter to Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on Friday making a formal request. ‘High freight traffic’ The road is known for its high-density freight traffic in view of its connectivity to major cement factories like Bharati, Zuari and ICL, Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant, apart from the transportation of the Kadapa slabs, which are in great demand down south. Moreover, the integrated high grade steel plant, for which the government laid the foundation stone recently, is also close by.
31 October 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reception counter for women at police station||A Disha women’s exclusive reception counter and help desk was formally inaugurated at Chinna Chowk police station in Kadapa town on Friday. This is one of the 64 select stations in the State to get the facility to address women-related complaints and cases on a war-footing. “Women and children reaching the police station from nearby towns and villages will get a homely feel here, where they can express their grievances with ease,” said Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan after inaugurating the facility. Deputy Superintendents of Police U. Suryanarayana (Kadapa town), T.Vamsidhar (Special Branch) and Chenchu Babu (faction zone) were among those present on the ocassion.
31 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Frontline workers lauded for their service in East Godavari||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Friday felicitated scores of frontline warriors at the Collectorate, lauding their selfless service in the event of health emergency since March. Accompanied by District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said: “East Godavari district had witnessed above 7.87 lakh cases of which above 1.16 lakh people are still battling the dreaded disease. The frontline warriors played an exceptional role in preventing the escalation of death toll. The sanitation and medical services staff have even put their lives at risk in attending the patients during the troubled times in the district.” Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna has appealed to the people to practise all the precautionary measures to avoid the spread of COVID-19 in coming days. Addressing the gathering officials, Mr. Muralidhar announced that the district has prepared to reopen the schools for classes 9 and 10 and colleges for Intermediate courses from November 2. However, classes will begin for 7th and 8th from November 23. The district officials have been told to be alert as a second wave of the virus is speculated.
31 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dowry death: Seven arrested in E. Godavari||Seven persons were arrested on Friday in connection with a dowry death case, in which a 22-year-old woman allegedly ended her life at the railway tracks near Tuni railway police station in East Godavari district. On August 31, 2019, the victim, U. Jaya Lakshmi, ended her life allegedly after being harassed repeatedly for additional dowry by her husband V. Prasad and her family members. The same day, Prasad had lodged a complaint with the Annavaram police stating that his wife had gone missing. The victim’s suicide came to light during the verification of the Tuni railway police data on suicides along railway tracks. “The case was finally traced after the victim's family identified a photograph of the woman who ended her life on the railway tracks in August last year,” police said. Husband nabbed “We have arrested seven persons including the woman’s husband Prasad, victim’s father-in-law V. Srinivas and mother-in-law V. Satya Kumari and four other family members for harassing the victim for additional dowry. The case has been registered under Section 304-B of the IPC,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. The accused were produced before a local court on Friday and an investigation is on.
31 October 2020||KALIDINDI (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Houses, crops still under flood waters in many villages||Crops in thousands of acres have remained under a sheet of water and aquaculture ponds damaged due to the heavy rains that lashed the Krishna and West Godavari districts for the last one month. Even after 25 days, water did not recede from some colonies and roads causing severe inconvenience to the public. Paddy and aqua farmers suffered huge losses as the crops were washed away. Normalcy had not yet returned in Kaikalur, Kalidindi, Bhimavaram Rural, Akiveedu, Undi and other mandals, local residents said. “With the irrigation canals and drains overflowing, paddy crops were inundated and aqua ponds were damaged as the canal bunds breached in several places,” said K. Rama Rao of Madvanigudem village. Roads were badly damaged due to floods at Mudinepalli, Singarayapalem, Korukallu, Elurupadu, Akiveedu, Bantumilli and other places and many accidents occurred as roads remained submerged in two feet water at some places. Further, vehicles were getting stuck in mud causing traffic jams, vehicle users lamented. “Flood water entered some colonies and houses on the canal bunds in Madvanigudem, Kalidindi, Guruvaipalem and other villages. Nobody is pumping the water out and clearing the colonies. Residents fear spread of communicable diseases. Snakes and other venomous reptiles are entering the houses,” said M. Adi Lakshmi. “We request the Medical and Health, Panchayat Raj and Revenue officials to take steps to pump out water, drop oil balls in drains and spray bleaching powder to prevent spread of diseases,” said an auto driver V. Trimurthulu.
31 October 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram will be completed by Dec. next at any cost, says Minister||Reiterating that the Jagan Mohan Reddy government will not make any compromise on implementation of the Polavaram project fully by the Centre, Minister for Water Resources Anil Kumar Yadav has asserted that it will be completed at any cost by December next year. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mr. Anil Kumar alleged that the previous TDP government neglected the project. He further alleged that the TDP took over the project from Centre for the sake of ‘'kickbacks' and was now blaming the YSRCP for the current predicament following the Centre's decision to cap the project cost based on the memo issued by the Ministry of Finance in 2016. He recalled that the TDP had hailed the 'special package' announced by Centre which included the Polavaram project, without considering the cost escalation factor when it was fully the responsibility of the Centre to implement Polavaram, a national project. He dared Leader of Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu to reveal the Union Cabinet note of 2017 when the TDP shared power with the Bharatiya Janata Party at Centre. He disputed the claim of the TDP leaders that 70% of the works had been completed when it was in power after spending only Rs. 17,000 crore, while the entire cost of the project was Rs. 55,000 crore. The TDP leaders had ignored the Rehabilitation and Resettlement component of the project, he said. Dig at Lokesh “TDP leader Nara Lokesh is making baseless allegations against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” said the Minister adding he (Lokesh) was no match to the calibre of the Chief Minister. People would teach a lesson to the TDP as and when the local body elections were held. The Minister along with his Cabinet colleague Mekapati Goutham Reddy also reviewed the progress of the Somasila High Canal project designed to provide 6 tmcft of water to the drought-hit parts of SPSR Nellore district.
31 October 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSU bags ISO certification||Vikrama Simhapuri University has bagged the ISO 9001-2015 certification from HYM International Certifications Pvt Ltd. The certification for VSU, Nellore and VSU PG centre, Kavali, was in recognition to the quality, academic and administrative procedures followed by the university, said its Vice-Chancellor R. Sudarsana Rao. VSU also received two more ISO certifications in the categories of environmental standards (ISO 14001:2015) and information security standards (ISO 27001:2013), a release said.
31 October 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt., CII to showcase State to global investors||The Andhra Pradesh government will partner with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) to unleash the State's potential to the captains of industry, according to Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy. The CII and the State government would jointly organise “Andhra Pradesh Resurgence Global Summit” in February to enhance investment climate and showcase the strengths of the State before domestic and global investors, he said after holding discussions with Satish Raman, CII Regional Director (South). As a precursor, CII would organise sector-specific and country-specific roundtables to promote economic growth in the State.
31 October 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister vows to improve facilities at dargah||Milad-un-Nabi, the birth anniversary of Prophet Muhammad, was celebrated with religious fervour and traditional enthusiasm across Nellore district. The celebrations started on Thursday evening and ended on Friday. Devotees read poetry and sang verses hailing Prophet Muhammad and reflected upon his life and teachings and vowed to follow the path guided by the Prophet, of forgiving enemies and doing good to fellow human beings. Khaja Rahamatulla Dargah at A.S.Peta, 60 km from Nellore, witnessed a flurry of religious activities on the occasion. Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy and Sullurpeta legislator K.Sanjeevaiah joined the believers in offering special prayers. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister wanted people to follow the teachings of Prophet Muhammad who was revered as a great social reformer and an ideal family man. He promised to contribute his mite to improve the infrastructure facilities at the Dargah visited by pilgrims from different states. He immediately sanctioned Rs. 10 lakh for a bus shelter. He lauded the services of the Dargah in providing succour to a large number of migrants stranded during the lockdown imposed to fight against coronavirus.
31 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Positive’ trend continues in South Coastal Andhra||In keeping with the positive trend, over double the number of persons recovered from coronavirus when compared to fresh admissions in Nellore and Prakasam in the last 24 hours. Health situation improved further in Nellore district which reported zero deaths during the period and the toll remained unchanged at 486. With one more succumbing to the disease, the toll increased marginally to 571 in Prakasam district, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Friday night. The health professionals in the region have reasons to cheer as the region registered a healthy recovery rate of 97.15% with 1,16,822 of the 1,20,243 patients having recovered so far, while 0.87% of the persons succumbed to the viral disease in the two districts. Nellore district accounted for 59,521 recoveries and Prakasam district the rest. While 226 persons, including 80 in Nellore district, tested positive for the disease in the region during the period, 511, including 397 in Prakasam district won the battle against the disease. The caseload came further down to 2,850 in the region with Nellore district accounting for 1,455 patients and Prakasam district the rest. Candle-light rally Meanwhile, leading a candle light rally, in-charge Nellore District Collector M.N. Harendhira Prasad patted the health professionals for the 24 x 7 medical care provided to the patients. He underscored the need for people taking all precautionary measures to avoid contracting the viral disease.
31 October 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Committee on new districts to prepare inventory by Nov. 7||A district committee headed by East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has been constituted to prepare an inventory on availability of government land, building infrastructure and suitable locations for the administrative and judicial residential quarters for the proposed new districts to be carved out from East Godavari district. It is learnt that the State government is engaged in the exercise of finalising the number of new districts to be formed from the existing 13 districts. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Muralidhar has said, “The committee on Friday met for the first time, setting a target of preparing an inventory by November 7.” East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi, Joint Collector (Revenue) G. Lakshmisha and other senior officials are members of the committee. Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said that the committee would not look into the aspect of proposed boundaries of the new districts. “We are preparing ground to ensure that the administrative machinery would be able to start functioning soon after the creation of the new districts,” the Collector said. All the district officials have been told to identify the vacant government buildings, government land and other infrastructure facilities to submit a report to the State government. “The exercise is on to carve out two new districts from the district with headquarters at Rajamahendravaram and Amalapuram,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddfy.
31 October 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: candlelight rallies taken out||Thousands of frontline warriors and officials on Friday participated in the candlelight rallies taken out in all the towns and cities across the East Godavari district, calling for support from people to prevent spread of COVID-19 by following all precautions. In Kakinada, District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has led the rally while Social Welfare Minister Pinipe Viswaroop led it in Amalapuram. In Rajamahendravaram, MP M. Bharat and Sub-Collector Anupama Anjali participated in the rally. The participation by the health staff and police in the rallies has drawn the attention of people on the need to follow safety precautions.
31 October 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||No AU land being allotted to IT startup companies, says V-C||Putting to rest the controversy raging in the Andhra University campus over 50 acres of university land being allotted to IT startup companies, Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy said that ‘no land is being allotted’ to anyone. But he confirmed that a startup incubation is being readied in the campus and it is being done as per the new National Education Policy-2020. It is being set-up with RUSA (Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan) funds. “We have already built a two-storey structure and named it as Gandhi Bhavan, and we have floated e-tender for another two floors. The tender will be finalised shortly. The incubation centre is coming up in that building,” said Prof. Prasad Reddy. According to him, all top institutes including central universities have incubation cells to groom startups and it is part of that initiative. This aspect is being wrongly interpreted and communicated by some political parties, he said. The building has about 4,000 sft for usage in each of the two floors and with the new two floors, it will go up to 16,000 sft. “We will still be falling short, as the Detailed Project Report (DPR) was for 30,000 sft. But we have provisions for future expansion,” he said. Prof. Reddy said that invitation will be sent to four or five startups to establish their units in the first floor and the second floor will be left open for the students to start their units. The startups in the first floor will act as mentors for the students and also provide internship and once ready the students will be allowed to start their own in the second floor and later in the other two floors after they are ready. On the role of STPI (Software Technology Parks of India), the V-C said that the government institution will act as a funding agency and facilitator for the startups. “We will provide the facility, but once the startup projects are approved they would need other support such as funding and networking and this where STPI comes in,” he said. STPI is sponsoring two such centres in Visakhapatnam, one in Visakhapatnam that is called as Industry 4.0 and the other is in AU, which has been named as Nex Gen centre, said Prof. Prasad Reddy. Apart from the Nex Gen centre, AU is also starting three research centres one each for pharma testing, food testing and genetic research. For the food testing lab, AU has already tied up with Food Crafts India, and efforts are on to rope in reputed institution for pharma and genetic research centres. The centres are being started with Rs. 15 crore RUSA funds and some old quarters facing Siripuram have been demolished to accommodate the three-floor centre. All the three research labs will be equipped with the state-of-the-art research equipment and instruments and will provide opportunity for our research scholars, said Prof. Prasad Reddy.
31 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Task force blitzkrieg yields 46 red sanders logs; four arrested||A midnight blitzkrieg by the Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF) sleuths led to the arrest of four smugglers and recovery of 46 precious logs in Talakona forest of Chittoor district early on Friday. Acting on a tip-off, Superintendent of Police (RSASTF) Anjaneyulu deployed combing teams led by Reserve Sub-Inspectors Lingadhar and Vasu that launched an intensive search in the forest on Thursday evening. The sleuths observed a group of nearly 50 men carrying logs at Katukanuma forest area beyond Nerabailu village, who ran helter-skelter on sighting them. After a hot chase, the sleuths managed to nab four woodcutters, while the others fled under the cover of darkness. The arrested persons were identified as Palanivel Venkatraman (32), Kumaran Settu (20), Babu Kalaiarasan (26) and Ramaswamy Annamalai (33), all hailing from Javvadumalai forest spread across Polur taluk of Tiruvannamalai district in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. The Task Force Police Station registered a case.
31 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prayers, free meals mark Milad-un-Nabi in Tirupati||People celebrated the birth anniversary of Prophet Muhammad with religious zeal across Chittoor district on Friday. As part of the ‘Milad-un-Nabi’ fete, ‘Langar’ (mass kitchen) was conducted and ‘Annadanam’ (free meals to poor) performed on a large scale at Krishnapuram Thana junction in the vicinity of the Pedda Masjid. “In view of the COVID-19 situation, we followed all the mandatory norms in preparation and distribution of the food. All the invited guests were also made to wear masks during the gathering,” said Sayyad Shafi Ahmed Khadari, the Government Qazi of Tirupati. Special prayers were performed at the Pedda Masjid in the adjoining Pedda Peerla Chavadi area, marking the holy occasion.
31 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Be alert to possible spike in COVID cases, people told||Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare Katamaneni Bhaskar, Krishna District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz and Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Sreenivasulu exhorted people to be alert to a possible spike in the number of COVID-19 cases and to take necessary precautions in the coming months. Inaugurating a candle light rally aimed at spreading awareness on COVID here Friday, Mr. Bhaskar said social distancing, wearing face masks and sanitising were crucial in the fight against the disease, which brought the world to its knees. Mr. Imtiaz said people should not be complacent as the chance of Coronavirus staging a comeback could not yet be ruled out going by the global trends. Thousands of people took part in the rally which started at Benz Circle and ended at PWD Grounds. Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha, Municipal Commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh and District Medical and Health Officer M. Suhasini were present.
31 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Energy conservation drive set to get a fillip||In a significant development, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney has directed all departments to include energy conservation and efficiency measures in the government’s flagship ‘Nadu-Nedu’ programme to take energy efficiency mission to the village level. At the executive committee meeting of Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission on Thursday, its chairman and Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney said the government decided to aggressively promote efficient use of energy and its conservation, which was the least-cost option to achieve energy security and meet the growing demand. She instructed energy secretary N. Srikant to organise frequent meetings with departments such as housing, education, medical and health, women and child welfare, roads and buildings, industries and municipal administration which have construction activities on a sizeable scale. Ms. Sawhney also suggested that engineers be sensitised about the concept of energy efficient green buildings to facilitate the implementation of the Energy Conservation Building Code. “The government is expecting to reap substantial rewards from the efficient use of energy which will benefit the end-user in the form of reduced electricity bills," she observed. Roadmap She instructed the officials to prepare a detailed roadmap for ECBC measures in the construction of government buildings. AP building rules have already been amended in tune with the ECBC norms, Ms. Sawhney added. Mr. Srikant said he would take necesary steps for scaling up the energy conversation and energy efficiency activities.
31 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, Naidu express grief over Thantikonda accident||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has expressed profound grief over the accident at Thantikonda in East Godavari district, in the early hours of Friday, in which seven persons lost their lives and several others of a marriage party were injured while they were returning from a temple.Mr. Harichandan instructed the district administration to provide immediate medical treatment to the injured persons and offered his heartfelt condolences to members of the bereaved families. Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu also expressed shock and profound grief over the tragic road mishap. ‘Very unfortunate’ Calling the accident “very unfortunate”, he conveyed deep sympathies to the bereaved family members and said the government should ensure proper treatment to persons who sustained injuries in the incident and also provide all possible assistance to the victims and their families.
31 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Order issued for recruiting 581 Arogya Mithras||The government accorded permission to the CEO of Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Health Care Trust to fill up the existing vacant posts of 581 Arogya Mithras who will be working at network hospitals, and 37 vacancies of team leaders. A G.O. was issued by Principal Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) Anil Kumar Singhal on Friday. It was stated that the recruitment was for streamlining the services under Aarogyasri scheme in the network hospitals.
31 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. indifferent to farmers’ problems, says Lokesh||Telugu Desam national general secretary Nara Lokesh on Friday said farmers in over 11 districts in the State suffered enormous crop loss due to recent floods but the Jagan Mohan Reddy government was indifferent to their problems. At a press conference, he said during his visit to the flood-hit areas in five districts, farmers informed him that only 10% to 15% of their damaged crop was being enumerated. He said the floods caused heavy damage to crops in over 215 mandals and destroyed over 10,000 houses. Demanding 100 % enumeration of the damaged crop, he said a compensation of Rs. 25,000 per acre should be paid to the affected farmers. He said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised to usher in 'Rythu Rajyam' before 2019 elections but was now indifferent to their problems. Referring to what he called "one of Mr. Jagan's pet programmes" Rythu Bharosa, the TDP general secretary said the government had let down the farmers who were paid far less than what was promised to them and lakhs of farmers were left out of the scheme. Citing heavy damage to the paddy, groundnut, maize, turmeric and other crops, he said groundnut was damaged in over 10 lakh acres but the farmers were yet to receive any help. Referring to the promise of zero interest loans to the tune of Rs. 3,500 crore to the farmers and the GO pertaining to the grant of Rs. 100 crore of it, Mr. Lokesh said it was not yet implemented. The price stabilisation fund of Rs. 3,000 crore to ensure remunerative prices to farmers was yet another sham, he alleged.
31 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make road blockade a success: APRS||The AP Rythu Sangham (APRS) has called upon farmers to participate in large numbers in the nationwide road blockade on November 5 for which the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) gave a call to exert pressure on the Central government to withdraw the three Bills on agriculture market reforms and the Electricity Amendment Bill. APRS president Y. Kesava Rao and secretary M. Suryanarayana said on Friday the agriculture sector plunged into an unprecedented crisis in the last six years due to the Modi government's policies. The debt burden on farmers and the number of suicides have gone up as the sector was being increasingly corporatised. The policies framed by the Centre were in favour of the multi-national corporations. Contract farming has been made easy and priority was not given to food crops. Power subsidies being given to the agriculture sector were contemplated to be done away with. Besides, the removal of curbs on storing food grains would pave the way for extensive black marketing, they observed.
31 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ryots’ arrest: Amaravati JAC to hold ‘Chalo Guntur’ rally||In protest against the ‘handcuffing’ and arrest of farmers in Krishnayapalem, farmers in Amaravati region have planned to embark on a ‘Chalo Guntur’ agitation on Saturday. In a statement issued here to the media on Friday, Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi Joint Action Committee leader Puvvada Sudhakar said farmers from all villages will gather at Thullur by 9 a.m and from there, they will move together in vehicles towards Guntur. Mr. Sudhakar said that people of the region, especially farmers, were feeling highly agitated and unsettled about the ‘illegal’ arrests and the act of handcuffing them for participating in a peaceful protest.
31 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID rules for schools in Krishna released||Students are finally gearing up to attend schools that were shut in March this year due to the outbreak of COVID-19 virus that spread rapidly, necessitating a lockdown. According to a new set of guidelines issued by the Krishna District Education Officer M.V. Rajyalakshmi on Friday, classes would be conducted for students of 9 and 10 from November 2, for classes 6 to 8 on November 23 and for primary students of classes 1 to 5 on December 14. These classes will continue till April 30, 2021. The headmasters will hold a meeting with teachers and members of the parents' committee on November 1 to discuss and put in place a comprehensive plan on the COVID rules that should be implemented as a precautionary measure. Students will be allowed to attend schools only with the consent of their parents. Each classroom will accommodate not more than 16 students at a time and students of Class 9 will attend school on alternate days while classes would be conducted daily for 10th class students. All precautions like wearing of masks and thermal scanning will be compulsory for everybody on the campus. Morning prayer will be held in the classroom, followed by a pledge on adherence of COVID-19 guidelines. Classes should be held in well-ventilated places.
31 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fact-finding survey done in Visakhapatnam mining region||Senior officers from the departments of forest, revenue, mines and geology and survey and land records conducted a joint survey at Somalamma Hill in Ravikamatham mandal to ascertain whether mining activity was taken up by Stone Plus company in pockets that fall under the reserve forest. The Somalamma hill was notified as a reserve forest in 1982 and was named as ‘Cheemalapadu forest block’. The Somalamma hill is part of a catchment area of the Kalayanapulova reservoir, which was built in 1978. In 2016, granite mining leases were granted on this hill and since 2017, farmers and tribals from catchment area have been demanding stoppage of mining activity. Tribals from surrounding villages participated in the inspection and submitted a petition to the Sub-Collector. Representatives from the mining company Stone Plus were also present. P.S. Ajay Kumar, national secretary, All India Agricultural and Rural Labours Association (AIARLA) submitted a report on mining in the dam’s catchment area. He also explained to officials how the reserve forest area was allocated under the pretext of the ‘gap area’. The joint survey was conducted based on directions from the Andhra Pradesh High Court and a report will be submitted to the court.
31 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID scare deprives tourists of ‘chill in air’ thrill||Drop in temperatures in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district generally draws tourists who love enjoying the chilly weather. Lambasingi and Chintapalli in the region recorded temperatures below 15 degree Celsius during the past few days. But for the pandemic situation and the restrictions on the free movement of people, there would have been a heavy inflow of tourists from different parts of the State and also from neighbouring Odisha and distant West Bengal from Dasara itself. Chintapalli recorded 14.7 degree Celsius on Friday and the temperature at Lambasingi (also known as Lammasingi) is estimated to be generally 1 to 2 degree C below the temperature recorded at Chintapalli. The Regional Agricultural Research Station (RARS), Chintapalli, has estimated that the minimum temperature till November 3 will be on an average at 22.9 degree C in Chintapalli and 23.2 degree C in Paderu. The wind speed is estimated to be 6.6 km/hr and 5 km/hr during the same period at the two blocks respectively. “The south west monsoon has totally withdrawn from India on October 28. The monsoon is replaced by dry and cold currents from the Himalayas and north India. This results in drop in temperatures,” says P. Rama Rao, a retired Director of IMD. “However, coastal Tamil Nadu, Nellore, Ongole and Rayalaseema are likely experience rain under the influence of a low pressure. A trough exists over south west Bay of Bengal off Tamil Nadu coast. Under its influence rain is likely to occur over Rayalaseema and Nellore. It is a general feature during this season,” he says. Easterly winds “Easterly waves from the Andaman Sea move across Bay of Bengal, activate the low pressure area and cause scattered to moderate and isolated heavy rainfall in Tamil Nadu, Rayalaseema, Prakasam and Ongole. Though warm humid currents activate and cause rain 15 degree south of the latitude, dry cold currents persist 15 degree north of the latitude, says Mr. Rama Rao. The minimum temperature recorded is 23. 2 degree C at Waltair and at Visakhapatnam Airport is is 22 degrees C on October 30, according to the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam. There does not seem to be any significant change in the minimum temperature in the city during the next five days. “The tourist season begins from Dasara and continues up to Sankranthi but this year we have lost the Dasara crowd due to the pandemic. The recovery is expected to take quite sometime,” says Divisional Manager of AP Tourism Development Corporation Prasada Reddy. The maximum drop in temperatures in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam is seen from the last week of December to around January 15.
31 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stress on people-friendly policing, says Home Minister||Home Minister M. Sucharitha inaugurated new model police stations at Narsipatnam (Town) and Anakapalle (Town), in Visakhapatnam district, on Friday. She was accompanied by Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao, Director General of Police Gautam Sawang and other officials. Speaking on the occasion, Ms. Sucharitha said that the new police stations were built with the idea of providing a corporate look and creating an atmosphere for friendly policing system, where citizens can approach police without any stigma or fear. She said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s government is committed to police welfare. Lauding the State police for bagging 48 Skoch awards, the Home Minister said that the police were moving ahead and bringing laurels by making proper use of technology. For the first time in the country, police in the State are being given weekly-offs, she said. The Minister also recalled the services of the police during the COVID-19 lockdown period. Speaking about women safety, the Minister said that 18 Disha police stations were opened in the State. She said that the police have brought several mobile applications, including Disha app and AP Police Seva app, to offer various services to the citizens. During the inaugural programme at Narsipatnam, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that Mr. Jagan has brought a number of reforms in the police system. He also said that strict action is being initiated against ganja smuggling. Narsipatnam MLA P. Umashankar Ganesh sought the Home Minister to establish a special women police station in Narsipatnam. Due to lack of dedicated women police station, women from Narsipatnam and surrounding areas are forced to go to Anakapalle, he said. Also speaking about the ganja smuggling menace in the Agency mandals, the MLA said that number of gangs transport the contraband through Narsipatnam. He requested the Minister to take stringent action against the accused. The new model police stations are equipped with separate blocks for Station House Officers, Sub Inspectors, restrooms for the staff, waiting hall for the citizens/complainants, reception centre, records room, lock-ups and drinking water facility. The station writers, constables, other staff are being provided good seating and proper communication systems. Anakapalle MP B. Satyavathi, Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath, Superintendent of Police (Visakhapatnam Rural) B. Krishna Rao and others were present.
31 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Action sought against polluting pharma industries||Social activist and former bureaucrat E.A.S. Sarma wrote to the Chairman of AP Pollution Control Board (APPCB) on Friday, seeking early action on pharma industries in Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City (JNPC) at Parawada, which were allegedly polluting water bodies, resulting in the death of fish on a large-scale. Mr. Sarma noted that the farmers were alleging that the pharma companies were releasing chemicals into the ponds, resulting in the depletion of oxygen and death of fish. During the recent rains, the leak of a manhole at the pump house at pharma city resulted in the spillage of effluents onto the roads and drains. Some of the industries were deliberately releasing effluents during rains and repeated complaints had failed to evoke the desire response. Mr. Sarma noted that this could not have happened without the connivance of senior officials of the PCB as the pharma managements would not have dared to pollute water bodies otherwise. He sought early action against the polluters and officials, who supported them.
31 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women’s panel chairperson meets minor girl ‘impregnated’ by father||Chairperson of Women Commission Vasireddy Padma assured all help on behalf of the State government to the family of the minor girl, who was allegedly raped and impregnated by her father, at Malkapuram area. She met the victim who is being treated at the Disha One-Stop centre at King George Hospital (KGH). Ms. Padma instructed the officials to provide better treatment to the victim. She also advised girls that in case of any issue, they should inform about it to their mother, close ones or even the police personnel immediately. It may be remembered that a 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her father over a period of time. The incident came to light after family members of the girl lodged a complaint with the police on October 28, after the girl became pregnant. His wife, who is said to be bed-ridden with some health issues, was not able to help her daughter. The police arrested the accused.
31 October 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP seeks allotment of houses for all PMAY beneficiaries||BJP leaders and party workers staged a dharna at Gandhi statue near GVMC office here on Friday protesting against irregularities in housing scheme. Speaking on the occasion, BJP MLC P.V.N. Madhav said houses should be allotted to beneficiaries under PM Awas Yojana (PMAY) in the district. He said that the State governments were renaming the Central schemes and implementing them as their pet schemes. He said the BJP government had sanctioned the highest number of seven lakh houses for the State. But both the present and previous governments had miserably failed in handing over houses to the beneficiaries. BJP State vice president P. Vishnu Kumar Raju said the YSRCP government had promised to give 25 lakh houses and house sites for poor people under its Navaratnalu scheme. However, the government could not give 3.5 lakh houses allotted for the beneficiaries in the last 18 months. He said under the PMAY scheme 7,01,000 houses were sanctioned for the State. Of them, the TDP government invited tenders for 4.74 lakh houses. However, the YSRCP government reduced the number of houses to 3.13 lakh thus rendering injustice to over 1.60 lakh beneficiaries. He said tenders were invited for 58,000 houses in Visakhapatnam but the YSRCP government limited the number of houses to 25,000 and cancelled proposals for remaining ones. He demanded that houses be given to all those who paid advance payment in the form of DDs.
31 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 271 new cases in 48 hours, district tally crosses 56,000-mark||The district reported as many as 271 new COVID-19 cases in the last 48 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 56,212 as on Friday. The death toll also rose to 476 with three more persons succumbing to the coronavirus in the last two days. On a positive note, as many as 330 persons, who were affected with the virus, recovered in the last two days. With the new cases, the total number of active cases and recoveries is 2,086 and 53,650 respectively. There are nine very active and 16 active clusters in the district. A total of 296 clusters are dormant. As many as 627 clusters were already denotified.
31 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal farmers to be given minimum support price for their produce||ITDA Project Officer Venkateswar Salijamula has said that the minimum support price, fixed by the government, will be given to the tribal farmers for the paddy and finger millets (ragulu) produced by them. He said that the finger millets and paddy would be purchased through Velugu VOs, under the auspices of Markfed at the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) from November 2. He appealed to the tribal farmers not to approach middlemen to sell their produce but to sell them at the RBKs. At a meeting with officials of the Agriculture, Velugu, Markfed and chairman of Market Committees on Friday, Dr. Venkateswar said that the price of finger millets was fixed at Rs. 3,295 a quintal and paddy at Rs. 1,860. He called upon Agricultural Assistants and Village Volunteers to create awareness among tribal farmers on selling their produce at the RBKs. The government was paying more than the price being paid to tribals by middlemen at the weekly shandies. He said that it was the responsibility of the agricultural officers to ensure that the tribal farmers got Rythu Bharosa. He said that Forest Right pattas were distributed to 48,000 tribal families and each farmer should be given Rs. 13,500 as rythu bharosa. Later, Paderu Agriculture Market Committee Chairperson M. Gayatri Devi, Araku Valley Chairperson K. Anita and Chintapalli Chairperson J. Haliya Rani were felicitated by the Project Officer.
31 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mock drill on radioactive leakage conducted by steel plant||A mock drill on radioactive leakage was organised by Visakhapatnam Steel Plant here on Friday. Joint Chief Inspector of Factories J. Siva Sankar Reddy witnessed the drill and said that it was the first ever industrial mock drill in the district on the preparedness of arresting the radioactive leakage. As part of a mock drill, one worker inadvertently opens the cap of Cobalt 60 Isotope (radioactive source) during cleaning of the isotope storage room and four workers working nearby get affected after getting exposed to radiations from the source. Consequent to this, the communication, execution and evacuation activities for the rescue of the workers and premises was part of the mock drill. The National Disaster Rescue Force (NDRF) team, which was part of the role play, demonstrated the ways and means of arresting the radioactive source and evacuating the affected persons. Nearby industries such as NTPC and Hinduja power plant also played a key role in the drill by being part of the medical assistance team. After the drill, Chief Emergency Controller K.V. Vidya Sagar conducted a review meeting and discussed the observations of the drill.
31 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC depot to be built under PPP mode||AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has decided to construct a bus depot at an estimated cost of Rs. 8.5 crore under the PPP mode, beside the National Highway at Tagarapuvalasa in the district. Prospective industrialists have been asked to submit their proposals. Interested can contact through email ateevspapsrtc@ gmail.comby November 7, according to APSRTC Executive Director C. Ravi Kumar.
31 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make stand clear on POSCO: trade unions||Representatives of various trade unions in Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) have demanded that the State government make its stand clear on the reported allocation of VSP lands to South Korean steel major POSCO. At a roundtable meet organised by the recognised union at the CITU Office at Gajuwaka on Friday, the representatives sought to know whether the State government was opposing the allocation of VSP lands to POSCO. Recognised union president J. Ayodhya Ram alleged that the Central and State governments have been showing a step-motherly attitude towards VSP from the beginning. He said that the agreement with POSCO was an attempt to hand over VSP to POSCO on a platter. Steel INTUC president Gandham Venkata Rao alleged that the VSP management had made the agreement with POSCO on the directions from the PMO. He recalled that the people of Visakhapatnam had sacrificed their lands and livelihood for the construction of VSP. General secretary of the recognised union Y.T. Das, JAC leaders J. Simhachalam, D.V. Ramana Reddy, T. Jagadish, Atchimnaidu, D. Ravi, D. Appa Rao were in attendance. Meanwhile, a protest was organised by the CPI(M) at the Gandhi statue near GVMC on Friday, demanding that the State government come out with its stand on the issue.
31 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM attends wedding in city||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy attended the wedding ceremony of Chodavaram MLA Karanam Dharmasri’s daughter Suma with Chinnam Naidu here on Friday. Mr. Jagan arrived at 5.25 p.m. in a special flight and went straight to the hotel at Beach Road, where the function was being held. He was accompanied by Deputy Chief Ministers Dharmana Krishna Das and Pushpa Srivani, Rajya Sabha MP V. Vijayasai Reddy, Municipal Minister Botcha Satyanarayana and a few others. Mr. Jagan greeted the couple on the occasion. Earlier, the Chief Minister was welcomed by MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, District Collector V. Vinay Chand, Ministers M. Srinivasa Rao and D. Krishnadas, Official Language Commission Chairman Yarlagadda Lakshmi Prasad, District Collector V. Vinay Chand, Commissioner of Police, Manish Kumar Sinha and a few others. Mr. Jagan left to Vijayawada at around 6.48 p.m. Statue unveiled Earlier in the day Home Minister M. Sucharitha unveiled statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar near Head Post office, at One Town here . She was accompanied by Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao, MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana and a few other officials.
31 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rashtriya Ekta Diwas’ observed||The birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel is observed as Rashtriya Ekta Diwas on October 31 every year. The Waltair Division of the ECoR observed the day on Friday. Officials and staff participated in the event through web conference.
31 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police inspector donates sanitisers||Police inspector Ilyas Mohammed distributed masks and sanitisers to the devotees who had come to offer prayers at the mosque at Civil Lines near police barracks, on the occasion of Eid Milad Un Nabi, here on Friday. He donated the items in memory of his nephew Khadar Baba and his brother Ishaq Mohammed.
31 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social activist gets award||Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B.Rajakumari on Friday presented the Corona Warrior Award to social activist Anuradha Begum on behalf of the Hyderabad-based Viswaguru World Records. Ms. Anuradha said that 1,400 poor families were given essential commodities and distributed masks and sanitisers in several colonies of Cantonment and other places. She said that the gratitude shown by people had given more happiness.
31 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||An ashram that walks children through life’s adversities||The Jattu Ashramam in Parvatipuram, 75 km from Vizianagaram, believes in not letting go of a child’s hand till he/she manages to find their footing in life. Launched in 1989 by D. Parinaidu, a government school teacher who quit his job to focus full-time on helping tribal children, the ashram ensures that inmates are trained in music and dance from a young age. The ashram’s efforts caught the attention of V. Padmaja, a Group-1 officer who worked as Mandal Development Officer in Prakasam district. Inspired by Mr. Parinaidu’s efforts, Ms. Padmaja resigned from her job and joined the ashram in order to fulfil her lifelong passion of working for marginalised children. Having grown up in Raichur, Karnataka, where music and dance play a key role in shaping the growth of children, Ms. Padmaja said she wanted to ensure the same kind of upbringing for the tribal children of Jattu Ashramam. “Children should be taught the importance of culture, tradition and nature in our life. They are our investments for the future. Apart from music and dance, we are also teaching the children the importance of protecting the environment. They participate in plantation drives, and campaign against usage of plastic and protection of ponds in and around Parvatipuram town,” Ms. Padmaja told The Hindu . While some of the tribal children who come to the ashram are orphans, many are victims of deeply entrenched tribal customs. “If the husband dies, the wife can remarry. However, there is one condition — she cannot take care of her children from her first husband. This tribal custom has become a bane for many children of Gummalakshmipuram, Kurupam, Jiyyammavalasa and other surrounding hamlets,” Mr. Parinaidu said. “The ashramam becomes their second home. Jattu, in Telugu, stands for team. We have managed to ensure a decent education for 125 inmates. A majority of them have settled down in jobs across the country,” he said. Going the extra mile “Apart from ensuring higher studies, we take care of their marriage also. We ensure that they get suitable matches after thorough verification. Times are changing and people cutting across caste, creed and religion are coming forward to marry tribal women. This is a good sign. It gives us a lot of happiness. Many people are also coming forward to extend their help for the overall development of children,” he added. “Soujanya, Sameera and Alekhya, three young inmates of the ashram, are adept at self-defence techniques as well as music and dance. Nearly 50 students of different age groups have a deep interest in gardening. They prepared sanitisers without using chemicals. The sanitiser bottles are being distributed locally. The students learnt waste management techniques with the support of Parvathipuram municipal authorities. They turned local dumping yards into playgrounds with relentless efforts,” said Ms. Padmaja, beaming with pride.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blessing the newly-wed||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fraught with peril||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man set ablaze by wife, dies||A woman allegedly killed her husband, Shaik Khadar Basha (37), by setting him ablaze at their residence in Machilipatnam late on Thursday. According to the Inaguduru police, Sk. Nazia allegedly resorted to the act following an argument with her husband Basha over an affair with a close relative. The deceased was the son of Machilipatnam market yard committee chairman Shaik Achabba, police said. At around midnight, the couple reportedly had a heated argument and Nazia, in a fit of rage, allegedly poured kerosene on Basha and set him on fire. The victim received 40% burns and was rushed to GGH in Vijayawada from a Machilipatnam hospital for further treatment. He died while undergoing treatment at the GGH in the city. Case registered The couple were married for 14 years and have four children. A case has been registered against Nazia who was taken into custody. Further investigation is on.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Catch n feast!||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Riot of colours||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nature’s delight||
31 October 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Minor grievously injured in attack by ‘lover’||A 17-year-old girl was critically injured when a youth stabbed her repeatedly in Yellandu town around Thursday midnight in an alleged bid to get rid of her after luring the girl into a “love affair” on the pretext of marrying her in the near future. The victim, a resident of Satyanarayanapuram in the coal town, was whisked away by the accused identified as 23-year-old Sandeep, also a resident of the same locality, to a secluded place near her house before stabbing her multiple times with a knife under the cover of darkness, sources said. He left her grievously injured and bleeding profusely behind the bushes. He was nabbed by a police team on night patrol while moving in a suspicious manner with his hands stained with blood on the outskirts of the coal town in the dead of the night. The accused had earlier befriended her on the pretext of marriage. Differences cropped up between them recently and the accused on the pretext of sorting out the “misunderstandings” called her to an isolated place and stabbed her on Thursday night, sources added. The grievously injured girl was admitted to a local hospital in an unconscious state and later shifted to Khammam for emergency medicare. Her condition was stated to be critical. A case has been registered at Yellandu police station and further investigation is underway.
31 October 2020||DUBBAK (SIDDIPET DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Harish Rao alone handles Dubbak by-election for TRS||Election campaign means thousands of party workers, hundreds of vehicles, scores of leaders and coordinating them properly till the voters come to the polling booth and cast their vote. The work is being distributed among the second and third level leaders depending on their capacity. While State-level leaders were pressed into work for Dubbak bye-election by both national parties — the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress — it is being managed single-handedly for the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) by Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) has roped in party State affairs in-charge Manickam Tagore and party secretary Bosu Raju in the campaign. Mr. Tagore has visited the constituency twice and held review meeting. Mr. N.S. Bosu Raju has been frequently coming here and participating in house-to-house campaign. In addition to TPCC working presidents — A Revanth Reddy and Ponnam Prabhakar — several leaders like V. Hanumantha Rao, Ponnala Lakshmaiah, S. Chandrasekhar, Konda Visweswara Reddy and other have been participating in the campaign on and off. Every leader was entrusted with the responsibility of some villages or mandal. All the leaders are mostly focusing on the development done by late minister Ch. Muthyam Reddy while he was in the Cabinet during the tenure of Telugu Desam. They were telling people this was the chance to teach a lesson to the TRS. Focus was also on the submerging villages in Toguta mandal where about five revenue villages are going to vanish under Mallannasagar reservoir. Congress candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy has good contacts with land oustees of Mallannasagar and has been instrumental in filing a few cases for proper compensation. Coming to the BJP, party State unit president and Lok Sabha member Bandi Sanjay, another Lok Sabha member D. Aravind, senior leaders D. Aruna, Jitender Reddy, Premender Reddy and others have been taking part in the campaign. Being a resident of the area, M. Raghunandan Rao has started campaign well in advance and the party has been focusing mainly on youth. He has promised to get compensation for the oustees of Mallannasagar on par with oustees at Siddipet and Gajwel. In the case of TRS, it is only T. Harish Rao who has been running the show with involvement of local leaders. All the leaders roped in are from the erstwhile Medak district. For him, the day starts early in the morning and ends late in the night. While visiting the villages he has been exposing the unfulfilled promises by BJP at Centre like one crore jobs per year. He has also openly challenged the BJP leaders to prove the share of Centre in schemes like KCR Kit, pensions for beedi workers. He also assures the voters that he will be there locally along with party candidate S. Sujatha while leaders of other parties will leave once the elections were over. “We do not know why other leaders are not bothered about bye-election. The entire responsibility was put on Mr. Harish Rao for reasons best known to party leadership,” commented a TRS leader.
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rain-battered roads spell risky ride for commuters||The recent spell of heavy rain that caused massive loss of life and property has also left several roads battered, leaving commuters vexed and frustrated. Portions of the roads in and around Toli Chowki, especially the one leading to Raidurgam and then to Biodiversity Park, are in poor condition. This, locals and regular road users said, is on account of the development activity, as well as the rain. “Once you get down the Toli Chowki flyover, and move towards Biodiversity Park, you will find several potions of the road which either have potholes, or are generally in a bad shape. This is till the Dargah junction, and a little further. The state of roads in the interiors of Toli Chowki such as Sabza Colony and the internal colonies too is bad,” said M.A. Shakeel, a resident of Karwan who uses these roads frequently, adding that some roads in Shaikpet area are also damaged. A similar fate has befallen other stretches. For instance, battered badly in the recent rain were the main road portion of Vijayawada Highway between Vanasthalipuram and Chintalkunta checkpost. The BT road is eroded and all that remains are several potholes in its place for over a 500-metre stretch. What lays in store for commuters is a bumpy ride. “Even cars are getting damaged due to the road condition, let alone two-wheelers. There is an urgent need to repair this road,” said M.R.Vaikuntham, a businessman from Vanasthalipuram. As one moves towards Chaderghat from the General Post Office, one will find stretches of the Bank Street, especially near the State Bank of India office, presenting a horrible picture. The road at the Chilkalguda Crossroads too is no better. The Chandrayagutta Crossroads, and Inner Ring Road, towards Owaisi Hopsital and Research Centre are in urgent need of repairs.  (With inputs from Swathi Vadlamudi and K. Shiva Shanker)
31 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Water to be drained from Shukursagar||Civic officials have created a channel to drain water from the Shukursagar lake that has flooded homes in Osman Nagar, Shaheen Nagar, Sauf Colony and parts of Renukapur. “The water from the lake is draining but it is too slow. It is like taking water out of a bucket with a small mug,” said a resident whose house is still under water. Residents alleged that water was being let out from one side of the lake and was just to benefit one colony that is built on the other side of the lake near Renukapur village. The flood waters have backed up into homes in Osman Nagar, which are more than 100 metres from where the lake was during summer months. According to the estimate of the civic body, 281 houses are under water. But the local residents say that about 1,000 families are affected due to the flooding. Visitors to the area are being mobbed by people who have been rendered homeless for the past one month. Most of them have moved out to rented premises or relatives’ homes while others are spending daytime near their homes to guard against thieves and vandals. Lakes in Telangana region have sluice gates called tumb as well a mechanism for overflow of water without intervention called chader . “Civic officials have dug a two-feet channel to let out the water on the chader . They should open the smaller sluice gate only then the water will drain so that residents can come back to their homes,” said Muhammad Veqar Hussain, an advocate who is lobbying for releasing more water from the lake. The Osman Nagar colony has been developed in a natural valley where the lowest point is at 548 metres above sea level (MSL) while the road that runs around the area is at 557 MSL. The embankment or the bund holding the water is at a level of 551 MSL, while the valley below the bund has a sheer drop of 543 MSL. This undulating terrain has led to fears about uncontrolled release of water affecting colonies downstream leading to posting of a police picket to guard the embankment against vandals over the past one week. The bowl-shaped character of the lake has led to fears that the water will take a long time to drain.
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Co-infection of COVID, dengue likely: IIPH||“Every fever should be taken seriously and not ignored during the present time as there is a likelihood of co-infection of COVID-19 and dengue at the same time and this can be highly risky. Co-infection may exhibit illness with overlapping signs and symptoms, making the accurate diagnosis and prompt treatment difficult,” cautioned Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH)-Hyderabad director G.V.S. Murthy on Thursday. “Heavy rainfall has led to stagnant water, which is a favourite breeding ground for ‘Aedes’ mosquito responsible for dengue and chikungunya. Fever, fatigue, muscle pains, body aches are seen in both. Pain behind eyes, rashes on skin, joint pains with fever are more characteristics of dengue. High fever at the start is again a characteristic of dengue unlike COVID, where initially it is low grade fever and also cold, cough, sneezing, loss of taste and smell with fever,” he said. “While GHMC is doing an ‘excellent’ job in controlling mosquito breeding points, citizens need to join hands to eliminate dengue transmission. IIPH-Hyderabad, DAKSHAS Foundation and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories in partnership with the State government and GHMC has embarked on an innovative ‘Project - No Fever’ since August,” disclosed Dr. Murthy. The strategy includes creating awareness on dengue, providing advice and support to resident welfare societies to eliminate breeding adult ‘Aedes’ mosquitoes within their complexes and early recognition, referral and appropriate diagnosis and management of fever. Volunteers from IIPH and Dr. Reddy’s Labs had provided information and material like repellent creams, chemical agents like ‘Temephos’ to kill Aedes larvae and insecticide impregnated nets as well as toxic sugar baits for adult mosquitoes in the first phase. In the next phase, the services are being made available to all resident welfare societies and schools in Greater Hyderabad. Interested citizens and motivated children can reach out to the ‘Project - No Fever’ control room through WhatsApp @ +91 7702169118 and email ID: projectnofever@iiphh.org. “The vision of this collaboration supported by Dr. Reddy’s Labs is to work towards a dengue transmission free city over the next three years. This can then become a model for other parts of Telangana and India,” Dr. Murthy added.
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BioGreen Remedies’ new food supplement to help combat COVID||BioGreen Remedies, a city-based firm specialising in making food supplements with natural elements, to address chronic and acute illnesses, has come out with a new food product supplement that claims to be effectively combating COVID-19. ‘BIO WN (WINNER)’ food derivative is said to have been successful in combating various bacterial and viral infections as also coronavirus. “We have successfully treated COVID-19 positive patients, including frontline health workers, with a personalised approach,” said chairman and managing director M. Krishna Prasad at a press conference on Friday. The company has been given permission by the Central government to initiate clinical trials after communicating to the Ayush Ministry about the medicinal values of the food derivatives. These have been conceptualised and developed through in-house research taking traditional knowledge into consideration, he explained. Clinical trials are to begin in November with help of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s Clinical Trials Registry-India (CRTI) through ‘Alpha MD’, a research agency based at Pune. “Scientific data following the clinical trials will be revealed very soon, about the prophylactic and therapeutic abilities of our product as a medicine,” he said. NIPER (National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research), Kolkata, has already analysed the product for “efficacy in protein binding, anti-viral and anti-inflammatory properties,” said Mr. Prasad, adding that by developing traditional medicine to suit modern requirements, the research team has also developed ‘unique in-situ’ treatment providing remedies for ailments like joint pains, cardiac issues, reversed chronic kidney disorders, and helped in resumption of speech and limb movements for the paralysed and so on. Former CSIR director and BioGreen Remedies governing body chairman Javed Iqbal felt that traditional Indian medicine such as Ayurveda, Unani and others, could hold the key to treating many ailments as it was in vogue for thousands of years but got eclipsed by modern medicine during the British rule. Molecular biologist N. Narasimha Rao said that the preliminary results were promising as the products have no deleterious effect on the body and rigorous testing can go a long way in acceptance as an alternative to allopathy. BioGreen Remedies CEO Rubeena showcased patients’ testimonials through Zoom calls about the food derivatives’ potency in treating chronic illnesses.
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,531 COVID cases in Telangana||Telangana recorded as many as 1,531 COVID – 19 positive cases on October 29, taking the total number of positive cases in the State to 2,37,187. The total number of active cases now stands at 18,456, and the number of those who have recovered at 1,048. The cumulative recoveries is 2,17,401. The State tested as many as 43,790 samples on October 29, and the total number of tests stands at 42,40,748. The number of samples awaiting results is 1,037. The number of COVID – 19 positive persons in home and institutional isolation is 15,425. There were six fatalities on October 29, pushing the total number of deaths to 1,330. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits recorded 293 cases, followed by Medchal-Malkajgiri district with 120, Rangareddy district with 114 , and Bhadadri Kothagudem with 96. The State government has 18 RT-PCR, CBNAAT, TRUENAT testing facilities and 1,076 rapid antigen testing centres. Additionally, there are 47 RT-PCR, CBNAAT, and TRUENAT testing facilities. Those with moderate to severe symptoms have been directed to report to any notified government COVID – 19 hospital. The State has assured the public that there are sufficient beds in these hospitals.
31 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Hawala rackets busted; Rs. 47 lakh seized||The police busted two hawala rackets and seized a total Rs. 47.95 lakh from them. Five persons were arrested in the two cases. In the first case, the Hyderabad Commissioner’s North Zone Task Force on Friday busted a hawala racket and apprehended two persons near Kutbiguda in Sultan Bazaar. On information, a team led by inspector K. Nageswar Rao intercepted a scooter in which Rs. 31.26 lakh of unaccounted cash was being transported. The accused are Manish Toshniwal (32), a hawala organiser from Gowliguda, and his associate Vishnu Biradar (21) from Shalibanda. Toshniwal hails from Rajasthan. “While transporting the unaccounted amount to be delivered to a customer, our team laid a trap and apprehended them,” Task Force DCP (OSD) P. Radha Kishan Rao said. He said that the accused along with seized cash was handed over to Sultan Bazaar police for further investigation. In the second case, the police arrested three persons in Secunderabad and seized Rs. 16.69 lakh from their possession. Acting on a tip-off, sleuths of the north zone task force along with Mahankali police intercepted a scooter and found unaccounted cash in it. The apprehended accused are Nayi Lalitkumar Chunilal (53), a hawala organiser from Begum Bazar, his associate Ashok Singh (36) and the cash receiver Nareddy Laxmikanth Reddy (41) of Uppal, Task Force DCP (OSD) P. Radha Kishan Rao said.
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Deployment of mobile fish outlets in GHMC begins||The Fisheries department has kick-started the process for introducing mobile fish outlets, one in each of the 150 wards under the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) jurisdiction. The department had been working over the proposal for promotion of fish sale in hygienic conditions and enhance per capita consumption of fish following the initiatives like leaving fish and prawn seed in major reservoirs as well as water bodies located across the State. The Fisheries department has, accordingly, announced a project for empowerment of women under the GHMC limits with an investment of Rs. 15 crore, to begin with. Each mobile unit with all features, including the freezers, to keep the condition of the fish intact would cost around Rs. 10 lakh a unit, totalling Rs. 15 crore across the 150 wards. The proposal was forwarded to the National Fisheries Development Board and was readily approved by Chief Executive Ch. Suvarna extending financial assistance to the Fisheries department in accordance with the blue revolution guidelines of the CSS. Accordingly, all the beneficiaries would be women and they would be eligible for 60% subsidy in the cost of the mobile unit. The NFDB would bear 36% of the subsidy as Central assistance and the Fisheries department’s share would be 24%cent of the subsidy. In all, 40% of the cost of the mobile outlet should be borne by the beneficiaries. According to senior officials, a group of women numbering between three and five would be eligible to apply for the scheme. The scheme would be applicable to women, specifically residents of particular wards. “A lottery will be conducted to identify and select the beneficiary in case more than one group applies for the scheme in each ward,” a senior official told The Hindu . The department had notified the schedule for receipt of applications. Accordingly, the last date for receipt of applications would be November 10 and they would be scrutinized by November 12. The list of approved beneficiaries would be released on November 13 and lottery, if need be, conducted on November 16 and 17. Beneficiaries who were selected should remit their contribution on or before November 23.
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Employment guarantee a big hit in TS in the pandemic year||Employment through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee (MGNREG) scheme has registered increase by almost a third in the Telangana State so far in the current year. Since April up to October this year, the employment provided has seen a jump of 32.35 % when compared with the same period of the financial year 2019-20, a study by Libtech India has revealed. The organisation which has been documenting implementation of the employment guarantee scheme in both the Telugu speaking States, observed that employment provided in the Telangana State amounted to 12.71 crore person days during the study period, which is the highest in the last three years. In 2019-20, the days were 9.6 crore, while in 2018-19, they stood at 10.41 crore. The State has 1.12 crore of registered individuals for the scheme from 52.3 lakh households, of which 5.84 lakh individuals from 2.68 lakh households have been registered in 2020-21. Of these, 16.55 % belonged to Scheduled Castes while 13.98 % belonged to Scheduled Tribes. A total of 58.4 % employment provided was utilised by women workers in the current year. Twenty eight districts provided higher employment this year compared to the previous year for the same study period. Mahabubabad, Jangaon, Mancherial and Peddapalli are the only districts with lower employment ratio vis-a-vis last year. During the pandemic year, labourers in the peri urban areas such as Rangareddy, Sangareddy, Medak, Medchal, and Vikarabad have utilised the scheme better than last year, owing to lack of work in the city due to the COVID-19 lockdown, the study observed. A total of 270 mandals have shown better employment ratio when compared with last year, and the top 10 such mandals have clocked anywhere between 239 and 1271 % increase in the person days when compared with the same period in 2019-20. More than 1.6 lakh households could already finish their 100 days of work during the first six months this year, against the 1.77 lakh in whole of the previous financial year, the study said.
31 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Drunk man asleep on scooter nabbed||One cannot escape from the hawk eyes of the cameras of the police installed to cover every nook and corner of the State capital. On Tuesday evening, an inebriated man, found asleep on his scooter parked on the main road in the IT Corridor of Madhapur, was booked by the Cyberabad police on charges of drunk driving. Satyanarayana, a resident of Yellammabanda in Kukatpally and working as an office boy in a private bank, was found sleeping on his scooter on the IKEA underpass when police closed in on him zooming the surveillance cameras of traffic command and control centre. He was actually driving the vehicle in a suspicious manner when he was first noticed and later the police noticed that he had stopped at the underpass to take the nap. “Around 4 p.m. we found his movements were suspicious and zoomed in. On noticing that he was driving the vehicle in an inebriated condition, we alerted Madhapur police, who rushed to the spot, booked the man and seized the vehicle,” an officer said. On examination, his blood alcohol concentration (BAC) reading was found to be 334 mg/ 100 ml. Further, the police found that Mr. Satyanarayana was not in possession of vehicle documents. “He was on afternoon shift and the bank employees had asked him not to attend duty as he was drunk, as a result he was returning home,” the police said, adding that the bank employees did not inform the police about his condition. “Booking of every drunken drive case is prevention of a potential road accident,” a senior officer said and added that the Cyberabad Traffic Command and Control Centre had observed on CCTV a man sleeping on his bike on mid road and alerted the Madhapur Traffic Police.
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Waste units installed at two railway stations||The South Central Railway (SCR), as part of its eco-friendly measures, installed organic waste composting machines at Hyderabad and Kazipet stations - both are sponsored by Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative. Each machine is of 50-kg capacity costing around Rs. 2.15 lakh. Waste produced at stations includes garden waste, street sweeping, canteen waste, kitchen waste and plastics papers. This is segregated into ‘organic waste’ and ‘inorganic waste’ which is normally handed over to the local municipality for further disposal from their end. Organic waste is generated from the waste composting machine is processed into manure, which can be used in the gardens of the stations itself to ensure zero waste management at the stations. Awareness is being created among the railway colony residents and the public on railway premises to segregate waste and help in disposal of garbage as per norms. The inorganic dry waste is transported to municipal authorities. The waste composting machine provided at Hyderabad station was inaugurated by IOC executive director R.S.S. Rao, executive director and Head for TS & AP in the presence of additional divisional railway manager D. Subramanyam and other railway officials, a press release said.
31 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four booked for selling, buying baby||A couple from Nacharam who sold their newborn child, a baby-boy, to an issueless couple, were booked by the police on Friday. Nacharam inspector T. Kiran Kumar said the baby’s parents Meena and Venkatesh had an agreement to give their child in ‘adoption’ to Nageena and Rama Rajeswara Rao before his birth. He was sold for Rs. 1 lakh. The couple had decided to sell their child as they predicted it would be a girl, as they earlier had twins, both girls and who died of complications in the pregnancy. Rajeswara Rao is an outsourced employee with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. “The boy was born at ESI hospital, Nacharam, on June 19, on the health card of Rajeshwar Rao. They impersonated Meena as Nageena in the hospital, as per the agreement through a mediator Janaki,” Mr. Kumar said. Recently, Meena came across another issueless couple, who were willing to pay Rs. 5 lakh for a baby-boy. So, she approached the foster parents of the newborn, asking them to return the child or pay Rs. 4 lakh, as she was in ‘loss’. When Nageena and Rajeshwar Rao refused to give the boy or pay the money, Meena approached the Nacharam police, stating that her son had been sold to the former illegally without her knowledge. While probing her complaint, police learnt about the ‘deal’ between the couples and handed over the child to the Child Welfare Department. Based on the complaint lodged A Sujatha, District Welfare Officer, a case under Indian Penal Code and Juvenile Justice Act was registered against Meena, Venkatesh, Nageena, Rajeshwar Rao and Janaki.
31 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three arrested in automobile theft cases||Three youngsters were arrested by personnel of the north zone task force in connection with automobile theft. They recovered six two-wheelers and an auto-rickshaw from their possession. With this, the police claimed to have solved seven automobile theft cases. The accused are Pulluru Rohit Kishore (25), Mana Vikas (20) and Palogi Anil Prabhu (29) from Langer Houz. “They are addicted to vices. As their earnings are not sufficient to lead a lavish life, the trio decided to commit theft and make a quick buck.” inspector K Nageswar Rao said, adding that the gang pledged the vehicles to pawnbrokers to get money. He said the apprehended persons used to break the handle lock or opened the handle lock with duplicate keys of parked vehicles and stole them. They were handed over to Langer Houz police for investigation.
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGO seeks volunteers for flood relief work in city||Bhumi, a non-profit organisation (https://www.bhumi.ngo/), has started engaging its volunteers in Hyderabad flood relief activities. Volunteers encourage people to cook food for the packets to be distributed in flood affected areas. Also, groceries were distributed to the needy in Meerpet and Balapur slums. These volunteers have clubbed some of their activities with other NGOs like ‘Serve Needy’ to go to Rasoolpura and other slum areas in Old City to help at least 1,000 families. There is an abject need for more volunteers to help the scores of needy families. To apply, register at https://www.bhumi.ngo/volunteer/, or to refer a friend, and please visit https://www.bhumi.ngo/ to know more.
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Road repairs undertaken||GHMC has estimated that a total of 83 kilometres of roads have been damaged during the recent floods, to repair which patch works are being taken up on war footing. GHMC’s own BT mix is being used for filling the bad patches, a statement informed. In addition, 99 kilometres of road length is being reconstructed with an expenditure of Rs. 52 crore, it said. Already, 83 km of road length which is under the comprehensive road maintenance programme (CRMP), is being relaid.
31 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police seize Rs. 14.96 lakh||Unaccounted cash, which was reportedly being taken to Dubbak, ahead of Assembly bypolls, was seized by the Hyderabad police here on Friday. The Central Zone Task Force team which was trailing a person, identified as Shravan Kumar Reddy, apprehended him near a hypermarket in Hyderguda and seized Rs. 14.96 lakh from his possession. Two persons from Dubbak, who came to receive the money, were also apprehended by the task force team, who later handed them over to Narayanaguda police. “The cash belongs to a national party candidate contesting in the bypolls,” a senior officer said, adding that they will write to the Income Tax department about the unaccounted cash.
31 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Five held,||Five youngsters, including a minor, were arrested by the Saifabad police while smoking ganja in a hotel room at Lakdikapul. Police said that they seized two kilograms of cannabis from the possession of the persons who were also indulging in selling it. “They procured the contraband for their consumption and sell it to their friends and known people,” police said.
31 October 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||tsrtc bus pass extension||The TSRTC has announced that it would extend the validity of bus passes that expired when its services were withdrawn during lockdown. The move would include those with ordinary bus, Metro Express, Metro Deluxe, Greater Hyderabad, and Airport Pushpak passes. The TSRTC has requested pass holders to submit their old passes for extension on or before November 30.
31 October 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Voter enrolment picks pace||The voter enrolment drive for the next year’s election to the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ Constituency in the State Legislative Council picked up pace with just a week left for the eligible graduates to register their names as voters for the upcoming hustings. The frontal organisations of the ruling TRS, the main Opposition Congress, the Left parties and the BJP have intensified mass contact programmes across the district to motivate eligible graduates to enrol their names as voters before the stipulated deadline of November 6. The activists of the Congress party and its students wing the NSUI went around various divisions in the town on Friday highlighting the significance of voting rights in the democratic system. After announcing their candidatures for the forthcoming hustings separately, the Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) president Kodandaram, the Telangana Inti Party president Cheruku Sudhakar, the Yuva Telangana Party leader, journalist and former TV anchor Rani Rudrama, noted TV anchor Teenmaar Mallanna, among others, have already toured the former composite Khammam district more than twice and addressed a series of meetings to boost their electoral prospects.
31 October 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Woman found dead at home||A 22-year-old unmarried woman was found dead with a knife injury on her neck under suspicious circumstances at her house in Jalagamnagar in Khammam rural mandal on Friday morning, sparking suspicion of foul play. The police identified the victim as Madhuri, the elder daughter of an auto-rickshaw owner of Jalagamnagar. Sources close to the family of the deceased suspected it to be a case of suicide as the woman, who completed Intermediate course, was keen on resuming her studies and averse to the alleged attempts by her father to perform her marriage soon against her wishes. However, the suspicious death of the woman, whose body bore a deep knife wound on her neck, triggered doubts of “foul play.” The Khammam rural police registered a case of suspicious death under Section 174 of the Cr.P.C. and launched a detailed investigation into the case from all dimensions including “inter-caste relationship” and “honour killing” angles, police sources said.  (Roshini - Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000)
31 October 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Damaged paddy||Mandal-level committees led by the Tahsildar, officials from the Agriculture and the Civil Supplies departments, and comprising stakeholders from miller, farmer and cooperative societies will decide on the procurement of damaged paddy, District Collector Prashant J. Patil said on Friday. “A full schedule to procure flood-damaged paddy, its transport and storage should be started immediately. Rice millers should also cooperatein the wake of the situation,” he said.
31 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||A silent revolution taking birth at Dubbak, says Kishan Reddy||BJP senior leader and Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy has said that a silent revolution has been taking place in Dubbak Assembly constituency and this will pave the way for a change in the State from family rule. “Telangana that was realised by the sacrifice of some 1,200 martyrs is being enjoyed by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his family. Dubbak played a key role in the fighting for separate State. Telangana might not have been formed had the BJP not supported the Bill in Parliament. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao has failed to fulfil the promise of employment for youth. Crop insurance scheme benefiting farmers that was introduced by the Centre is not being implemented properly by the State government. Health Insurance scheme — Ayushman Bharat — is rejected here. Ask the government about the share of Centre in various schemes being implemented in the State,” said Mr. Kishan Reddy while participating in election campaign at Bumpally village in Mirdoddi mandal on Friday along with party candidate M Raghunandan Rao and others. Later speaking to reporters, Mr. Kishan Reddy said that people will vote for the party they want but officials should not take sides and it will not be good. He said that there should be no misuse of official machinery and Election Commission should take steps in to ensure that. “Polling any vote to the Congress is waste as it has failed to retain half of its MLAs elected in the General Elections. They have switched loyalties and joined the TRS,” he pointed out.
31 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||BJP making false claims in campaign, says Harish||Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao alleged that the BJP has been telling lies to the people only to win elections. He said that there was no development in the areas that were represented by the BPL in the Lok Sabha and cautioned the voters not to fall into their trap. He claimed to have noted 11 falsehoods that were being mentioned by the BJP leaders during their campaign for Dubbak bypoll. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, Mr. Harish Rao said that the claim of BJP that Centre is paying Rs. 1,600 in the pension of Rs. 2016 that is paid to beedi workers was completely false and not even a single paise is being paid by the BJP and claimed that they have not turned up for open challenge thrown by him to prove their point. Referring to the KCR Kit, the Minister said that the total amount was paid by the State government. He also listed sheep units, sanctioning of ESI Hospital at Chegunta and its diversion to Gajwel, Centres share of Rs. 29 in subsidy rice and meters for bore motors under the new Electricity Act. He also charged the BJP leaders of lying about the seizure of money from the house of BJP candidate M Raghuandan Rao’s relatives, raid on eight places belonging to relatives of BJP leaders and the claims that money did not belong to them. “BJP leaders are telling lies one after other and they want to win elections based on false campaign. Mr. Raghunandan Rao has become a star campaigner of lies and people should be careful with that party in bye-elections,” he said.
31 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Congress leaders submit memorandum to DEO||Congress senior leaders have met the District Collector and Police Observer and urged them to arrest the misuse of power by the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in Dubbak by-election. TPCC Election Commission Coordination Committee chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy, convenor G.Niranjan and member P. Rajesh Kumar, met Collector and District Election Officer Bharathi Hollikeri, and Police Observer Saroj Kumar Thakur in connection with the ensuing bye-elections to the Dubbak Assembly constituency. They explained to them in detail about the misuse of power by ruling TRS Party and urged them to take steps to conduct free and fair elections.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||In comfort zone||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Life goes on||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Prophet’s birth anniversary||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Festive fervour||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Readers’ Mail||I wish to bring to the notice of the municipal authorities concerned about the pathetic state of sanitation in most places of Old City. Heaps of garbage can be seen in areas such as Yakutpura, Moghulpura, Shamsheer Gunj, Misri Gunj, Jahanuma, and Nawab Sahab Kunta. There is no door-to-door collection, no segregation and no awareness campaign about dry and wet waste. There has been no efforts to reduce garbage generation or take up activities like recycling of garbage. Syed Naimathullah Faiyaz Hyderabad   I had reported to the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) about the drainage overflow near the regional transportation department at Moosarambagh. I had received a message that it would be resolved within the next four days, but the problem persists with no one from the Water Board paying any visit. The overflow is close to a government office that sees many visitors daily and hence could become a major health hazard. I urge the authorities concerned to stop the overflow soon. Manav Singh Moosarambagh    Mobile users at Erragadda are being put to untold hardships due to poor services of BSNL in the area resulting in frequent call drops and sudden no service from the home screen thus rendering making and receiving the calls a harrowing experience. More galling is the unduly delayed receipt or sometimes total non receipt of OTPs during the routine daily online transactions. There is no effort to improve the services despite bringing this to the notice of the authorities concerned. Srikanti Subrahmanyam Czech Colony     South Western Railway have proposed to terminate 17603/17604 Kachiguda-Yeshwantpur Express at Yelahanka on the ground that the rake of 17603 is occupying one platform in Yeshwantpur for five hours. But, this is going to cause a lot of inconvenience to passengers as Yelahanka is not well-equipped with good public transport facilities and quite far from Bangalore. I request SCR to take up this matter with SWR for revising their decision and extend this train to either Kengeri or Ramanagar on the same lines as they have done in respect of extension of 12785/12786 to Mysore in the past for better public transport in the form of Metro and bus service. Srinivasa Prasad Vijayanagar Colony        (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu.co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||JNU violence: court rejects prof.’s plea for separate FIR||A Delhi court has declined a plea by a JNU Professor, who was injured during an attack allegedly by an armed mob inside the campus on January 5, seeking registration of an FIR in the matter. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pawan Singh Rajawat said there was no need for a separate FIR based on the complaint by Professor Sucharita Sen, noting that an FIR has already been registered regarding the incident. “The injuries suffered by number of persons, including the complainant [Ms. Sen] was a result of violent act, which forms part of same transaction for which FIR is already registered as it not only has proximity in time and place but also the damage to property and injuries suffered by the complainant and other persons,” the Judge said. Ms. Sen said she, along with students and other teachers, was holding a meeting at Sabarmati Tea Point on January 5 at around 6.00 - 6.30 p.m. when an armed mob gathered at Periyar Hostel. The mob reached the meeting venue and started pelting stones and beating the students and teachers. Ms. Sen had sought registration of a separate FIR in the matter. She said a separate complaint was given on January 6 at Vasant Kunj police station but no action was taken. She was instead told that her complaint has been transferred to Crime Branch. She also gave a representation to Special Commissioner of Police as well as Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime Branch) on January 10 but still no action was taken. This was despite she sustaining head injury and the mob vandalising her car. The police, in its status report, stated that three FIRs were registered at Vasant Kunj police station in relation to the violence at the JNU campus, which were later transferred to the Crime Branch. Status report sought Taking note of the police’s submission, the court said: “No directions are required for registering separate FIR on the complaint made by Ms. Sen.” It, however, directed police to submit a status report on the FIR already registered in the case before the next date of hearing on December 19.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Air quality remains in ‘very poor’ category||The air quality in the Capital remained in the upper end of ‘very poor’ category on Friday with the 24-hour average AQI settling at 374, which was a slight improvement from the 395 recorded the previous day. The air quality has deteriorated after it had entered the ‘poor’ category on Wednesday. Forecast have said that the quality of air is likely to improve in the Capital on November 1 due to favourable wind speed.  Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitoring agency, SAFAR, said: “Delhi’s overall AQI has marginally improved as predicted and has remained in the high end of very poor category. Calm surface winds prevail over the region and winds are forecast to pick up [speed] which will improve the ventilation and is likely to influence air quality positively.” SAFAR also said that the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 pollution was 19% on Friday and had come down from Thursday’s 36%, the maximum so far this season. The SAFAR model predicts that a significant improvement in AQI is forecast for November 1 – to the lower-end of ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ category. “The SAFAR said stubble fire counts significantly decreased and stood at 1,143 on Thursday. Improved ventilation conditions are likely to bring down the concentration levels in Delhi,” the bulletin added.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Three arrested for abducting contractor, demanding ransom||Three persons have been arrested for allegedly abducting a contractor, the police said on Friday. The victim was rescued from Uttar Pradesh’s Sitapur district, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said that the accused have been identified as Irfan Ali (27), Aziz Ali (35) and Bablu (24), all residents of Sitapur. Payment dispute The police said that one of the accused, Irfan, who used to work with the victim, planned the abduction following a dispute with him over payment of money. According to the police, on October 24, a woman residing in Malviya Nagar lodged a complaint, alleging that her husband Ramesh Chandra, who had gone to Lakhimpur Kheri in U.P. for some work on October 23, had been abducted by some unidentified people. She said they had also demanded a ransom of Rs. 4 lakh for his release. A case was then registered and investigation revealed that Irfan had called the victim to Lakhimpur Kheri on the pretext of finalising some deal. “With the help of technical surveillance, the police reached Sitapur, rescued Mr. Chandra from a jungle and arrested the accused on Wednesday,” Mr. Thakur said. During interrogation, Irfan told the police that he was engaged in stone polishing work along with Mr. Chandra in Delhi, but a dispute had ensued between them over an issue of payment. In order to teach Mr. Chandra a lesson, he made a plan to abduct him. He asked the victim to come to Lakhimpur Kheri and when he arrived at the bus stand, he was abducted by Vakeel, Irfan’s elder brother, and Aziz Ali, who took him to Sitapur in a car. They also admitted to have demanded Rs. 4 lakh as ransom. Two on the run The police said that efforts are being made to nab Vakeel and another accused, identified as Samim.  With the help of technical surveillance, the police reached Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh, rescued Mr. Chandra from a jungle and arrested the accused on Wednesday   Atul Thakur DCP (South)
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||Performance of Delhi councillors termed poor in report card||The performances of Delhi’s municipal corporation councillors fell in terms of attendance and three-fourth of the questions asked by them in the House were “poorly related” to citizens’ complaints in their constituencies, said Praja Foundation. Praja Foundation released its third report card for the current term (2017-22) of Delhi municipal councillors elaborating on the performance and areas of improvement for local elected representatives (ERs) in Delhi. “Councillors have been at the forefront of ground-level relief and intervention in the COVID-19 pandemic in many cities in India. Given the current structure of governance in Delhi, however, councillors have not been party to decision-making for the city in spite of being closest to the ground situation and having the knowledge of the needs of their constituents,” said Nitai Mehta, Founder and Managing Trustee, Praja Foundation. “The performances of councillors have fallen in all three Corporations – 2019-20 being an election year. Attendance score fell in the North Corporation from 75.32% in 2017-18 to 66.38% in 2019-20, in SDMC from 75.10% to 66.61% and in EDMC from 81.83% to 71.27%, the highest fall ” said Milind Mhaske, Director, Praja Foundation. From this year, the foundation said in a statement, Praja reworked its matrix to focus mainly upon the deliberative performance of councillors, as deliberative duties are the most important responsibility of any elected representative.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Head Constable’s letter: Commissioner says vigilance inquiry initiated||Responding to a letter written by a Delhi Police Head Constable to the Commissioner of Police sharing his grievance of being unable to complain against other officers in the force, Special Commissioner said that a vigilance inquiry has been initiated. Special Commissioner of Police (Operations) Muktesh Chander said, “I heard the Head Constable’s grievances last month and a vigilance inquiry into the matter has been initiated. His grievances have been heard by several senior officers prior to me as well.” Mr. Chander also said that the Head Constable had demanded Rs. 50 lakh as compensation for the money he spent during litigation but “that demand cannot be accepted” as it does not qualify under the provisions of Police Families Welfare Society. The Head Constable alleged he was troubled by officers after he helped a youth against a local goon in 2012. In his letter, he said he would have no option other than taking his life if he was not helped. “A police officer should not threaten to take his life,” said Mr. Chander.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Firecracker claims life of nine-year-old||A nine-year-old boy died after sustaining injuries while bursting firecrackers in outer North Delhi’s Alipur, the police said on Friday. A senior police officer said that the deceased has been identified as Prince, a Class II student and a resident of Bakhtawarpur. The incident was reported on Wednesday, the police said. They said that the boy had put a steel glass over a cracker. “The cracker did not burst at first, but when the boy went closer, it suddenly did. The remains of the glass hit him and that is suspected to have led to his death,” the officer said. The boy was rushed to a hospital where he succumbed to injuries. According to the family, they had bought the crackers, which were “easily available”, from a nearby shop. The family said that the boy’s parents were at work when the incident happened. They added that there should be strict vigilance by the police on those selling firecrackers illegally. The parents of the deceased are labourers.
31 October 2020||Mumbai,||HC lauds police for ‘working against odds’ amid pandemic||Praising the Mumbai Police for working against all odds, the Bombay High Court has said the personnel are carrying out their duty under a lot of pressure amid the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown, and cooperation from the public is required. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik on Thursday also said the Mumbai Police are considered as one of the best in the world. “The job of a police officer is difficult during these times of pandemic. The Mumbai Police is already under a lot of pressure. They have to do 12-hour duty and then there are processions and morchas for which bandobast is required,” Justice Shinde said. “Among all these odds, the Mumbai Police is considered as one of the best in the world and is compared to the Scotland Yard police. Some amount of cooperation is required from people too,” he said. The remarks were made by the court while hearing a petition filed by a Navi Mumbai resident, Sunaina Holey, seeking to quash three FIRs lodged against her for allegedly promoting enmity, hatred and ill will among groups in society after she posted offensive remarks against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray on social media. On Thursday, additional public prosecutor Jayesh Yagnik told the court that despite the notice issued to Ms. Holey, asking her to appear before the investigating officer of BKC Cyber Police for recording her statement, she did not appear. Ms. Holey’s counsel Abhinav Chandrachud said she could not appear owing to health issues and that she would appear before the police on November 2.  ‘Cooperate with probe’ The court accepted this and said, “We hope and expect that the petitioner shall extend full cooperation for the investigation.” The court posted the plea for further hearing on November 23.
31 October 2020||Mumbai,||‘CM to decide on Urmila’s name for Council seat’||Amid speculation that the Maharashtra government will recommend actor Urmila Matondkar’s name for her nomination to the Legislative Council, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has been authorised to take a decision on it. His statement comes a day after the State Cabinet discussed a proposal to recommend to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari the names of 12 candidates for their nomination to the Upper House from his quota. Mr. Raut told reporters, “I have also heard about the speculation that Ms. Matondkar will be nominated by the government to the Council. It is the prerogative of the Cabinet, which has authorised the Chief Minister to take a decision.” State Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab said, “There is no secrecy regarding the list of 12 nominees. Leaders of the three Maha Vikas Aghadi allies will finalise the names and submit the list to the Chief Minister, who will then forward it to the Governor.” The 12 Council seats had fallen vacant in June. Under Article 171 of the Constitution, the Governor can nominate 12 members with special knowledge or practical experience in the field of literature, art, science, cooperative movement and social service to the Council.  Other probables The Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress will field four members each. Apart from Ms. Matondkar, the names of Marathi actor and Sena leader Aadesh Bandekar, singer Anand Shinde, NCP leader Eknath Khadse, and farmer leader Raju Shetti are doing the rounds.
31 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Man arrested for duping women constables on FB||The Kalamboli police have arrested a 28-year-old man who duped women police constables after befriending them on Facebook by posing as a police sub-inspector (PSI). Milind Deshmukh from Murbad posed as PSI Ganesh More on Facebook and posted a policeman’s image as his profile picture. Assistant police inspector Sanjay Sadigale said, “He mostly sent friend requests to women constables who were single. After exchanging numbers, he would seek money from them.” A Kalamboli resident posted as a constable at Shivaji Nagar police station had filed the complaint. She had given the accused Rs. 10,000, but grew suspicious when he asked for more. She asked him to meet her on Monday at Kalyan police station, where the police laid a trap. “We are yet to record the statements of the other women constables,” Mr. Sadigale said. The accused has been arrested for similar crimes in Murbad, Vashi and Rabale in Navi Mumbai, Baramati, and Ahmednagar. He has been remanded in police custody till Saturday.
31 October 2020||Pune,||Pune conference on Maratha quota scrapped||A conference on the Maratha quota issue that was to be held in the city on Friday, under the leadership of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Udayanraje Bhosale, was abruptly cancelled. No particular reason was given for the sudden cancellation. Petitioners, scholars, jurists and other dignitaries were to attend the meeting scheduled at 2 p.m. at Residency Club to decide the future course of the agitation for implementing the Maratha quota in the State. According to sources, those invited to the meeting were informed, by the BJP MP himself, that the conference had been called off. Last month, Mr. Bhosale had said that if the Uddhav Thackeray-led State government failed to get the Maratha quota law implemented in the State, then reservation for all communities ought to be scrapped. The MP, a direct descendant of Maratha warrior King Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, and an influential community leader from Satara district in western Maharashtra, had called for a merit-based approach instead — a suggestion which elicited a caustic response from the Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi chief, Prakash Ambedkar, who hit out at the BJP MP and called him an ‘imbecile’. With the Supreme Court delaying the implementation of the Maratha quota in Maharashtra, students from the community considered themselves to be in a limbo and were hoping that the conference would prove to be a forum to address their pressing issues. A section of community leaders, including Shiv Sangram leader Vinayak Mete, — a BJP ally in the State — have been urging Mr. Bhosale to take over the community’s leadership in tackling the Maratha quota imbroglio. The storm of the Maratha agitation throughout 2018 saw Mr. Bhosale cast in the role of a possibly important mediator between the community’s interests and the then BJP government. At the time, too, Mr. Bhosale had chaired a Maratha Parishad in Pune in August 2018.
31 October 2020||NICE,||Second arrest after France knife attack||Mourners lit candles and prayed silently on Friday to honour the three people killed in a French church by a young Tunisian extremist, as France heightened security at potential targets at home and abroad amid geopolitical tensions around published cartoons mocking the Prophet of Islam. Tunisian anti-terrorism authorities opened an investigation on Friday into an online claim of responsibility by a person who said the attack on the Notre Dame Basilica in the French Riviera city of Nice was staged by a heretofore-unknown Tunisian extremist group. Investigators detained a second suspect in Thursday’s attack, a 47-year-old man is believed to have been in contact with the assailant the night before, according to a judicial official who was not authorised to be publicly named. The attacker, Ibrahim Issaoui, was seriously wounded by police and hospitalised in life-threatening condition, authorities said. A substitute prosecutor at the Tunisian anti-terrorism prosecutor’s office, Mohsen Dali, said that the claim of responsibility came in an online post, saying the attack was staged by a group called Al Mehdi of Southern Tunisia, previously unknown to Tunisian authorities. Issaoui was arrested in 2016 for violence and using a knife, said Mr. Dali. Virus lockdown As France entered a new virus lockdown on Friday, four soldiers with rifles periodically walked past the church in Nice and mourners placed flowers, messages and candles at the entrance, crossing themselves and praying silently for the three victims. They included 55-year-old church warden Vincent Loques, a father of two. Another victim was Brazilian-born Simone Barreto Silva, a 44-year-old mother of three who moved to France to join a dance group led by her sister and worked in elderly care, according to Brazilian media G1. Silva was playful and dreamed of travelling around the world in a food truck, her friend Ivana Gomes Amorim told G1. In an interview broadcast on Friday with Saudi-owned Al-Arabiya TV, the attacker’s mother said she was shocked by the events. ‘Shocked’ mother From the Tunisian province of Sfax, the mother, her eyes wet with tears, said she was surprised to hear her son was in France when he called upon his arrival and had no idea what he was planning. “You don’t know the French language, you don’t know anyone there, you’re going to live alone there, why, why did you go there?” she said she told him over the phone. France’s anti-terrorism prosecutor said the suspect is a Tunisian born in 1999 who reached the Italian island of Lampedusa, a key landing point for migrants crossing in boats from North Africa, on September 20. It is not clear when he arrived in Nice. Italy’s Interior Minister confirmed on Friday that the suspect was ordered to leave Italy on October 9. France’s Interior Minister said on Friday that the country is “at war” with Islamist extremists, and the conservative lawmaker for the Nice region, Eric Ciotti, called for a “French-style Guantanamo” to lock up terrorist suspects.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||China gears up for ‘strategic period’||China’s ruling Communist Party concluded a key annual conclave outlining new long-term targets for boosting innovation and military strength, eyeing what it called “an important strategic period” for fulfilling its ambitions at home and abroad. A lengthy communique issued in Beijing followed the four-day plenum of the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) Central Committee, which ended on Thursday, announced three goals to be achieved by 2025, 2027 and 2035 — a 14th five-year plan (2021-2025) that emphasises boosting domestic consumption and innovation, a national security and defence modernisation plan ahead of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) centennial in 2027, and a ‘Vision 2035’ longer-term economic blueprint that calls for “big leaps" in economic strength and technological prowess. $15 trillion GDP The communique said China’s GDP would cross 100 trillion yuan (around $15 trillion) this year, and the new economic blueprint, which did not announce a specific GDP target, would broadly push for China to double its GDP and current per capita GDP of $10,000 by 2035, according to Tian Yun, vice director of the Beijing Economic Operation Association. “That would require a real GDP growth of around 3.5% annually,” he told the Party-run Global Times . While the communique mainly focused on economic issues, it also outlined China’s national security plans and a goal to establish the PLA as a modern force by 2027 to realise what it called “the unity of a rich country and a strong Army”. It stressed the importance of informatisation and to “strengthen military training and war preparation”. In a press briefing in Beijing on Friday following the end of the plenum, CPC officials said President and Party general secretary Xi Jinping had “personally drafted” both the five year plan and the long-term blueprint. Underlining the extraordinary centralisation of power under Mr. Xi, Wang Xiaohui, deputy director of the Central Propaganda Department, described Mr. Xi "as the helmsman of the Communist Party”, a term last used for Mao Zedong.
31 October 2020||Tampa,||Trump, Biden square off in key Midwestern States||President Donald Trump and Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden are set to square off with rallies in key Midwestern States on Friday as a resurgent coronavirus further highlights their sharp differences just four days before the U.S. presidential election. Even with the United States reaching another daily record in new COVID-19 infections on Thursday, President Trump stuck to his strategy of downplaying its dangerousness and calling for businesses to reopen. He has also ramped up fear-mongering, warning of rampaging “socialists” and seeking to portray his Democratic challenger as intent on shutting the country down. Mr. Biden has sought to persuade the few remaining undecided voters that he would provide a steady hand on the wheel and heal America’s “soul,” calling Mr. Trump irresponsible. The former Vice-President has held drive-in, socially distanced rallies, while Mr. Trump’s gatherings have often seen attendees ignore such guidelines and eschew masks. The two candidates plan to be in three Midwestern States on Friday, with both campaigning in Wisconsin and Minnesota. Mr. Trump will travel to Michigan, and Mr. Biden also plans to be in Iowa. Mr. Trump’s wins in Michigan, Wisconsin and Iowa helped propel him to victory in 2016. But polling averages from the RealClearPolitics.com site show Mr. Biden up in all four of those States, ranging from 6.5 percentage points in Michigan to just one point in Iowa. Still, Democrats and Republicans alike have repeatedly warned of the unreliability of polls, pointing to Mr. Trump’s shock defeat of Hillary Clinton in 2016 despite surveys showing her to be the clear favourite. Florida rallies Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden are concentrating their efforts on battleground States that will decide the election in the days before the November 3 polls, and on Thursday both were in the crucial State of Florida. Mr. Trump, 74, held another raucous rally in Tampa, telling the cheering crowd that coronavirus lockdowns under Mr. Biden would banish normal life. “They will allow you nothing,” the Republican said. “We’re never going to lock down again.... We’re open for business,” he said, telling supporters that his own recent bout with COVID-19 proved that it can be beaten. “You know, the bottom line is you get better,” he said. But the pandemic, which has already taken 2,28,000 American lives, has shown its resilience and is undergoing a long-predicted second wave. On Thursday, more than 91,000 new U.S. infections were recorded, according to a Johns Hopkins University tally, the highest 24-hour total since the pandemic began. Economic recovery Mr. Trump, however, did receive good news on Thursday in his argument that he is best placed to bring about an economic recovery. New figures showed an annual growth rate of 33.1% in the third quarter — a jaw-dropping statistic that reflected the economy’s rebound from such a low base. Mr. Biden, addressing a socially distanced drive-in event in Broward County, reminded supporters that of all the States there are few as important as Florida in deciding the outcome of tight elections. Rebuffing Mr. Trump’s central charge, the 77-year-old reemphasised his claim that he would bring responsible leadership after months of the White House downplaying the virus’ danger.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Anti-France protests in Muslim countries||Thousands of Muslims, from Pakistan to Lebanon to the Palestinian territories, poured out of prayer services to join anti-France protests on Friday, as the French President’s vow to protect the right to caricature Prophet Muhammed continues to roil the Muslim world. Demonstrations in Pakistan’s capital Islamabad turned violent as some 2,000 people who tried to march toward the French Embassy were pushed back by police firing tear gas and beating protesters with batons. A few hundred demonstrators in Lebanon’s capital Beirut flocked toward the Palais des Pins, the official residence of the French Ambassador to Lebanon, but found their way blocked by lines of police officers in riot gear. Waving black and white flags with Islamist insignia, the Sunni Islamist activists cried, “At your service, oh prophet of God.” The sight of anti-France protests in Lebanon is an embarrassment for Prime Minister-designate Saad Hariri, who is trying to form a new government that would implement a French plan for reform. In Jerusalem, hundreds of Palestinians protested against Macron outside the Al-Aqsa Mosque, the third holiest site in Islam, chanting, “With our souls and with our blood we sacrifice for our Prophet, Muhammed.” Cries of “Death to France” rang out in Afghanistan’s capital of Kabul and several other provinces as thousands filled the streets. Demonstrators trampled on portraits of Mr. Macron and called on Afghan leaders to shut down the French Embassy, halt French imports and ban French citizens from visiting the country. In Bangladesh’s capital Dhaka, tens of thousands marched through streets, chanting “boycott French products” and carrying banners calling Mr.Macron “the worlds biggest terrorist”.
31 October 2020||Hanoi,||Pompeo wraps up ‘anti-China’ tour of Asia||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo wrapped up a visit to Asia in Vietnam on Friday after a tour marked by his repeated calls for help for the U.S. in confronting security threats posed by China. Vietnam, which also shares concern about an increasingly assertive China, was a late addition to the trip that included Sri Lanka, India, the Maldives and Indonesia. “We look forward to continuing to work together to build on our relationship and to make the region throughout Southeast Asia, Asia and the Indo-Pacific safe and peaceful and prosperous,” said Mr. Pompeo, who greeted Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc with an elbow bump before their meeting. Mr. Phuc said he sought “sincere cooperation” in support of a peaceful region and progress in trade ties. While there was no mention of China on Friday, Mr. Pompeo has urged Southeast Asian countries to stand up to its bullies and to reassess business deals with its state firms. The main concern in Vietnam is China’s claims in the South China Sea.
31 October 2020||London,||Labour leader warns against ‘civil war’||Britain’s main opposition Labour Party on Friday urged shocked members to stand united against anti-Semitism, appealing against a renewal of internecine “civil war” following the suspension of its left-wing former leader. Jeremy Corbyn was exiled pending investigation after he refused to accept all the findings of a report by the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC), which said his office had broken the law in its handling of complaints by Jewish members. ‘Day of shame’ New leader Keir Starmer, calling the report a “day of shame” for Labour, said he was “deeply disappointed” in Mr. Corbyn for blaming party critics as well as the media for exaggerating the scale of anti-Semitism. Mr. Starmer has won strong backing from Jewish groups which, in evidence to the EHRC, detailed a deluge of anti-Semitic abuse online and in party meetings during Mr. Corbyn’s leadership, including death threats at the hands of left-wingers. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservatives are trying to exploit Labour’s divisions, noting Mr. Starmer had continued to serve in Corbyn’s shadow cabinet when anti-Semitic incidents were on the rise. Mr. Corbyn’s ally Len McCluskey, the head of the Unite union, one of Labour’s biggest financial backers, said the suspension would “create chaos within the party and in doing so compromise Labour’s chances of a general election victory”. “I don’t want a split in the Labour party. I stood as leader of the Labour party on the basis that I would unite the party, but also that I would tackle anti-Semitism,” Mr. Starmer told Sky News. “Both of those can be done. There’s no reason for a civil war in our party.”
31 October 2020||Kuala Lumpur,||Mahathir slams tech giants for removing posts||Malaysia’s former premier Mahathir Mohamad accused Twitter and Facebook of unfair treatment on Friday after they removed his posts that said Muslims had the right “to kill millions of French people”. Mr. Mahathir had said the French “in the course of their history has killed millions of people. Many were Muslims. Muslims have a right to be angry and to kill millions of French people for the massacres of the past.”
31 October 2020||Washington,||Washington, Oct 29, 2020 (AFP) -||NASA said on Thursday its robotic spacecraft Osiris-Rex was able to stow a rock and dust sample scooped up from the asteroid Bennu, after a flap that had wedged open put the mission at risk. “We are here to announce today that we’ve successfully completed that operation,” said Rich Burns, the mission’s project manager.AFP
31 October 2020||ISTANBUL,||Quake kills 6 in western Turkey, rattles Greek island||A strong earthquake struck on Friday in the Aegean Sea between the Turkish coast and the Greek island of Samos, collapsing buildings in the city of Izmir in western Turkey, and officials said at least six people were killed and scores were injured. Search and rescue efforts were continuing in at least 12 buildings, Turkey’s disaster agency said.AP
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The importance of being Indian in America||Tens of millions of Americans have voted already and many more are expected to vote on November 3, Election Day. The levels of political polarisation are high in the country and presidential candidates on both sides have called this the most consequential election in recent times. Indian Americans, of whom there are 4.16 million (and just over 2.6 million U.S. citizens), comprise less than 1% of registered voters, but the group has gained prominence in the list of priorities of both the Donald Trump and Joe Biden campaigns as well as in “down ballot” contests. “There are both push and pull factors at play. Both presidential campaigns are actively courting the Indian American vote, which is creating greater awareness. But there is also increased bottom-up mobilisation due to growing political socialisation, campaign giving and interest group formation,” says Milan Vaishnav, who directs the South Asia program at the Carnegie Endowment and has co-authored the Indian American Attitudes Survey (IAAS) 2020. In conversations and public events, it is clear that neither side is coy about getting to the crux of the matter: the number of Indian American voters in some battleground states such as Florida, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin exceeds the 2016 presidential victory margin in those states. These voters could — at least in theory — be key to winning the presidency. Determination on both sides The community is seeing unprecedented levels of political engagement and mobilisation at all levels: more candidates, more voter outreach, more fundraising. A part of this is a reflection of what is happening across the board in the U.S., but a part is unique to the community. “I call it coming of age,” says Shekar Narasimhan, a Democrat, and Chairman and Founder of the AAPI Victory Fund, a “Super PAC”, a type of Political Action Committee or PAC that spends money independently of a campaign but can receive unlimited contributions from individuals and organisations. “…Young people growing up in this country, getting to vote…, 70% of the Indians who’ve come to this country have come since 2000. Most of them... have gotten citizenship,” he says. “But the second thing is Trump. I view Trump as the best organiser for our community,” Narasimhan says, referring to Trump as “blatantly anti-immigrant.” If getting Trump out of the White House is a motivating factor for Indians on the Democratic side of the aisle, keeping him there for a second term is motivating a smaller but no less determined group of Indian Americans on the Republican side. Some 72% of registered voters are expected to vote for Democratic candidate Joe Biden and 22% for incumbent President Donald Trump, as per the IAAS. The available data from voter surveys suggest that while Indian Americans are significantly with the Democratic Party, there is evidence of some shift towards the Republican Party since 2016, the year of Trump’s election. Close to 60 Indian American candidates are running for state legislatures or the U.S. Congress or are on the presidential ticket according to a partial list obtained from the Indian American Impact Fund, a PAC. There are many more running for office at the local level and some who did not make it past the primary stage. A total of 158 Asian American Pacific Islander (AAPI) candidates are running for state legislatures, a record. Some 21% of these are South Asians, 75% are Democrats and 25% are Republicans, as per AAPI Data, a data and policy research organisation. ‘2016 changed everything’ At their home in Malvern, in Chester, a county just west of Philadelphia, which Hillary Clinton won in 2016, an Indian American couple in their sixties, Jayashree and K.S. Bhaskar, spent the evening on Thursday making telephone calls to voters asking them if they have a plan to vote or if they’ve voted already. Jayashree is from Bengaluru and Bhaskar spent his early years in Chennai, Mumbai and Delhi. They moved to the States in the 1980s and became American citizens in the 1990s. They have always been politically active, Jayashree says, canvassing for candidates and so forth. “But 2016 changed everything,” she says. “We decided we needed to do a little bit more than sitting on the sidelines and lamenting about the course the country is taking.” Bhaksar ran and won an election at the municipal level. They volunteer with They See Blue (a play on Desi Blue) a group of Democrats that works informally (and therefore not bound by campaign financing laws that apply to non-profits) to get out the vote. Volunteer groups that coordinate with the official campaign and groups that work independently of it (including for legal reasons) are active across several states. “In so many cases, our communities have been so historically cut off from the political process for language barrier reasons, for cultural reasons,” says Mohan Seshadri, whose parents came to the U.S. from India. Seshadri, who is in his twenties, is Political Director of the Asian Pacific Islander Political Alliance — an organisation that works independently of the Biden campaign but supports the Biden candidacy. His organisation’s outreach has been in several Asian languages. They just completed a six figure digital ad buy in English, Chinese, Korean and Vietnamese with ads on Facebook, Hulu and so forth, Seshadri says. They also have a direct mail campaign — sending messages in support of the Biden-Harris ticket and also other candidates (“down ballot”) in the state of Pennsylvania, where Seshadri lives. While most Indian immigrants to the U.S. are conversant in English, language is nevertheless important to campaigning, especially for non-Indian Asian communities. This isn’t lost on candidates either. “We are running a campaign in 27 languages to meet voters where they are at. Inclusion is at the core of this campaign, and we are excited to bring that to Congress,” Sri Preston Kulkarni, who is running for the U.S. Congress from Texas, told The Hindu via email. This year, as in India, there is a lot of misinformation around the elections, often transmitted via WhatsApp, Jayashree says. “The common theme is ‘Don’t vote for Biden or Kamala because they’re anti-India…they’re pro-Pakistan, anti-India,’” Jayashree says. The Hindu got access to a few of these posts. Groups like ‘Desis United’, which is part of a PAC, seek to counter misinformation campaigns or negative ads with their own messaging. “Someone who looks like us on a presidential ticket… that’s crazy!” one woman says in a video “Our Community’s Candidate” about Kamala Harris. The video, most of which has Hindi narration set to Indian music, says don’t vote for someone just because they are Indian (at this point one sees images of Republican politicians Bobby Jindal, Nikki Haley and Ajit Pai) but vote for them because they stand for values: education, family (a photo of Harris and her grandparents in traditional Indian attire is shown at this point), nonviolence. Biden-Harris policies flash across the screen as does Harris’s mother Shyamala Gopalan saying, “A culture that worships goddesses produces strong women.” The IAAS finding on the Harris nomination is that while it may not change a large number of votes (since most Indian Americans already vote Democrat), it has led to higher levels of enthusiasm for the Democratic ticket. The candidates themselves have actively courted the Indian American and the Hindu American community, participating in Independence Day commemorations around August 15, sending messages around Hindu festivals — presumably in response to criticisms that the candidates were not doing enough to recognise Hindu Americans. Democratic party donor and fundraiser Frank Islam who is originally from Azamgarh, in Uttar Pradesh, says the view that a Biden presidency is bad for India and Trump presidency is good for it, is not based on facts. “He [Mr.Trump] has criticised India and mocked [Prime Minister] Narendra Modi himself multiple times. If you recall, he strongly criticised India in both his debates with Biden, each time clubbing New Delhi with Moscow and Beijing,” he says. Biden has sought to burnish his own India credentials talking about his role, as a Senator, in finalising the U.S. India Civil Nuclear Deal and declaring that under his presidency the U.S. would stand with India against terror and Chinese threats. Most of the campaigning on the Democratic side has been virtual this year. The tone is set at the top. Biden and Trump have very different approaches to the pandemic. Trump has said the country is “rounding the turn,” is not enthusiastic about mask wearing and social distancing, and is conducting large rallies across the country. Biden holds drive-in rallies or virtual events and has promoted mask wearing. The candidates also differ in their positions on when and how to open up the economy. In addition to running largely on his economic record, Trump has cited depression, job loss, suicide and abuse among reasons he wants the country to open fast. Republicans have been knocking on doors as part of their campaign — a million doors a week in their estimation. Democrats have only more recently engaged in this form of campaigning. “In my experience, many Indian-Americans won’t open their doors to strangers as it is, so I can’t imagine that door-to-door campaigning during a pandemic is going to have a significant impact on which presidential candidate our community votes for,” says Chavi Khanna Koneru, a lawyer who runs a community organisation, North Carolina Asian Americans Together in Action. Support for Trump Heading the Trump campaign’s outreach is Co-chair of Trump Victory Indian-American Finance Committee, Al Mason. Mason, an Indian American, is the man behind an ad the Trump campaign released this summer featuring clips of Modi and Trump at their joint rallies in Houston and Ahmedabad. This ad, which targets Indian Amercian voters, features Trump telling a crowd: “America loves India, America respects India...”. Mason says he has surveyed the voting preferences of over 10,000 people. “According to my research — take it to the bank — I have everything documented — 50% of Indian Americans who have never been Republicans are moving over, or rather had moved over to President Trump,” he says. “So anyone speaking otherwise is speaking nonsense,” he told The Hindu , which followed up with a Trump campaign official to get the survey report and data from Mason. The response said 6,000-7,000 Indian Americans in each of five battleground states were spoken to. A published report with sampling methods, size and margin of error was not provided. Mason says there was a “slight pause” in this movement towards the Republican Party when Harris’s candidacy was announced. “But then again, it shifted back to Trump,” he says. Indian American voters, as per Mason, were moving to Trump for six reasons. These include the sense that Trump has respect for India and for Modi and treated him as an equal, as well as a sense that Trump has “elevated India’s stature on the world stage.” Another factor, Mason says, was Trump not criticising Modi on the Kashmir issue [the dilution of Article 370 in August 2019], when India’s policies were criticised by other governments. “The only man who had the guts to stand with Modi that time was Trump,” he says, citing specifically the ‘Howdy, Modi!’ rally for both politicians in Houston, Texas, held weeks after the legislative changes in Jammu and Kashmir. “President Trump went to the ‘Howdy, Modi!’ event in Houston and never once injected himself into the Kashmir issue…Kashmir is a very emotional topic for every Indian American,” he says. Mason also cited the China factor — that Trump is seen as standing together with India and against China. “Since yesterday [Tuesday] night, there has been so much excitement within the Indian American community that Mike Pompeo could make such a statement,” Mason says, referring to the Secretary of State’s statement that India was not alone in facing challenges as they arise. When asked how he could be canvassing voters’ opinions in real time to know this, Mason says, “I have the biggest organisation. I have people everywhere in the Battleground States, I have at least 3,000 groups which keep commenting … views… telephone conversations.” Ranking of issues Mason’s views are shared by Trump donor and venture capitalist Sridhar Chityala. In an email to The Hindu , Chityala cites the six factors he believes are driving an alleged movement of voters from the Biden to the Trump camp. Trump’s economic record is one among them. “Will defend against China” is also on the list. Later Chityala added BECA (the geospatial information sharing treaty India and U.S. signed this week) and the Quad (the India-U.S.-Australia-Japan grouping for cooperation in the Indo Pacific) as factors in favour of Trump. Chityala says lists like his form the basis of the Trump campaign’s outreach. “Perfect messaging,” he calls it. This explains the number of impressions for the Modi-Trump ad, he says. The President’s son, Donald Trump Jr., who campaigns for his father also recently brought up the China issue while engaging with Indian Americans. In October, at a community event in Long Island, the younger Trump talked about how the Modi-Trump relationship hoped to bring Indians and Americans and the China threat. “We have to understand the threat of China and no one knows that probably better than Indian-Americans,” he said, as per a report by the Press Trust of India. The IAAS, however, paints a different picture. In a ranking of issues that influenced their vote choice, “the economy” came first most often. Then healthcare, racism, taxes, corruption, immigration. U.S. India-relations ranked 11 out of 12 issues ( “sexism” was the lowest priority issue, in relative terms). So while the economy factor (which is cited by Mason and Chityala as favouring Trump) is the highest ranking issue, the U.S.-India relationship does not rank high as per the data. The survey also finds that those who identify as Republicans are primarily motivated by economic policy differences with the Democrats and that Indian Americans, mostly, refrain from identifying with the GOP because it is seen as being intolerant of minorities and “overly influenced by Christian evangelicalism.” Niraj Antani, a two-term Ohio state lawmaker seeking a third term, says the fact that he has won two elections suggests this perception as well as a view that the GOP is anti-immigrant is “unfortunate” and one he hopes to change. He also draws a distinction between illegal migration and legal migration, which the Republican Party generally supports. However Trump has cracked down on the latter as well, issuing executive orders this year to suspend the skilled worker H1-B program and new immigrant visas in addition to his administration taking a number of steps making it harder for people to migrate legally to the U.S. Antani does not agree with the decision to suspend H1-B and other visas and says it was “not correct”. “You have to look at policies holistically,” he says, adding Trump was good on 90% of the issues for “our community.” Antani cites the Trump–Modi relationship,Trump’s “neutrality” on the dilution of Article 370 and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, as well as Biden’s positions against these. “The CAA is a law of India. If Indians opposed Modi’s policies, he wouldn’t have been re-elected,” Antani says when asked about equating an opposition to a specific law to opposition to a country as a whole. An Indian American electoral advisor to a Republican candidate running for public office says that the Trump campaign has been “lacking in direct and effective” communication to the Indian Americans. Antani has a different view. “You can always do more, but I think they’ve done a lot that they haven’t done before,” he says, citing, among other things, an event by former UN Ambassador Nikki Haley held last weekend and the Trump-Modi advertisement. He agrees that since most Indian Americans are Democrats, there is more outreach activity on their side but this year has by far seen the most activity from a presidential campaign towards getting the Indian American vote. Regardless of what the outcomes of Tuesday’s elections are, there is a sense that Indian Americans — who have already established themselves in fields like medicine, academia, and business — have now arrived on the American political landscape.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Time for a ‘sponge cities’ mission in India||Unpredictable nature, unbridled avarice and untrammelled urbanisation are back in currency, this time, in the wake of torrential rains in the third week of October in Hyderabad. Over 50 people died. Hundreds of riverbed hutments were flushed away. Thousands of homes remain submerged two weeks after the flood. The scale of destruction has been unprecedented. This experience is not unique to the city of Hyderabad but something that cities across India have been experiencing in recent years. Barely five years ago, it was Chennai that saw a massive flood costing much damage and lives; Gurugram over the past few years comes to a complete standstill during the monsoon months, and for Mumbai, the monsoon has become synonymous with flooding and enormous damages. The case of Hyderabad Almost 10 years ago, scientists from the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, Germany, built climate change adaptation tools for Hyderabad (https://bit.ly/34FiVbR). However, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority of that time did not use it. Such tools are held in trust by many civil society organisations across the country in many of our cities (http://cathy.hydlab.in/). Anticipating significant increases in rainfall, they offered tools to build solutions. So what was it that really brought us down to our knees? Our persistence in using these cliched expressions year after year also restitutes a profoundly disabling account of the world. After all, what can one do against such trans-historic forces? Let us examine these claims closely. The first is unprecedented rainfall. On September 21, 2016, breaking a 16-year record, Hyderabad received 16 cm of rain in a single day; in September 2017, the city witnessed a 450% increase compared to the average rainfall it receives during this month; in September 2019, the rainfall was the highest in 100 years, while in October it was in 62% in excess. The rainfall received in 2020 has been the highest for the month of October in a century. Every year, the rains bring something unprecedented with them. But our constant, unwavering attention to the rainfall levels draws our attention away from our inability to manage the city’s drainage systems. The floods of October 2020 occurred because we did not discharge the water in time. And when we did discharge the water, we did it in a sudden, uncontrolled manner. To put it bluntly, first our sluices did not open and then our bunds breached. The second is antiquated infrastructure. Hyderabad’s century-old drainage system (developed in the 1920s) covered only a small part of the core city. In the last 20 years, the city has grown at least four times its original built-up area. But the areas that suffered from the floods of 1908, 2001, and 2005 have not been hit by the 2020 floods. The narrative of antiquated infrastructure conceals the fact that the city has grown rapidly, and into areas where there was no drainage infrastructure to begin with. And as the city grew beyond its original limits, not much was done to address the absence of adequate drainage systems. Communities are left out Government pronouncements, media representations and public protests have all focused repeatedly on factors which by their very description fall outside our capacity to influence. So what is to be done? The manner in which we talk about recurring floods in the city often reduces the problem to simple dichotomies of public versus private property and individual conduct versus faceless governmental action. This means that we neglect the issues of incremental land use change, particularly of those commons which provide us with necessary ecological support — wetlands. This framing also disavows the role of local communities in managing local ecosystems — people with traditional rights for fishing and farming. This is a lesson that has been learnt by others around the world. We need to start paying attention to the management of our wetlands by involving local communities. The risk is going to increase year after year with changing rainfall patterns and a problem of urban terrain which is incapable of absorbing, holding and discharging water. Making cities permeable Urban floods of this scale cannot be contained by the municipal authorities alone. Nor can they be dealt with by the State government. They cannot be managed without concerted and focused investments of energy and resources. Such investments can only be done in a mission mode organisation with active participation of civil society organisations at the metropolitan scale. In Hyderabad, this can be done by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority, but all metropolitan areas have similar organisations with constitutional mandates via the metropolitan planning committee. So what should the mission objectives be? We need a mission that mitigates flood risk and provides a pathway to water security. The most promising idea across the world at this time appears to be the idea of “sponge cities”. The idea of a sponge city is to make cities more permeable so as to hold and use the water which falls upon it. Sponge cities absorb the rain water, which is then naturally filtered by the soil and allowed to reach urban aquifers. This allows for the extraction of water from the ground through urban or peri-urban wells. This water can be treated easily and used for city water supply. In built form, this implies contiguous open green spaces, interconnected waterways, and channels and ponds across neighbourhoods that can naturally detain and filter water. It implies support for urban ecosystems, bio-diversity and newer cultural and recreational opportunities, These can all be delivered effectively through an urban mission along the lines of the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) and Smart Cities Mission. On a top priority, such a mission should address the following. The first subject is wetland policy. In most of our lakes, the shallow ends, which often lie beyond the full tank level, have disappeared. These shallow ends are best characterised as wetlands; sometimes owned by private individuals, other times existing as ecological commons. Regardless of ownership, land use on even this small scale needs to be regulated by development control. Watersheds, terrain alteration Watershed management and emergency drainage plan is next. This should be clearly enunciated in policy and law. Urban watersheds are micro ecological drainage systems, shaped by contours of terrain. Detailed documentation of these must be held by agencies which are not bound by municipal jurisdictions; instead, we need to consider natural boundaries such as watersheds instead of governance boundaries like electoral wards for shaping a drainage plan. The Metropolitan Development Authorities, National Disaster Management Authority, State revenue and irrigation departments along with municipal corporations should be involved in such work together. Ban against terrain alteration is third. Lasting irreversible damage has been done to the city by builders, property owners, and public agencies by flattening terrain and altering drainage routes. Without doubt, terrain alteration needs to be strictly regulated and a ban on any further alteration of terrain needs to be introduced. Our cities are becoming increasingly impervious to water, not just because of increasing built up but also because of the nature of materials used (hard, non-porous construction material that makes the soil impervious). To improve the city’s capacity to absorb water, new porous materials and technologies must be encouraged or mandated across scales. Examples of these technologies are bioswales and retention systems, permeable material for roads and pavement, drainage systems which allow storm water to trickle into the ground, green roofs and harvesting systems in buildings. These not only reduce run-off and the load on infrastructure, but also help keep water in the city for later use. Stop the blame, start action Acknowledging the role of different actors for the city can create a practical space to begin this work. Doing so will not just help control recurring floods but also respond to other fault lines, provide for water security, more green spaces, and will make the city resilient and sustainable. The constant search for a scapegoat to blame, while a few people try what they can, limits our capacities and only creates cycles of devastation. We must not allow nature, human conduct, and urbanisation to be mystified and rendered as trans-historic villains. We can learn to live with nature, we can regulate human conduct through the state and we can strategically design where we build. We need to urgently rebuild our cities such that they have the sponginess to absorb and release water without causing so much misery and so much damage to the most vulnerable of our citizens, as we have seen. Kabeer Arora is an urbanist working with Hyderabad Urban Lab. The views expressed are personal
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The ‘swing State’ skew in the U.S. electoral framework||In his legal thriller, Too Close to Call , American lawyer Jeffrey Toobin portrayed the 36 anxiety-filled days following the U.S. presidential election of 2000 that culminated in one of the most stunning Supreme Court decisions in American history. A margin of only 537 votes in Florida made Republican George W. Bush defeat Democrat Al Gore in that election. In fact, with 29 electoral votes at the moment, Florida is a large ‘swing State’ in the U.S., having roughly an even number of Democrats and Republicans. Whoever won Florida became the President in all elections since 1928, except 1960 and 1992. However, the State of Ohio with 18 electoral votes is possibly a microcosm of the U.S. in a better way. Since 1896, the buckeye State has wrongly predicted the presidential election only in 1944 and 1960. On electoral votes First-past-the-post is a ‘plurality’ voting system where the candidate winning the most votes in a constituency is elected. While a ‘constituency’ means a Lok Sabha constituency in the general election in India, it is mostly a State in the U.S. presidential election. In 48 States and DC, the candidate winning most votes in a State receives all of that State’s electors; Nebraska and Maine are further divided in congressional districts. The U.S. ‘Electoral College’ has 538 electors, where an absolute majority of at least 270 electoral votes is required to win the election. Each State gets two electoral votes for its two U.S. Senators, and one more vote for each of its members in the House of Representatives. California has the maximum electors (55), while Alaska has only three electoral votes. And the Twenty-third Amendment, ratified in 1961, grants the District of Columbia the same number of electors as the least populous State. Consequently, individual citizens in less populated States have proportionately more voting power than those in more populous States. Dividing the estimated population of the U.S. in 2019, obtained by the U.S. Census Bureau, i.e. 328,239,523, by the total electoral votes (i.e. 538), one electoral vote corresponds to every 610,111 people, on an average. However, remarkable variation exists between the States. Florida and Wyoming (with 29 and 3 electoral votes, and population figures of 21,477,737 and 578,759, respectively) have 740,612 and 192,920 people per electoral vote, respectively. Thus, while an average person of Florida has 82.4% clout of an average American in the Electoral College, an average person of Wyoming has 316.3%. There are instances of losing the election despite getting more ‘popular votes’, even in this century. While U.S. President Donald Trump got 77 more electoral votes than Hillary Clinton inspite of getting 2.1% less nationwide popular vote share in 2016, George W. Bush won the presidency by a margin of only five electoral votes despite trailing 0.51% in popular vote share in the thrilling contest of 2000. Such a situation is not quite uncommon in India as well. In 2018, in the Karnataka Assembly elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party had won 26 more seats despite getting 1.8% less votes than the Congress, while, in the Madhya Pradesh elections, the Congress won five more seats than the BJP although the BJP’s vote share was 0.13% more than that of Congress. Campaigns and swing States It is widely observed that most of the States in the U.S. have voted for the same party, the Republicans or the Democrats, in the most recent elections. However, some States occasionally ‘swing’ from one party to another. Thus, the key election strategy is to fix the campaign plan accordingly. For obvious reasons, there is not much point of desperate campaigning in States heavily inclined towards favouring either party. The list of ‘swing States’ certainly changes over time. In 2020, States such as Florida, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Georgia, North Carolina, Arizona, Wisconsin, and Iowa feature prominently in this list. However, Ohio, Wisconsin and Iowa were not among the most competitive States according to a pre-election analysis of 2016. The decisive vote Had just 269 Republican votes been shifted in favour of Al Gore in Florida, it would have changed the outcome of the entire 2000 presidential election. And, astonishingly, that was nearly 0.00026% of the total number of U.S. votes. What then is the worth of a single vote in the U.S. presidential election? Certainly, the worth of a vote is bound to vary from constituency to constituency in a first-past-the-post system. In a 2012 research paper published in the journal, Economic Inquiry , Andrew Gelman, a professor of Statistics at Columbia University, Nate Silver of the poll aggregators ‘FiveThirtyEight’, and Aaron Edlin of the University of California, Berkeley, have estimated that the probability of a single vote being decisive in the U.S. presidential elections is, at most, about one in 10 million in a few States near the national median. This might even become one in million in the closest State. On the other hand, for voters in ‘safe States’ such as New York, California and Texas, the probability of a decisive vote is closer to one in a billion, which is effectively zero. Averaging these probabilities over all the States and weighting by turnout yielded a one in 60 million chance that a randomly selected voter would be decisive. Electoral college matters Overall, this is the structure of the U.S. presidential elections. Obviously, it is an unprecedented election in 2020 when a sitting President is up to his re-election bid amid a deadly pandemic ravaging the world and causing a tanking of the U.S. economy. While Democrat Joe Biden is leading at the moment according to most opinion polls, we must keep in mind that only the ‘electoral college’ matters in the U.S. elections — not the ‘popular votes’. And, the political balance in some ‘swing States’ is so evenly poised that the U.S. election might turn to be ‘Too Close to Call’. There is no scope of surprise even if the election is finally decided by only a few hundred votes in a State such as Pennsylvania, for example. The Florida episode of 2000 is still vivid in memory. And many Americans believe that the appointment of Justice Amy Coney Barrett in the Supreme Court just before the election might become crucial in such a situation. Atanu Biswas is Professor of Statistics, Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Science of monsoons||The southwest monsoon 2020 has officially drawn to an end with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) declaring a withdrawal of the associated winds and rainfall pattern from India on Wednesday. The over 8% surplus this year has surpassed the IMD’s estimates. For the first time since 2010, India got more than 100% of its long period average (LPA) of 88 cm in consecutive years. Last year the country saw record rainfall of 110% of the LPA, the highest in a quarter century. India has never got over 105% of the LPA in consecutive years in at least 30 years, according to records available since 1988 on the IMD website. Meteorologists often speak of two or three decade ‘epochs’ of rainfall variation. Since 2000, India was in a low patch with several drought years and had barely a handful of above normal or excess rainfall. In that light, the two years of a munificent monsoon could signal a possible return to a rainy epoch. While it could mean more rain, it also implies floods, overflowing dams, landslides and loss of lives. Moreover, surplus rains are not evenly distributed in time and space. Therefore, much like there are attempts to improve flood forecast warnings — especially the short-term ones — there ought to be commensurate efforts by authorities and infrastructure agencies to prepare for the environmental and ecological impact of excess rain. This year the IMD undertook a long-due revision of the onset and withdrawal dates of the monsoon in India. By this reckoning, the monsoon’s normal withdrawal date was October 15. Historically, this has always been a statistical average and the actual withdrawal is usually within a few days of this. However, this year the withdrawal has been extremely delayed. Factoring in these changes must become a key part of a State and city’s disaster management preparedness. The southwest monsoon’s withdrawal also heralds the advent of north-easterly winds that bring in the northeast monsoon to parts of peninsular Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. While significant to the agriculture there, the northeast monsoon contributes 10%-12% of India’s annual rainfall, against the southwest monsoon’s 75%-80%. That, and its limited geographic spread has meant that the northeast monsoon is not showered with as much research attention. However, studies show that northeast monsoon rainfall displays significant variation and climate models are fairly inaccurate in their forecasts of its unfolding over the subcontinent. There have been significant investments in super computing infrastructure to simulate weather as well as to tune forecasts to go beyond just giving rainfall estimates and factor in the potential damage of floods and cyclones. Building on these, scientists must also put in more effort and design research programmes that better analyse the vagaries of the northeast monsoon. Along with more understanding of how climate is changing locally, India needs better science to prepare more effective disaster management plans and improve resilience in a warming world.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Terror in Nice||The knife attack in the southern French city of Nice on Thursday that killed three people and injured many more has left the country, which has barely recovered from the beheading of a schoolteacher in a Paris suburb by an 18-year-old Chechen two weeks ago, in shock and pain. The suspected Nice attacker, a 21-year-old Tunisian who is now in hospital with injuries, killed two, including an elderly woman, in a church; the other escaped to a pub nearby but later died of injuries. France, home to Europe’s largest Muslim community, has particularly been hit by Islamist terrorism in recent years. Thursday’s incident, which occurred in the context of the controversy over satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo ’s decision to republish Prophet Mohammed’s caricatures, is the latest in a series of terror attacks in the country in the last eight years that have killed more than 200. France’s agony and anger are understandable and its leaders have repeatedly said they would not give in to threats from terrorists. But the tragic reality is that jihadists continue to strike, taking innocent lives. Each time, it serves as a reminder that neither the government’s preventive measures, that include credible intelligence gathering and deradicalisation efforts, nor its combative postures work in ending this terror run. Needless to say, these attacks are driving a wedge between France’s already polarised communities, feeding into the far-right Islamophobic political narrative. An implacable security response is an imperative of any counter-terrorism strategy. But it is important to understand the enemy. The Islamist terrorists, those who are inspired by the ideology of organisations such as al-Qaeda and the Islamic State, see the world as an arena of a clash of civilisations. Driven by a perverted interpretation of religion, they are ready to unleash violence against anybody who does not subscribe to their worldview. The fight against jihadists — a minuscule minority among the world’s Muslims but a potent threat to societies given their embrace of violence and a vicious ideology — should be mindful of not allowing them to sow discord on the basis of religious identities. This is the biggest challenge before the French President, Emmanuel Macron. Mr. Macron, who earlier this month said “Islam is in crisis”, should lead a united response to terrorism that does not posit French values against any belief system. The fight is for civilisational values, for democracy, secularism, freedom, and equality against radical Islamism, a medieval ideology that has equipped itself with modern weapons. It is important for the world that France wins this fight.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fifteenth Finance Commission to hand in report on Nov. 9||Three years after it was constituted, the Fifteenth Finance Commission has finalised its report for fund devolution from the Centre to States for the five years from 2021-22 to 2025-26. The panel, which had to grapple with an enlarged brief that included determining the viability of a separate defence and national security fund as well as the issue of GST compensation, will submit its report to the President on November 9. The report will be subsequently tabled by the Finance Minister in the Parliament along with an action taken report. Chairman N.K. Singh and members Ajay Narayan Jha, Anoop Singh, Ashok Lahiri and Ramesh Chand signed the report on Friday, the Commission said in a statement. A copy of the report will be presented to Prime Minister Narendra Modi later next month. The Fifteenth Finance Commission was constituted on November 27, 2017, against the backdrop of the abolition of the Planning Commission and the distinction between Plan and non-Plan expenditure, and introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). Term extension Although its original remit was to recommend the fund-sharing formula between the Centre and States from 2020-21 to 2024-25, the commission’s term was extended by 11 months. Last year, the government had requested the Commission to submit an initial report just for the year 2020-21. That report had pared the States’ share of the divisible tax pool from 42%, as recommended by the Fourteenth Finance Commission, to 41%, citing the creation of the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The Commission had then said that some of the key recommendations it was required to make would feature in its final report, including the viability of creating a separate defence and national security fund as suggested by the Centre. States would keenly await these recommendations as it may translate into a lower share of funds for them. The panel is also expected to factor in unpaid GST compensation dues to States for this year, while working out States’ revenue flow calculations for the years beyond 2022. States were guaranteed compensation by the Centre for revenue losses owing to the implementation of the GST for a period of five years. However, the disruption in economic activity due to the pandemic and lockdowns this year has dampened cess collections used to recompense States.
31 October 2020||Mumbai,||BMW India finance unit gets GST reprieve in HC||The Bombay High Court has asked tax authorities to review BMW India Financial Services Pvt. Ltd.’s case on merit and ensure that the company’s VAT payment credit is reflected in its GST account after verification. “The whole objective of digitisation is to convenience tax payers and not to harass them,” a division bench of justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Abhay Ahuja said. “Merely because there were no technical glitches in the Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN) with a company’s TRAN-1 which was admittedly filed in time, the claim of the company, if it was otherwise eligible in law, cannot be rejected for no apparent fault on the part of the company.” The firm’s plea was that the VAT amount of Rs. 17,07,673 pertaining to the period post July 1, 2017, but paid upfront before June 30, 2020 was to be transitioned to the GST regime. The court directed authorities to consider this case after looking into the merits of the claim and verifying the amount of VAT and take actions to transition the credit into the petitioner’s ledger within four weeks.
31 October 2020||Chennai,||Wheels India net falls to Rs. 7.43 cr., revenue dips 14%||Auto components player Wheels India Ltd. posted a net profit of Rs. 7.43 crore for the second quarter ended September 30. The company had recorded a net profit of Rs. 28.67 crore a year earlier. In a statement, the firm said these numbers were not strictly comparable as the year-earlier profit had a one-time write-back of a deferred tax liability of Rs. 19.8 crore. Revenue dropped 14% to Rs. 510.84 crore from Rs. 595.63 crore a year earlier.  “ After the lockdown [began] in March, we started running our plants at some level only towards the end of the first quarter,” Srivats Ram, MD, said. “With the unlocking of the economy, we reached around 90% of our pre-Covid production levels in September,” he added. He said demand for exports had been encouraging and that annual growth would reappear starting from the next financial year.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Samsung may dial in 40% smarphone sales growth||Samsung India expects to clock a 40% year-on-year growth in value terms in its smartphone business during the current quarter, driven by consumers opting for ‘higher tech’ products as well as demand from first- time buyers. “We’re really excited for Q4, 2020,” said Samsung India senior vice-president Asim Warsi in an interview. “We have built up for 40% growth year-on-year in this quarter over Q4, 2019, in terms of value. We have virtually revamped our portfolio for this quarter and have launched a slew of smartphones, tablets, wearable devices besides the luxury segment’s Samsung Galaxy Fold 2,” he added. He pointed out Samsung now offered smartphones from Rs. 4,999 to Rs. 1.5 lakh. “Our industry is not exempt from what happened in the first half of the year... the first half having gone the way it did. In the second half, we have broadly seen two phases,” he said. “One phase was the early part of the unlockdown where there was a fair amount of pent-up demand and the second part, which is where we are now, the festive part,” he added. Overall, in the second half, they expected ‘a very strong, YoY double-digit growth.’ Mohandeep Singh, senior vice-president, mobile business said the demand was being driven by consumers wanting to graduate to better technology because they want to be better-enabled along with consumers who were becoming digitally-enabled for the first time.
31 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Plastics group targets $25 bn exports by ’25||The Plastics Export Promotion Council of India, sponsored by the Union Ministry of Commerce & Industry, has announced plans to achieve an exporttarget of $25 billion by calendar 2025. The council said it was expecting 20% growth in plastics exports during FY21 and FY22, it said. It has mapped out 50 value-added plastic products in which India has sound standing and can ‘easily’ expand its presence to other geographies. Besides, it is in the process of identifying ‘the champion sectors’, it said. Vice-chairman Arvind Goenka said, “We are in advanced stages of holding a B2B meeting with buyers in leading markets such as the U.S., Egypt, Japan, Korea and Vietnam.”
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||Bill on coastal shipping up for comment||The Ministry of Shipping on Friday invited stakeholder comments on the draft Coastal Shipping Bill 2020 — to be sent within a week. The Bill proposes to exempt Indian flag vessels from the needing trading licence for coastal trade, while imposing additional conditions on foreign ships for being eligible, such as on nationality of crew and requiring whole or part of foreign vessels to be built in India. It also provides for a strategic plan which will recommend ways to integrate inland waterway routes with maritime coastal transport. Coastal shipping is now governed under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||IOC net jumps 11-fold on inventory gains||India’s top oil firm IOC on Friday reported an 11-fold jump in its standalone net profit to Rs. 6,227.3 crore for the September quarter, on the back of a boost in refining margins and inventory gain on using low-priced crude oil for making fuels. The net profit stands at Rs. 6.78 per share. The company had reported a net profit of Rs. 563.4 crore in the corresponding period a year earlier, IOC Chairman Shrikant Madhav Vaidya told reporters here. “The profit was up due to higher inventory and foreign exchange gains and better refinery margins,” he said. IOC gained Rs. 7,400 crore on using low-priced crude oil. Mr. Vaidya said the fuel demand, which had nearly halved following the coronavirus lockdown, is fast returning to normal.
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||Gold ETFs log Rs 2,400-cr inflow in Sept quarter||Gold exchange-traded funds (ETFs) saw staggering net inflows of more than Rs. 2,400 crore in the three months ended September 30, as investors continued to hedge their exposure to riskier assets due to higher economic uncertainty resulting from COVID-19. In comparison, investors had infused Rs. 172 crore in this asset class in July-September 2019, according to data with the Association of Mutual Funds in India.pti
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||Tencent Games terminates all services, access for Pubg Mobile users in India||Chinese company Tencent Games on Friday said it was terminating all services and access for Pubg Mobile users in India. “Tencent Games will terminate all service and access for users in India to Pubg Mobile Nordic Map: Livik and Pubg Mobile Lite, together ‘Pubg Mobile’ on October 30, 2020. The rights to publish Pubg Mobile in India will be returned to the owner of the Pubg intellectual property,” Pubg Mobile India’s page on a social media website said.pti
31 October 2020||New Delhi,||Karur Vysya Bank Q2 net profit jumps 81% to Rs 115 cr||Private sector Karur Vysya Bank (KVB) on Friday reported an 81.4% jump in net profit to Rs. 114.89 crore in the second quarter of FY21, helped by lower provisioning for bad loans. The south-based lender had posted a net profit of Rs. 63.33 crore in the corresponding three months the year earlier. Total income fell to Rs. 1,666.26 crore in the July-September period of FY21 as against Rs. 1,815.24 crore in the same quarter of 2019-20, KVB said in a filing. Interest income fell 9.3% to Rs. 1,394.7 crore from Rs. 1,537.51 crore.pti
31 October 2020||Mumbai,||IndusInd Bank Q2 net profit halves as pandemic-related provisions go up a||Bogged down by money set aside for possible reverses in asset quality due to the pandemic, IndusInd Bank’s September quarter net profit more than halved to Rs. 663 crore, from Rs. 1,401 crore a year earlier. The bank hinted at more pain in the offing, saying provisions may go up in the future. CEO Sumant Kathpalia said the lender would start focussing on growth opportunities from here on. He denied reports of a merger being explored with Kotak Mahindra Bank.PTI
31 October 2020||Mumbai,||NABARD’s H1 profit surges 8% to Rs 2,361 crore||National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) posted an 8.26% growth in net profit to Rs. 2,361 crore for the first half of the financial year ended September 30, compared with the year earlier. “The financials reveal a healthy Net Interest Margin of 1.95% as on 30 September 2020 as against 1.74% in September 2019,” NABARD said. Size of assets increased 17.3% to Rs. 5,56,708 crore and loans portfolio to Rs. 4,95,095 crore, up 20.83%, the bank said.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Royals’ batting collective eclipses ‘Gaylestorm’, snaps Kings’ streak||The Universe Boss continues to amaze. Chris Gayle may have fallen one short of what would have been his seventh IPL hundred, but his blistering knock (99, 63b, 6x4, 8x6) took Kings XI Punjab to 185 for four, after being put in to bat by Rajasthan Royals captain Steve Smith, at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Friday. This was the 41-year-old’s third fifty in his sixth match of the season. The innings also saw him hit his 1000th six in T20s. The 1001st — off Jofra Archer in the final over of the innings — took him to 99, but he was bowled off the next ball, which beat him, hit the bat and pad before dislodging the off-stump. Earlier, the match got off to a sensational start with Archer removing Mandeep Singh off the fifth ball of the innings. A brute of a delivery — his first of the night — was just too good for Mandeep, who had guided Kings home with an unbeaten 66 against Kolkata Knight Riders in their previous game. Mandeep couldn’t do much with the well-directed bouncer; he took his eyes off and skied a catch, which was taken by a diving Ben Stokes running in from point. Once again, Archer had provided the breakthrough for Royals. As usual, he didn't get much support from the other end. Varun Aaron, who had replaced Ankit Rajpoot in the Royals’ line-up, nearly managed to take the wicket of Gayle, though. He tried to exploit Gayle’s weakness against the short ball early on in an innings, but Riyan Parag could not catch the top edge at deep square-leg. That Robin Uthappa too went for the catch didn’t help. That was the kind of chance Gayle — he was on 10 then — needed, as he began to clear the fence with amazing regularity. He welcomed Kartik Tyagi into the attack by hitting him for 14 runs, including a splendid six over mid-wicket. Gayle’s captain K.L. Rahul (46, 41b, 3x4, 2x6) was glad to play second fiddle. Their second-wicket stand was worth 120 when the latter holed out to deep mid-wicket off Stokes. The West Indian, however, continued to make merry and took Kings to a challenging total.   Royals 132 for two  Royals were 132/2 in 13 overs, with Samson (40) and Smith (10) batting. Stokes (50) and Uthappa (30) were dismissed
31 October 2020||KOLKATA,||We are still breathing: Hussey||Kolkata Knight Riders mentor David Hussey has said his team can perform well in its last match against Rajasthan Royals on Sunday and make it to the playoffs. Following KKR’s six-wicket defeat to Chennai Super Kings in Dubai on Thursday, Hussey said his side could still qualify and shock a few teams there. “We have put ourselves in this position by losing matches. But we are still breathing, but only just, in the competition. “The next match is against Rajasthan. We are going to rest up and charge our batteries and display some free-flowing cricket and you never know what could happen,” said Hussey. Hussey said the dew played a big factor after KKR put up an “about par” score of 172. “The toss did not help. I think with a lot of dew around, (our bowlers) could not quite grip the ball. Can’t take too much credit away from Chennai, they chased a decent total. The spinners bowled well. Our bowling upfront was pretty consistent. Unfortunately, they attacked a few of our bowlers and got away with it.” Hussey was pleased with the efforts of opener Nitish Rana and Dinesh Karthik.  The next match is against RR. We are going to rest up and charge our batteries
31 October 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Karan, Swaroop excel for Legends||K. Karan Shinde (62 n.o., 47b, 5x4, 2x6) and Swaroop (39 n.o., 29b, 3x4, 2x6) starred in Legends XI’s six-wicket win over Chargers XI in the Karbonn HarmonyCity ACA T20 league cricket championship at Anantapur on Friday. Batting first, Chargers XI scored 143 for nine in 20 overs with B. Sumanth (41, 46b, 4x4) being the top-scorer. I. Karthik Raman claimed 3/32 for Legends XI. In reply, Legends XI romped home in 17.4 overs. In aother match, Champions XI posted 173 for seven in 20 overs with openers U.M.S. Girinath (32, 20b, 5x4, 1x6) and M. Vamsi Krishna (46, 24b, 6x4, 3x6) being main contributors. In reply, Warriors XI was restricted to 158 for seven in 20 overs with P. Sarah Teja (43, 22b 3x4, 2x6) being the top-scorer. For the winner, Munish Varma (3/29) bowled well.  The scores: Chargers XI 143/9 in 20 overs (B. Sumanth 41, I. Karthik Raman 3/32) lost to Legends XI 146/4 in 17.4 overs (K. Karan Shinde 62 n.o., T.V.S. Swaroop 39 n.o.). MoM: K. Karan Shinde.   Champions XI 173/7 in 20 overs (U.M.S. Girinath 32, M. Vamsi Krishna 46) bt Warriors XI 158/7 in 20 overs (P. Saran Teja 43, Md. Kamil 32, Munish Varma 3/28). MoM: Munish Varma .
31 October 2020||IMOLA,||Alonso set for Renault test next week||Fernando Alonso will step up his preparations for a return to Formula One next year with a two-day test in Bahrain next week, his Renault team said on Friday. The former two-time World champion will try out the R.S.18 model from the 2018 season, having driven an F1 car for the first time in nearly 18 months in Barcelona in mid-October. Alonso, 39, had not been in an F1 car since a test session for McLaren in Bahrain in April 2019 and had not raced one since the 2018 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, also with McLaren, at the end of his 17th season. The Spaniard won in 2005 and 2006 with Renault, and will rejoin the team for the 2021 season when it will compete as Alpine, the French manufacturer's sports car brand. Since leaving F1, Alonso has won the Le Mans 24 Hours twice as well as the endurance world championship title, all with Toyota. This year he competed in the Dakar rally, finishing 13th, and drove for a second time in the Indianapolis 500 finishing 21st. He retired in his first Indy appearance in 2017.
31 October 2020||MARGAO,||ATK Mohun Bagan vs Kerala Blasters in November 20 opener||ATK Mohun Bagan will face Kerala Blasters in the opening match of this year’s ISL on November 20. The organisers released the fixtures of the first half of the 11-team league on Friday. The schedule covers matches to be played till January 11, 2011. The remaining schedule will be released later. The much-anticipated first clash between Kolkata sides ATK Mohun Bagan and SC East Bengal will be played on November 27.  Before their arrival in Goa, all teams were required to have three negative test results. Following their arrival, the players and officials were put under quarantine for 10 days (14 for foreign players) during which five tests were conducted.  ATK Mohun Bagan’s schedule (all matches at 7.30 p.m.):   Nov. 20: Kerala Blasters; Nov. 27: SC East Bengal; Dec. 3: Odisha FC; Dec. 7: Jamshedpur FC; Dec. 11: Hyderabad FC; Dec. 16: FC Goa; Dec. 21: Bengaluru FC; Dec. 29: Chennaiyin FC; Jan. 3: NEUFC; Jan. 11: Mumbai City FC.   SC East Bengal’s schedule (matches at 7.30 p.m. unless mentioned otherwise):   Nov. 27: ATK Mohun Bagan; Dec. 1: Mumbai City FC; Dec. 5: NEUFC; Dec. 10: Jamshedpur FC; Dec. 15: Hyderabad FC; Dec. 20: Kerala Blasters; Dec. 26: Chennaiyin FC; Jan. 3: Odisha FC, 5 p.m.; Jan. 6: FC Goa; Jan. 9: Bengaluru FC.   Mumbai City FC’s schedule (matches at 7.30 p.m. unless mentioned otherwise):   Nov. 21: NEUFC; Nov. 25: FC Goa; Dec. 1: SC East Bengal; Dec. 6: Odisha FC, 5 p.m.; Dec. 9: Chennaiyin FC; Dec. 14: Jamshedpur FC; Dec. 20: Hyderabad FC, 5 p.m.; Jan. 2: Kerala Blasters; Jan. 5: Bengaluru FC; Jan. 11: ATK Mohun Bagan.   NEUFC’s schedule (matches at 7.30 p.m. unless mentioned otherwise):   Nov. 21: Mumbai City FC; Nov. 26: Kerala Blasters; Nov. 30: FC Goa; Dec. 5: SC East Bengal; Dec. 8: Bengaluru FC; Dec. 13: Chennaiyin FC, 5 p.m.; Dec. 18: Jamshedpur FC; Dec. 22: Odisha FC; Jan. 3: ATK Mohun Bagan; Jan. 8: Hyderabad FC.   Odisha FC’s schedule (matches at 7.30 p.m. unless mentioned otherwise):   Nov. 23: Hyderabad FC; Nov. 29: Jamshedpur FC, 5 p.m.; Dec. 3: ATK Mohun Bagan; Dec. 6: Mumbai City FC, 5 p.m.; Dec. 12: FC Goa; Dec. 17: Bengaluru FC; Dec. 22: NEUFC; Jan. 3: SC East Bengal, 5 p.m.; Jan. 7: Kerala Blasters; Jan. 10: Chennaiyin FC, 5 p.m.   Jamshedpur FC’s schedule (matches at 7.30 p.m. unless mentioned otherwise):   Nov. 24: Chennaiyin FC; Nov. 29: Odisha FC, 5 p.m.; Dec. 2: Hyderabad FC; Dec. 7: ATK Mohun Bagan; Dec. 10: SC East Bengal; Dec. 14: Mumbai City FC; Dec. 18: NEUFC; Dec. 23: FC Goa; Dec. 28: Bengaluru FC; Jan. 10: Kerala Blasters.   FC Goa’s schedule ((all matches at 7.30 p.m.):   Nov. 22: Bengaluru FC; Nov. 25: Mumbai City FC; Nov. 30: NEUFC; Dec. 6: Kerala Blasters; Dec. 12: Odisha FC; Dec. 16: ATK Mohun Bagan; Dec. 19: Chennaiyin FC; Dec. 23: Jamshedpur FC; Dec. 30: Hyderabad FC; Jan. 6: SC East Bengal .
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||I am always trying to evolve: Stokes||Peers, seniors and even critics can’t help being in awe of the brilliance that defines Ben Stokes’ career but the World Cup-winning England cricketer prefers being mostly unhappy with his performances to ensure that the improvement never stops. In great form In the form of his life for the past three to four years, the 29-year-old already has 7,000 plus runs and more than 270 wickets across formats. Speaking to PTI , Stokes revealed how he transformed into a world beater in the past couple of years. “Experience. The more you play, the more you learn about yourself. You are able to understand different things and different situations. Constantly, I have never been happy with where I am as a player,” Stokes said. “I am always trying to evolve. I am still trying to work on my strengths and that’s how I score runs and take wickets.” Whether it’s being the central figure in a tense World Cup final or an epic Ashes hundred at the Leed’s, Stokes admits that the occasion does play on the mind of every player. Asked how he keeps calm for the big games, Stokes replied: “System of the game.” “It begins around with people picking the game up (hype). That’s not to say we don’t get nervous or feel anxious about the occasion. It’s normal. It’s all about embracing the situation and dealing with it in the right way.” Sense of occasion About big games, Stokes speaks about how the IPL, over the years, has prepared players to understand what a sense of occasion means. “IPL is an amazing learning curve and you get to play alongside and against some of the best players in the world. You get to pick their brains,” the Rajasthan Royals player said. “You get to play in front of sold-out houses and get exposed to that kind of an atmosphere. Just getting used to every ball in IPL is an occasion and the energy that they bring is a big thing.” Stokes believes that bowling to a technically gifted player like England captain Joe Root and batting against the likes of James Anderson and Stuart Broad has helped him “massively”.  The more you play, the more you learn about yourself
31 October 2020||BENGALURU:,||Kushi enters the last four||V. Kushi entered the women’s semifinal with a straightforward 11-7, 11-7, 11-6, 11-9 win over Karruna Gajendran on day one of the State-ranking table tennis tournament on Friday.  Other results (quarterfinals): Maria Rony bt Dristhi More 11-5, 11-4, 11-5, 11-3;   Anargya Manjunath bt Kalyani 11-6, 11-7, 11-5, 11-8;   Yashaswini D. Ghorpade bt Aditi P. Joshi 11-4, 11-8, 11-7, 11-6.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi half-marathon on Nov. 29||The annual Airtel Delhi Half Marathon will be run on November 29 this year with only the national and international elite runners. With the sports ministry, SAI and the AFI approving the $2,33,270 prize money event, the organisers have assured of following all laid-down protocols and safety standards with bio-secure zones to ensure a COVID-free race, commencing and concluding at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium for the elite athletes. The amateur runners across all categories — half-marathon, 10km run the Great Delhi Run (5km) — would be able to participate in the event virtually through the Airtel Delhi Half Marathon Mobile App. Registrations can be done on the websiteairteldelhihalfmarathon. procam.infrom October 30 to November 27. The virtual participants can run and complete the event any time through the race week (Nov. 25-29). The entry fee for the half marathon and the 10km is Rs. 499 and Rs. 299 for the Great Delhi Run.
31 October 2020||IMOLA,||Hulkenberg ‘not stressed’ about future||Formula One super-sub Nico Hulkenberg said this week he is staying cool as he ponders his future in the sport — not knowing if he could be racing for Red Bull next year or watching from the stands again. The 33-year-old German has produced outstanding performances when called up at short notice as a reserve driver for Racing Point this year, but knows his hopes of landing a permanent seat rely on other team decisions. “The situation is that there are 20 seats and that is super limited,” he told the ESPN F1podcast. “Very few numbers... This is a thing that is out of my control and other people make the decision for me - or about me, but I’m not too stressed.” Hulkenberg said he had produced competitive performances when called up. “When I had the chance — and that’s the one thing, if you are not doing a full season, that is kind of difficult... You’re not that visible and people tend to forget quickly. “They always tend just to remember the last race so it’s not easy to make an impression. I was happy to be able to have some races and to perform well. I think I did what I had to do and now it’s up to them.” Red Bull beckons? Hulkenberg has been linked with a potential vacancy at Red Bull where Alex Albon has struggled as teammate to Max Verstappen this year. The outfit has said it will consider Albon’s future after this weekend’s two-day Emilia Romagna Grand Prix with team chief Christian Horner stressing it is Red Bull’s preference to keep him. Hulkenberg is likely to be in competition with Sergio Perez, the man he stood in for with Racing Point at both Silverstone races in July, for that seat if Red Bull decide to switch to a more experienced and reliable points-scoring driver alongside Verstappen.
31 October 2020||Imola,||Raikkonen, Giovinazzi to continue at Alfa Romeo||Kimi Raikkonen and Antonio Giovinazzi will remain with Alfa Romeo next season, the Formula One team said on Friday. The 41-year-old Raikkonen was the 2007 champion and this season became the driver with the most starts. Next season will be his 19th in F1. “This is a team that values hard work over words and this fits well with my style. I am looking forward to next year and hopefully making some steps forward towards the front of the midfield with the team,” the Finnish driver said in the team’s announcement. Raikkonen and Giovinazzi have been teammates for the past two seasons. The 26-year-old Italian driver has three points from two top-10 finishes this season. On Thursday, Alfa Romeo had renewed its sponsorship with Sauber for next season. The Emilia Romagna GP in Imola is scheduled for Sunday.
31 October 2020||Sharjah,||SRH needs to go all out||Royal Challengers Bangalore needs to shrug off the disappointment of two back-to-back defeats when it meets Sunrisers Hyderabad here on Saturday. Full of confidence But, SRH is brimming with confidence after a fine win over Delhi Capitals. As per the current standings, RCB is better-placed at number two and needs to win one of its remaining two games. SRH, on the other hand, has nothing to lose. In sixth spot, the Hyderabad outfit needs to win its remaining two matches. Heavy losses RCB needs to regroup after crushing defeats to Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings. Young Josh Philippe, who replaced Finch in the last match, scored a handy 33 up front, but RCB’s lower middle-order, which has the likes of Shivam Dube, Chris Morris, Gurkeerat Mann, needs to take more responsibility. On the bowling front, RCB has been hit hard by Navdeep Saini’s injury. Dale Steyn, who replaced him, was rusty and leaked runs and is likely to be replaced by Isuru Udana. Treat to watch SRH skipper David Warner (66) and Wriddhiman Saha (87) were a treat to watch against Delhi Capitals, while Manish Pandey (44 not out) continues to shine in the middle-order. In bowling, Rashid Khan, Sandeep Sharma and T. Natarajan were impressive. Capitals’ task cut out Having secured its playoff berth, defending champion Mumbai Indians will look to add to the woes of Delhi Capitals, who are on a three-match losing streak, when the two teams face each other in their penultimate league game at Dubai on Saturday. Despite three defeats on the trot against Kings XI Punjab, Kolkata Knight Riders and Sunrisers Hyderabad, Capitals are placed third. They need a win to seal their playoff place. But it won’t be easy given that the last two games are against the top two teams on the table — MI and Royal Challengers Bangalore. Capitals need to pull up their socks. Shikhar Dhawan (471 runs) has been in blazing form, but needs support. At least one from among Ajinkya Rahane, skipper Shreyas Iyer, Rishabh Pant, Shimron Hetmyer and Marcus Stoinis have to step up. The South African pace duo of Kagiso Rabada (23 wickets) and Anrich Nortje (15) have been generally exceptional.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Gaikwad, Jadeja dent KKR’s playoff chances||With nine balls left and 27 to defend, Kolkata Knight Riders would have fancied its chances. But Ravindra Jadeja produced some mighty hits in an unbeaten 31 off just 11 balls (2x4, 3x6) to help Chennai Super Kings win by six wickets at the Dubai International Stadium on Thursday. Lockie Ferguson lost control of proceedings during the final three legal deliveries of the 19th over against Jadeja, conceding 17 runs, including a no-ball and a free-hit six, leaving CSK needing only 10 runs off the final over. Despite Kamlesh Nagarkoti’s best efforts in changing the equation to seven off the last two balls, Jadeja’s experience ensured he sent them over the deep mid-wicket and wide long-on fence to seal the match. The defeat leaves KKR’s playoff chances in jeopardy. It also confirms Mumbai Indians’ place in the last four. Chasing 173 for victory, Gaikwad set it up for CSK with a classy 72 off 53 balls (6x4, 2x6). Ambati Rayudu gave the innings tempo with a 20-ball 38 (5x4, 1x6), as he added 68 for the second wicket with Gaikwad in just 6.1 overs. Varun Chakravarthy bowled a fine spell (4-0-20-2) for KKR.   MI enters playoffs  KKR’s loss against CSK meant that MI became the first team to qualify for the playoffs Rayudu plays a crucial role in CSK’s chase against KKR, hammering a 20-ball 38 Varun turns in another fine performance for the Kolkata side, but his effort goes in vain
31 October 2020||MARGAO,||Hyderabad FC starts off against Odisha||ATK Mohun Bagan will face Kerala Blasters in the opening match of this year’s ISL on November 20. The organisers released the fixtures of the first half of the 11-team league on Friday. The schedule covers matches to be played till January 11, 2011. The remaining schedule will be released later. The much-anticipated first clash between Kolkata sides ATK Mohun Bagan and SC East Bengal will be played on November 27. Home side FC Goa play its first match against former champion Bengaluru FC on November 22 at Fatorda. All matches in Goa This year’s ISL is being staged entirely in Goa behind closed doors at three venues due to COVID-19. Before their arrival in Goa, all teams were required to have three negative test results. Following their arrival, the players and officials were put under quarantine for 10 days (14 for foreign players) during which five tests were conducted.   Kerala Blasters FC’s schedule (all matches at 7.30 p.m.):   Nov. 20: ATK Mohun Bagan; Nov. 26: NEUFC; Nov. 29: Chennaiyin FC; Dec. 6: FC Goa; Dec. 13: Bengaluru FC; Dec. 20: SC East Bengal; Dec. 27: Hyderabad FC; Jan. 2: Mumbai City FC; Jan. 7: Odisha FC; Jan. 10: Jamshedpur FC.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Greatness of Tirumaalai||The traditional belief that in Kali Yuga, the chanting of the sacred names of the Lord is sure to lead one out of samsara is a common refrain in the hymns of Azhwars. In the hymn Tirumaalai, Tondaradipodi Azhwar begins with explaining the glories and benefits of Nama samkirtana, pointed out Sri A.K. Sundarrajan in a lecture. This Azhwar’s life is special and unique. Having experienced and served God as one of the Nityasuris in Vaikunta, when he comes to earth he represents the plight of the jivatma struggling to overcome the bondage of samsara. He is initially a staunch devotee engaged in worshipping Lord Ranganatha with flowers and garlands from his garden that he tends and maintains with great dedication and devotion. He then gets drawn to the world for a brief spell when he forgets the Lord. Then he is brought back to God’s fold by His grace. He attains awareness and experience of God. That is why he can talk frankly about the common failings of the jivatma and entreat them to seek God who is compassionate and forgiving and always ready to accept the true devotee. The very first verse of Tirumaalai reassures the erring jivatma that the troublesome indriyas can be brought under control by chanting His names with faith and devotion. Then, as a chain effect, one’s sins are gradually wiped away, leading to the path to moksha. Henceforth there is no need to fear any hindrance even from Yama. In the next verse, he says he is surprised that jivatmas still continue in the cycle of birth drawn by the attractions of the world. They even strive to attain the worlds like heavens even when it is evident that all such attainments are temporary. Through this hymn, Azhwar is easily able to pass on the joy and overwhelming experience of savouring Lord’s archa form to the jivatma.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Strokes of genius’||Discovery+ app is offering a 90-minute documentary Strokes of Genius on the rivalry between Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal. Based on L. Jon Wertheim’s book, the documentary features the 20-20 Grand Slam champions Federer and Nadal through the Wimbledon final of 2008, dubbed the greatest tennis match ever by John McEnroe. There are insights from Bjorn Borg, Pete Sampras, Martina Navratilova, Chris Evert, Carlos Moya and Tim Henman in the documentary which traces the game of the two champions from the time they were 16 years old.
31 October 2020||Sharm El Sheikh (Egypt),||Rutuja in last four||Rutuja Bhosale beat Lamis Alhussein Abdel Aziz of Egypt 6-1, 6-2 to make the semifinals of the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament here on Friday. In the $80,000 event in Tyler, US, qualifier Ankita Raina was beaten 7-5, 6-2 by fourth seed Aliona Bolsova Zadoinov of Spain in the first round.  The results: $80,000 ITF women, Tyler, USA: First round: Aliona Bolsova Zadoinov (Esp) bt Ankita Raina 7-5, 6-2. Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Marta Kostyuk (Ukr) & Clara Tauson (Den) bt Anna Danilina (Kaz) & Ankita 6-2, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Women: Quarterfinals: Rutuja Bhosale bt Lamis Alhussein Abdel Aziz (Egy) 6-1, 6-2; Pre-quarterfinals: Rutuja bt Maria Timofeeva (Rus) 7-6(6), 6-1.   Men: Doubles (semifinals): Alessandro Bega (Ita) & Petros Chrysochos (Cyp) bt Vladyslav Manafov (Ukr) & Arjun Kadhe 2-6, 7-5, [11-9] .
31 October 2020||RAWALPINDI,||Afridi, Riaz star for Pakistan||Shaheen Afridi grabbed five for 49 and Wahab Riaz took four for 41 as Pakistan survived Brendan Taylor’s 112 (117b, 11x4, 3x6) to thwart a fighting Zimbabwe by 26 runs and win the first One-Day International here on Friday. Earlier, Haris Sohail (71) and Imam-ul-Haq (58) helped the host post 281 for eight against some tight Zimbabwe bowling.  The scores: Pakistan 281/8 in 50 overs (Sohail 71, Imam 58) bt Zimbabwe 255 in 49.4 overs (Ervine 41, Taylor 112, Madhevere 55, Afridi 5/49, Riaz 4/41) .
31 October 2020||Dubai,||DC has its task cut out||Having secured its playoff berth, defending champion Mumbai Indians will look to add to the woes of Delhi Capitals, who are on a three-match losing streak, when the two teams face each other in their penultimate league game here on Saturday. Despite three defeats on the trot against Kings XI Punjab, Kolkata Knight Riders and Sunrisers Hyderabad, Capitals are placed third. They need a win to seal their playoff place. But it won’t be easy given that the last two games are against the top two teams on the table — MI and Royal Challengers Bangalore. Dhawan needs support Capitals need to pull up their socks. Shikhar Dhawan (471 runs) has been in blazing form, but needs support. At least one from among Ajinkya Rahane, skipper Shreyas Iyer, Rishabh Pant, Shimron Hetmyer and Marcus Stoinis has to step up. The South African pace duo of Kagiso Rabada (23 wickets) and Anrich Nortje (15) will have to be at their best to control MI’s formidable batting. At Sharjah, Royal Challengers Bangalore needs to shrug off the disappointment of two back-to-back defeats when it meets Sunrisers Hyderabad on Saturday. But, SRH is brimming with confidence after a fine win over Delhi Capitals. RCB needs to regroup after crushing defeats to Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings. Young Joshua Philippe, who replaced Finch in the last match, scored a handy 33 up front, but RCB’s lower middle-order, which has the likes of Shivam Dube, Chris Morris, Gurkeerat Mann, needs to take more responsibility.
31 October 2020||Paris,||Antwerp stuns Tottenham||Jose Mourinho said he would have liked to make 11 half-time changes after his Tottenham Hotspur side slumped to a shock 1-0 Europa League defeat at Royal Antwerp on Thursday, while Serie A leader AC Milan and Mikel Arteta’s Arsenal eased to straightforward wins. Spurs failed to create a single chance of note in a lifeless display, with Gareth Bale, who rejoined the club on loan from Real Madrid in the close-season, lasting less than an hour before being substituted. The surprise win takes Antwerp to the top of the early Group J table after its opening 2-1 victory at Ludogorets last week. Milan made it two wins from two in Group H with a 3-0 success over Sparta, despite Zlatan Ibrahimovic missing a first-half penalty.  Important results: Group A: Roma 0 drew with CSKA Sofia 0. Group B: Arsenal 3 (Nketiah 42, Willock 44, Pepe 46) bt Dundalk 0. Group C: Slavia Prague 1 (Olayinka 80) bt Bayer Leverkusen 0. Group F: Real Sociedad 0 lost to Napoli 1 (Politano 56). Group G: AEK Athens 1 (Tankovic 49) lost to Leicester City 2 (Vardy 18-pen, Choudhury 39). Group H: AC Milan 3 (Diaz 24, Leao 57, Dalot 67) bt Sparta Prague 0.   Group I: Qarabag 1 (Kwabena 78) lost to Villarreal 3 (Pino 80, Alcacer 85, 90+6-pen).   Group J: Antwerp 1 (Refaelov 29) bt Tottenham 0. Group L: Gent 1 (Kleindienst 90+3) lost to Hoffenheim 4 (Belfodil 36-pen, Grillitsch 52, Gacinovic 73, Dabbur 90+4).
31 October 2020||KOCHI:,||Sravan Ranjith triumphs||Kottayam’s Sravan Ranjith won the mega final of the all-Kerala open online chess tournament. The 12-year-old finished with 10.5 points from 11 rounds. Jubin Jimmy second Kollam’s FM Jubin Jimmy, who won seven titles in the qualifying tournaments, was second with nine points while Kasargod’s Nithin Babu was third (9 pts).  Final standings:   1. Sravan Ranjith (Ktm, 10.5 pts), 2. Jubin Jimmy (Klm, 9), 3. Nithin Babu (Ksd, 9).   4. M. Abhijith (Ekm, 8.5), 5. Hari R. Chandran (Ekm, 8), 6. K. Abhishek (Klm, 8).   7. C. R. Ravindran (Ekm, 8), 8. Arpith S. Bijoy (Knr, 8), 9. John Veny Akkarakkaran (Koz, 8), 10. Jinan Jomon (Wyd, 8).
31 October 2020||Gurugram,||Sumariwalla set for a third term||Incumbent Adille Sumariwalla will be unanimously elected as Athletics Federation of India (AFI) president for a third term while former long jumper Anju Bobby George will be made senior vice-president during its AGM on Saturday. Ravinder Chaudhary, who has served AFI for a long time in various capacities, will be elected unopposed as the secretary. There will be no contest for other posts also as there are only one candidate for all of them. Sandeep Mehta, who had filed nominations for the secretary’s post, had withdrawn from the contest. He will now be the senior joint secretary. Madhukant Pathak will be elected unopposed as treasurer. The AGM also will elect five joint secretaries and eight EC members without contest. AFI Planning Committee head Lalit Bhanot is one of the executive committee members. He was also an executive committee member in the last term.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Angad Kalaan scores the match-winner||Angad Kalaan struck the match-winner in the sudden death chukker to guide Sona Polo to a 9-8 victory over Rajnigandha Achievers in the semifinals of the Indian Masters 14-goal polo tournament on Friday. In the other semifinal, Simran Shergill struck eight goals in helping Jindal Panther to a 11 1/2 goals to 8 victory over Cavalry-Velocity 48. The final will be played at 3 p.m. on Sunday.  The results (semifinals):   Jindal Panther 11 1/2 (Simran Shergill 8, Naveen Jindal 2, Abhimanyu Pathak, handicap 1/2) bt Cavalry-Velocity 48 8 (Dhruvpal Godara 6, Vishal Chauhan, Basheer Ali).   Sona Polo 9 (Jack Richardson 5, Angad Kalaan 3, Siddhant Sharma) bt Rajnigandha Achievers 8 (Daniel Otamendi 6, Padmanabh Singh, Kuldeep Singh Rathore).    Delhi leggie and Man-of-the-Match Tejas Baroka took five for 25 and Vaibhav Kandpal scored 40 n.o. as Rann Star Club beat Live SC by eight wickets in Eventures Cup.  The scores: Live SC 112 in 33 overs (Tejas Baroka 5/25) lost to Rann Star 113/2 in 16 overs (Vaibhav Kandpal 40 n.o., Milind Kumar 33) .    Haryana Ranji player Arun Chaprana (66 n.o. and two for 14) helped Royal Striker Club beat Hitz XI by eight wickets and enter the YS Sports T20 semifinals.  The scores: Hitz XI 111/9 in 20 overs (Ravneet Tanwar 25 n.o.; Arun Chaprana 2/14) lost to Royal Striker 113/2 in 16.1 overs (Arun Chaprana 66 n.o.) .    Yash Dabas's 43 helped Telefunken Club beat Maulana Azad Club by six wickets in the BR Sharma memorial tournament.  The scores: Maulana Azad Club 132 in 30.4 overs (Saransh Sethi 34; Prashant Bhandari 2/8, Tushar Bairwa 2/26) lost to Telefunken Club 133/4 in 21.4 overs (Yash Dabas 43) .
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 09:28 IST,||Sudoku - October 31, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Art on my table||“Frida Kahlo and Vincent van Gogh are my favourite artists. They did not follow any rules in their art and created a unique style for themselves. Their works are also bold and colourful. I relate to that style,” says city-based artist Simran Wahan. The 37-year-old recently launched Soulful Journey, a calendar for the year 2021 with 12 of her paintings. “This is part of the 10th anniversary celebration of The Amaya Store, my hand-crafts store in the city. With people working from home, I hope these calendars can add a pop of colour to their desk, creating a warm and lively feel,” she says. Simran has conducted more than 400 art workshops across the country. She diversified into art therapy while doing her Masters in Psychology five years ago. “A lot of us are stressed with our work and life now. We need a release and art is the perfect medium to do so. It helps reduce stress and anxiety.” Simran got the idea for the calendar in April when a friend suggested it to her. “I started working on my paintings from then. I painted every day from 5 pm to 2 am,” she says. Her inspiration came from people around her. “Once I get to know a person, I portray my understanding of them onto my canvas. These include my friends, family and people I meet during my travels or through social media.” She completed around 50 paintings in the process and selecting twelve from them was quite a task. “As I could not bring all my favourites in, I ended up creating new works by combining a few of my older paintings,” she explains. Simran wishes that people do not try and derive meaning from her abstract art. “It is to be enjoyed. Similarly, I ask everyone to stop trying to find meaning in everything, and just savour the experiences in their lives. I include a lot of elements in my paintings so that a person can find a new detail every time they look at it,” she says. The calendar comes in 300 GSM paper with canvas finish. “At the end of the year people can upcycle the calendar by framing the paintings,” she says. It also has a sheet with journalling prompts with 60 ideas to help one start the hobby. “I have allotted the backside of each page for writing. It is something I enjoy doing and I hope this will introduce people into the habit. It is relaxing. I enjoyed creating this calendar and plan to do this every year,” she says.  The tabletop calendar is available for Rs. 499 at The Amaya Store, Race Course. Visithttps://www.instamojo.com/   simranwahanto buy it online.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Grandpa’s debut||Ninety-one-year old Ousef Abraham was astonished to see himself on screen when he watched the documentary Chachan, A Day for the first time. Until then, he had no clue about this film, directed by his grandson Jain J Abraham, where he plays the central character. Says Jain, “I shot it during my visits to my hometown in Kerala while studying at Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute, Kolkata. My grandfather’s eyesight is weak. Many times, he did not see the camera. But when he spotted it, he became conscious. I had to edit out such footage.” The documentary has now been selected for the Dharamshala International Film Festival, being held virtually. “This is my début film and such spaces are great to meet other filmmakers and engage in conversation on different aspects of filmmaking,” says the happy 28-year-old. Jain, known as JJ among friends, shot the footage over a year. Chachan means grandfather in Malayalam and his film revolves around the everyday life of Ousef, a farmer in a small-town called Pala. “He talks about politics, agriculture, and spirituality. He always has several questions about Kolkata. I wish to take him there someday,” says Jain. The film’s narrative is non-linear and observational. “The works of filmmakers like Jonas Mekas and Kazuhiro Soda inspire me. I always had the habit of capturing everything around me on camera. I had no idea that those shots of my grandfather would one day make a documentary.” Jain received help a friend in college for sound design and mixing. “I also got feedback from my teachers. As a fresher, the biggest hurdle was budget. I had to finish the film with Rs. 15,000. But it was a great learning experience. I got a better idea on how to merge audio and visuals to express the emotions that I have to convey,” he says.  Chachan, A Day was earlier screened at Kolkata People’s Film Festival and DMZ International Documentary Film Festival, South Korea. “I met Arundhati Roy during the screening at Kolkata and she liked my work. Such recognition gives me a boost to do more films.” Currently, Jain is working on his next documentary, Stories from the Second Floor . “During the lockdown, I spent two months in a room on the second floor of a building in Goa. The film too is an observational piece with visuals from there.”  The festival is on till November 4. Visit https://online.diff.co.in/ for details.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Learn the nuts and bolts of theatre||Sthaayi School Of Theatre Arts holds a theatre workshop for children. The session will be led by theatre director Jayashree Murthy and participants will be taught the basics of voice modulation, body language, diction and improvisation. “This is the first workshop that we are organising in the past eight months. We had plans to conduct a summer theatre camp for children but had to drop it due to the lockdown,” says Jayashree, adding that the workshop is limited to ten people. It is open for children aged eight to 12. Registration fee is Rs. 2,000.  The four-week workshop, that will be held every weekend, starts today. It is on at Peace and Quiet, 5, 1st Main Road, Peelamedu. Call 9244412401 for details.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Will you help Dobby?||Dobby needs round-the-clock care after he sustained a spinal injury in a road accident. He is currently undergoing physiotherapy and treatment for wounds. He loves nothing more than being petted by his favorite caregivers at our ABC and Rescue Center. With so many accident victims currently under our care, help us to continue being a lifeline for them by sponsoring at least one of them or contributing towards their care needs. To know more, please call us on the number given below.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Dress up the stars||Chaitanya Rao has a grouse. Most people know him as a designer. “But only few know me as a costume designer,” says Chaitanya who has just finished working on Reunion , one of the stories in the recently-released Putham Pudhu Kalai , a collection of five short films on Amazon Prime. Reunionsaw him working with Leela Samson, Andrea Jeremiah and Sikkil Gurucharan. Since it was shot during various stages of lockdown, sourcing garments was a challenge. “Everything was shut. Luckily, I had managed to get a few options from Hyderabad and the rest were borrowed out of Andrea and Leela ma’am’s wardrobe,” he laughs. This short was directed by Rajiv Menon. “I felt like life had come a full circle because I first started out as an assistant costume designer for Minsara Kannavu , which was also directed by Rajiv,” says Chaitanya. With 50-plus movies to his credit, the Chennai-based designer has done it all; from fixing a garment in a few hours to redoing an entire look for a song in one night. “When it comes to creating your own fashion line, you have the luxury of taking three to four months to design a collection. The whole dynamic changes when you are working on a film,” he says. He feels that it is important to not use the entire collection on an actor just because one is the costume designer for a film. “What you create should incorporate the brief of the director while keeping in mind the actor, choreographer and your aesthetics,” he explains. Despite being part of the fashion and film industry for nearly two decades and having worked with popular actors, Chaitanya believes there is no room for complacency. “You have to constantly make sure there is a freshness to their look,” says the costume designer, who is working on the Nayanthara-starrer Netrikann and an untitled project with Jayam Ravi and Taapsee Pannu.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The great outdoors||Here is a chance for you to get some fresh air and sunshine. The third edition of MTB off-road cycling carnival is all set to begin. Organised by Western Valley Cycling Club of Coimbatore that has over 100 active members, the event is open to people of all ages. “Our objective is to get people interested in the sport and train them to participate in off-roading events at the State and national level,” says J Sabarinathan, secretary of the club. While for those aged eight to 12 the route is 3.6 kilometres long, for people in the age group of 12 to 40, the distance to be cycled along rough terrain is 6.9 kilometres. The event will begin at Sundakamuthur, at the foothills of the Western Ghats, at 7 am on December 27. Professional riders from Bengaluru, Mysuru and Kerala will participate in a separate category.  To register, call: 98947-89892 or visit www.westernvalleycycling.   com
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Misty||This gentle and sweet girl is around two-years-old and great with other dogs. Vaccinated and sterilised, she is patiently waiting for her forever home.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Blue||Eight-month-old Blue is a beautiful and friendly cat. She is vaccinated and sterilised and would make a wonderful apartment pet.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Caramel||Playful and cuddly Caramel is 60 days old. She is vaccinated and is ready to grow up with your family. Caramel will be sterilised at the appropriate age.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Mojo||Five-month-old Mojo is active, alert and would make a loyal pet. Vaccinated, he will be sterilised at the appropriate age. All pets get free life-time veterinary care, free annual vaccinations, and free spay/neuter surgery at appropriate age from Humane Animal Society (HAS). Contact Humane Animal Society @ 93661 27215 from 9 am to 5 pm.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Queen of quiet intensity||Two years ago, in January, filmmaker Mira Nair told Tabu over dinner that she was planning to adapt Vikram Seth’s novel, A Suitable Boy , as a series for BBC One. “I was taken in by [courtesan] Saeeda Bai’s character and said if Mira is directing, I’d blindly agree,” she recalls, over the phone from Mumbai. Despite the mixed reactions the series garnered since it premiered in the UK, and recently on Netflix India (for its forced dialogue and deviation from the original), Tabu has been receiving appreciation for her nuanced portrayal. Then again, when has she ever made a role seem anything but effortless? The actor has made it a habit to impress us with her on-screen performances before disappearing into her own world — more so now, in the age of social media and clickbait headlines. As we chat, I’m reminded of the many conversations we’ve had since the early 2000s. Her disarming candour hasn’t changed. But while she is game to talk at length about her creative universe, she will not comment on things beyond her work.   A courtesan’s life  Published 27 years ago and weighing in at 1,349 pages, Vikram Seth’s landmark novel narrates the story of Rupa Mehra’s hunt for a ‘suitable boy’ for her daughter Lata in a newly-Independent India that is preparing for its first elections. Tabu says she has not read it. For Nair’s series, Welsh screenwriter Andrew Davies condensed it into eight (later six) episodes. Interestingly, for someone who has played several powerful female characters from classical literature — be it in the Shakespeare adaptations Maqbool and Haider , or Rajiv Menon’s take on Jane Austen’s Sense and Sensibility , Kandukondain Kandukondain — Tabu has often gone with the script and the director’s vision rather than read the original. For Saeeda, the actor met Seth personally, to understand how he wanted her to be portrayed on screen. “I wanted to see her from the writer’s mind — her emotional graph, as he sees it. Then I tried to do it my way,” she explains. Saeeda’s world is mostly confined to the four walls of her house, but the changing societal dynamics have a bearing on her. “It was a time when the courtesan culture was fading. Saeeda inherited her line of work from her grandmother and mother. However, the arts and literature enriched her views,” says Tabu, going into how she approached her character. Though the overarching inspiration for Saeeda was Begum Akhtar, she says there isn’t enough documentation of courtesans’ lives to draw references from. “I don’t know if the movies showed their lives [truthfully] or if they glamorised them. But I did not want to stereotype her.” Wanting to portray her role with authenticity, the actor also learned to play the tanpura and the harmonium. “The t anpura was relatively easier to learn,” she says, adding that a tutor was present during the shooting. “I didn’t want to press the wrong keys!”  For the love of handloom  The physicality of Saeeda, the way she dressed, also appealed to Tabu, who loves her Chanderis, Maheshwaris, jamdanis , muslins from Bengal, and pherans from Kashmir. On her visits to her hometown, Hyderabad, she is known to shop for handlooms — a love that comes from her grandmother, who used to wear starched Kota cottons, and her mother (she recalls a yellow kataan silk sari her mother wore for years). She picked up chikankari while shooting in Lucknow, and sourced Pochampally ikat masks from weavers in Telangana during lockdown. “The red sari for Saeeda’s opening scene was a last-minute decision. We thought she should wear a striking colour. [Costume designer] Arjun Bhasin picked a sari with exquisite hand embroidery and badla [beaten metal work],” she says. For Bhasin — who dressed all 105 members of the cast and the hundreds of extras — it is his third time working with Tabu. “We’ve become good friends in the course of our three collaborations [ The Namesake , Life of Pi, and now A Suitable Boy ]. It is amazing to me how she slips into character so beautifully and yet brings such elegance and gravitas to each performance,” he says, adding that she understands the importance of how to use costume to highlight elements of her characters. “She wears clothes with such ease, never allowing the design to consume the performance. It is the best kind of compliment for me.”   Laughter and relevance  Tabu is still one of the most exciting actors of today. There is an aura of mystery around her, perhaps because she is guarded about her personal life. More than the longevity of her multilingual career — which spans Hindi, Telugu, Tamil, Bengali and Malayalam — it is the relevance and intrigue she brings with each new project that sets her apart. No matter how vapid the script, she elevates it. Her co-stars talk about her wit and comic timing. “I connect better with those who have a sense of humour. In fact, the women in my family are known for theirs. Why take things seriously all the time? It is good to laugh, but not trivialise things,” says Tabu, who enjoys watching comedies (Gulzar’s Angoor is her favourite). Needless to say, those who meet her, love her. Be it late artist-director MF Husain, who called her his muse and worked with her in the 2004 film, Meenaxi: A Tale of Three Cities , or fashion designer Gaurang Shah, for whom Tabu turned showstopper in February, at Lakmé Fashion Week. “I prefer that my models walk barefoot on the runway. During the last show, Tabu came in wearing an anarkali and heels, but quickly removed her footwear when she noticed that the models were barefoot. She has no hangups,” says Shah, who also worked with her on a short film (where she did the voiceover). “She completed it in five minutes; she is very professional. She’s also offered to sing for me the next time.” On her own terms  A Suitable Boy marks Tabu’s first collaboration with Ishaan Khatter, actor Shahid Kapoor’s younger brother who plays her love interest, Maan. The script readings were an ice breaker, she says, sharing that “Ishaan is intelligent and extremely talented. He’s also a badmash and a good photographer”. Over the years, her younger co-stars have admitted how much in awe they are of her — one of the rare one-name actors, much like Rekha or Sridevi. In an interview with entertainment website Bollywood Hungama, Khatter called her “one of the legends of our time”, while Ayushmann Khurrana, who co-starred with her in 2018’s Andhadhun , admitted on Hindustan Times ’ show Aur Batao, that he and his dad jointly crush over the 49-year-old. Does she see herself mentoring newer actors? “Me? A mentor? I am still learning,” Tabu laughs. Meanwhile, acting offers for OTT projects are coming her way. Tabu spent lockdown listening to story narrations over Zoom. “Apart from the story and my role, the director is important to me. I’ve been lucky to have worked with directors who have become long-standing friends,” she says, hastening to add that video sessions aren’t her thing. “The increased time in front of the computer left me with headaches; I’ve begun requesting audio narrations.” After back-to-back projects for two years, including Andhadhun , Telugu flick Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo and Jawaani Jaaneman , she looked at lockdown as an opportunity to slow down. “I managed to do some writing, though nothing specific,” she says, adding that on the work front she has the Bhool Bhulaiyaa sequel for now. Is she ready for her biography? After all, Saif Ali Khan, Priyanka Chopra Jonas and others have made headlines recently for their upcoming memoirs. “Publishing houses have approached me, but I don’t think I’ve led an Earth-shattering life to have a biography. It is too early. Whatever I have to say about my work, I do that in interviews. What else is there to reveal?” she concludes.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Queen of quiet intensity||Two years ago, in January, filmmaker Mira Nair told Tabu over dinner that she was planning to adapt Vikram Seth’s novel, A Suitable Boy , as a series for BBC One. “I was taken in by [courtesan] Saeeda Bai’s character and said if Mira is directing, I’d blindly agree,” she recalls, over the phone from Mumbai. Despite the mixed reactions the series garnered since it premiered in the UK, and recently on Netflix India (for its forced dialogue and deviation from the original), Tabu has been receiving appreciation for her nuanced portrayal. Then again, when has she ever made a role seem anything but effortless? The actor has made it a habit to impress us with her on-screen performances before disappearing into her own world — more so now, in the age of social media and clickbait headlines. As we chat, I’m reminded of the many conversations we’ve had since the early 2000s. Her disarming candour hasn’t changed. But while she is game to talk at length about her creative universe, she will not comment on things beyond her work.   A courtesan’s life  Published 27 years ago and weighing in at 1,349 pages, Vikram Seth’s landmark novel narrates the story of Rupa Mehra’s hunt for a ‘suitable boy’ for her daughter Lata in a newly-Independent India that is preparing for its first elections. Tabu says she has not read it. For Nair’s series, Welsh screenwriter Andrew Davies condensed it into eight (later six) episodes. Interestingly, for someone who has played several powerful female characters from classical literature — be it in the Shakespeare adaptations Maqbool and Haider , or Rajiv Menon’s take on Jane Austen’s Sense and Sensibility , Kandukondain Kandukondain — Tabu has often gone with the script and the director’s vision rather than read the original. For Saeeda, the actor met Seth personally, to understand how he wanted her to be portrayed on screen. “I wanted to see her from the writer’s mind — her emotional graph, as he sees it. Then I tried to do it my way,” she explains. Saeeda’s world is mostly confined to the four walls of her house, but the changing societal dynamics have a bearing on her. “It was a time when the courtesan culture was fading. Saeeda inherited her line of work from her grandmother and mother. However, the arts and literature enriched her views,” says Tabu, going into how she approached her character. Though the overarching inspiration for Saeeda was Begum Akhtar, she says there isn’t enough documentation of courtesans’ lives to draw references from. “I don’t know if the movies showed their lives [truthfully] or if they glamorised them. But I did not want to stereotype her.” Wanting to portray her role with authenticity, the actor also learned to play the tanpura and the harmonium. “The t anpura was relatively easier to learn,” she says, adding that a tutor was present during the shooting. “I didn’t want to press the wrong keys!”  For the love of handloom  The physicality of Saeeda, the way she dressed, also appealed to Tabu, who loves her Chanderis, Maheshwaris, jamdanis , muslins from Bengal, and pherans from Kashmir. On her visits to her hometown, Hyderabad, she is known to shop for handlooms — a love that comes from her grandmother, who used to wear starched Kota cottons, and her mother (she recalls a yellow kataan silk sari her mother wore for years). She picked up chikankari while shooting in Lucknow, and sourced Pochampally ikat masks from weavers in Telangana during lockdown. “The red sari for Saeeda’s opening scene was a last-minute decision. We thought she should wear a striking colour. [Costume designer] Arjun Bhasin picked a sari with exquisite hand embroidery and badla [beaten metal work],” she says. For Bhasin — who dressed all 105 members of the cast and the hundreds of extras — it is his third time working with Tabu. “We’ve become good friends in the course of our three collaborations [ The Namesake , Life of Pi, and now A Suitable Boy ]. It is amazing to me how she slips into character so beautifully and yet brings such elegance and gravitas to each performance,” he says, adding that she understands the importance of how to use costume to highlight elements of her characters. “She wears clothes with such ease, never allowing the design to consume the performance. It is the best kind of compliment for me.”   Laughter and relevance  Tabu is still one of the most exciting actors of today. There is an aura of mystery around her, perhaps because she is guarded about her personal life. More than the longevity of her multilingual career — which spans Hindi, Telugu, Tamil, Bengali and Malayalam — it is the relevance and intrigue she brings with each new project that sets her apart. No matter how vapid the script, she elevates it. Her co-stars talk about her wit and comic timing. “I connect better with those who have a sense of humour. In fact, the women in my family are known for theirs. Why take things seriously all the time? It is good to laugh, but not trivialise things,” says Tabu, who enjoys watching comedies (Gulzar’s Angoor is her favourite). Needless to say, those who meet her, love her. Be it late artist-director MF Husain, who called her his muse and worked with her in the 2004 film, Meenaxi: A Tale of Three Cities , or fashion designer Gaurang Shah, for whom Tabu turned showstopper in February, at Lakmé Fashion Week. “I prefer that my models walk barefoot on the runway. During the last show, Tabu came in wearing an anarkali and heels, but quickly removed her footwear when she noticed that the models were barefoot. She has no hangups,” says Shah, who also worked with her on a short film (where she did the voiceover). “She completed it in five minutes; she is very professional. She’s also offered to sing for me the next time.” On her own terms  A Suitable Boy marks Tabu’s first collaboration with Ishaan Khatter, actor Shahid Kapoor’s younger brother who plays her love interest, Maan. The script readings were an ice breaker, she says, sharing that “Ishaan is intelligent and extremely talented. He’s also a badmash and a good photographer”. Over the years, her younger co-stars have admitted how much in awe they are of her — one of the rare one-name actors, much like Rekha or Sridevi. In an interview with entertainment website Bollywood Hungama, Khatter called her “one of the legends of our time”, while Ayushmann Khurrana, who co-starred with her in 2018’s Andhadhun , admitted on Hindustan Times ’ show Aur Batao, that he and his dad jointly crush over the 49-year-old. Does she see herself mentoring newer actors? “Me? A mentor? I am still learning,” Tabu laughs. Meanwhile, acting offers for OTT projects are coming her way. Tabu spent lockdown listening to story narrations over Zoom. “Apart from the story and my role, the director is important to me. I’ve been lucky to have worked with directors who have become long-standing friends,” she says, hastening to add that video sessions aren’t her thing. “The increased time in front of the computer left me with headaches; I’ve begun requesting audio narrations.” After back-to-back projects for two years, including Andhadhun , Telugu flick Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo and Jawaani Jaaneman , she looked at lockdown as an opportunity to slow down. “I managed to do some writing, though nothing specific,” she says, adding that on the work front she has the Bhool Bhulaiyaa sequel for now. Is she ready for her biography? After all, Saif Ali Khan, Priyanka Chopra Jonas and others have made headlines recently for their upcoming memoirs. “Publishing houses have approached me, but I don’t think I’ve led an Earth-shattering life to have a biography. It is too early. Whatever I have to say about my work, I do that in interviews. What else is there to reveal?” she concludes.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Come in, Qmin||Remember how we scoffed when our grandfathers told us that they walked 10 kilometres to get to school? I think of that when I recount — to young friends — how we used to have a buffet at the Taj Mahal once upon a time for Rs. 20. They look sceptical, the way we did when our grandfathers talked about hard times. But the midnight buffet at Machan at the Taj — that was much before Taj Palace came up — was something we used to save up for, and do full justice to. I was reminded of those carefree times — back in the late ‘70s and early ‘80s — when a representative of a public relations firm called me. I was informed that the Taj group had started a delivery service called Qmin. The group, as you’d expect, maintains strict hygiene protocols and delivers food from some of its restaurants at the Taj Mahal, Taj Palace, Ambassador Hotel, and Vivanta New Delhi (Dwarka) to distances of up to 8 km or so. A minimum order must be Rs. 1,500; call 1800 266 7646 from 12:00 noon to 3:00 pm or 7:00 pm to 11:00 pm. Machan, I was happy to see, figures on the list. I have, as I said, nostalgic ties with the coffee shop, even though my last visit there — several years ago — was disappointing. I had asked for a mixed grill and found a lot of my favourites missing from what was meant to have been a hearty, meaty dish. Larry’s Kitchen at the Ambassador is another old favourite and is on the list of restaurants. The sampler I was sent included some Chinese dishes from Larry’s Kitchen, The House of Ming at the Taj Mahal and Spicy Duck at the Taj Palace. I am rather fond of dimsums, and enjoyed their sea bass siu mai with truffle oil. The asparagus pepper dumpling, however, had a somewhat dry casing. For the main course, the grilled prawns with lemon, caper and garlic in a butter sauce was excellent. The prawns were sweet and plump, and the sauce was just right — smooth, and mildly tart. The chicken black pepper had a nicely piquant sauce, and I had it with some lightly stir-fried, jasmine-flavoured rice. The steamed bean curd with black bean and spring onion and stir-fried lotus root with celery were both just right. The first consisted of almost melt in the mouth silken tofu, and the second had crunchy lotus roots in a mix of vegetables. What I really enjoyed was the roast chicken with thyme jus, which came from Capital Kitchen at the Taj Palace. The chicken was crisp outside and moist within, and I even had the leftovers in a sandwich the next morning. What took the cake — literally — was the wild rice pudding, which had a crunchy texture, and a mildly sweet taste. The rates, as you would expect in a five-star outfit, are high. The dimsums cost Rs. 800-820; the vegetable dishes are in the Rs. 950-1,050 range; and the non-vegetarian mains between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 2,000, depending on what you order, and from which restaurant. The Ambassador and Vivanta rates, for instance, are lower than the other two. The food is good, delivered well packed, and is quite an experience. The writer is an experienced food critic
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Giving the index finger||Dear Don-bhaiTrump, You do know we adore you. Kamala Mamis will come and go but our loyalties are with you. After all, when you attended our do in Houston, did we not ask our NRI brothers to vote for you? And when you came here and spoke so eloquently about Swami Vivekamunnund and Veerat Kooli, did we not cheer you loudly? There was much hugging and hand-pumping, remember? It was all good. Then you had to spoil it all by saying India’s air is filthy. I think you’ve come to this hasty conclusion based on our ranking, 179 out of 180, according to some dubious air quality study. That kind of short-sighted evaluation by western ‘scholars’ completely ignores our pre-eminent culture and its inherent wisdom. That our air is thick with unbreathable particulate matter is deliberate . What your tiny western eyes perceive as air pollution is our 12,000-year-old tradition of making our air suitable for the smooth take-off, comfortable flight and glitch-free landing of our pushpaka vimanams . Anyone who has read Sage Vijayananda Mallyodri’s treatise on ancient air travel ( Majama Ka Raja ) knows thick air is imperative for sky travel. That, and nubile akasha kanyas who give you two-minute upma in handy little cups. Now that we are clearing misconceptions, let’s deal with some of the others as well – results of sub-standard studies – that show our incomparable land in a poor Nehruvian light. Another recent lie I came across is that we are 94th out of 107 countries on the Global Hunger Index. How uninformed you westerners are, I tell you. While all of you gobble Big Macs and cheesecake with impunity, become morbidly obese and get all manner of health issues, we Indians fast . I can assure you that the ranking in question was done on an ekadashi day when most Indians skip their meals in order to develop ancient six-packs like our gods. What you say is akin to dubbing a spacecraft’s moon landing on amavasya day a failure. Where will it land when there is no moon, for god’s sake? Also, apparently we are ranked 147th out of 157 countries on the Inequality Index. As if. In our ancient land, we have several levels of equality. How can everyone have the same equal? It just so happens that some of us are more equal than others. But more equal and less equal is still equal, no? Please study our culture before you make such sweeping statements. You really think we could be 120th out of 122 countries on the Water Quality Index? What a laugh. We have Ganga Maiyya with us, fools. One drop of it is all we need to purify ourselves. Plus, which country produces more rain songs than us? You think that would be possible if we didn’t have high-grade bottled mineral water for our lead actors to cavort in? Then there is our 144th rank among 156 countries on the UN World Happiness Index. What an utter lie. We Indians are so deliriously happy we need to voluntarily depress ourselves on a regular basis. We just pretend to be unhappy so as not to attract drishti . Plus, we have also trained ourselves to look cross to prevent neighbours, friends and random uncles from asking us for hand loans. As for being 142nd out of 180 on the World Press Freedom Index, are you serious? Haven’t you seen the istri vandis on every street corner of our country? You think that would be possible if we didn’t have freedom to press? Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||A sweater sets the mood||Let’s start with the good bits. While the country’s second digital fashion season, Lakmé Fashion Week Festive 2020, began with Manish Malhotra’s couture presentation titled Ruhaaniyat ( 282K viewson the official LFW Instagram page ), the first ‘show’ I saw belonged to 11.11 ( 106K views ). Not that I didn’t see Malhotra’s later. I did, and enjoyed the unabashed luxury and opulence of his embellished lehengas and elegant sherwanis . But it was the simplicity of a single indigo-dyed jumper, shown being made by hand from scratch, that stuck in my mind. There is no greater luxury any designer could show today; all my peers will be wearing this 11.11 sweater soon, I know. It spoke for the entire collection, and revealed precisely where 11.11’s strength lies. It was the idea — raw fibre being spun into yarn, dyed indigo, and then knit into a simple jumper all by hand — that marked it out. This is what an Indian brand has to offer, the video said, loud and clear.  The India story  But there are other ways of showing what your country has to offer; a lesson driven home by the All About India show ( 104K views ) that included capsule collections by six designers. It began with Payal Khandwala’s oversized floral motifs in j amdani from Phulia in West Bengal. Next came Rajesh Pratap Singh’s futuristic i kat saris for Satya Paul, developed in Puttapaka in Telengana. True to her love for linen, Anavila Misra took off to Dumka in Jharkhand to mix it with the k hatwa weave. Suket Dhir showed contemporary silhouettes in Banarasi brocades, while Urvashi Kaur’s updated s hibori and tie-dyes came from the clusters she works with in Haryana and Rajasthan, developing skills and innovating with the communities there. Meanwhile, Abraham & Thakore looked to Farrukhabad in Uttar Pradesh for the region’s famed block prints, especially in the delicate gold khadi technique that they utilised to theatrical effect. The sari, too, had its moment. From Parsi g ara -bordered Uppadas by Gaurang Shah ( 106K views ) to metallic moon-phase drapes in Banarasi brocade by Hemang Agrawal ( 102K views ), there were enough points of interest to ensure a good retail response in a market slowly waking up to India’s festive season in the midst of a global pandemic. Even Rimzim Dadu, who showed as part of the joint finale (a concept unique to Indian fashion weeks; 230K views ) with Saaksha & Kinni, made a strong case for this timeless drape. And she did so by making it — through her unique sculptural methods and reflective surfaces — timeless.  Digital bumps  So far, so good. But this review could well have come from a regular, pre-Covid fashion week at the Jio Garden in Mumbai. How did LFW being fully digital work apart from the absolute numbers of views it garnered? We must look to the experience itself. The first among them was the virtual show format, which, going by the CGI, was not worth the effort. The Gen Next category, which I always look forward to, was ill served with outmoded graphics and backdrops that drew attention away from the clothes. Another designer had a post-apocalyptic Pleistocene fantasy going with woolly mammoths come back to life amid a ruined cityscape overrun with tropical foliage. Yet another featured giant charkha wheels spinning in the background like the windmills of sustainability, flanked by CGI pillars that tried their hardest to look vintage. These are points of personal aesthetic. So a deeper dive into the digital experience becomes necessary. The problems, I am sorry to say, began from day 1, when logging on to the official LFW website became troublesome. I chalked it up to the site being overloaded, and satisfied myself with viewing the shows on their Instagram handle. What I looked forward to was the ‘virtual showroom’, a place for designers to conduct B2Band B2C business. While I’m unable to comment on the former, as I never registered as a buyer, the process of registration, even a few days after LFW ended, is no cakewalk. The website crashes with amazing regularity, and, in case it doesn’t, you will still need to be approved by a back-end team to access the showroom and designers’ collections. The ideas are there, but the execution is where they hit a snag. And as I type this, I am glad we’re going through these teething troubles. If anything, it is these problems that will hopefully show designers how important it is for them to invest in their individual online presences. Here’s hoping.  The author is a fashion commentator and Communications Director at the House of Angadi.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I am a pretty unfiltered person’||About 12 years ago, just before Tahira Kashyap was to tie the knot, her mother-in-law to-be gave her a present. It was a gift the older woman had travelled from Chandigarh to Delhi to buy and wanted Tahira to wear on her wedding day. The gift was a “pair of bright red lacy bra and panties, another set of the same colour in satin, and one lonely thong”, the author and filmmaker writes in her latest book, The 12 Commandments of Being a Woman . “My mother-in-law had high expectations of me. She gave me a size 38D, and here I was struggling to fill a 34, that too with pads,” she says, laughing at the memory. Family fodder The book of essays — that could easily pass off as a memoir — is full of funny and relatable anecdotes from Tahira’s life. She writes about everything: from ‘feeling like a freak’ as a 13-year-old to peeing in her pants after winning a trophy, to getting a Brazilian and an unplanned pregnancy. There’s no detail too personal. “I am a pretty unfiltered person. I wanted to write everything down and it was very empowering to just let go. I might have given my family members some anxiety when they read the book because nothing has been edited,” she shares on a phone call from her in-law’s home in Chandigarh where she’s been staying during the lockdown. “These days, all conversations around our living room suddenly stop when I enter. I think my family doesn’t want to give me more material for any future books,” she laughs. Of all the family members, obviously the reactions of her husband Ayushmann Khurrana, whom she calls ‘her skinnier half’ mattered the most. “He is the first person to read everything I write. When he was reading my book, I kept looking at him to gauge his reaction. I saw him grimace and grin, and his eyebrows would go up. The one response I consistently got from him was, ‘Are you serious? I thought this stuff was only for the two of us to know’.” Ayushmann’s reactions are quite understandable, considering Tahira’s candour while writing about their relationship that started in school, their early days of marriage, and her struggles to forge an identity of her own now that he is a bonafide movie star. “I thought I was the only one struggling with this, but I realised that as women, most of us become the Earth and the Sun is someone else. Our lives are spent revolving around that person. It is not like Ayushmann asked me to do that; it was something that I did subconsciously,” explains the 37-year-old.  Always a writer    Ithas taken a few detours for Tahira to finally find her calling. And it turned out to be the most obvious one. “I’ve been writing since I was five or six. I wrote the first play, Socha Na Tha , that our theatre group Manch Tantra performed. I also wrote a book [ Cracking The Code: My Journey in Bollywood] with Ayushmann a few years ago,” she says, adding that 12 Commandments ... is the third book she’s written on her own. Taking me through her first solo attempt at non-fiction writing, she adds, “There’s a lot of clarity when you are writing about things that happened in your own life, but it also needs a lot of courage. Now, when I am writing about my 13-year-old self who dragged her mother to a gynaecologist because she didn’t think she was a girl, I see the funny side of things. But when it happened, it was quite traumatising. Revisiting these intense moments took an emotional toll.” The second chapter, where she writes about not being allowed to participate in extracurricular activities in school, is what Tahira picks as the toughest incident to revisit. “Every time I read or even talk about that period, I get all choked up.” Eventually, when she won an inter-school competition, she got so excited that she wet her pants. “That moment of glory meant so much to me. Nothing since has come close to that feeling.” Paperback writer    Once she had committed to writing the book, it didn’t take Tahira very long to get it all on paper. It took her about four months to get the first draft to her editors. “This coincided with the lockdown. I would get up earlier than the rest of the household and take a corner on the dining table. I’d end up writing almost continuously for six to eight hours in that corner which meant that my family couldn’t eat there. I did this in different spaces around the house and everyone had to adjust.” It has been a good year for Tahira, with her short film Pinni , starring Neena Gupta, releasing as part of an anthology, Zindagi inShort, on Flipkart Video. And she’s already busy with her next very hush-hush project. When she isn’t working, Tahira is keeping the kids busy with painting and craft sessions, and bonding with her in-laws. As she writes in her book, ‘They come in all shapes and sizes, and have all kinds of flaws but you simply must love your in-laws.’  Published by Juggernaut, The 12 Commandments of Being a Woman is available on amazon.in for Rs. 299.   Watch Tahira Kashyap talk about her first solo attempt at non-fiction writing on weekend.thehindu.com
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Fairtrade and an eye on jewellery||
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Ikat for a start||Lockdown or not, the last few months were a time of activity at The House of Angadi. The Bengaluru-based brand, renowned for its kanjeevarams , Banarasis and Kota dorias , was finalising the first collection of its just launched ready-to-wear label, Alamelu. “It is a breakaway from preconceived notions of what is considered ‘Indian’ in fashion and design,” says founder and creative director, KH Radharaman, adding, “I want to create a modern design vocabulary that is season-less, and technique- and region-agnostic.” His engineering background is reflected in the textile manipulations. With a contemporary palette — think luminous eggshell tones to jewel-like ruby — the cuts are relaxed, and play with proportions and layers. “For the first collection, we have done a tight edit of just over 30 pieces [from tops and tunics to pants]. The idea is to present a truly modern design offering for the ever-evolving woman of today,” he adds. Does he have a favourite? “While all the designs are close to my heart, my two favourites are the pant suit and our signature trench coat. They are the perfect representation of what Alamelu means to me.” Edited excerpts from an interview: Why a ready-to-wear label now ?   Honestly, given that many of our textiles have adorned the collections of international design houses for many years now [they exported fabrics and collaborated with brands], we probably should have done a ready-to-wear line earlier. As a designer, my first love has always been Indian textiles. This is where I chose to focus my energies for the past 10 years [under my other label, Advaya], which is why the RTW brand has taken time to launch. That said, I had been thinking of this label for over a year and it is an outcome of my design philosophy and a culmination of many ideas that have built up over the years. Inspiration behind the collection.  Alamelu’s first collection, Architexture, draws inspiration from the various ways in which Modernist architecture incorporates layers, volumes, and proportions. To me the idea of Modernism lies in the spirit of purposeful innovation and region agnostic design language. Hence I chose two distinct directions for this collection to make it truly international. While on the one hand it celebrates the timeless beauty of the i kat technique, on the other I have created a range of never-before-seen silk fabrics. The i kats have an abstract and geometric visual vocabulary, and explores patterns ranging from Houndstooth to Yayoi Kusama-esque polka dots, all woven by hand. I have also explored surfaces through my textiles, creating textures not through pleating or other post production techniques but at the weaving stage itself. Why i kat  as a technique ?    I chose i kat for Alamelu’s first collection for both emotional and practical reasons. My family and I have a lifelong relationship with i kat [my father was one of the early pioneers of using  it in silk]. It is also the one weaving technique that crosses all geographical boundaries, and has multiple interpretations across the world. Experiments with textile surface s .    Most textiles in use today, especially for apparel, tend to be two dimensional in nature. Our surface engineering techniques transform silk yarn into three-dimensional textures, resulting in fabrics that shimmer like rippling waters, yet remain lighter than air. This has been achieved through the interplay of warp and weft, and is a new design direction. What next?  From a business point of view, Alamelu’s design philosophy is aimed at capturing the attention of design-conscious women across the world. In keeping with this, our next steps will include international expansion through e-commerce and retail presence in strategic global locations. All of this dovetails with the overall mission to keep pushing the boundaries of Indian design. From Rs. 11,900 onwards. Available at Angadi Heritage, Ensemble, and Ogaan.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||How to festival||The one thing I will never hold against this virus is that I now need to provide absolutely no excuse (more than the truth) for not being social or missing important appointments, from the mentally-haranguing familial to even the dental. Gone are the days when I had to suck it up and turn up for nuptial nuisances between annoying folks who certainly deserved each other, or sit through a boring soirée where people discussed their kids, vacations, the new series they binged, and global hunger, all with equal detached fervour. Now, with the festive season around the corner, it gives me great joy to report that I will be participating in none of the shenanigans, from trussing up in traditional garb to singing group songs of mythologically better times, all in defiance of tonality or any sense of harmony. Festivals can wait, we have a pandemic on our hands. Thank you, you monstrous little virus, for this coup de grace. But, that said, the mentally weaker types will still feel the urge to lean on the crutch of celebrations, as if either the immune system gets stronger around diyas and laddoos or maybe they distract the virus long enough to grant one immunity. Here then are a few pointers for the festival-ly inclined on how to engage in the festive spirit without posing a risk to others, or yourself, no matter how dispensable your behaviour deems you according to Darwin.     Spirits :Make sure you have that around. If you want people to step out of their homes and come to you, there better be Champagne involved. Don’t ask them over for anything that Swiggy can easily deliver. Make the trip worth their while, ply with alcohol and only the top shelf kind. Only two folks are making money in India at the moment, the elder Ambani and the local bootlegger.     Food :Again, it has to be stuff that can’t be Zomato-ed. Food that is worthy of a ’gram post. Food that comes in courses and involves at least two species being lightened of their earthly load to prepare the entrées. Kings didn’t come back from historic wars to feed on celery soup. Save the vegan talk for another century and serve up stuff that makes the journey to hell all that more worthwhile after.     Sweets :This year I have seen a lot of ‘fusion’ Indian sweets. Fellas who fashion themselves chefs, leave the sweetmeats alone. The halwai isn’t just an image, it is a finely-honed profession with much skill, one that most ‘young chefs’ today are incapable of comprehending, churning out chocolate-stuffed laddoos and Nutella burfees . Stop! You are ruining two things simultaneously. So, for once, don’t think about food like a fashion statement and stop fixing what ain’t broken. Remember the goal is to entice people to step out.     Clothes :As said above, there are few things worse than being dressed up like a bride or a groom without a wedding to go to. But somehow festivals seem to bring out the broody in most of us. (This year, I wonder if it will bring me out of my trackiess and stained sweatshirts.) But let’s not forget that all original Indian garb was loungewear — kurtas , dhotis , saris. Each garment was uncut, and all allowed for us to eat and expand without any external signs of such. Western brands have got nothing on Indian loungewear, which also ticks the traditional box. So, go local. (I can’t believe I am agreeing with our Prime Minister for a change.) But for the entrepreneurial vermin amongst us, please don’t tarry in making festive masks. For me, paint me a big wide grin so that, in the unfortunate circumstance that I acquiesce to an invite and have to step out, I am spared having to make that one little effort of looking amused.  This column is for anyone who gives an existential toss.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Wear like a fighter pilot||If you can’t fly fighter jets, well, IWC new Pilot’s Watch Chronograph Top Gun SFTI is the next best thing. At least that is what the Swiss luxury watchmaker is going for. “I have a cool job but I always wanted to be a pilot, a fighter pilot,” began CEO Christoph Grainger-Herr at the big reveal on Zoom earlier this month. Since he took the helm at IWC in 2017, the architect by training has been a personal ambassador for the brand, as fans who follow him on Instagram will attest. They would tell you he named his Bernhardiner Patek Philippe when he was just three and that he became obsessed with the Portofino and Portugieser Chronographs thanks to an IWC dealer he passed daily on his way to university. At 42, Grainger-Herr is one of the Richemont group’s young CEOs who have been successfully helping brands move away from the traditional broadcasting approach. There is therefore much dialogue on social media, an ease with online interactions as seen at the Zoom Top Gun SFTI launch, and instant updates from race tracks and film award ceremonies. “Due to the global pandemic, we decided to organise an online webcast for this watch launch,” shares Grainger-Herr later on email, when asked about IWC’s pandemic-adjacent marketing. “We hit upon the idea of producing a short documentary movie to tell the story of our collaboration with the US Navy, our military-exclusive watches for US Navy squadrons, our dream for aviation as well as the new Pilot’s Watch Chronograph TOP GUN Edition ‘SFTI’.” IWC have been producing the Top Gun watch since 2007, and since the release of the sequel to Tom Cruise’s 1986 hit has been pushed back to 2021, this chronograph for non-military customers and limited to 1500 pieces, will keep collectors happy. Ceratanium, a proprietary IWC material featuring the advantages of both titanium and ceramic, has been used for the case back, the chronograph pushers and the pin buckle. “This is a change from the military-exclusive watches we introduced in 2018 for graduates of the United States Navy Fighter Weapons School,” adds IWC Creative Director Christian Knoop. He recalls how during frequent exchanges with the pilots, it became evident that they favoured an all-black, totally anti-reflective design. But perhaps the biggest endorsement came from former US Navy Captain, Jim DiMatteo, at the reveal. Having flown an F/18 Super Hornet at 7.57 Gs and an F/16 at 9 Gs (he lost two inches in height due to the effects of the force!), he concluded with, “There are so many tiny, tiny pieces in a watch and I can’t get my head around how I can pull 7 Gs and it makes my head feel likes it’s going to explode and yet, these tiny pieces still work in those conditions”.    Priced at $9,150 on global websites.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Ballot battles||Red, Wine & Blue  Thissisterhood is “harnessing the power of suburban women” to make a change — by bonding over wine and politics. Started by strategic consultant Katie Paris, it is using #VinoTheVote to mobilise Democrats (and the undecided) to go out and vote for Joe Biden in Ohio. Members’ social media feeds are filled with women representing the ‘Suburban Housewife’ (a term often used by US president Donald Trump), accompanied by funny captions. Details: redwine.blue 60 Minutes President Trump’s interview with veteran 60 Minutes host Lesley Stahl drew 16.8 million total viewers. Although Trump apparently cut short the taped interview, which shared screen time with opponent Biden’s chat with Norah O’Donnell, it beat the numbers from Stormy Daniels’ interview with Anderson Cooper in 2018. On 60 Minutes YouTube channel. Late night hosts  Last Week Tonight with John Oliver got a head start with an election special three weeks ago. Then Jimmy Fallon and The Roots rapped about how to properly complete Pennsylvania’s mail-in ballot, while Jimmy Kimmel shared an update on his son’s health, urging people to ‘vote with your heart’. On election night, Emmy and Peabody Award-winning late night host Stephen Colbert will host a one-hour live special onShowtime, reacting in real-time to state-by-state results. Trevor Noah’s Daily Show also has plans for live coverage titled Votegasm 2020: What Could Go Wrong? (Again).  Zen with Jay Bradley US voters (and interested candidates across the world) are encouraged to find their ‘happy place’ before the chaos of election night in a 60-minute guided workshop on spiritual breathwork (a conscious breathing practise which helps people get centred). The Los Angeles-based wellness coach will lead the session via Zoom on November 2. Email to register: eerath@michelemariepr.com #AmbitionSuitsYou Wondering about the hot pink suit that Mandy Moore, Zoe Saldana and Kerry Washington, among many other female celebrities, have worn while voting? They’re all sporting a collaboration between Argent (a women’s workwear brand favoured by Hillary Clinton during the 2016 election) and Supermajority (an organisation fighting for a more equitable future for women). The four-piece collection, available in sizes 0 to 24, includes the suit, a white Super Stacked T-shirt, and pins to customise your statement look. Details: @argent on Instagram.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Not just lip service||If Covid-19 has changed one thing in our perception, it is that everything we consume — from food to cosmetics — impacts our overall health. Tinge by Sabrina Suhail is a testament to this. After launching in July 2018, the brand gained popularity for its clean, customised lipsticks and foundations. It may seem that the make-up line garnered much attention in a short span, but Bengaluru-based Suhail has spent several years in preparation. “I was never a person who knew anything about beauty; I studied chemistry, botany, zoology and psychology in college,” she says. After a second degree in fine arts, she worked as a make-up artist for 10 years, and took a course each year to learn more. “At one point my clientèle got conscious about toxins in products and gave me a list of ingredients to avoid.” As she started reading labels, Suhail realised that she could create the products herself. She then enrolled for a two-year diploma in colour cosmetics and formulation in New York, and took another four years to set up a studio and get certifications in place. Recreating beauty “I decided to start with only lipsticks because it was something Indian women gravitate towards.” First, it was just word-of-mouth as she didn’t want to invest in marketing. Even though there was an influx in the initial months, her clientele slowly started petering out. “But after December last year I’ve seen a massive change — people come to me with lipsticks they want me to recreate with safer formulation and aroma.” I have tried Suhail’s bespoke lipsticks, foundation and powder (all gifted by her), so I understand why her products work. With just a couple of Instagram messages she understood the exact creamy caramel colour I wanted in my lipstick. And without meeting me even once, she delivered the correct shade of concealer and powder to match my skin tone. Checks and balances I was curious to understand if she had avoided talc, classified as possibly carcinogenic, but a common ingredient in some organic makeup brands. Thankfully, she does. Her formulations are based on clay, “which may not have the same slip as talc but is definitely safer and more pigmented”. All of Suhail’s raw materials are from India and everything is certified. “When I started the company it was important for me to have my licensing.” She has the MSDS (Materials Safety Data Sheet), SDS (Safety Data Sheet) and PETA cruelty-free certificate. The second part is when she puts the raw material together and gets the Bureau Veritas certification, world leaders in inspection and testing.“If I make a lipstick, it has to go through many checks before it comes to you,” says Suhail, who also got the CDSCO (Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation) certification that approves of the manufacturing license, machinery, manufacturing facility, and contents used in the physical product. “Even though I don’t have that kind of space or machinery, I got the certification as it ensures that your products are made safely.” Get online While Suhail still customises colours for lips and the base, she also has a line that can be readily bought online.The full ingredient list is mentioned on tingestore.com , and she has a ‘Return to Refill’ policy. In the current beauty landscape where new brands are launched in a short amount of time without former training, a long prep-period, attention to detail and certification are rare. This brand is homegrown, clean, cruelty-free, customised, luxurious and eco-conscious. What more do we want?
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Amazon’s fashion advantage||Collaborations are one way to keep shoppers hooked to a brand, and for the festive season, Amazon Fashion has collaborated with four leading Indian designers to launch a new label, River. The e-commerce giant tied up with DBS Lifestyle LLP to launch this multi-designer brand, together with JJ Valaya, Suneet Varma, Ashish Soni and Manish Arora. It appears that affordability is key for this initiative that includes pret and occasion wear for both men and women. There are 270 styles, from dresses and saris to jackets and trousers, with references to the designers’ DNA. Varma’s saris, for instance, come with his trademark flounces and frills and pastels and are heavily discounted already (at 50% and available for Rs. 4,999 and Rs. 5,999). JJ Valaya’s scarves and contemporary separates (cotton shirt dresses at Rs. 1,749) showcased are very different from what you would see at his fashion shows or showrooms, but he has mentioned ‘royal’ inspiration. And Arora’s psychedelic print dresses and tops and Soni’s athleisure influence point to a much younger audience. Now if only they were easier to find on the platform! “We have over 6,00,000 sellers, and hope an initiative like this will strengthen the backbone of the fashion fraternity, with its artisans, entrepreneurs, karigars and weavers,” begins Mayank Shivam, director, strategic initiatives, Amazon Fashion India, explaining how Amazon Fashion is looking at the larger picture with these projects. Sellers are listed from across the country, be it Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh, Idukki in Kerala or Rajpipla In Gujarat. Monitoring percentage growth week over week at 80%, he adds that two out of three customers are from tier 2 and tier 3 towns. With a price range of Rs. 999 to Rs. 9,999, “some originality in everyday wear, be it with trousers or kurtas ” and designers creating scalable products, they expect to do well during the festive months, especially with buyers shifting to categories like loungewear. “ In 2019, we had 18,500 millionaire sellers on Amazon.in, and 3500+ crorepati sellers, with 65% growth in crorepati sellers over last year,” continues Shivam. Innovative sustainability measures are also encouraged among sellers, especially after Amazon India eliminated 100% single-use plastic in packaging originating from its 60+ fulfilment centres in India.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||shop.designmiami.com||“Collectible historic and contemporary furniture, lighting, objets d’art and more,” promises the new e-store from Design Miami. The online marketplace, launched in late June, showcases over 800 collectibles from 52 international galleries — necklaces to table lamps and ceramics to notebooks. The annual Art Basel on Miami Beach, slated to take place in December, has been cancelled because of the pandemic. With a $16 million economic impact annually, the organisers aim to support artists across the world by contributing sales proceeds to the GlobalGiving Coronavirus Relief Fund. Filter by category (jewellery, sculptures, textiles, etc) or galleries. Or choose from curated categories of Brutalist, French Mid-Century or Post-Modern styles. Bestsellers include French product designer Fabien Cappello’s Lampara de Frutas de Bronce, a Francesca Torzo ottoman and Le Corbusier Pierre JeanneretChandigarh, Indiabook, published by the Galerie Patrick Seguin. Pieces start from as little as $22.50 (approximately Rs. 1,700) for an art show catalogue from Milan’s Studio Vedèt and go up to $15,00,000 (approximately Rs. 11.16 crore) for French architect Jean Prouvé’s Demountable House. The site’s quick view format offers information such as gallery, product name, price and availability at a glance. All sales inquiries are routed through the respective galleries, so there is no direct purchase on the site. An option to add to cart and buy immediately would perhaps help move things along quicker.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||ikkis.in||After expanding their international reach with Italian design platform, WallpaperSTORE*, and the Asia website of Design Anthology, this New Delhi-based lifestyle brand has now launched their own e-commerce site. Designer Gunjan Gupta’s Ikkis (‘21’ in Hindi) focusses on using indigenous materials to give traditional objects a contemporary form. The home page gives a clear idea of the kind of products to expect, with well-shot photographs. If you have a slow internet connection, however, the page may take some time to load. The site navigation is simple and easy, with two categories — Limited and Unlimited — to shop from. The former includes collaborations with master craftsmen across India, which Gupta first curated for the Revelations Fine Craft Biennial in Paris last May. Kangan, a terracotta/ceramic line, draws inspiration from the women’s wrist accessory of the same name, and is created by National awardee Prithviraj Singh Deo from Orissa. Shatranj featuresbidriware (pure silver inlay on a metal alloy) combined with miniature terracotta pottery. This fusion is best seen in abidri chessboard with clay pieces. Meanwhile, Chuha showcases the tale of Hindu Goddess Karni Mata of Bikaner, Rajasthan, who transformed into a rat after her death. The hand-carved marble rats can be found on drinking bowls. The limited editions of 21 pieces each are price on request. The Unlimited collection of drinkware, serveware and décor reimagineschaiglasses with a stem, brass bowls that stack up to form amatkaorlota, and adamroo(percussion instrument) designed as a stool with copper mesh. Scrolling over (or single tap on mobile) shows the name of each product, but pricing is not visible unless you go to the page. With a minimal number of products, this option would make the shopping experience quicker.  From Rs. 1,850 onwards  Up next:Gift cards and wrapping options for the festive season.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Halloween: 2020 has been one long drawn out scream fest, so do we need All Hallows' Eve? Yes, say enthusiasts as they plan Zoom parties and creepy-good costumes. Celebs and talk show hosts are expected to pull out all the stops in the creative department. Meanwhile, the make-up community on Instagram is killing it this year: check out UK-based MUA Chris Grave, who has a look a day for October.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Christie’s fashion haul||Custom Hermès rarities, including a 2018 Étain Swift Leather Kelly Lakis 28 with gold hardware, and iconic Louis Vuitton offerings such as the Hermetic Explorer’s Zinc Cabin Trunk feature in Christie’s upcoming auction. Lots from the handbags and accessories selection will also be on view for those at Christie’s King Street in London. Other highlights for the holiday season include Chanel pieces like the 2014 White Lucite and Crystal Lego Clutch. From November 3 to 17 on christies.com
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The good life online||Meet celebrated chefs from across the world, including Wolfgang Puck, Mauro Colagreco, Matt Orlando, and Prateek Sadhu at theGQFood & Drink Festival. The two-day virtual event that takes place today and tomorrow will also feature sessions with Jacqueline Fernandez and Prakash Amritraj on mindful eating; YouTuber Mike Chen on his love for food and travel; and Rahul Akerkar and Thomas Zacharias on the late chef Floyd Cardoz. From 10.30 am to 7.30 pm. Details: gqindia.com/food-and-drink-festival
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||KMB goes virtual||The Kochi Muziris Biennale, which was slated to begin on December 12, has been officially moved to November 1, 2021. The fourth edition of the Students’ Biennale has been re-structured to take place online, with five curator-mentors: Adip Dutta, Archana Hande, Manoj Vyloor, Suresh K Nair, and Vasudha Thozhur. Other events that have gone online include the Art By Children activities, and the ongoing graphic novel workshop with Sarnath Banerjee. Details on kochimuzirisbiennale.org
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||World Vegan Day: On November 1, the UK's first fully-vegan butcher will open in London, offering meat-free versions of pulled pork, meatballs, “lobstah” salad, and chilli “non-carne”. Closer home, aša Beauty is readying to launch a line of vegan cosmetics with refill options. The ongoing Global Vegan Business Expo 2020 features virtual talks on building an eco-conscious brand, cooking workshops and more. Details: compassionmagazine.in
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebration wardrobe||In Chennai, Amethyst presents festive collections at Whites Road till November 14. Alchemist Marigold by Shorshe showcases comfortable silhouettes in hand-woven textiles, withgotaandzardosiwork (from Rs. 6,500). Shades of India’s line is inspired bymaroriandmukkawork onkalidarandangrakhakurtas (from Rs. 7,800).7338899176. Meanwhile, sustainable clothing brand Chidiyaa’s Festive ‘20 line is up on chidiyaa.com. Featuring modal silk, linenzari,mulmulandmashrusaris (from Rs. 9,900) and blouses (from Rs. 2,090).
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping up with the kids||The pandemic has put kids through some unprecedented experiences. To spruce up their space as they continue to remain at home, Peekaboo Patterns is offering up to 50% off on child-friendly furniture and home decor with fun prints. On peekaboopatterns.com. For the ones who solemnly swear that they are up to no good, pop culture brand Balenzia brings a line of Harry Potter socks. From Rs. 299 upwards, on balenzia.com. And if your child is craft-inclined, sign up for immersive experiences on Sony’s Yay! Dekho platform.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Bread & Chocolate is here||A popular destination in Auroville now has a Chennai address. Daniel Trulson’s signature sourdough and Fabien Mason’s bean-to-bar chocolates meet in a menu that features everything from flaky croissants to avocado toast. The cafe will offer vegan, low carb and indulgent dining options, as well as favourites like the Summer Time Tartine and Tropical Smoothie Bowl. Pair with pour-over coffee from Mumbai-based Subko Roasters. From 8 am to 8 pm at 25/11, Cenotaph Road, 2nd Lane, Alwarpet.9940091849
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Art and the unknown||Suburban Shadowsis an exhibition of recent works on paper by Prasanta Sahu, presented by Emami Art. Sahu’s solo show features what he calls “the unknown multitudes” — urban workers who provide essential services but remain unacknowledged and under-represented. Till November 30, on emamiart.com.Sky’s The Limitis an exhibition of new media work by seven artists, including Payal Kapadia, Rabia Ajaz and Michelle Poonawalla, at the Mediations Biennale, Poland. Catch the show on mediations.pl
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Truth Seekers||If you lovedThe X Files, comic double act Simon Pegg and Nick Frost bring you a British version of the show. The Amazon Prime Video Original is based on their own experiences of amateur paranormal sleuthing in their younger days. The series stars Frost as Gus, a broadband installation expert and part-time paranormal investigator, who reluctantly gets paired up with new recruit Elton (Samson Kayo) by his boss Dave (Pegg). Watch as they encounter strange experiences on the job. Now streaming on Amazon Prime Video.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Fast & Furious Presents: Hobbs & Shaw||Luke Hobbs and Deckard Shaw (Dwayne Johnson and Jason Statham, respectively) become unlikely — and unwilling — partners in their quest to bring down a cybernetically-enhanced terrorist played by Idris Elba. As they battle his superhuman strength and brilliant mind, the duo must keep in mind the stakes: a deadly virus that could wipe out half of the world's population. Airing for the first time on Indian TV on Sony PIX. On November 1 at 12 pm and 3 pm.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Folk Fridays||It has been a tough few months for musicians. And with no immediate signs of live performances resuming, things are likely to get tougher. Recognising this, documentary filmmaker Yasmin Kidwai and musician Amit Kilam — in collaboration with Neeta Raheja, co-founder of PR agency Longform — have created a fundraising platform, Artists for Artists. It aims to spread awareness about the plight of artistes and help create avenues to support them. It is also organising a series of concerts, titledFolk Fridays, for five weeks. Expect performances by names such asqawwalisingers Nizami Brothers from Delhi,baulartiste Raju Das from Bengal, and master drummer Nathu Lal Solanki from Rajasthan. Every Friday till November 20, at 7.30 pm, on in.bookmyshow.com
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Queen of quiet intensity||Two years ago, in January, filmmaker Mira Nair told Tabu over dinner that she was planning to adapt Vikram Seth’s novel, A Suitable Boy , as a series for BBC One. “I was taken in by [courtesan] Saeeda Bai’s character and said if Mira is directing, I’d blindly agree,” she recalls, over the phone from Mumbai. Despite the mixed reactions the series garnered since it premiered in the UK, and recently on Netflix India (for its forced dialogue and deviation from the original), Tabu has been receiving appreciation for her nuanced portrayal. Then again, when has she ever made a role seem anything but effortless? The actor has made it a habit to impress us with her on-screen performances before disappearing into her own world — more so now, in the age of social media and clickbait headlines. As we chat, I’m reminded of the many conversations we’ve had since the early 2000s. Her disarming candour hasn’t changed. But while she is game to talk at length about her creative universe, she will not comment on things beyond her work.   A courtesan's life  Published 27 years ago and weighing in at 1,349 pages, Vikram Seth’s landmark novel narrates the story of Rupa Mehra’s hunt for a ‘suitable boy’ for her daughter Lata in a newly-Independent India that is preparing for its first elections. Tabu says she has not read it. For Nair’s series, Welsh screenwriter Andrew Davies condensed it into eight (later six) episodes. Interestingly, for someone who has played several powerful female characters from classical literature — be it in the Shakespeare adaptations Maqbool and Haider , or Rajiv Menon's take on Jane Austen’s Sense and Sensibility , Kandukondain Kandukondain — Tabu has often gone with the script and the director’s vision rather than read the original. For Saeeda, the actor met Seth personally, to understand how he wanted her to be portrayed on screen. “I wanted to see her from the writer’s mind — her emotional graph, as he sees it. Then I tried to do it my way,” she explains. Saeeda’s world is mostly confined to the four walls of her house, but the changing societal dynamics have a bearing on her. “It was a time when the courtesan culture was fading. Saeeda inherited her line of work from her grandmother and mother. However, the arts and literature enriched her views,” says Tabu, going into how she approached her character. Though the overarching inspiration for Saeeda was Begum Akhtar, she says there isn’t enough documentation of courtesans’ lives to draw references from. “I don’t know if the movies showed their lives [truthfully] or if they glamorised them. But I did not want to stereotype her.” Wanting to portray her role with authenticity, the actor also learned to play the tanpura and the harmonium. “The t anpura was relatively easier to learn,” she says, adding that a tutor was present during the shooting. “I didn’t want to press the wrong keys!”  For the love of handloom  The physicality of Saeeda, the way she dressed, also appealed to Tabu, who loves her Chanderis, Maheshwaris, jamdanis , muslins from Bengal, and pherans from Kashmir. On her visits to her hometown, Hyderabad, she is known to shop for handlooms — a love that comes from her grandmother, who used to wear starched Kota cottons, and her mother (she recalls a yellow kataan silk sari her mother wore for years). She picked up chikankari while shooting in Lucknow, and sourced Pochampally ikat masks from weavers in Telangana during lockdown. “The red sari for Saeeda’s opening scene was a last-minute decision. We thought she should wear a striking colour. [Costume designer] Arjun Bhasin picked a sari with exquisite hand embroidery and badla [beaten metal work],” she says. For Bhasin — who dressed all 105 members of the cast and the hundreds of extras — it is his third time working with Tabu. “We’ve become good friends in the course of our three collaborations [ The Namesake , Life of Pi, and now A Suitable Boy ]. It is amazing to me how she slips into character so beautifully and yet brings such elegance and gravitas to each performance,” he says, adding that she understands the importance of how to use costume to highlight elements of her characters. “She wears clothes with such ease, never allowing the design to consume the performance. It is the best kind of compliment for me.”  Laughter and relevance  Tabu is still one of the most exciting actors of today. There is an aura of mystery around her, perhaps because she is guarded about her personal life. More than the longevity of her multilingual career — which spans Hindi, Telugu, Tamil, Bengali and Malayalam — it is the relevance and intrigue she brings with each new project that sets her apart. No matter how vapid the script, she elevates it. Her co-stars talk about her wit and comic timing. “I connect better with those who have a sense of humour. In fact, the women in my family are known for theirs. Why take things seriously all the time? It is good to laugh, but not trivialise things,” says Tabu, who enjoys watching comedies (Gulzar’s Angoor is her favourite). Needless to say, those who meet her, love her. Be it late artist-director MF Husain, who called her his muse and worked with her in the 2004 film, Meenaxi: A Tale of Three Cities , or fashion designer Gaurang Shah, for whom Tabu turned showstopper in February, at Lakmé Fashion Week. “I prefer that my models walk barefoot on the runway. During the last show, Tabu came in wearing an anarkali and heels, but quickly removed her footwear when she noticed that the models were barefoot. She has no hangups,” says Shah, who also worked with her on a short film (where she did the voiceover). “She completed it in five minutes; she is very professional. She’s also offered to sing for me the next time.” On her own terms  A Suitable Boy marks Tabu’s first collaboration with Ishaan Khatter, actor Shahid Kapoor’s younger brother who plays her love interest, Maan. The script readings were an ice breaker, she says, sharing that “Ishaan is intelligent and extremely talented. He’s also a badmash and a good photographer”. Over the years, her younger co-stars have admitted how much in awe they are of her — one of the rare one-name actors, much like Rekha or Sridevi. In an interview with entertainment website Bollywood Hungama, Khatter called her “one of the legends of our time”, while Ayushmann Khurrana, who co-starred with her in 2018’s Andhadhun , admitted on Hindustan Times ’ show Aur Batao, that he and his dad jointly crush over the 49-year-old. Does she see herself mentoring newer actors? “Me? A mentor? I am still learning,” Tabu laughs. Meanwhile, acting offers for OTT projects are coming her way. Tabu spent lockdown listening to story narrations over Zoom. “Apart from the story and my role, the director is important to me. I’ve been lucky to have worked with directors who have become long-standing friends,” she says, hastening to add that video sessions aren’t her thing. “The increased time in front of the computer left me with headaches; I’ve begun requesting audio narrations.” After back-to-back projects for two years, including Andhadhun , Telugu flick Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo and Jawaani Jaaneman , she looked at lockdown as an opportunity to slow down. “I managed to do some writing, though nothing specific,” she says, adding that on the work front she has the Bhool Bhulaiyaa sequel for now. Is she ready for her biography? After all, Saif Ali Khan, Priyanka Chopra Jonas and others have made headlines recently for their upcoming memoirs. “Publishing houses have approached me, but I don’t think I’ve led an Earth-shattering life to have a biography. It is too early. Whatever I have to say about my work, I do that in interviews. What else is there to reveal?” she concludes.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I am a pretty unfiltered person’||About 12 years ago, just before Tahira Kashyap was to tie the knot, her mother-in-law to-be gave her a present. It was a gift the older woman had travelled from Chandigarh to Delhi to buy and wanted Tahira to wear on her wedding day. The gift was a “pair of bright red lacy bra and panties, another set of the same colour in satin, and one lonely thong”, the author and filmmaker writes in her latest book, The 12 Commandments of Being a Woman . “My mother-in-law had high expectations of me. She gave me a size 38D, and here I was struggling to fill a 34, that too with pads,” she says, laughing at the memory. Family fodder The book of essays — that could easily pass off as a memoir — is full of funny and relatable anecdotes from Tahira’s life. She writes about everything: from ‘feeling like a freak’ as a 13-year-old to peeing in her pants after winning a trophy, to getting a Brazilian and an unplanned pregnancy. There’s no detail too personal. “I am a pretty unfiltered person. I wanted to write everything down and it was very empowering to just let go. I might have given my family members some anxiety when they read the book because nothing has been edited,” she shares on a phone call from her in-law’s home in Chandigarh where she’s been staying during the lockdown. “These days, all conversations around our living room suddenly stop when I enter. I think my family doesn’t want to give me more material for any future books,” she laughs. Of all the family members, obviously the reactions of her husband Ayushmann Khurrana, whom she calls ‘her skinnier half’ mattered the most. “He is the first person to read everything I write. When he was reading my book, I kept looking at him to gauge his reaction. I saw him grimace and grin, and his eyebrows would go up. The one response I consistently got from him was, ‘Are you serious? I thought this stuff was only for the two of us to know’.” Ayushmann’s reactions are quite understandable, considering Tahira’s candour while writing about their relationship that started in school, their early days of marriage, and her struggles to forge an identity of her own now that he is a bonafide movie star. “I thought I was the only one struggling with this, but I realised that as women, most of us become the Earth and the Sun is someone else. Our lives are spent revolving around that person. It is not like Ayushmann asked me to do that; it was something that I did subconsciously,” explains the 37-year-old.  Always a writer    Ithas taken a few detours for Tahira to finally find her calling. And it turned out to be the most obvious one. “I’ve been writing since I was five or six. I wrote the first play, Socha Na Tha , that our theatre group Manch Tantra performed. I also wrote a book [ Cracking The Code: My Journey in Bollywood] with Ayushmann a few years ago,” she says, adding that 12 Commandments ... is the third book she’s written on her own. Taking me through her first solo attempt at non-fiction writing, she adds, “There’s a lot of clarity when you are writing about things that happened in your own life, but it also needs a lot of courage. Now, when I am writing about my 13-year-old self who dragged her mother to a gynaecologist because she didn’t think she was a girl, I see the funny side of things. But when it happened, it was quite traumatising. Revisiting these intense moments took an emotional toll.” The second chapter, where she writes about not being allowed to participate in extracurricular activities in school, is what Tahira picks as the toughest incident to revisit. “Every time I read or even talk about that period, I get all choked up.” Eventually, when she won an inter-school competition, she got so excited that she wet her pants. “That moment of glory meant so much to me. Nothing since has come close to that feeling.” Paperback writer    Once she had committed to writing the book, it didn’t take Tahira very long to get it all on paper. It took her about four months to get the first draft to her editors. “This coincided with the lockdown. I would get up earlier than the rest of the household and take a corner on the dining table. I’d end up writing almost continuously for six to eight hours in that corner which meant that my family couldn’t eat there. I did this in different spaces around the house and everyone had to adjust.” It has been a good year for Tahira, with her short film Pinni , starring Neena Gupta, releasing as part of an anthology, Zindagi inShort, on Flipkart Video. And she’s already busy with her next very hush-hush project. When she isn’t working, Tahira is keeping the kids busy with painting and craft sessions, and bonding with her in-laws. As she writes in her book, ‘They come in all shapes and sizes, and have all kinds of flaws but you simply must love your in-laws.’  Published by Juggernaut, The 12 Commandments of Being a Woman is available on amazon.in for Rs. 299.   Watch Tahira Kashyap talk about her first solo attempt at non-fiction writing onweekend.thehindu.com
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||A sweater sets the mood||Let’s start with the good bits. While the country’s second digital fashion season, Lakmé Fashion Week Festive 2020, began with Manish Malhotra’s couture presentation titled Ruhaaniyat ( 282K viewson the official LFW Instagram page ), the first ‘show’ I saw belonged to 11.11 ( 106K views ). Not that I didn’t see Malhotra’s later. I did, and enjoyed the unabashed luxury and opulence of his embellished lehengas and elegant sherwanis . But it was the simplicity of a single indigo-dyed jumper, shown being made by hand from scratch, that stuck in my mind. There is no greater luxury any designer could show today; all my peers will be wearing this 11.11 sweater soon, I know. It spoke for the entire collection, and revealed precisely where 11.11’s strength lies. It was the idea — raw fibre being spun into yarn, dyed indigo, and then knit into a simple jumper all by hand — that marked it out. This is what an Indian brand has to offer, the video said, loud and clear.  The India story  But there are other ways of showing what your country has to offer; a lesson driven home by the All About India show ( 104K views ) that included capsule collections by six designers. It began with Payal Khandwala’s oversized floral motifs in j amdani from Phulia in West Bengal. Next came Rajesh Pratap Singh’s futuristic i kat saris for Satya Paul, developed in Puttapaka in Telengana. True to her love for linen, Anavila Misra took off to Dumka in Jharkhand to mix it with the k hatwa weave. Suket Dhir showed contemporary silhouettes in Banarasi brocades, while Urvashi Kaur’s updated s hibori and tie-dyes came from the clusters she works with in Haryana and Rajasthan, developing skills and innovating with the communities there. Meanwhile, Abraham & Thakore looked to Farrukhabad in Uttar Pradesh for the region’s famed block prints, especially in the delicate gold khadi technique that they utilised to theatrical effect. The sari, too, had its moment. From Parsi g ara -bordered Uppadas by Gaurang Shah ( 106K views ) to metallic moon-phase drapes in Banarasi brocade by Hemang Agrawal ( 102K views ), there were enough points of interest to ensure a good retail response in a market slowly waking up to India’s festive season in the midst of a global pandemic. Even Rimzim Dadu, who showed as part of the joint finale (a concept unique to Indian fashion weeks; 230K views ) with Saaksha & Kinni, made a strong case for this timeless drape. And she did so by making it — through her unique sculptural methods and reflective surfaces — timeless.  Digital bumps  So far, so good. But this review could well have come from a regular, pre-Covid fashion week at the Jio Garden in Mumbai. How did LFW being fully digital work apart from the absolute numbers of views it garnered? We must look to the experience itself. The first among them was the virtual show format, which, going by the CGI, was not worth the effort. The Gen Next category, which I always look forward to, was ill served with outmoded graphics and backdrops that drew attention away from the clothes. Another designer had a post-apocalyptic Pleistocene fantasy going with woolly mammoths come back to life amid a ruined cityscape overrun with tropical foliage. Yet another featured giant charkha wheels spinning in the background like the windmills of sustainability, flanked by CGI pillars that tried their hardest to look vintage. These are points of personal aesthetic. So a deeper dive into the digital experience becomes necessary. The problems, I am sorry to say, began from day 1, when logging on to the official LFW website became troublesome. I chalked it up to the site being overloaded, and satisfied myself with viewing the shows on their Instagram handle. What I looked forward to was the ‘virtual showroom’, a place for designers to conduct B2Band B2C business. While I’m unable to comment on the former, as I never registered as a buyer, the process of registration, even a few days after LFW ended, is no cakewalk. The website crashes with amazing regularity, and, in case it doesn’t, you will still need to be approved by a back-end team to access the showroom and designers’ collections. The ideas are there, but the execution is where they hit a snag. And as I type this, I am glad we’re going through these teething troubles. If anything, it is these problems that will hopefully show designers how important it is for them to invest in their individual online presences. Here’s hoping.  The author is a fashion commentator and Communications Director at the House of Angadi.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Giving the index finger||Dear Don-bhaiTrump, You do know we adore you. Kamala Mamis will come and go but our loyalties are with you. After all, when you attended our do in Houston, did we not ask our NRI brothers to vote for you? And when you came here and spoke so eloquently about Swami Vivekamunnund and Veerat Kooli, did we not cheer you loudly? There was much hugging and hand-pumping, remember? It was all good. Then you had to spoil it all by saying India’s air is filthy. I think you’ve come to this hasty conclusion based on our ranking, 179 out of 180, according to some dubious air quality study. That kind of short-sighted evaluation by western ‘scholars’ completely ignores our pre-eminent culture and its inherent wisdom. That our air is thick with unbreathable particulate matter is deliberate . What your tiny western eyes perceive as air pollution is our 12,000-year-old tradition of making our air suitable for the smooth take-off, comfortable flight and glitch-free landing of our pushpaka vimanams . Anyone who has read Sage Vijayananda Mallyodri’s treatise on ancient air travel ( Majama Ka Raja ) knows thick air is imperative for sky travel. That, and nubile akasha kanyas who give you two-minute upma in handy little cups. Now that we are clearing misconceptions, let’s deal with some of the others as well – results of sub-standard studies – that show our incomparable land in a poor Nehruvian light. Another recent lie I came across is that we are 94th out of 107 countries on the Global Hunger Index. How uninformed you westerners are, I tell you. While all of you gobble Big Macs and cheesecake with impunity, become morbidly obese and get all manner of health issues, we Indians fast . I can assure you that the ranking in question was done on an ekadashi day when most Indians skip their meals in order to develop ancient six-packs like our gods. What you say is akin to dubbing a spacecraft’s moon landing on amavasya day a failure. Where will it land when there is no moon, for god’s sake? Also, apparently we are ranked 147th out of 157 countries on the Inequality Index. As if. In our ancient land, we have several levels of equality. How can everyone have the same equal? It just so happens that some of us are more equal than others. But more equal and less equal is still equal, no? Please study our culture before you make such sweeping statements. You really think we could be 120th out of 122 countries on the Water Quality Index? What a laugh. We have Ganga Maiyya with us, fools. One drop of it is all we need to purify ourselves. Plus, which country produces more rain songs than us? You think that would be possible if we didn’t have high-grade bottled mineral water for our lead actors to cavort in? Then there is our 144th rank among 156 countries on the UN World Happiness Index. What an utter lie. We Indians are so deliriously happy we need to voluntarily depress ourselves on a regular basis. We just pretend to be unhappy so as not to attract drishti . Plus, we have also trained ourselves to look cross to prevent neighbours, friends and random uncles from asking us for hand loans. As for being 142nd out of 180 on the World Press Freedom Index, are you serious? Haven’t you seen the istri vandis on every street corner of our country? You think that would be possible if we didn’t have freedom to press? Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Ballot battles||Red, Wine & Blue  Thissisterhood is “harnessing the power of suburban women” to make a change — by bonding over wine and politics. Started by strategic consultant Katie Paris, it is using #VinoTheVote to mobilise Democrats (and the undecided) to go out and vote for Joe Biden in Ohio. Members’ social media feeds are filled with women representing the ‘Suburban Housewife’ (a term often used by US president Donald Trump), accompanied by funny captions. Details: redwine.blue 60 Minutes President Trump’s interview with veteran 60 Minutes host Lesley Stahl drew 16.8 million total viewers. Although Trump apparently cut short the taped interview, which shared screen time with opponent Biden’s chat with Norah O’Donnell, it beat the numbers from Stormy Daniels’ interview with Anderson Cooper in 2018. On 60 Minutes YouTube channel. Late night hosts  Last Week Tonight with John Oliver got a head start with an election special three weeks ago. Then Jimmy Fallon and The Roots rapped about how to properly complete Pennsylvania’s mail-in ballot, while Jimmy Kimmel shared an update on his son’s health, urging people to ‘vote with your heart’. On election night, Emmy and Peabody Award-winning late night host Stephen Colbert will host a one-hour live special onShowtime, reacting in real-time to state-by-state results. Trevor Noah’s Daily Show also has plans for live coverage titled Votegasm 2020: What Could Go Wrong? (Again).  Zen with Jay Bradley US voters (and interested candidates across the world) are encouraged to find their ‘happy place’ before the chaos of election night in a 60-minute guided workshop on spiritual breathwork (a conscious breathing practise which helps people get centred). The Los Angeles-based wellness coach will lead the session via Zoom on November 2. Email to register: eerath@michelemariepr.com #AmbitionSuitsYou Wondering about the hot pink suit that Mandy Moore, Zoe Saldana and Kerry Washington, among many other female celebrities, have worn while voting? They’re all sporting a collaboration between Argent (a women’s workwear brand favoured by Hillary Clinton during the 2016 election) and Supermajority (an organisation fighting for a more equitable future for women). The four-piece collection, available in sizes 0 to 24, includes the suit, a white Super Stacked T-shirt, and pins to customise your statement look. Details: @argent on Instagram.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||shop.designmiami.com||“Collectible historic and contemporary furniture, lighting, objets d’art and more,” promises the new e-store from Design Miami. The online marketplace, launched in late June, showcases over 800 collectibles from 52 international galleries — necklaces to table lamps and ceramics to notebooks. The annual Art Basel on Miami Beach, slated to take place in December, has been cancelled because of the pandemic. With a $16 million economic impact annually, the organisers aim to support artists across the world by contributing sales proceeds to the GlobalGiving Coronavirus Relief Fund. Filter by category (jewellery, sculptures, textiles, etc) or galleries. Or choose from curated categories of Brutalist, French Mid-Century or Post-Modern styles. Bestsellers include French product designer Fabien Cappello’s Lampara de Frutas de Bronce, a Francesca Torzo ottoman and Le Corbusier Pierre JeanneretChandigarh, Indiabook, published by the Galerie Patrick Seguin. Pieces start from as little as $22.50 (approximately Rs. 1,700) for an art show catalogue from Milan’s Studio Vedèt and go up to $15,00,000 (approximately Rs. 11.16 crore) for French architect Jean Prouvé’s Demountable House. The site’s quick view format offers information such as gallery, product name, price and availability at a glance. All sales inquiries are routed through the respective galleries, so there is no direct purchase on the site. An option to add to cart and buy immediately would perhaps help move things along quicker.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||ikkis.in||After expanding their international reach with Italian design platform, WallpaperSTORE*, and the Asia website of Design Anthology, this New Delhi-based lifestyle brand has now launched their own e-commerce site. Designer Gunjan Gupta’s Ikkis (‘21’ in Hindi) focusses on using indigenous materials to give traditional objects a contemporary form. The home page gives a clear idea of the kind of products to expect, with well-shot photographs. If you have a slow internet connection, however, the page may take some time to load. The site navigation is simple and easy, with two categories — Limited and Unlimited — to shop from. The former includes collaborations with master craftsmen across India, which Gupta first curated for the Revelations Fine Craft Biennial in Paris last May. Kangan, a terracotta/ceramic line, draws inspiration from the women’s wrist accessory of the same name, and is created by National awardee Prithviraj Singh Deo from Orissa. Shatranj featuresbidriware (pure silver inlay on a metal alloy) combined with miniature terracotta pottery. This fusion is best seen in abidri chessboard with clay pieces. Meanwhile, Chuha showcases the tale of Hindu Goddess Karni Mata of Bikaner, Rajasthan, who transformed into a rat after her death. The hand-carved marble rats can be found on drinking bowls. The limited editions of 21 pieces each are price on request. The Unlimited collection of drinkware, serveware and décor reimagineschaiglasses with a stem, brass bowls that stack up to form amatkaorlota, and adamroo(percussion instrument) designed as a stool with copper mesh. Scrolling over (or single tap on mobile) shows the name of each product, but pricing is not visible unless you go to the page. With a minimal number of products, this option would make the shopping experience quicker.  From Rs. 1,850 onwards  Up next:Gift cards and wrapping options for the festive season.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Queen of quiet intensity||Two years ago, in January, filmmaker Mira Nair told Tabu over dinner that she was planning to adapt Vikram Seth’s novel, A Suitable Boy , as a series for BBC One. “I was taken in by [courtesan] Saeeda Bai’s character and said if Mira is directing, I’d blindly agree,” she recalls, over the phone from Mumbai. Despite the mixed reactions the series garnered since it premiered in the UK, and recently on Netflix India (for its forced dialogue and deviation from the original), Tabu has been receiving appreciation for her nuanced portrayal. Then again, when has she ever made a role seem anything but effortless? The actor has made it a habit to impress us with her on-screen performances before disappearing into her own world — more so now, in the age of social media and clickbait headlines. As we chat, I’m reminded of the many conversations we’ve had since the early 2000s. Her disarming candour hasn’t changed. But while she is game to talk at length about her creative universe, she will not comment on things beyond her work.   A courtesan’s life  Published 27 years ago and weighing in at 1,349 pages, Vikram Seth’s landmark novel narrates the story of Rupa Mehra’s hunt for a ‘suitable boy’ for her daughter Lata in a newly-Independent India that is preparing for its first elections. Tabu says she has not read it. For Nair’s series, Welsh screenwriter Andrew Davies condensed it into eight (later six) episodes. Interestingly, for someone who has played several powerful female characters from classical literature — be it in the Shakespeare adaptations Maqbool and Haider , or Rajiv Menon’s take on Jane Austen’s Sense and Sensibility , Kandukondain Kandukondain — Tabu has often gone with the script and the director’s vision rather than read the original. For Saeeda, the actor met Seth personally, to understand how he wanted her to be portrayed on screen. “I wanted to see her from the writer’s mind — her emotional graph, as he sees it. Then I tried to do it my way,” she explains. Saeeda’s world is mostly confined to the four walls of her house, but the changing societal dynamics have a bearing on her. “It was a time when the courtesan culture was fading. Saeeda inherited her line of work from her grandmother and mother. However, the arts and literature enriched her views,” says Tabu, going into how she approached her character. Though the overarching inspiration for Saeeda was Begum Akhtar, she says there isn’t enough documentation of courtesans’ lives to draw references from. “I don’t know if the movies showed their lives [truthfully] or if they glamorised them. But I did not want to stereotype her.” Wanting to portray her role with authenticity, the actor also learned to play the tanpura and the harmonium. “The t anpura was relatively easier to learn,” she says, adding that a tutor was present during the shooting. “I didn’t want to press the wrong keys!”  For the love of handloom  The physicality of Saeeda, the way she dressed, also appealed to Tabu, who loves her Chanderis, Maheshwaris, jamdanis , muslins from Bengal, and pherans from Kashmir. On her visits to her hometown, Hyderabad, she is known to shop for handlooms — a love that comes from her grandmother, who used to wear starched Kota cottons, and her mother (she recalls a yellow kataan silk sari her mother wore for years). She picked up chikankari while shooting in Lucknow, and sourced Pochampally ikat masks from weavers in Telangana during lockdown. “The red sari for Saeeda’s opening scene was a last-minute decision. We thought she should wear a striking colour. [Costume designer] Arjun Bhasin picked a sari with exquisite hand embroidery and badla [beaten metal work],” she says. For Bhasin — who dressed all 105 members of the cast and the hundreds of extras — it is his third time working with Tabu. “We’ve become good friends in the course of our three collaborations [ The Namesake , Life of Pi, and now A Suitable Boy ]. It is amazing to me how she slips into character so beautifully and yet brings such elegance and gravitas to each performance,” he says, adding that she understands the importance of how to use costume to highlight elements of her characters. “She wears clothes with such ease, never allowing the design to consume the performance. It is the best kind of compliment for me.”   Laughter and relevance  Tabu is still one of the most exciting actors of today. There is an aura of mystery around her, perhaps because she is guarded about her personal life. More than the longevity of her multilingual career — which spans Hindi, Telugu, Tamil, Bengali and Malayalam — it is the relevance and intrigue she brings with each new project that sets her apart. No matter how vapid the script, she elevates it. Her co-stars talk about her wit and comic timing. “I connect better with those who have a sense of humour. In fact, the women in my family are known for theirs. Why take things seriously all the time? It is good to laugh, but not trivialise things,” says Tabu, who enjoys watching comedies (Gulzar’s Angoor is her favourite). Needless to say, those who meet her, love her. Be it late artist-director MF Husain, who called her his muse and worked with her in the 2004 film, Meenaxi: A Tale of Three Cities , or fashion designer Gaurang Shah, for whom Tabu turned showstopper in February, at Lakmé Fashion Week. “I prefer that my models walk barefoot on the runway. During the last show, Tabu came in wearing an anarkali and heels, but quickly removed her footwear when she noticed that the models were barefoot. She has no hangups,” says Shah, who also worked with her on a short film (where she did the voiceover). “She completed it in five minutes; she is very professional. She’s also offered to sing for me the next time.” On her own terms  A Suitable Boy marks Tabu’s first collaboration with Ishaan Khatter, actor Shahid Kapoor’s younger brother who plays her love interest, Maan. The script readings were an ice breaker, she says, sharing that “Ishaan is intelligent and extremely talented. He’s also a badmash and a good photographer”. Over the years, her younger co-stars have admitted how much in awe they are of her — one of the rare one-name actors, much like Rekha or Sridevi. In an interview with entertainment website Bollywood Hungama, Khatter called her “one of the legends of our time”, while Ayushmann Khurrana, who co-starred with her in 2018’s Andhadhun , admitted on Hindustan Times ’ show Aur Batao, that he and his dad jointly crush over the 49-year-old. Does she see herself mentoring newer actors? “Me? A mentor? I am still learning,” Tabu laughs. Meanwhile, acting offers for OTT projects are coming her way. Tabu spent lockdown listening to story narrations over Zoom. “Apart from the story and my role, the director is important to me. I’ve been lucky to have worked with directors who have become long-standing friends,” she says, hastening to add that video sessions aren’t her thing. “The increased time in front of the computer left me with headaches; I’ve begun requesting audio narrations.” After back-to-back projects for two years, including Andhadhun , Telugu flick Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo and Jawaani Jaaneman , she looked at lockdown as an opportunity to slow down. “I managed to do some writing, though nothing specific,” she says, adding that on the work front she has the Bhool Bhulaiyaa sequel for now. Is she ready for her biography? After all, Saif Ali Khan, Priyanka Chopra Jonas and others have made headlines recently for their upcoming memoirs. “Publishing houses have approached me, but I don’t think I’ve led an Earth-shattering life to have a biography. It is too early. Whatever I have to say about my work, I do that in interviews. What else is there to reveal?” she concludes.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Truth Seekers||If you lovedThe X Files, comic double act Simon Pegg and Nick Frost bring you a British version of the show. The Amazon Prime Video Original is based on their own experiences of amateur paranormal sleuthing in their younger days. The series stars Frost as Gus, a broadband installation expert and part-time paranormal investigator, who reluctantly gets paired up with new recruit Elton (Samson Kayo) by his boss Dave (Pegg). Watch as they encounter strange experiences on the job. Now streaming on Amazon Prime Video.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Fast & Furious Presents: Hobbs & Shaw||Luke Hobbs and Deckard Shaw (Dwayne Johnson and Jason Statham, respectively) become unlikely — and unwilling — partners in their quest to bring down a cybernetically-enhanced terrorist played by Idris Elba. As they battle his superhuman strength and brilliant mind, the duo must keep in mind the stakes: a deadly virus that could wipe out half of the world's population. Airing for the first time on Indian TV on Sony PIX. On November 1 at 12 pm and 3 pm.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Folk Fridays||It has been a tough few months for musicians. And with no immediate signs of live performances resuming, things are likely to get tougher. Recognising this, documentary filmmaker Yasmin Kidwai and musician Amit Kilam — in collaboration with Neeta Raheja, co-founder of PR agency Longform — have created a fundraising platform, Artists for Artists. It aims to spread awareness about the plight of artistes and help create avenues to support them. It is also organising a series of concerts, titledFolk Fridays, for five weeks. Expect performances by names such asqawwalisingers Nizami Brothers from Delhi,baulartiste Raju Das from Bengal, and master drummer Nathu Lal Solanki from Rajasthan. Every Friday till November 20, at 7.30 pm, on in.bookmyshow.com
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Halloween: 2020 has been one long drawn out scream fest, so do we need All Hallows' Eve? Yes, say enthusiasts as they plan Zoom parties and creepy-good costumes. Celebs and talk show hosts are expected to pull out all the stops in the creative department. Meanwhile, the make-up community on Instagram is killing it this year: check out UK-based MUA Chris Grave, who has a look a day for October.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Christie’s fashion haul||Custom Hermès rarities, including a 2018 Étain Swift Leather Kelly Lakis 28 with gold hardware, and iconic Louis Vuitton offerings such as the Hermetic Explorer’s Zinc Cabin Trunk feature in Christie’s upcoming auction. Lots from the handbags and accessories selection will also be on view for those at Christie’s King Street in London. Other highlights for the holiday season include Chanel pieces like the 2014 White Lucite and Crystal Lego Clutch. From November 3 to 17 on christies.com
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The good life online||Meet celebrated chefs from across the world, including Wolfgang Puck, Mauro Colagreco, Matt Orlando, and Prateek Sadhu at theGQFood & Drink Festival. The two-day virtual event that takes place today and tomorrow will also feature sessions with Jacqueline Fernandez and Prakash Amritraj on mindful eating; YouTuber Mike Chen on his love for food and travel; and Rahul Akerkar and Thomas Zacharias on the late chef Floyd Cardoz. From 10.30 am to 7.30 pm. Details: gqindia.com/food-and-drink-festival
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||KMB goes virtual||The Kochi Muziris Biennale, which was slated to begin on December 12, has been officially moved to November 1, 2021. The fourth edition of the Students’ Biennale has been re-structured to take place online, with five curator-mentors: Adip Dutta, Archana Hande, Manoj Vyloor, Suresh K Nair, and Vasudha Thozhur. Other events that have gone online include the Art By Children activities, and the ongoing graphic novel workshop with Sarnath Banerjee. Details on kochimuzirisbiennale.org
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtually classical||Natya Tarangini presents virtually the 24th edition of ‘Parampara’, a national festival of music and dance on four weekends. This fortnight the series features Raja Radha Reddy, Yamini and Bhavana Reddy (Oct 31), Hariprasad Chaurasia (Nov 1), Kumudini Lakhia troupe (Nov 6), Kishori Amonkar (Nov 7), Kelucharan and Sujata Mohapatra (Nov 8), Dr M Balamuralikrishna (Nov 13), Vyjayanthimala Bali and Alarmel Valli (Nov 14) and L Subramaniam (Nov 15). All concerts are archival. Streaming live on YouTube, 8pm onwards
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Art and the unknown||Suburban Shadowsis an exhibition of recent works on paper by Prasanta Sahu, presented by Emami Art. Sahu’s solo show features what he calls “the unknown multitudes” — urban workers who provide essential services but remain unacknowledged and under-represented. Till November 30, on emamiart.com.Sky’s The Limitis an exhibition of new media work by seven artists, including Payal Kapadia, Rabia Ajaz and Michelle Poonawalla, at the Mediations Biennale, Poland. Catch the show on mediations.pl
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual play||With few lockdown restrictions, Hyderabad-based Sutradhar theatre group forays into a new territory with its first Telugu play Abbey! Em Ledu by Sankaramanchi Parthasarathy, directed by Vinay Varma. The comedy of errors revolves around a loving couple, their ‘deaf” cook, a colourful boss, two intruders, a lost ring, a doctor… and an adventure with the ‘forbidden apple’ all a harmless mischief. Catch the hour-long play on October 31, at 7.30 pm. Price100 for online streaming on bookmyshow.com
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping up with the kids||The pandemic has put kids through some unprecedented experiences. To spruce up their space as they continue to remain at home, Peekaboo Patterns is offering up to 50% off on child-friendly furniture and home decor with fun prints. On peekaboopatterns.com. For the ones who solemnly swear that they are up to no good, pop culture brand Balenzia brings a line of Harry Potter socks. From Rs. 299 upwards, on balenzia.com. And if your child is craft-inclined, sign up for immersive experiences on Sony’s Yay! Dekho platform.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||World Vegan Day: On November 1, the UK's first fully-vegan butcher will open in London, offering meat-free versions of pulled pork, meatballs, “lobstah” salad, and chilli “non-carne”. Closer home, aša Beauty is readying to launch a line of vegan cosmetics with refill options. The ongoing Global Vegan Business Expo 2020 features virtual talks on building an eco-conscious brand, cooking workshops and more. Details: compassionmagazine.in
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Queen of quiet intensity||Two years ago, in January, filmmaker Mira Nair told Tabu over dinner that she was planning to adapt Vikram Seth’s novel, A Suitable Boy , as a series for BBC One. “I was taken in by [courtesan] Saeeda Bai’s character and said if Mira is directing, I’d blindly agree,” she recalls, over the phone from Mumbai. Despite the mixed reactions the series garnered since it premiered in the UK, and recently on Netflix India (for its forced dialogue and deviation from the original), Tabu has been receiving appreciation for her nuanced portrayal. Then again, when has she ever made a role seem anything but effortless? The actor has made it a habit to impress us with her on-screen performances before disappearing into her own world — more so now, in the age of social media and clickbait headlines. As we chat, I’m reminded of the many conversations we’ve had since the early 2000s. Her disarming candour hasn’t changed. But while she is game to talk at length about her creative universe, she will not comment on things beyond her work.   A courtesan’s life  Published 27 years ago and weighing in at 1,349 pages, Vikram Seth’s landmark novel narrates the story of Rupa Mehra’s hunt for a ‘suitable boy’ for her daughter Lata in a newly-Independent India that is preparing for its first elections. Tabu says she has not read it. For Nair’s series, Welsh screenwriter Andrew Davies condensed it into eight (later six) episodes. Interestingly, for someone who has played several powerful female characters from classical literature — be it in the Shakespeare adaptations Maqbool and Haider , or Rajiv Menon’s take on Jane Austen’s Sense and Sensibility , Kandukondain Kandukondain — Tabu has often gone with the script and the director’s vision rather than read the original. For Saeeda, the actor met Seth personally, to understand how he wanted her to be portrayed on screen. “I wanted to see her from the writer’s mind — her emotional graph, as he sees it. Then I tried to do it my way,” she explains. Saeeda’s world is mostly confined to the four walls of her house, but the changing societal dynamics have a bearing on her. “It was a time when the courtesan culture was fading. Saeeda inherited her line of work from her grandmother and mother. However, the arts and literature enriched her views,” says Tabu, going into how she approached her character. Though the overarching inspiration for Saeeda was Begum Akhtar, she says there isn’t enough documentation of courtesans’ lives to draw references from. “I don’t know if the movies showed their lives [truthfully] or if they glamorised them. But I did not want to stereotype her.” Wanting to portray her role with authenticity, the actor also learned to play the tanpura and the harmonium. “The t anpura was relatively easier to learn,” she says, adding that a tutor was present during the shooting. “I didn’t want to press the wrong keys!”  For the love of handloom  The physicality of Saeeda, the way she dressed, also appealed to Tabu, who loves her Chanderis, Maheshwaris, jamdanis , muslins from Bengal, and pherans from Kashmir. On her visits to her hometown, Hyderabad, she is known to shop for handlooms — a love that comes from her grandmother, who used to wear starched Kota cottons, and her mother (she recalls a yellow kataan silk sari her mother wore for years). She picked up chikankari while shooting in Lucknow, and sourced Pochampally ikat masks from weavers in Telangana during lockdown. “The red sari for Saeeda’s opening scene was a last-minute decision. We thought she should wear a striking colour. [Costume designer] Arjun Bhasin picked a sari with exquisite hand embroidery and badla [beaten metal work],” she says. For Bhasin — who dressed all 105 members of the cast and the hundreds of extras — it is his third time working with Tabu. “We’ve become good friends in the course of our three collaborations [ The Namesake , Life of Pi, and now A Suitable Boy ]. It is amazing to me how she slips into character so beautifully and yet brings such elegance and gravitas to each performance,” he says, adding that she understands the importance of how to use costume to highlight elements of her characters. “She wears clothes with such ease, never allowing the design to consume the performance. It is the best kind of compliment for me.”   Laughter and relevance  Tabu is still one of the most exciting actors of today. There is an aura of mystery around her, perhaps because she is guarded about her personal life. More than the longevity of her multilingual career — which spans Hindi, Telugu, Tamil, Bengali and Malayalam — it is the relevance and intrigue she brings with each new project that sets her apart. No matter how vapid the script, she elevates it. Her co-stars talk about her wit and comic timing. “I connect better with those who have a sense of humour. In fact, the women in my family are known for theirs. Why take things seriously all the time? It is good to laugh, but not trivialise things,” says Tabu, who enjoys watching comedies (Gulzar’s Angoor is her favourite). Needless to say, those who meet her, love her. Be it late artist-director MF Husain, who called her his muse and worked with her in the 2004 film, Meenaxi: A Tale of Three Cities , or fashion designer Gaurang Shah, for whom Tabu turned showstopper in February, at Lakmé Fashion Week. “I prefer that my models walk barefoot on the runway. During the last show, Tabu came in wearing an anarkali and heels, but quickly removed her footwear when she noticed that the models were barefoot. She has no hangups,” says Shah, who also worked with her on a short film (where she did the voiceover). “She completed it in five minutes; she is very professional. She’s also offered to sing for me the next time.” On her own terms  A Suitable Boy marks Tabu’s first collaboration with Ishaan Khatter, actor Shahid Kapoor’s younger brother who plays her love interest, Maan. The script readings were an ice breaker, she says, sharing that “Ishaan is intelligent and extremely talented. He’s also a badmash and a good photographer”. Over the years, her younger co-stars have admitted how much in awe they are of her — one of the rare one-name actors, much like Rekha or Sridevi. In an interview with entertainment website Bollywood Hungama, Khatter called her “one of the legends of our time”, while Ayushmann Khurrana, who co-starred with her in 2018’s Andhadhun , admitted on Hindustan Times ’ show Aur Batao, that he and his dad jointly crush over the 49-year-old. Does she see herself mentoring newer actors? “Me? A mentor? I am still learning,” Tabu laughs. Meanwhile, acting offers for OTT projects are coming her way. Tabu spent lockdown listening to story narrations over Zoom. “Apart from the story and my role, the director is important to me. I’ve been lucky to have worked with directors who have become long-standing friends,” she says, hastening to add that video sessions aren’t her thing. “The increased time in front of the computer left me with headaches; I’ve begun requesting audio narrations.” After back-to-back projects for two years, including Andhadhun , Telugu flick Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo and Jawaani Jaaneman , she looked at lockdown as an opportunity to slow down. “I managed to do some writing, though nothing specific,” she says, adding that on the work front she has the Bhool Bhulaiyaa sequel for now. Is she ready for her biography? After all, Saif Ali Khan, Priyanka Chopra Jonas and others have made headlines recently for their upcoming memoirs. “Publishing houses have approached me, but I don’t think I’ve led an Earth-shattering life to have a biography. It is too early. Whatever I have to say about my work, I do that in interviews. What else is there to reveal?” she concludes.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Eyeing a new home?||Most Indians do not need much convincing to buy a home. The desire for home-ownership is hard-wired into the Indian psyche and is also the basis of most families’ financial planning. For such people, who represent a clear majority, the question is not if to buy a house, but when. If you’re on the fence about making an investment towards a new home in the future, here are a few reasons to help you decide: 1.It is true that end-users shouldn’t try to time the real estate market, but it is quite evident that property prices are at their lowest. There have been no changes in pricing on the primary (purchased new from developers) market for over a year. Even the pandemic hasn’t reduced prices significantly as anticipated. 2.There are a lot of options on the market, even in ready-to-move properties. Moreover, prices of ready homes are almost on par with under-construction homes in many areas. This has never happened before and since developers have curtailed new supply, it is unlikely to happen again. 3.Developers have pulled out all the stops to attract buyers. Lucrative offers have been rolled out for the festive season, many of which result in an actual reduction in the cost of acquisition. These offers come with an expiry date — when the housing market regains enough momentum, they will be withdrawn. 4.Home loan interest rates are at a 15-year low. Coupled with the bottomed-out property prices and additional discounts and offers by developers, there are very real savings to be secured on life's most cost-intensive investment. 5.Far from being a temporary phenomenon, the COVID-19-induced work-from-home culture has become a mainstay for many companies who have discovered that employees can be as productive from home — if not more so — than in offices. Buying a home now, while the cost of acquisition is so low, allows buyers to secure larger homes into which home offices can be incorporated. 6.The property market is on the cusp of a full-fledged revival. Once the revival kicks in, property prices will harden and asset appreciation will begin in all seriousness. While earlier predictions for this revival hovered between 18 and 24 months, the pandemic has accelerated the process. We can reasonably expect the market to turn the corner in 12-18 months. 7.The pandemic has highlighted the deep cost of procrastination, and many aspiring home owners now wish they had made a decision earlier. Rental homes do not permit their inhabitants any real control — the only way to ensure the complete safety of an environment is to own it. 8.After a protracted period of financial upheaval, it has become necessary to revisit all expenses which represent undue pressure on personal finances. Living in a rented house is a recurring financial drain without returns on investment. Owning a home secures an asset which will appreciate in value over time and simultaneously eliminates recurring rental outgo. 9.The best home options are being snapped up at a rapid pace. While there is no dearth of overall inventory, active buyers are zeroing in on quality projects by Grade A developers. The supply of such options is limited. A longer wait reduces the chance of securing a home that ticks all the boxes on location, amenities, high-grade construction. In the case of under-construction projects, the options that will be completed fastest. 10.Lastly, there is a favourable confluence of buyer-favouring market circumstances due to the ongoing crisis. Such a confluence of factors is unlikely to repeat itself unless another event as disruptive as this pandemic strikes again.  The writer is Vice Chairman, Anarock   Property Consultants
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Co-working spaces enter housing projects||Amidst several pandemic-induced changes within Indian real estate, many developers are now mulling the viability of incorporating co-working spaces in their residential projects to align with the new work-from-home (WFH) realities. There are at least two possibilities — retrofitting co-working spaces into existing clubhouses, and incorporating such a feature at the very design stage for new projects. Retrofitting calls for key modifications, especially in structures originally intended for socialising and community activities. Offering co-working spaces as an added feature in residential or mixed-use developments is definitely a timely notion. Many people are finding it difficult to work purely from home due to distractions and space/ infrastructure constraints. In-house clientèle If the objective is to cater only to a captive clientèle — residents within the project — developers can make co-working spaces within the premises a USP and market their product accordingly. Given that WFH is now an accepted norm, this added feature will help attract more buyers and help developers sell their product faster. It will further enhance the overall facilities and offerings of the project, which is excellent for branding. However, to add this feature or facility, the size of the project matters a lot. For instance, a mid-segment project having more than 300 units and a sizeable clubhouse could sustain such a facility. It would be harder to incorporate it in smaller projects. For high-end projects at prime locations, with the exception of boutique luxury projects built on small plots, the developer could feasibly incorporate a co-working space within a project. Attracting external users If the developer intends to attract clientèle from beyond the captive zone and offer co-working spaces for both sets of clients, success will mostly depend on the location of the project. To target both resident and external clients, projects having dedicated co-working spaces must be located closer to major office and public transport hubs. If such spaces are within a mixed-use development, they can be easily managed by the developers themselves. In both cases, the rentals may vary depending on facilities on offer — but they are much lower than conventional commercial spaces and come with added facilities such as high-speed internet, waiting areas, flexible workstations, etc.   Challenges ahead If the developer intends to focus only on co-working spaces for residents, there is no major challenge other than the added maintenance costs in the long run. This can be charged as a one-time cost from buyers, or on the basis of usage. Moreover, since this space is exclusively for residents, commercial growth is not a factor — rather, it is meant to enhance the appeal of the project and add to its overall desirability. If the co-working space is to be retrofitted into the existing clubhouse, decisions would have to be made on how much of the available space can be used for that purpose. It is to be assumed that residents may not agree to have the entire space taken up by the set up. If the objective is to attract external clientèle as well, the operator will need to factor in commercial growth. For this, the challenge is to keep up with the outside competition. The operator will need to regularly re-invest in terms of infrastructure, facilities, upgrade internet facilities, etc. Hence, there will be an overall cost burden which needs to be met by increasing footfalls. Analysing demand In either scenario, the potential demand for in-house co-working spaces may be temporary and limited to the duration of the pandemic. We are already witnessing a significant part of the previously WFH workforce returning to their offices. While in some instances this is due to the insistence of the employers, it is becoming evident that many Indians miss the focus and community that their office environments provided them with. This return migration would not impact larger co-working spaces meant to draw footfalls from all around. However, it would be interesting to see how relevant co-working spaces exclusively for residents will be when the pandemic and its disruptive impact on work location choices reduces and more people are attending office again.  The writer is   Chairman, Anarock   Property Consultants
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Helping nature recover||The novel coronavirus is not going away anytime soon, nor are the vast economic and environmental implications the pandemic has brought upon us. Countries across the world have been working on their ‘green recovery plans’ that involve pumping trillions of dollars across sectors. In India, several stimulus measures have been introduced, and a second round might be in the offing. A lot has been said about these measures and if they are adequate enough to overcome the economic disruptions due to COVID-19. What hasn’t been discussed at length is whether these recovery plans being set by countries are big on the environmental quotient, which should be the primary motive of any pandemic recovery goal. The Greenness of Stimulus Index, a recent analysis by UK-based consultancy Vivid Economics (as part of the Finance for Biodiversity initiative), is a good place to start. The report states that the economic packages announced by leading economies will pump approximately US$3.7 trillion directly into agriculture, industry, waste, energy, and transport. These are five sectors ‘that have a large and lasting impact on carbon emissions and nature’. The investments earmarked till date, highlights the report, will have a net negative environmental impact in 16 of the G20 countries and economies. Among developed nations, the US, Australia, Italy and Japan are on the net negative side, ‘owing largely to the existing negative impacts of their environmentally intensive sectors’, and their lack of decisive action to use the stimulus to take specific actions to restore nature and mitigate climate change’. Developing economies such as China, India and Mexico have announced measures ‘that will damage the environment’, while stimulus funding announced by South Africa and Russia largely reinforces the existing damaging impacts of their environmentally intensive sectors. If we are to look at the analysis of India’s packages, the study says the stimulus ‘appears to support business as usual, industry and energy activities’ and that a large portion is directed at environmentally intensive industries. ‘A reduction in the stringency of environmental monitoring and the approval of environmentally harmful projects undermines a green recovery,’ it says. I hope our leaders focus on the latter part of that statement, given the slew of disastrous announcements over the last few months. First came the highly controversial draft EIA 2020, followed by other project approvals and amendments in laws — the Mineral Laws (Amendment) Bill 2020, for instance — at the cost of natural resources. The most recent controversy follows in the wake of a proposal by the Dehradun government. As per reports, Dehradun has reached out to the National Wildlife Board seeking the transfer of 243 acres of forest land to the Airport Authority of India (AAI) for the expansion of the Jolly Grant airport. Protests are now underway, as this transfer will involve the felling of over 10,000 trees in the Shivalik Elephant Reserve. It’s surprising, or perhaps not so much, that a country that is on board global climate agreements like the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Kyoto Protocol, is passing laws that adversely impact climate change mitigation efforts. After signing international environmental charters, if now the government proposes to weaken its EIA regime at the domestic level, it is in a position of cognitive dissonance, says a recent piece in Down to Earth . Authored by environmental law specialist Abhishek Chakravarty, it addresses how ‘such a non-conformity to pledges made at international negotiations and agreements will weaken India’s stance as a global leader in environmental governance and climate politics.’ Rather than detain young and minor protestors for voicing concerns against these issues, it is time leaders looked at rehauling archaic laws to make them less detrimental. Investing in clean energy, working on pollution levels by revamping urban transportation, and including the voices of the common people are just a few starting points to consider. Many countries such as Japan, Ireland and Bangladesh have started to put in place more local and community-driven approaches, involving communities (including the most marginalised people) in decision-making processes on how investments are spent (wri.org). What we need is for India to follow in the footsteps of such countries and bring in stringent green laws, not make it easier for large corporations to continue polluting. Battling the climate crisis is no mean feat. Combine with it the implications of a pandemic and governments certainly have a hard task at hand. Joining hands with those who are getting it right will go a long way rather than having a myopic view that only focuses on profits. Making the rich richer at the cost of the poor and the environment is a recipe for disaster that we need to stop stewing.  A fortnightly column on environmental sustainability and urban issues
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Why we need urban watersheds||It is a known fact that rivers across the country have been running dry for a large part of the year even when rainfall is copious. When they do flow, the contaminants in the water make it unfit for use unless carefully treated. This has adversely impacted rain-dependent cultivation in villages and urban spaces that rely on rivers as their water source. In a recent webinar, titled ‘River Rejuvenation — Bringing back to Life India’s dead rivers’, geohydrologist Lingaraju Yale, Director of Art of Living’s River Rejuvenation Projects, spoke of his team’s efforts in reviving 43 desiccated rain-fed rivers and water bodies spread across five States. Over the last seven years, the team came up with scientific methods to resuscitate water bodies involving local villagers. The webinar was hosted by ASSOCHAM, through its GEM initiative (Green and Eco-friendly Movement — Karnataka Chapter).  Green cover gone The former director of the Karnataka State Remote Sensing Applications Centre says the main reason rivers dry up and groundwater gets depleted is due to continuous deforestation around rivers and their catchment areas. This, he explains, leads to overexploitation of groundwater. When the surrounding ecology is destroyed, the lack of tree cover results in heavy water run-off and soil erosion. This results in not only heavy silting of river beds and streams, but also low percolation of water into the ground. Blending scientific methodologies with traditional, natural techniques and knowledge, Yale and his team worked towards addressing these issues. “They were addressed through afforestation in catchment areas and along rivers, desilting river beds and waterbodies, creating boulder checks to control water flow, recharging aquifers, along with a host of other techniques,” said Yale, adding how they flagged off their project with the dry Kumudavathi, the minor river that flows to the north-west of Bengaluru.  Urban water scene While rivers serve as the lifeline for both rural and urban areas, cities are fast running out of water. Borewells are turning dry and groundwater is plummeting to unimaginably low levels, even as many lakes and tanks remain only on record. “This is the case even when rainfall is more than normal in a year which results in the flooding of low-lying areas. This is chiefly because the rainwater fails to percolate into the ground,” explained Yale. Given this scenario, can an innovative solution be attempted to address urban woes? “Rivers have a broad canvas with a diverse topography. Based on this, multiple watersheds were created and each hydrological boundary was identified based on its use pattern, with an appropriate plan of action initiated for each. In a city like Bengaluru, given its undulating terrain, historically, many tanks and lakes were built and they naturally existed with lush green environs, permitting water to percolate into the ground. However, urbanisation brought encroachments on to the natural streams, not only choking them but also polluting them. The natural flow of water was also obstructed and not much can be done to alter this right away.”  Addressing peripherals Having said that, in the upcoming urban areas in peripheral Bengaluru, small watersheds can be created in the independent catchments. “We will have to prevent buildings from coming up on water bodies. If need be, we will have to acquire those that have already come up, and set up small individual treatment plants in each watershed to address pollution. In short, the concept of urban watershed management will need to be brought in. We can also create recharge structures in many parks that have come up in lake beds or water bodies, where groundwater can be recharged after treating the water,” said Yale..  Planning needed As for the city’s disappeared waterbodies, the expert stated that these natural catchments can still be used to initiate groundwater recharge even while retaining the buildings that occupied them. Emphatically making his point that “planning needs to be done scientifically, not politically,” he highlighted that priority areas to create micro watersheds can be identified using technology. “Undue caution has to be adopted to ensure that water recharging is not contaminated,” he warned. As for getting builders and developers to adopt water bodies as part of their CSR initiatives, he said it will work if the government can make it mandatory and have a clear plan. “The whole exercise will fall in place, provided the right technique and approach are in line,” concluded Yale.  Rainwater harvesting is done in households but when it comes to groundwater recharge across the city, it is imperative to ensure the water is free of contaminants.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||7 ideas for a home revamp||A happy home translates into a happy family. And with most of us spending so much time indoors now, we suggest a few easy tweaks to make every room in your home cheerful and happy. The best part? You can DIY this without any major changes to your décor. 1. The entryway  The entranceis what makes the first impression on visitors, so make sure that it makes a really good one. A brightly coloured wall, a stand-out piece of art and a few artefacts will make this place the perfect approach to your home. 2. Living room  Most oftenthan not the living room is the one place in the home which sees maximum traffic through the day. Naturally chances of clutter are extremely high. Edit ruthlessly and keep only the pieces that are a must. Make a place for all your things and put everything in its place — ensure that you have enough baskets and racks at hand. 3. Dining area  Replace the sterile white lights in the dining room with a warm light-casting bulb. A yellow glow creates a warm and inviting ambience, one that invites you to relax and linger. If you want to retain your white light for tasks, add a lamp with a yellow bulb. Switch this on at dinner time and see the difference. 4. The bedroom  Forego thelong drapes and get summer-friendly chiks installed in your boudoir. They keep out the sun and create an impression of more space than curtains. If these eco-friendly window treatments can be inlaid with some khus (vetiver), you are sure to enjoy the sweetest and soundest of sleep. 5. The children’s room  A child is the king of his castle, err, bedroom. Make sure you make it seem like a castle/fort by investing in child-friendly bedding and furniture. Create a bright and vibrant atmosphere by bringing home bedlinen that’s made to order for a child. 6. The bathroom  Once a darkand dreary place, the bathroom is one room that everyone in the home frequents. It’s imperative to maintain good health! Add cheer to this somewhat neglected room with a set of colourful accessories. 7. Kitchen  The kitchen isthe heart of every home but somehow due to its busy nature ends up in a mess by the end of every day. Get it in order to make sure that finding everything is a breeze.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping agreements confidential||I live in an apartment complex comprising 18 flats with various UDS land sizes. You have discussed charging maintenance according to UDS in your earlier responses. One particular answer (from November 2019) states that the Tamilnadu Apartment Ownership Act ‘has partially come into force’. The response to another question (December 2019) mentions ‘maintenance charges can also be fixed in the bye-laws in accordance with the provisions of The Tamilnadu Apartment Ownership Act, i.e., on the basis of the UDS owned by each of the owners’. I would like to know if the clause, dealing with the charging of maintenance according to UDS in The Tamilnadu Apartments Ownership Act, has come into force. If so, since when? S Balasubramanian Chennai The Tamilnadu Apartments Ownership Act 1994 came into force in 1997. However, some provisions of the said Act are yet to be implemented. For instance, the Act contemplates a ‘Deed of Apartment’ and requires the same to be registered with the competent authority constituted under the Act. However, the said authority has not been notified yet. Moreover, when the sale deed for undivided share of land and construction agreement for the apartment are duly registered by paying the prescribed stamp duty and registration fees, another stipulation for registering a Deed of Apartment was felt as superfluous by the industry. We reliably understand that the Government is reconsidering the provisions of this Act in the light of The Real Estate (Regulation & Development) Act [RERA], Tamilnadu Combined Development and Building Rules 2019 and Tamilnadu Societies Registration Act 1975. Presently, collection of maintenance charges has to be done as per the provisions of Tamilnadu Apartments Ownership Act and there is no other law on this aspect. We have registered our Apartment Owners Association as a society with well-defined bye-laws. The copy of the tenancy agreement submitted to the Association by the flat owners (who let out their units) is available in the bye-laws. One of the flat owners says it is a private document between him and the tenant, so the agreement copy cannot be given to the association. Is he right? D Rajendran Chennai If a flat owner wishes to keep the financial terms with the tenant confidential, the same has to be respected. The Association can instead seek details/information on the personal particulars of the tenant and family members/other occupants along with copies of government issued identity proof and particulars of the period of lease for the records of the association.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Shades for the bathroom||Kitchen and bath accessory major Kohler recently launched the annual Colours by Kohler campaign. In its third year, the initiative aims at reinventing the bathroom with fresh shades. With colours like white and chrome synonymous with the shower area for years, the brand aims to introduce vibrant hues — Peacock, Thunder Grey, Truffle, among others — to make the space lively. As per a press note, these colours fit perfectly with any traditional, contemporary and transformational design style, making the range unique from a designer’s perspective.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Buyer affordability on the rise||Realty consultancy JLL recently announced the launch of its annual Home Purchase Affordability Index (JLL HPAI). The report revealed that from 2011 to 2020, home purchase affordability improved across key Indian cities which were part of the Index. This was despite a bigger fall in annual household income as compared to residential property prices. A sharp decrease in the cost of funding (average home loan rates reduced from ~8.9% in 2019 to 7.5% in 2020), more than offset the adverse impact of lower incomes on affordability, the report added. “We believe that the initial signs of revival were visible in the residential market in the third quarter of 2020, with sales of residential units witnessing an uptick,” says Ramesh Nair, CEO and Country Head, JLL India, adding how the analysis suggests that despite a fall in household income in 2020, home purchase affordability has increased in 2020 across all the markets under consideration. He adds, “Interestingly, in 2021, we’re expecting home purchase affordability to either remain at similar levels or improve. But the broader recovery of the residential market and the likely pace of translation of demand into actual sales volumes will be dependent largely upon the economic environment and the prevailing consumer sentiments.” Until 2019, JLL HPAI indicated that Hyderabad was the most affordable residential market. In 2020, Kolkata overtook Hyderabad to become the best market in terms of home purchase affordability. Mumbai continued to be the only market below the affordability threshold of 100. However, the report points out that Mumbai is the fastest moving city, showing a significant improvement on JLL HPAI from 47 in 2011 to 95 in 2020. As for sales, Mumbai accounted for 29% of the total sales in Q3 2020, while 22% of sales were contributed by Delhi NCR. Growth in sales activity was also driven by stronger demand in Chennai, Hyderabad and Pune. Prices remained largely stable across all the seven markets when compared to the previous quarter. It is important to note that developers in certain markets are providing moderate price discounts and flexible payment schemes to kickstart sales, thereby facilitating cash flows to tide over the crisis in the short term. These could be the first signs of a broader recovery of the residential market in the country. Increased affordability has not been enough to drive fence sitters to affect purchases, states the report. A home buyer considers the prevailing economic condition, employment scenario and future income flows. With the current muted consumer sentiment and uncertainty around job security, what is required is policies directed towards improving the overall economic outlook.  JLL India
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking stock of housing sales||Severely impacted by the pandemic, the top seven cities saw homes worth approx. Rs. 88,730 crore sold in the first three quarters of 2020 as against Rs. 1,54,320 crore in the corresponding period of 2019. This is a 43% decline, with total value reduction amounting to approx. Rs. 65,590 crore during the period. Anuj Puri, Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants, says, “As expected, the second quarter was lacklustre given the lockdowns and overall pressures on the economy. What is remarkable is how the third quarter stacked up, clearly indicating that buyer sentiment was in place and merely held at bay by uncertainty. Based on these results, there is now every reason to look at the coming festive season with confidence.” This return of sentiment, coupled with various festive offers and with attractive financial schemes, will produce a marked uptick, adds Puri. Between January and September 2020, as many as 87,460 units were sold across the top seven cities as against approx. 2.02 lakh units sold a year ago. However, the quarterly numbers indicate that the worst is over for the residential sector. Q3 2020 saw home sales values increase by more than 2.3 times to approx. Rs. 29,731 crore — up from Rs. 12,694 crore in the preceding quarter. Q1 2020 saw home sales worth approx. Rs. 46,306 crore. Despite the ongoing pandemic, end-users are making the most of bottomed-out property prices and historic low home loan rates and financial schemes offered by developers. The upcoming festive quarter (Oct.-Dec.) will probably see home sales values go up on the back of increased demand fed by financial schemes and offers. City-specific MMR was on top and clocked sales worth Rs. 49,313 crore in the first three quarters of 2020. On a yearly basis, MMR saw total sales value reduce by 22% — from Rs. 62,964 crore in 2019 to Rs. 49,313 crore this year. But, interestingly, as against 2018-period — when MMR recorded sales worth Rs. 47,242 crore — it became the only city to witness an increase (of 4%). Bengaluru sale values in the first nine of months of 2020 stood at Rs. 12,569 crore as against Rs. 28,159 crore in the 2019-period. The city saw sales of nearly 17,020 units between January to September 2020. Sales in NCR were approx. Rs. 9,430 crore in the first nine of months of 2020 as against Rs. 24,860 crore in 2019, registering a 62% annual drop. Pune saw housing sales worth Rs. 8,692 crore in the first nine of months of 2020 as against Rs. 17,524 crore back in 2019. The overall units sold in the three quarters this year is 14,200 units. Hyderabad witnessed housing sales worth Rs. 3,116 crore in this period as against Rs. 9,391 crore back in 2019. The overall units sold in the three quarters here is approx. 4,980 units. Kolkata saw sales of 4,800 units in 2020 till September whose total value is estimated to be Rs. 2,833 crore as against Rs. 5,848 crore in 2019-period. Chennai saw housing sales worth Rs. 2,777 crore in the three quarters of 2020 as against Rs. 5,575 crore last year. The city also recorded home sales of nearly 4,280 residential units in 2020 (till September).  Jump in volume Data suggests that the worst seems to be over for the Indian residential sector as sales went up in the third quarter of 2020. Housing sales value in the top seven cities in Q3 2020 collectively rose to Rs. 29,731 crore as against Rs. 12,694 crore in the preceding quarter — a significant q-o-q jump of 134% over Rs. 46,306 crore of the pre-Covid-19 quarter. Chennai housing sales values jumped up almost 3.3 times — from Rs. 314 crore in Q2 2020 to over Rs. 1,039 crore in Q3 2020. NCR was next, recording a jump of 157% in its sales value — from Rs. 1,263 crore in the second quarter of 2020 to over Rs. 3,246 crore in the third quarter. Hyderabad sales values went up by 152% — from Rs. 410 crore in the second quarter to nearly Rs. 1,032 crore in Q3 2020. MMR saw homes worth Rs. 16,500 crore sold in Q3 2020 against Rs. 6,748 crore in the preceding quarter — an increase of 145%. Pune’s housing sales value stood at Rs. 2,968 crore in Q3 2020 against Rs. 1,321 crore in preceding quarter — a 125% increase.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Co-working spaces enter housing projects||Amidst several pandemic-induced changes within Indian real estate, many developers are now mulling the viability of incorporating co-working spaces in their residential projects to align with the new work-from-home (WFH) realities. There are at least two possibilities — retrofitting co-working spaces into existing clubhouses, and incorporating such a feature at the very design stage for new projects. Retrofitting calls for key modifications, especially in structures originally intended for socialising and community activities. Offering co-working spaces as an added feature in residential or mixed-use developments is definitely a timely notion. Many people are finding it difficult to work purely from home due to distractions and space/ infrastructure constraints. In-house clientèle If the objective is to cater only to a captive clientèle — residents within the project — developers can make on-premises co-working spaces a USP and market their product accordingly. Given that WFH is now an accepted norm, this added feature will help attract more buyers and help developers sell their product faster. It will further enhance the overall facilities and offerings of the project, which is excellent for branding. However, to add this feature or facility, the size of the project matters a lot. For instance, a mid-segment project having more than 300 units and a sizeable clubhouse could sustain such a facility. It would be harder to incorporate in smaller projects. For high-end projects at prime locations, with the exception of boutique luxury projects built on small plots, the developer could feasibly incorporate a co-working space within a project. Attracting external users If the developer intends to attract clientèle from beyond the captive zone and offer co-working space for both sets of clients, success will mostly depend on the location of the project. To target both resident and external clients, projects having dedicated co-working spaces must be located close to major office and public transport hubs. If such spaces are within a mixed-use development, they can be easily managed by the developers themselves. In both cases, the rentals may vary depending on facilities on offer — but they are much lower than conventional commercial spaces and come with added facilities such as high-speed internet, waiting areas, flexible workstations, etc.   Challenges ahead If the developer intends to focus only on co-working spaces for residents, there is no major challenge other than the added maintenance costs in the long run. This can be charged as one-time cost from buyers, or on usage basis. Moreover, since this space is exclusively for residents, commercial growth is not a factor — rather, it is meant to enhance the appeal of the project and add to its overall desirability. If the co-working space is to be retrofitted into the existing clubhouse, decisions would have to be made on how much of the available space can be used for that purpose. It is to be assumed that residents may not agree to have the entire space taken up by the set up. If the objective is to attract external clientèle as well, the operator will need to factor in commercial growth. For this, the challenge is to keep up with the outside competition. The operator will need to regularly re-invest in terms of infrastructure, facilities, upgrade internet facilities, etc. Hence, there will be an overall cost burden which needs to be met by increasing footfalls. Analysing demand In either scenario, the potential demand for in-house co-working spaces may be temporary and limited to the duration of the pandemic’s worst impact. We are already witnessing a significant part of the previously WFH workforce returning to their offices. While in some instances this is due to the insistence of the employers, it is becoming evident that many Indians miss the focus and community that their office environments provided them with. This return migration would not impact larger co-working spaces meant to draw footfalls from all around — the demand for such spaces is strong and growing. However, it would be interesting to see how relevant co-working spaces exclusively for residents will be when the pandemic and its disruptive impact on work location choices reduces and more people are attending office again.  The writer is Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||7 ways for a home revamp||A happy home translates into a happy family. And with most of us spending so much time at home these days, we suggest a few easy tweaks to make every room in your home cheerful and happy. The best part? You can DIY this without any major changes to your décor. 1.The entryway The entrance is what makes the first impression on visitors, so make sure that it makes a really good one. A brightly coloured wall, a stand-out piece of art and a few artefacts will make this place the perfect approach to your home. 2.Living room Most often than not the living room is the one place in the home which sees maximum traffic through the day. Naturally chances of clutter are extremely high. Edit ruthlessly and keep only the pieces that are a must. Make a place for all your things and put everything in its place — ensure that you have enough baskets and racks at hand. 3.Dining area  Replace the sterile white lights in the dining room with a warm light-casting bulb. A yellow glow creates a warm and inviting ambience, one that invites you to relax and linger. If you want to retain your white light for tasks, add a lamp with a yellow bulb. Switch this on at dinner time and see the difference. 4.The bedroom  Forego thelong drapes and get summer-friendly chiks installed in your boudoir. They keep out the sun and create an impression of more space than curtains. If these eco-friendly window treatments can be inlaid with some khus (vetiver), you are sure to enjoy the sweetest and soundest of sleep. 5.The children’s room  A child is the king of his castle, err, bedroom. Make sure you make it seem like a castle/fort by investing in child-friendly bedding and furniture. Create a bright and vibrant atmosphere by bringing home bedlinen that’s made to order for a child. 6.The bathroom  Once a darkand dreary place, the bathroom is one room that everyone in the home frequents. It’s imperative to maintain good health! Add cheer to this somewhat neglected room with a set of colourful accessories. 7.Kitchen  The kitchen isthe heart of every home but somehow due to its busy nature ends up in a mess every day. Get your kitchen in order and organise it so that finding everything is a breeze.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons from a pandemic||Our need for space, natural light, ventilation and access to greenery has never been felt this strongly. Especially for those living in cramped and dense urban settings, forced to stay indoors for the last six months. Humans are very much a part of nature and access to sunlight and fresh air is not only rejuvenating, both mentally and physically, but also promotes healing. During the 1918 influenza pandemic, it was found that severely ill flu patients, who were nursed outdoors, recovered better than those who were treated indoors. A combination of natural light and greenery resulted in faster recoveries. Considering this, it is imperative that our built environment provides us with opportunities to remain close to nature for our own health and wellbeing. However, we have been destroying that very nature to create our cities and live in enclosed, man-made spaces. Biophilia, according to biologist E.O. Wilson, is ‘an innate and genetically determined affinity of human beings with the natural world’. This connection is essential not only for our health and well-being but also for our planet’s sustenance. The big question, though, is whether this realisation will continue to stay within us even after this crisis is over. Only if it does will the future of urban design result in eco-friendly buildings that exist in harmony with our surroundings. However, looking at the past, it would not be wrong to assume that it won’t be long before people go back to their fast-paced, frenzied design and construction practices. These systems, unfortunately, do not focus on users but on total built up area and cost. If we were to ensure our building practices stay healthy, here’s what needs to be done: Our building codes and regulations should focus on user health and well-being and not only on FSI / FAR, setbacks and building heights. Codes will have to mandate minimum requirements for natural light, ventilation and access to green spaces. Natural and healthy building materials should be promoted. These, along with clean energy, rain water harvesting, waste water management and solid waste management will ensure our cities will last longer. In other words, all new buildings should comply with green building standards. The building plan approval process should also mandate the owner to tend to his/her surrounding neighbourhood. Streetwise zoning codes should be initiated and enforced prior to awarding plan approvals, wherein each of us are also held responsible for our surrounding environment. For example, regulations should insist plot owners plant trees along their plot. The study of environmentally-sensitive design practices should be brought in, and, in a much more vigorous manner in architecture colleges. Students need to understand the importance of designing built spaces in harmony with nature. Most importantly we, as building professionals should continue to educate the public on the importance and need for eco-sensitive building design and construction, their benefits to human welfare and the planet’s health. This ongoing education should be mandatory, lest we forget today’s crisis and remember our lessons when the next crisis hits us.  (The author is the founder of Green Evolution, a sustainable architecture firm)
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Home as a spa||Be it about living at large, visiting a shrine or enjoying a good meal, people would define it as having an experience. An easier said than understood statement, the abstract notion of experience is also the essence of a lived-in house. Definitely a subjective term, experience can have certain derivatives that can convert an ordinary place of living into an extra-ordinary abode. There are no fixed rules to achieve the above, yet critical thinking towards plan making, daylight, indoor to outdoor connectivity, materiality and such others can create that elusive nature connect. Light is a phenomena of ecology determining visibility, suggesting distance and offering clarity. It also creates heat, as such should be handled carefully. Let daylight flood into the house from multiple sources in different intensities - external verandahs, indoor courts, top skylights, glass tiles, tall windows, properly oriented jaalis, split roofs - such that the indoor spaces also come alive with varied moods. Let us connect to light to convert the machine to live in into a meditative space. A major comfort giving factor is air, unfortunately cloistered up inside houses today, leading to stuffy spaces or sickening, air conditioned interiors. Just placing one large window in one wall does not suffice, but designing for air needs to attend to cross movement, displacement ventilation and body-level breeze. Let the building breathe, for us to experience it. Strangely for many people, the idea of a house has meant creating indoors and shutting out the outdoors. It cannot be justified by any number of reasons such as small site, security, dust or mosquitoes, unless we ignore the eco experience. Opening up the indoors to outdoor is so easy with the modern hardware enabling us to have sliding and folding shutters, french doors or merely folding doors, without much compromise on security. Let the outdoors be just an inch lower than indoors, so a child can walk out safely. If none of these, there can be larger windows to look out all the time. Visually, the best connect to ecology comes from construction materials. Instead of staring at a chemical paint, let us merely glance at a natural material, the experience of feeling one with nature starts. Be it local soil as cob, variety of mud walls, clay bricks, rough stones, wooden windows, bamboo lattice, granite slabs, laterite columns – let them be visible exposed, without cement mortar or artificial paints. Manufactured materials have so dominated us, we have become blind to products of nature, which are like our siblings, we too being a product of nature. We all vibe together. We get our best nature connect today while staying at health spas, resorts, jungle lodges and weekend retreats. Such eco-experience can be here right within our homes, if we care for eco-architecture and design not for social images, but for natural images. Sathya Prakash Varanashi  (The author is an architect working on eco-friendly designs)
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||A sweater sets the mood||Let’s start with the good bits. While the country’s second digital fashion season, Lakmé Fashion Week Festive 2020, began with Manish Malhotra’s couture presentation titled Ruhaaniyat ( 282K viewson the official LFW Instagram page ), the first ‘show’ I saw belonged to 11.11 ( 106K views ). Not that I didn’t see Malhotra’s later. I did, and enjoyed the unabashed luxury and opulence of his embellished lehengas and elegant sherwanis . But it was the simplicity of a single indigo-dyed jumper, shown being made by hand from scratch, that stuck in my mind. There is no greater luxury any designer could show today; all my peers will be wearing this 11.11 sweater soon, I know. It spoke for the entire collection, and revealed precisely where 11.11’s strength lies. It was the idea — raw fibre being spun into yarn, dyed indigo, and then knit into a simple jumper all by hand — that marked it out. This is what an Indian brand has to offer, the video said, loud and clear.  The India story  But there are other ways of showing what your country has to offer; a lesson driven home by the All About India show ( 104K views ) that included capsule collections by six designers. It began with Payal Khandwala’s oversized floral motifs in j amdani from Phulia in West Bengal. Next came Rajesh Pratap Singh’s futuristic i kat saris for Satya Paul, developed in Puttapaka in Telengana. True to her love for linen, Anavila Misra took off to Dumka in Jharkhand to mix it with the k hatwa weave. Suket Dhir showed contemporary silhouettes in Banarasi brocades, while Urvashi Kaur’s updated s hibori and tie-dyes came from the clusters she works with in Haryana and Rajasthan, developing skills and innovating with the communities there. Meanwhile, Abraham & Thakore looked to Farrukhabad in Uttar Pradesh for the region’s famed block prints, especially in the delicate gold khadi technique that they utilised to theatrical effect. The sari, too, had its moment. From Parsi g ara -bordered Uppadas by Gaurang Shah ( 106K views ) to metallic moon-phase drapes in Banarasi brocade by Hemang Agrawal ( 102K views ), there were enough points of interest to ensure a good retail response in a market slowly waking up to India’s festive season in the midst of a global pandemic. Even Rimzim Dadu, who showed as part of the joint finale (a concept unique to Indian fashion weeks; 230K views ) with Saaksha & Kinni, made a strong case for this timeless drape. And she did so by making it — through her unique sculptural methods and reflective surfaces — timeless.  Digital bumps  So far, so good. But this review could well have come from a regular, pre-COVID fashion week at the Jio Garden in Mumbai. How did LFW being fully digital work apart from the absolute numbers of views it garnered? We must look to the experience itself. The first among them was the virtual show format, which, going by the CGI, was not worth the effort. The Gen Next category, which I always look forward to, was ill served with outmoded graphics and backdrops that drew attention away from the clothes. Another designer had a post-apocalyptic Pleistocene fantasy going with woolly mammoths come back to life amid a ruined cityscape overrun with tropical foliage. Yet another featured giant charkha wheels spinning in the background like the windmills of sustainability, flanked by CGI pillars that tried their hardest to look vintage. These are points of personal aesthetic. So a deeper dive into the digital experience becomes necessary. The problems, I am sorry to say, began from day 1, when logging on to the official LFW website became troublesome. I chalked it up to the site being overloaded, and satisfied myself with viewing the shows on their Instagram handle. What I looked forward to was the ‘virtual showroom’, a place for designers to conduct B2B and B2C business. While I’m unable to comment on the former, as I never registered as a buyer, the process of registration, even a few days after LFW ended, is no cakewalk. The website crashes with amazing regularity, and, in case it doesn’t, you will still need to be approved by a back-end team to access the showroom and designers’ collections. The ideas are there, but the execution is where they hit a snag. And as I type this, I am glad we’re going through these teething troubles. If anything, it is these problems that will hopefully show designers how important it is for them to invest in their individual online presences. Here’s hoping.  The author is a fashion commentator and Communications Director at the House of Angadi.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Giving the index finger||Dear Don-bhaiTrump, You do know we adore you. Kamala Mamis will come and go but our loyalties are with you. After all, when you attended our do in Houston, did we not ask our NRI brothers to vote for you? And when you came here and spoke so eloquently about Swami Vivekamunnund and Veerat Kooli, did we not cheer you loudly? There was much hugging and hand-pumping, remember? It was all good. Then you had to spoil it all by saying India’s air is filthy. I think you’ve come to this hasty conclusion based on our ranking, 179 out of 180, according to some dubious air quality study. That kind of short-sighted evaluation by western ‘scholars’ completely ignores our pre-eminent culture and its inherent wisdom. That our air is thick with unbreathable particulate matter is deliberate . What your tiny western eyes perceive as air pollution is our 12,000-year-old tradition of making our air suitable for the smooth take-off, comfortable flight and glitch-free landing of our pushpaka vimanams . Anyone who has read Sage Vijayananda Mallyodri’s treatise on ancient air travel ( Majama Ka Raja ) knows thick air is imperative for sky travel. That, and nubile akasha kanyas who give you two-minute upma in handy little cups. Now that we are clearing misconceptions, let’s deal with some of the others as well – results of sub-standard studies – that show our incomparable land in a poor Nehruvian light. Another recent lie I came across is that we are 94th out of 107 countries on the Global Hunger Index. How uninformed you westerners are, I tell you. While all of you gobble Big Macs and cheesecake with impunity, become morbidly obese and get all manner of health issues, we Indians fast . I can assure you that the ranking in question was done on an ekadashi day when most Indians skip their meals in order to develop ancient six-packs like our gods. What you say is akin to dubbing a spacecraft’s moon landing on amavasya day a failure. Where will it land when there is no moon, for god’s sake? Also, apparently we are ranked 147th out of 157 countries on the Inequality Index. As if. In our ancient land, we have several levels of equality. How can everyone have the same equal? It just so happens that some of us are more equal than others. But more equal and less equal is still equal, no? Please study our culture before you make such sweeping statements. You really think we could be 120th out of 122 countries on the Water Quality Index? What a laugh. We have Ganga Maiyya with us, fools. One drop of it is all we need to purify ourselves. Plus, which country produces more rain songs than us? You think that would be possible if we didn’t have high-grade bottled mineral water for our lead actors to cavort in? Then there is our 144th rank among 156 countries on the UN World Happiness Index. What an utter lie. We Indians are so deliriously happy we need to voluntarily depress ourselves on a regular basis. We just pretend to be unhappy so as not to attract drishti . Plus, we have also trained ourselves to look cross to prevent neighbours, friends and random uncles from asking us for hand loans. As for being 142nd out of 180 on the World Press Freedom Index, are you serious? Haven’t you seen the istri vandis on every street corner of our country? You think that would be possible if we didn’t have freedom to press? Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Ikat for a start||Lockdown or not, the last few months were a time of activity at The House of Angadi. The Bengaluru-based brand, renowned for its kanjeevarams , Banarasis and Kota dorias , was finalising the first collection of its just launched ready-to-wear label, Alamelu. “It is a breakaway from preconceived notions of what is considered ‘Indian’ in fashion and design,” says founder and creative director, KH Radharaman, adding, “I want to create a modern design vocabulary that is season-less, and technique- and region-agnostic.” His engineering background is reflected in the textile manipulations. With a contemporary palette — think luminous eggshell tones to jewel-like ruby — the cuts are relaxed, and play with proportions and layers. “For the first collection, we have done a tight edit of just over 30 pieces [from tops and tunics to pants]. The idea is to present a truly modern design offering for the ever-evolving woman of today,” he adds. Does he have a favourite? “While all the designs are close to my heart, my two favourites are the pant suit and our signature trench coat. They are the perfect representation of what Alamelu means to me.” Edited excerpts from an interview: Why a ready-to-wear label now ?   Honestly, given that many of our textiles have adorned the collections of international design houses for many years now [they exported fabrics and collaborated with brands], we probably should have done a ready-to-wear line earlier. As a designer, my first love has always been Indian textiles. This is where I chose to focus my energies for the past 10 years [under my other label, Advaya], which is why the RTW brand has taken time to launch. That said, I had been thinking of this label for over a year and it is an outcome of my design philosophy and a culmination of many ideas that have built up over the years. Inspiration behind the collection.  Alamelu’s first collection, Architexture, draws inspiration from the various ways in which Modernist architecture incorporates layers, volumes, and proportions. To me the idea of Modernism lies in the spirit of purposeful innovation and region agnostic design language. Hence I chose two distinct directions for this collection to make it truly international. While on the one hand it celebrates the timeless beauty of the i kat technique, on the other I have created a range of never-before-seen silk fabrics. The i kats have an abstract and geometric visual vocabulary, and explores patterns ranging from Houndstooth to Yayoi Kusama-esque polka dots, all woven by hand. I have also explored surfaces through my textiles, creating textures not through pleating or other post production techniques but at the weaving stage itself. Why i kat  as a technique ?   I chose i kat for Alamelu’s first collection for both emotional and practical reasons. My family and I have a lifelong relationship with i kat [my father was one of the early pioneers of using it in silk]. It is also the one weaving technique that crosses all geographical boundaries, and has multiple interpretations across the world. Experiments with textile surface s .   Most textiles in use today, especially for apparel, tend to be two dimensional in nature. Our surface engineering techniques transform silk yarn into three-dimensional textures, resulting in fabrics that shimmer like rippling waters, yet remain lighter than air. This has been achieved through the interplay of warp and weft, and is a new design direction. What next?  From a business point of view, Alamelu’s design philosophy is aimed at capturing the attention of design-conscious women across the world. In keeping with this, our next steps will include international expansion through e-commerce and retail presence in strategic global locations. All of this dovetails with the overall mission to keep pushing the boundaries of Indian design. Available at Angadi Heritage, Ensemble, and Ogaan; from Rs. 11,900 upward
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Ballot battles||Red, Wine & Blue  Thissisterhood is “harnessing the power of suburban women” to make a change — by bonding over wine and politics. Started by strategic consultant Katie Paris, it is using #VinoTheVote to mobilise Democrats (and the undecided) to go out and vote for Joe Biden in Ohio. Members’ social media feeds are filled with women representing the ‘Suburban Housewife’ (a term often used by US president Donald Trump), accompanied by funny captions. Details: redwine.blue 60 Minutes President Trump’s interview with veteran 60 Minutes host Lesley Stahl drew 16.8 million total viewers. Although Trump apparently cut short the taped interview, which shared screen time with opponent Biden’s chat with Norah O’Donnell, it beat the numbers from Stormy Daniels’ interview with Anderson Cooper in 2018. On 60 Minutes YouTube channel. Late night hosts  Last Week Tonight with John Oliver got a head start with an election special three weeks ago. Then Jimmy Fallon and The Roots rapped about how to properly complete Pennsylvania’s mail-in ballot, while Jimmy Kimmel shared an update on his son’s health, urging people to ‘vote with your heart’. On election night, Emmy and Peabody Award-winning late night host Stephen Colbert will host a one-hour live special onShowtime, reacting in real-time to state-by-state results. Trevor Noah’s Daily Show also has plans for live coverage titled Votegasm 2020: What Could Go Wrong? (Again).  Zen with Jay Bradley US voters (and interested candidates across the world) are encouraged to find their ‘happy place’ before the chaos of election night in a 60-minute guided workshop on spiritual breathwork (a conscious breathing practise which helps people get centred). The Los Angeles-based wellness coach will lead the session via Zoom on November 2. Email to register: eerath@michelemariepr.com #AmbitionSuitsYou Wondering about the hot pink suit that Mandy Moore, Zoe Saldana and Kerry Washington, among many other female celebrities, have worn while voting? They’re all sporting a collaboration between Argent (a women’s workwear brand favoured by Hillary Clinton during the 2016 election) and Supermajority (an organisation fighting for a more equitable future for women). The four-piece collection, available in sizes 0 to 24, includes the suit, a white Super Stacked T-shirt, and pins to customise your statement look. Details: @argent on Instagram.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital witnesses new single-day COVID peak||The Capital on Friday reported 5,891 COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours — another single-day peak —, according to a heath bulletin by the Delhi government. Moreover, 47 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours. The bulletin stated that 4,433 recoveries were reported and 59,641 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 9.99%. There are 32,363 active cases in the Capital. The total number of cases now stands at 3,81,644 with 6,470 deaths and 3,42,811 recoveries. The number of cases has been spiking here for three consecutive days with 5,739 cases reported on Thursday, 5,673 on Wednesday and 4,853 on Tuesday. 3,158 containment zones The number of containment zones has risen to 3,158 from 3,113 on Thursday and 19,064 patients are under home isolation, the bulletin added. Also, out of the 15,749 available hospital beds, 9,645 were vacant and out of 7,887 beds at dedicated COVID Care Centres, 968 were occupied. At the dedicated COVID-19 health centers that have 527 beds, 201 are vacant.  Health Minister Satyendar Jain, who had attributed the rising figures to an increase in testing of even asymptomatic patients, on Friday reiterated the importance of wearing face mask. “People should wear masks as a vaccine till there is one. The spread of the virus can be stopped to a large extent if everyone wears a mask,” Mr. Jain said, adding that it is more beneficial than a lockdown. Despite the rising cases, L-G Anil Baijal approved the government’s proposal to allow buses to run with full seating capacity. Buses had been running with a maximum of 20 passengers so that social distancing could be maintained. The government, had on October 23, sought permission for full seating without any passenger standing on buses as busstops in the city has started to witness long queues as a result of reduced capacity. Now, a bus will be able to accommodate 40- 45 passengers.
31 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||‘Half of Bhubaneswar population may have been exposed to virus’||Half of Bhubaneswar’s population may have been exposed to the SARS-CoV-2 infection and developed antibodies, finds the third sero-survey conducted by the Regional Medical Research Laboratory (RMRC). “The present and third sero-survey was carried out from October 16 to 18. As many as 1,403 samples were taken for tests in 25 clusters or wards of city. We have found that antibody has formed in 50% of the city’s population,” said Sanghamitra Pati, Director of RMRC, an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) institute, here on Friday. Sero-surveys are conducted by drawing blood samples and checking for a specific class of antibodies that appear within two weeks of an infection.  First round of survey “In the first round of sero-survey conducted in Bhubaneswar on July 11, we had found 1.42% sero-prevalence in community level. Since more than 98% were not exposed, it was then decided to do another survey. The sero-survey done on August 28 indicated sero-prevalence at 5.1%,” said Dr. Pati. “The present October 16-18 survey corresponds to infection status prior to three weeks ago that means if fresh sero-survey is carried out, the sero-prevalence would go up further,” she observed. According to findings, there has been variation in sero-prevalence from one ward to another. For example, 28% prevalence was found in Ward-55 while it was 63% in Ward-16. In 10 out of 25 wards, the sero-prevalence was above 50%. There was above 60% sero-prevalence in five wards. The survey did not find variation as far as gender was concerned. Both men and women were exposed to SARS-CoV-2 uniformly. More than 90% people, who had antibody, were asymptomatic. “One third of people had undergone tests through Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) or Rapid Antigen Tests which shows effectiveness of the door-to-door survey of Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation,” she said. ‘Can’t be complacent’ “The outcome is a matter of relief because the sero-survey gives indication about what lies ahead. Since 50% are not exposed, we cannot be complacent. We need to wear mask and maintain social distancing,” the RMRC director remarked.
31 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Conmen dupe many with promise of riches from ‘Aladdin’s lamp’||In an incident that reminds how human greed is beyond reason, two persons have been arrested in Meerut for allegedly duping people with what they claimed is ‘Aladdin’s Chiragh’. Meerut Police has arrested Ikramuddin and Anis on the complaint of one Laiq Ahmed for allegedly duping him of Rs. 2.5 crore after promising him that all his wishes would be fulfilled through the magical lamp. “Laiq, who apparently specialises in Ayurveda and claims to be a doctor used to treat the mother of the accused Ikramuddin, himself a tantrik (occult practitioner). Ikramuddin promised the doctor that he had a lamp that would make him a billionaire,” said SHO, Brahmpuri Subhash Atri. Anis and Ikramuddin have been booked under sections 386 (extortion after putting a person under fear of death or grievous hurt and 420 (Cheating) of IPC. Mr. Ahmed, who claims to have spent some time in London, told the police that Ikramuddin and his brother-in-law Anis would make a djinn appear in a dark room. “When Laiq would ask them to sell the lamp, they would scare him by saying that it would bring bad things to him. Ultimately, they agreed to sell [the lamp] him for Rs. 70 lakh but told him not to use it for six months otherwise the djinn would destroy his family,” said Mr. Atri. According to the SHO, however, Ikramuddin confessed to having duped Laiq of only Rs. 40 lakh. “He said the rest of the amount was paid back to the doctor to win his trust. We are investigating his account and would attach a house that he says he built from the amount received.” Mr. Atri said the modus operandi of the accused included winning the trust of the people by first showing them the results of the magical lamp. “For instance, they would ask people to give them Rs. 5 lakh and give them Rs. 7 lakh in return. In some cases, they would bury the money in some secluded place and ask the client to go there and dig it out. Such practices convinced people of their power.” Mr. Atri said police were tracking the duo for some time. “As they have no fixed place of residence, it was hard to fish them out. Such practices mostly work on word of mouth. Finally, after a tip-off, they were nabbed.”
31 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||AMU students hold protest march, demand apology from Macron||Scores of Aligarh Muslim University students took out a protest march on Thursday, demanding an “apology” from French President Emmanuel Macron for hurting the feelings of Muslims across the world. Raising slogans signifying universal brotherhood, the students demanded a boycott of French products. “We are also planning to lay siege to the French Embassy in Delhi,” said Farhan Zuberi, a student leader — who has recently joined the youth wing of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM). “Since 2011, Islam  is being deliberately maligned in France. Be it banning the naqab [head cover] or publishing satirical cartoons of the Prophet, Muslims are not being allowed to practise their religion freely. Respecting the sentiments of other religions is the crux of democracy. But in France, the feelings of Muslims are being deliberately hurt,” said Mr. Zuberi. He said AMU students would boycott French products. “We made a poster where the names of such products were listed and later it was burnt. I appeal to the well-wishers of the AMU to boycott French products,” he added. Reacting to killings in a French church, Mr. Zuberi said: “It was a personal reaction of somebody who was hurt by the policies of the French government. We are nobody to justify it. It is for the judges to decide. His act should not be associated with the entire Muslim world. He took a violent step. We are non-violently putting our point across.” Ansab Aamir, former secretary of the University Literary Club, who was not part of the protest, said most students condemned the French government for how it reacted to the killing of the teacher.   ‘AMU flays violence’ He said religious extremism of all kinds was bad and students of AMU had been condemning violence of all forms, including religiously motivated, from the very beginning. “However, the way the French government tried to fuel religious extremism further rather than finding a common ground between the two civilisations is not acceptable to many people.”
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Lawyer seeks consent for proceedings against CBI DIG||A lawyer has made a representation to Delhi government Standing Counsel Rahul Mehra, seeking consent for initiating criminal contempt proceedings against CBI Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Raghavendra Vats. Advocate Amit Sahni, in his representation, sought consent under the Contempt of Courts Act to initiate proceedings of criminal contempt of court against the IPS officer, who allegedly beat a Public Prosecutor. The issue relates to Public Prosecutor Sunil Kumar Verma. He had told a trial court that he had filed a police complaint against DIG Vats for allegedly punching him in the face for not accelerating the framing of charges in a case involving Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s former private secretary Rajinder Kumar. The trial court has also issued summons to the DIG, and the CBI has initiated a fact-finding inquiry into the allegations of its prosecutor. Mr. Sahni has also written to the BCI for taking appropriate action regarding the incident of attack on the Public Prosecutor.
31 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana Dy. CM campaigns for Dutt in Baroda||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Friday joined the campaign for the coalition candidate in Baroda bypoll and addressed gatherings in half-a-dozen villages. The senior leader of Jannayak Janta Party attacked Congress and former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda for allegedly plundering the State for over a decade. With just three days left before the election campaign for the bypoll comes to an end, Mr. Chautala went on a whirlwind tour of the Assembly segment addressing gatherings at Gangana, Bhavarh, Medina, Rukhi and Rabhda in support of party’s nominee Yogeshwar Dutt. The Deputy CM, addressing residents, said Mr. Hooda and his son Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda did not visit Baroda in this term and are going door-to-door asking for the votes. He questioned them about the number of times that Mr. Hooda came forward for the development of Baroda and worked for the people. He alleged that Mr. Hooda looted the land of farmers and handed it over to outsiders like Robert Vadra. Mr. Chautala said Mr. Dutt, a wrestler, had brought accolades to the state both nationally and internationally and could take the issues of the people to the Prime Minister and the President, whereas the Congress candidate could not go beyond the Hoodas. Spearheading the Congress election campaign, Mr. Hooda, on the other hand, said Baroda bypoll was a battle for Chandigarh. Taking a jibe at Chief Minister Manohar Lal’s assurance for “participation in governance” of the region, Mr. Hooda said the hard-working, honest and self-respecting people of Baroda did not want a share in the government of plunder, crime and corruption, but wanted their own government. Mr. Hooda campaigned in Jasrana, Gumana, Aavli and Bilbilan in Baroda and addressed several public meetings seeking support for Congress candidate Induraj Narwal.
31 October 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab waives vehicle tax for bus operators||The Punjab government on Friday ordered 100% waiver on motor vehicle tax till December 31 for all stage carriage, mini and school buses, while deferring payment of arrears of taxes, without interest and penalty, to March 31, 2021. The directives were announced by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh at a virtual conference with private transport associations. An official statement said the move would result in benefit to the transport sector to the tune of Rs. 100 crore. Capt. Amarinder also directed Transport Minister Razia Sultana to discuss and resolve other issues of concern to mini private bus owners by next week. Though the Transport department had initially suggested waiver up to 50% of tax till December 31, the Chief Minister, responding to the concerns of transporters, overruled the department to announce 100% relief. It may be recalled that the transporters were earlier provided 100% relief for two months, till September 30, by the State government, said the statement. Capt. Amarinder took note of the problems faced by the transporters, who pointed out that with less than 10% commuters availing the bus services, they were unable to meet even the cost of diesel to run their vehicles. He agreed with the transporters that their industry needed further support from the State government in the present situation.
31 October 2020||Guwahati,||‘Miya Museum’: Assam Cong. warns its MLA||The Congress in Assam has asked its MLA Sherman Ali Ahmed to desist from pursuing the setting up of a museum reflecting the culture and heritage of the people living in ‘char-chaporis’ of the State. ‘Char’ in Assamese means sandbar while ‘chapori’ is flood-prone riverbank. These areas are associated with migrant Muslims of Bengali origin who are viewed as ‘Bangladeshis’. Assam Pradesh Congress Committee president Ripun Bora in a letter to the MLA asked him to refrain from making “any further controversial statement” on the issue that had given the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) a scope for polarising the people with “disinformation campaign and propaganda”. Mr. Ali represents the Congress from the Baghbor Assembly constituency in Barpeta district.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||shop.designmiami.com||“Collectible historic and contemporary furniture, lighting, objets d’art and more,” promises the new e-store from Design Miami. The online marketplace, launched in late June, showcases over 800 collectibles from 52 international galleries — necklaces to table lamps and ceramics to notebooks. The annual Art Basel on Miami Beach, slated to take place in December, has been cancelled because of the pandemic. With a $16 million economic impact annually, the organisers aim to support artists across the world by contributing sales proceeds to the GlobalGiving Coronavirus Relief Fund. Filter by category (jewellery, sculptures, textiles, etc) or galleries. Or choose from curated categories of Brutalist, French Mid-Century or Post-Modern styles. Bestsellers include French product designer Fabien Cappello’s Lampara de Frutas de Bronce, a Francesca Torzo ottoman and Le Corbusier Pierre JeanneretChandigarh, Indiabook, published by the Galerie Patrick Seguin. Pieces start from as little as $22.50 (approximately Rs. 1,700) for an art show catalogue from Milan’s Studio Vedèt and go up to $15,00,000 (approximately Rs. 11.16 crore) for French architect Jean Prouvé’s Demountable House. The site’s quick view format offers information such as gallery, product name, price and availability at a glance. All sales inquiries are routed through the respective galleries, so there is no direct purchase on the site. An option to add to cart and buy immediately would perhaps help move things along quicker.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||ikkis.in||After expanding their international reach with Italian design platform, WallpaperSTORE*, and the Asia website of Design Anthology, this New Delhi-based lifestyle brand has now launched their own e-commerce site. Designer Gunjan Gupta’s Ikkis (‘21’ in Hindi) focusses on using indigenous materials to give traditional objects a contemporary form. The home page gives a clear idea of the kind of products to expect, with well-shot photographs. If you have a slow internet connection, however, the page may take some time to load. The site navigation is simple and easy, with two categories — Limited and Unlimited — to shop from. The former includes collaborations with master craftsmen across India, which Gupta first curated for the Revelations Fine Craft Biennial in Paris last May. Kangan, a terracotta/ceramic line, draws inspiration from the women’s wrist accessory of the same name, and is created by National awardee Prithviraj Singh Deo from Orissa. Shatranj featuresbidriware (pure silver inlay on a metal alloy) combined with miniature terracotta pottery. This fusion is best seen in abidri chessboard with clay pieces. Meanwhile, Chuha showcases the tale of Hindu Goddess Karni Mata of Bikaner, Rajasthan, who transformed into a rat after her death. The hand-carved marble rats can be found on drinking bowls. The limited editions of 21 pieces each are price on request. The Unlimited collection of drinkware, serveware and décor reimagineschaiglasses with a stem, brass bowls that stack up to form amatkaorlota, and adamroo(percussion instrument) designed as a stool with copper mesh. Scrolling over (or single tap on mobile) shows the name of each product, but pricing is not visible unless you go to the page. With a minimal number of products, this option would make the shopping experience quicker.  From Rs. 1,850 onwards  Up next:Gift cards and wrapping options for the festive season.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Queen of quiet intensity||Two years ago, in January, filmmaker Mira Nair told Tabu over dinner that she was planning to adapt Vikram Seth’s novel, A Suitable Boy , as a series for BBC One. “I was taken in by [courtesan] Saeeda Bai’s character and said if Mira is directing, I’d blindly agree,” she recalls, over the phone from Mumbai. Despite the mixed reactions the series garnered since it premiered in the U.K., and recently on Netflix India (for its forced dialogue and deviation from the original), Tabu has been receiving appreciation for her nuanced portrayal. Then again, when has she ever made a role seem anything but effortless? The actor has made it a habit to impress us with her on-screen performances before disappearing into her own world — more so now, in the age of social media and clickbait headlines. As we chat, I’m reminded of the many conversations we’ve had since the early 2000s. Her disarming candour hasn’t changed. But while she is game to talk at length about her creative universe, she will not comment on things beyond her work.  A courtesan’s life  Published 27 years ago and spanning 1,349 pages, Seth’s landmark novel narrates the story of Rupa Mehra’s hunt for a ‘suitable boy’ for her daughter Lata in a newly-Independent India that is preparing for its first elections. Tabu says she has not read it. For Nair’s series, Welsh screenwriter Andrew Davies condensed it into eight (later six) episodes. Interestingly, for someone who has played several powerful female characters from classical literature — be it in the Shakespeare adaptations Maqbool and Haider , or Rajiv Menon’s take on Jane Austen’s Sense and Sensibility , Kandukondain Kandukondain — Tabu has often gone with the script and the director’s vision rather than read the original. For Saeeda, the actor met Seth personally, to understand how he wanted her to be portrayed on screen. “I wanted to see her from the writer’s mind — her emotional graph, as he sees it. Then I tried to do it my way,” she explains. Saeeda’s world is mostly confined to the four walls of her house, but the changing societal dynamics have a bearing on her. “It was a time when the courtesan culture was fading. Saeeda inherited her line of work from her grandmother and mother. However, the arts and literature enriched her views,” says Tabu, going into how she approached her character. Though the overarching inspiration for Saeeda was Begum Akhtar, she says there isn’t enough documentation of courtesans’ lives to draw references from. “I don’t know if the movies showed their lives [truthfully] or if they glamorised them. But I did not want to stereotype her.” Wanting to portray her role with authenticity, the actor also learned to play the tanpura and the harmonium. “The t anpura was relatively easier to learn,” she says, adding that a tutor was present during the shooting. “I didn’t want to press the wrong keys!”  For the love of handloom  The physicality of Saeeda, the way she dressed, also appealed to Tabu, who loves her Chanderis, Maheshwaris, jamdanis , muslins from Bengal, and pherans from Kashmir. On her visits to her hometown, Hyderabad, she is known to shop for handlooms — a love that comes from her grandmother, who used to wear starched Kota cottons, and her mother (she recalls a yellow kataan silk sari her mother wore for years). She picked up chikankari while shooting in Lucknow, and sourced Pochampally ikat masks from weavers in Telangana during lockdown. “The red sari for Saeeda’s opening scene was a last-minute decision. We thought she should wear a striking colour. [Costume designer] Arjun Bhasin picked a sari with exquisite hand embroidery andbadla[beaten metal work],” the actor says. For Bhasin — who dressed all 105 members of the cast and the hundreds of extras — it is his third time working with Tabu. “We’ve become good friends in the course of our three collaborations [ The Namesake , Life of Pi, and now A Suitable Boy ]. It is amazing to me how she slips into character so beautifully and yet brings such elegance and gravitas to each performance,” he says, adding that she understands the importance of how to use costume to highlight elements of her characters. “She wears clothes with such ease, never allowing the design to consume the performance. It is the best kind of compliment for me.”  Laughter and relevance  Tabu is still one of the most exciting actors of today. There is an aura of mystery around her, perhaps because she is guarded about her personal life. More than the longevity of her multilingual career — which spans Hindi, Telugu, Tamil, Bengali and Malayalam — it is the relevance and intrigue she brings with each new project that sets her apart. No matter how vapid the script, she elevates it. Her co-stars talk about her wit and comic timing. “I connect better with those who have a sense of humour. In fact, the women in my family are known for theirs. Why take things seriously all the time? It is good to laugh, but not trivialise things,” says Tabu, who enjoys watching comedies (Gulzar’s Angoor is her favourite). Needless to say, those who meet her, love her. Be it late artist-director M.F. Husain, who called her his muse and worked with her in the 2004 film, Meenaxi: A Tale of Three Cities , or fashion designer Gaurang Shah, for whom Tabu turned showstopper in February, at Lakmé Fashion Week. “I prefer that my models walk barefoot on the runway. During the last show, Tabu came in wearing an anarkali and heels, but quickly removed her footwear when she noticed that the models were barefoot. She has no hangups,” says Shah, who also worked with her on a short film (she did the voiceover). “She completed it in five minutes; she is very professional. She’s offered to sing for me the next time.” On her own terms  A Suitable Boy marks Tabu’s first collaboration with Ishaan Khatter, actor Shahid Kapoor’s younger brother who plays her love interest Maan. The script readings were an ice breaker, she says, sharing that “Ishaan is intelligent and extremely talented. He’s also a badmash and a good photographer”. Over the years, her younger co-stars have admitted how much in awe they are of her — one of the rare one-name actors, much like Rekha or Sridevi. In an interview with entertainment website Bollywood Hungama, Khatter called her “one of the legends of our time”, while Ayushmann Khurrana, who co-starred with her in Andhadhun , admitted on Hindustan Times ’ show Aur Batao, that he and his dad jointly crush over the 49-year-old. Does she see herself mentoring newer actors? “Me? A mentor? I am still learning,” Tabu laughs. Meanwhile, acting offers for OTT projects are coming her way. Tabu spent lockdown listening to story narrations over Zoom. “Apart from the story and my role, the director is important to me. I’ve been lucky to have worked with directors who have become long-standing friends,” she says, hastening to add that video sessions aren’t her thing. “The increased time in front of the computer left me with headaches; I’ve begun requesting audio narrations.” After back-to-back projects for two years, including Andhadhun , Telugu flick Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo and Jawaani Jaaneman , she looked at lockdown as an opportunity to slow down. “I managed to do some writing, though nothing specific,” she says, adding that on the work front she has the Bhool Bhulaiyaa sequel for now. Is she ready for her biography? After all, Saif Ali Khan, Priyanka Chopra Jonas and others have made headlines recently for their upcoming memoirs. “Publishing houses have approached me, but I don’t think I’ve led an earth-shattering life to have a biography. It is too early. Whatever I have to say about my work, I do that in interviews. What else is there to reveal?” she concludes.
31 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sisodia- brief||Education Minister Manish Sisodia while interacting with students of Ashoka University during an online class on entrepreneurship in governance encouraged them to join politics as the government needs skilled and knowledgeable professionals. “You don’t have to necessarily stand in elections, but by simply becoming a member, or even a party worker, you can engage in various departments where work on research, etc,” he said.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Christie’s fashion haul||Custom Hermès rarities, including a 2018 Étain Swift Leather Kelly Lakis 28 with gold hardware, and iconic Louis Vuitton offerings such as the Hermetic Explorer’s Zinc Cabin Trunk feature in Christie’s upcoming auction. Lots from the handbags and accessories selection will also be on view for those at Christie’s King Street in London. Other highlights for the holiday season include Chanel pieces like the 2014 White Lucite and Crystal Lego Clutch. From November 3 to 17 on christies.com
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The good life online||Meet celebrated chefs from across the world, including Wolfgang Puck, Mauro Colagreco, Matt Orlando, and Prateek Sadhu at theGQFood & Drink Festival. The two-day virtual event that takes place today and tomorrow will also feature sessions with Jacqueline Fernandez and Prakash Amritraj on mindful eating; YouTuber Mike Chen on his love for food and travel; and Rahul Akerkar and Thomas Zacharias on the late chef Floyd Cardoz. From 10.30 am to 7.30 pm. Details: gqindia.com/food-and-drink-festival
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||KMB goes virtual||The Kochi Muziris Biennale, which was slated to begin on December 12, has been officially moved to November 1, 2021. The fourth edition of the Students’ Biennale has been re-structured to take place online, with five curator-mentors: Adip Dutta, Archana Hande, Manoj Vyloor, Suresh K Nair, and Vasudha Thozhur. Other events that have gone online include the Art By Children activities, and the ongoing graphic novel workshop with Sarnath Banerjee. Details on kochimuzirisbiennale.org
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||World Vegan Day: On November 1, the UK's first fully-vegan butcher will open in London, offering meat-free versions of pulled pork, meatballs, “lobstah” salad, and chilli “non-carne”. Closer home, aša Beauty is readying to launch a line of vegan cosmetics with refill options. The ongoing Global Vegan Business Expo 2020 features virtual talks on building an eco-conscious brand, cooking workshops and more. Details: compassionmagazine.in
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Art and the unknown||Suburban Shadowsis an exhibition of recent works on paper by Prasanta Sahu, presented by Emami Art. Sahu’s solo show features what he calls “the unknown multitudes” — urban workers who provide essential services but remain unacknowledged and under-represented. Till November 30, on emamiart.com.Sky’s The Limitis an exhibition of new media work by seven artists, including Payal Kapadia, Rabia Ajaz and Michelle Poonawalla, at the Mediations Biennale, Poland. Catch the show on mediations.pl
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebration food||The Lodhi Bakery has introduced a Diwali hamper with an assortment of sweet and savoury confectionery. There is a cookie box with dark chocolate and cashew cookies, a Valrhona dark chocolate bar and white chocolate rocks, cashew nut tarts, sweet and sour almonds and herb cashew nuts, and a banana loaf in the basic box. Baskets can be customized keeping in mind dietary preferences as well, so you can include gluten-free breads too. At The Lodhi, New Delhi; Rs. 5,500 upwards; 011-43633333
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping up with the kids||The pandemic has put kids through some unprecedented experiences. To spruce up their space as they continue to remain at home, Peekaboo Patterns is offering up to 50% off on child-friendly furniture and home decor with fun prints. On peekaboopatterns.com. For the ones who solemnly swear that they are up to no good, pop culture brand Balenzia brings a line of Harry Potter socks. From Rs. 299 upwards, on balenzia.com. And if your child is craft-inclined, sign up for immersive experiences on Sony’s Yay! Dekho platform.
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||At home in style||The Oberoi, New Delhi has introduced In-Residence Dining where a team from the hotel will customise a menu for you and then execute it on site. Ingredients are locally sourced and you’ll get a taste of the food before you freeze on the spread. Chefs and a service team will come to your residence or office for gatherings not exceeding 25-30 people, at either an indoor or outdoor location. They’ll bring along cooking and service equipment, all in hotel-owned sanitized cars. Reservations at 70489 51001 or 011-24304454
31 October 2020||October 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Halloween: 2020 has been one long drawn out scream fest, so do we need All Hallows' Eve? Yes, say enthusiasts as they plan Zoom parties and creepy-good costumes. Celebs and talk show hosts are expected to pull out all the stops in the creative department. Meanwhile, the make-up community on Instagram is killing it this year: check out UK-based MUA Chris Grave, who has a look a day for October.
