01-12-2021||First Edit||MPs’ suspension cause for disquiet||The suspension of 12 Opposition MPs from the Rajya Sabha for the duration of the Winter Session was unfair and unreasonable, and the reasons cited for the drastic action are inadequate and unconvincing. The MPs were suspended for their alleged unruly conduct on the last day of the monsoon session in August when marshals were called after Opposition members stormed the well of the House during the passage of a bill. The government proposed suspension of the members under Rule 256 of Rules of Procedure for unruly conduct and for lowering the dignity of the House. Chairman Venkaiah Naidu has stuck to the decision as, according to him, the members have shown no remorse for their conduct. Opposition parties have condemned the decision as undemocratic and unprecedented, and violative of rules and procedures. They have also called it an arbitrary action because the versions of the suspended members were not called for.  It is pointed out that Rule 256 could only be invoked in an ongoing session and cannot be used for taking action against members for their past conduct. There are other violations of procedure, too. Rule 256 is not frequently used, and it cannot be claimed that the actions of the MPs, though not right, were so uncommon as to invite such a drastic response. Parliament has seen much worse and more shameful scenes and members of the ruling party too have figured in them in the past. The Opposition has also said that the government’s action is selective as some were targeted and others were spared. It is pointed out that a Sikh MP who was as disruptive as others was spared because the government did not want to be seen as taking action against a Sikh before the elections in Punjab.  The Opposition thinks that the government took a deliberate decision to suspend the MPs because that would make it easy for it to get its legislative business done in the Rajya Sabha where it does not have a majority. If that is true, that is bad intent and is against the basic principles and practice of parliamentary democracy. An important norm in parliamentary practice is that it is the government’s duty to ensure that the business of the House is conducted in an orderly manner. The Opposition had a real and genuine grouse that the government was not responsive to it and did not accept its legitimate demands for discussions on many important issues. It is unfortunate if the Opposition is pushed into provocation and then punished. The attack on the Opposition is of a piece with the attacks on criticism and dissent that is seen in politics and in wider society. It shrinks and diminishes democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/mps-suspension-cause-for-disquiet-1056675.html
01-12-2021||In Perspective||Power consumers to get more rights||Electricity users who are accustomed to the annual hike in tariff, regular power interruptions, poor quality of power supply and unresponsive consumer grievance redressal machinery can now hope for some improvement. The Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) has proposed a slew of reforms by way of giving several rights to consumers, such as 24X7 power supply, power supply connection within seven days, and automatic compensation for failure to provide good service by electricity supply companies (ESCOMs), etc. The draft regulations were issued by the KERC almost a year after the Ministry of Power, Government of India issued these rules. As per the regulations, consumers need not wait in order to get power connection to their premises as ESCOMs are required to provide the power supply within seven days of submitting the application in metro cities, within 15 days in other municipal areas and 30 days in rural areas. Applications can be made online. Of course, separate timelines apply where new sub-stations are to be commissioned and extend distribution mains. If the ESCOMs fail to adhere to these timelines, consumers become eligible for a compensation of Rs 1,000 for each day of default. The rules list out 17 types of services and the number of days within which the ESCOMs have to render these services. The earlier Standards of Performance (SoP) have been revised. In case of ESCOMS' failure to adhere to these standards, consumers are to be compensated. For instance, normal fuse off is to be rectified within six hours in cities and towns and meter complaints are to be attended within seven days. If not, the affected consumers are eligible for a compensation of Rs 200 for each default. Though the SoP was in place since 2003, due to the lack of information and awareness among consumers, very few have claimed the compensation. Besides, the earlier rules required consumers to prove that it was the ESCOM's default. Under the new rules, ESCOMs are required to monitor their failures and pay the amount automatically by way of adjustment in bills. ESCOMs are required to develop a suitable mechanism for this purpose. ESCOMs will have to create an online facility for consumers to register their complaints about violation of SoP. Only those services that can be monitored remotely are considered for automatic compensation. For other service failures, a consumer has to apply. Provision has been made in the rules to make the SoP transparent. ESCOMs are required to submit details of SoP, including the amount of compensation paid to consumers, every month to the KERC. The KERC may publish the details once in a year. In the era of Right to Information, the information could be put on the respective websites every month. The KERC has asked the ESCOMs to publish the guaranteed SoP along with compensation structure, information on procedures for filing of complaints in the electricity bills issued for the month of January and July. If this information cannot be included on the flipside of the bill, ESCOMs have to publish it on a separate handout and distribute it to consumers with the bill. Right now, can any consumer decipher the information published on the flipside of the bill? The present grievance handling system will continue. However, the rules require the ESCOMs to prepare a manual of procedure for providing common services and handling consumer grievances and made available to consumers at every ESCOM office and downloadable from its website. It would be better if the ESCOMs provide a copy (hard or soft) to the consumers along with the power supply sanctioning letter. ESCOMs are required to disseminate information relevant to consumers in the media. However, the draft rules fall short when compared to the rules framed by the Ministry of Power. For instance, the definition of ‘applicant’ and ‘consumer’ is missing. The MoP rules have detailed provisions for metering, billing and payment, methods of payment of bills and disconnection and reconnection. These issues are covered in the Supply Code of KERC, yet many consumers are not aware of them. Since these are of interest to a consumer, they are to be included in the Consumer Rights Rules. The KERC rules do not mention anything about ‘consumer as prosumer’, a concept relating to Renewable Energy (RE). The MoP rule states that prosumers will have the same rights as the general consumers. Most of the provisions of the draft rules already exist in various regulations under the Electricity Act 2003. The success of modified rules depends on the extent to which ESCOMs publicise to these provisions. In a recent survey on electricity bills by the Consumer Rights Education and Awareness Trust (CREAT) and Karnataka Electricity Governance Network, 90% of respondents were not aware of CGRF regulations or SoP regulations. Of the 350 respondents, only 12% identified KERC as the tariff-setting authority. Hope the present rule does not go that way. (The writer is Founder, Consumer Rights Education and Awareness Trust)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/power-consumers-to-get-more-rights-1056673.html
01-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 vigil to be stepped up at Mangaluru airport, port||Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra KV directed authorities from Mangalore International Airport (MIA) and New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT) to be vigilant to prevent the spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19. The DC was speaking at a meeting of representatives from the MIA and the NMPT. "Those who are arriving at the airport should compulsorily possess RT-PCR negative reports. If a person is tested positive at the airport, authorities should make arrangements to shift him/her to a hospital immediately in an ambulance," he said. "Even the NMPT should take all precautionary measures. All passengers from domestic and international vessels should undergo RT-PCR tests at the port upon their arrival," he said.  In addition, data of all passengers arriving at the port should be sent to the health department on a weekly basis. "People entering government offices in the district should show their vaccination certificates," he said. Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Dr Kumar, Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar and DCP Hariram Shankar were present at the meeting. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-vigil-to-be-stepped-up-at-mangaluru-airport-port-1056485.html
01-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man held for sexually assaulting his daughter||A man was arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting his daughter in an area under the Kadri Police Station.  City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar said that the accused is a history-sheeter and a repeat offender. He was previously booked for beating his mother as well, the police said.  A case was registered at the Kadiri Police Station.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-held-for-sexually-assaulting-his-daughter-1056536.html
01-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ticket denial: Won’t desert Cong, says S R Patil||Opposition leader in Legislative Council S R Patil said he would not join BJP just because he missed a Congress ticket to contest the forthcoming Council election. He rubbished the rumours that he would join BJP. “It is not my nature to go to another party as I was not given a ticket.” Patil said, “Minister Murugesh Nirani is my friend. Nirani and I belong to the same taluk. So, as a friend, he has invited me to join BJP. I express thanks for his gesture”.  He said he is following Congress ideology for the past 45 years. “The party has given me several positions to serve the people. It is like my mother. I have told the party workers and supporters to respect the party’s decision. I have made an appeal not to harm the party just because I He the ticket.” Patil said he does not know why he was denied a ticket. “I have fought for North Karnataka inside and outside the legislature. My struggle will not stop”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ticket-denial-won-t-desert-cong-says-s-r-patil-1056383.html
01-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||MLC Polls: Congress candidate cries, regrets entry into politics||Congress’ Legislative Council election candidate Yusuf Sharif broke down along with his wife and daughter at a news conference Wednesday where he was clarifying allegations that he was an abusive father.  “I regret entering politics. I have enough wealth to feed ten generations. I made a mistake (entering politics),” Sharif said, crying, before walking out of the news conference.  Sharif, the Congress’ candidate for the Bangalore Urban local authorities seat, was responding to Cooperation Minister ST Somashekhar. The minister had said that Sharif faced many cases, including one filed by his wife accusing him of molesting his own daughter.  Sharif, arguably Karnataka’s richest politician having declared assets worth Rs 1,744 crore, said it was one Naveed who wreaked havoc in his family.  “Naveed was a friend who bought property from me worth Rs 300 crore for joint development. But, he ended up cheating me,” Sharif said.  According to Sharif, his first wife Ruksana Taj was in the dark over his second marriage with Shaziya Tarannum. “No wife will keep quiet if her husband marries a second time,” Sharif said. “Naveed, with whom I had fought over business matters, went to my first wife and told her about my second marriage. He brainwashed her into teaching me a lesson. She and my daughter were kidnapped and kept away from me for six months. She filed a domestic violence case against me for Rs 1,000 crore. When I met her in the courtroom after a gap of six months, I told her that all my wealth belonged to her and that she meant a lot to me. She realised her mistake and withdrew her case,” he explained.  He broke down while narrating how his daughter Ume Umra Sharif was “brainwashed” into filing a complaint against him.  “You guys also have families,” Ume Umra said, referring to Somashekhar. “I was forced to sign the papers. I was immature, I wasn’t even 18. This is a 10-year-old case. I was told that whatever I was doing would help bring my parents together. I love my dad and he’s an amazing person,” she said.  BJP files plaint against Sharif A BJP delegation led by its general secretary N Ravi Kumar filed a complaint with Chief Electoral Officer Manoj Kumar Meena on Wednesday accusing Congress’ MLC candidate Yusuf Sharif of violating the model code of conduct. “It is normal for candidates to extol the achievements of their respective parties. But, Sharif is openly offering inducements to voters,” the BJP said, adding that Sharif has offered Rs 500 crore to people if he wins. "This is a clear violation."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mlc-polls-congress-candidate-cries-regrets-entry-into-politics-1056668.html
01-12-2021||Main Article||A public crash course to save lives||There are few people in our country who have not lost a family member or friend in a road crash at some point of time; and not a day passes without news of a road crash resulting in horrific deaths or permanent injuries. I use the word road crash, not road accident, advisedly. The term ‘accident’ suggests an event that happens by chance or that is without apparent cause. This is seldom the case with road crashes across India, nearly all of them with specific causes, and most of them eminently preventable. But to chart a sustainable course of action to save lives, a sense of urgency must inform our response, and the burden of that responsibility must be carried by the citizen-commuters, together with the enforcement authorities. Only a responsible public can foster road safety and establish the path to save lives. But first, we must, as citizens, understand the etiology and the dimensions of the problem. A recent World Bank report titled ‘Traffic Crash Injuries and Disabilities: The Burden on Indian Society’, the outcome of a study done in collaboration with the Save LIFE Foundation points to several disconcerting facts that should shake us citizens out of the apathy that we display to the right to life and the right to safety on Indian roads. Consider the following facts: Road crash deaths in India are among the highest in the world. With only 1% of the world’s vehicles, India accounts for nearly 10% of all road crash-related deaths, and the socio-economic burden of road crashes is disproportionately borne by poor households; each year, year after year, close to 150,000 people die due to road accidents, and in the past decade alone over 1.3 million have died and about five million permanently injured; over 40% of the households in rural areas reported at least one death after a road crash, compared to 12% of urban households; and pedestrians, cyclists, and bicyclists are the most vulnerable populations, accounting for more than half the road crash deaths. Not surprisingly, two-wheelers account for almost 70% of the total vehicles in cities because they are cheaper and more convenient, but they are also 30 times more prone to accidents than cars, and riders suffer a high rate of death and disability. An important piece of empirical evidence that has emerged from a ‘who hit whom’ analysis of road crash data of Bengaluru city, undertaken by the Indian Institute of Science, showed that the two most road crash high-risk citizens, accounting for the highest deaths, were pedestrians and two-wheeler riders. The evidence pointed to the fact that the majority of deaths of pedestrians were the result of two wheelers hitting them; even as two-wheeler riders were themselves amongst the most deaths, as a result of heavy vehicles hitting them. The stand-out piece of evidence that is unconscionable is that road crashes are now the leading killer of people aged 15-29 years, aggravated by lack of formal training and underage driving. Yet, we remain far from taking any meaningful steps to address this problem in substantive ways. To do so, we need to understand the preponderance, as a result of our collective failure as citizens, of the four key causes of road crashes. The single-most important cause of road crash deaths is speeding, the result of poor road safety education, especially among young drivers; and poorer enforcement of robust processes for driver training and issue of driver licences. Speeding accounts for 72% of all road crashes, 63% of road crash deaths, and 73% of road crash injuries in the country. The 2019 data for Karnataka shows speeding as the cause for over 9,000 deaths and 38,000 injuries. The second important cause of road crash deaths is riding without helmets, accounting for over 2,000 deaths in Karnataka. This is the result of plain stupidity, especially when the pillion does not wear a helmet; or when the riders wear the helmet only for that stretch when they see the traffic police and then promptly remove it. Who are they really fooling but themselves, and with deadly consequences? The third important cause of road crash deaths is driving without wearing seat belts, accounting for over 800 deaths in Karnataka. These three causes are closely followed, of course, by drunken driving, another irresponsible act of stupidity but with grave consequences to pedestrians and other commuters. Our failure as citizens to respect the right to road safety, and worse still our apathy, was demonstrated when citizens vehemently protested the increase in fines for traffic violations, effected following the 2019 amendments to the Motor Vehicles Act that were aimed at more stringent regulation of traffic offenders and recalcitrant drivers, compelling the government to reduce the fines. The need therefore is to focus on targeted road safety education programmes that foster behaviour change and engender in the general public road safety-seeking behaviour. In sum, a public crash course to save lives. Towards this end, the Public Affairs Foundation, in collaboration with the Consumer Unity Trust Society, and with the cooperation of the enforcement agencies has initiated a series of multi-stakeholder awareness workshops in five cities in the state -- Bengaluru, Mysuru, Belagavi, Mangaluru and Kalaburagi -- to reach out in particular to young students, drivers of taxis, riders of two-wheelers, and local citizens; and initiate participatory action to make our roads safer. The focus of these workshops is to disseminate actionable knowledge that can influence safe road behaviour and promote a pedestrians-first road culture; robust driver licensing and testing procedure; follow the traffic-rules awareness; driver training and vehicle fitness certification process; and encourage the ‘golden hour’ Good Samaritan action. This is but a beginning; much more needs to be done to save precious young lives. Such education should become part of the upbringing at home, school and college curricula, and a graduated driver licensing system. Together as citizens we can do it, and we must. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-public-crash-course-to-save-lives-1056670.html
01-12-2021||National||Lok Sabha to talk Covid-19 on Wednesday: Pralhad Joshi||Time has been allotted for a short-duration discussion on the Covid-19 pandemic in Lok Sabha on Wednesday, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said on Tuesday. The discussion will be held under Rule 193, under which members may seek details about the new Omicron variant of SARS-CoC-2. A short-duration discussion will be held in Lok Sabha on the pandemic on Wednesday, Joshi told reporters here. On Tuesday, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya told Rajya Sabha that the new Covid-19 variant has not been reported in India yet and asserted the government has taken measures to ensure it does not reach the country and has issued an advisory after looking at the developments globally. Amidst a heightened level of concern over the Omicron variant, the Centre on Tuesday advised states and union territories to ramp up testing and undertake effective surveillance of international passengers. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-to-talk-covid-19-on-wednesday-pralhad-joshi-1056372.html
01-12-2021||National||CAG slams railways over elephant deaths||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has slammed the Indian Railways saying that the national transporter has not taken precautionary measures like speed restriction in the notified elephant passages to prevent deaths of animals on tracks. "Audit analysis of identified passages and elephant deaths on track revealed that more number of elephant casualties was reported in those locations which were identified as elephant passages," the statement stated. The CAG in its audit report, which was conducted during 2018-19, the forest department and Railways had not given priority to construction of underpass/overpass across railway tracks which facilitate elephant movement. The report tabled in Lok Sabha also said that 37 deaths occurred in the identified passages and 24 deaths occurred in the un-identified passages. "There was no uniformity in dimension, height, colour and content of the elephant signage boards in Indian Railways. They were also placed in incorrect position defeating their purpose of forewarning the drivers. Honey bee sound devices were not installed in some of the Zonal Railways," the statement added. The report stated that during 2016-17 to 2018-19, train collisions resulted in the death of 61 elephants. The CAG said a committee of senior officials of the Ministry of Railways and Ministry of Environment and Forests (government of India, and governments of West Bengal and Odisha) was constituted in January 2013 to evolve an action plan for eliminating instances of elephant mortalities due to train hits. The committee recommended short-term and long-term measures to prevent train-elephant collisions. Although steps were taken by both the Railways and the Forest Department, elephants continued to die on track.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cag-slams-railways-over-elephant-deaths-1056410.html
01-12-2021||National||Case against Mark Zuckerberg over 'defamatory' post against Akhilesh Yadav||A case was registered against Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and 49 others on the order of a court in Kannauj district of Uttar Pradesh over an alleged defamatory post against Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, police said on Tuesday. A senior district police official, however, said, "During the course of investigation Zuckerberg's name was dropped, while investigation is being carried out against the administrator of the (Facebook) page." Chief Judicial Magistrate Dharamveer Singh on Monday directed the police to lodge the case on the complaint of Amit Kumar, a resident of Sarahati village. Following the court order, a case was registered at Thatia police station, SHO Prayag Narayan Bajpayee said. In his application before the court, Amit Kumar had said that on the Facebook page by the name of 'Bua Babua', an attempt to tarnish the image of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav was made. The term "Bua Babua" was coined when BSP chief Mayawati and Akhilesh Yadav had entered into an alliance in the 2019 parliamentary election. Amit Kumar said that an application was sent to the Superintendent of Police through a registered post on May 25, but no action was taken, following which he moved the court and urged that a case be registered. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/case-against-mark-zuckerberg-over-defamatory-post-against-akhilesh-yadav-1056426.html
01-12-2021||National||India sees 8,954 new Covid-19 cases, 267 deaths||India added 8,954 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,45,96,776, while the active cases were recorded at less than a lakh after 547 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,69,247 with 267 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 54 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 156 consecutive days now. The active cases declined to 99,023 comprising 0.29 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 98.36 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,520 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The chorus against the opening up of normal international flight operations from December 15 against the new and reportedly more infectious 'Omicron' variant of Covid-19 is growing louder in India. The demand coincides with the Centre's advisory to states and Union Territories (UTs) to ensure preparedness of health infrastructure like availability of ICU, O2 beds, ventilators, among others, and to focus on rural areas. At present, several nations have either closed their air spaces or placed strict restrictions on incoming passengers. Several states including Maharashtra and Karnataka have mandated seven-day institutional quarantine for travellers arriving in the state from 'at-risk' countries. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-8954-new-covid-19-cases-267-deaths-1056432.html
01-12-2021||National||Commercial LPG cylinder prices hiked by Rs 100||In a move that could make eating out or even sipping tea outside costlier for citizens, the price of commercial LPG gas cylinders was hiked by Rs 100 per refill on Wednesday, taking the cumulative increase to Rs 366 per cylinder in the past 30 days. A 19-kg commercial LPG cylinder will now cost Rs 2,101 in Delhi, Rs 2,051 in Mumbai, Rs 2,174.50 in Kolkata and Rs 2,234.50 in Chennai. In Bangalore, it will cost Rs 2,162.50 per cylinder. The 14.2 kg cylinders for domestic household consumers were however spared of any increase. The price of a 4.2 kg domestic cylinder in Delhi remains Rs 899.50. Also, there is no change in the rate of a 5-kg domestic cylinder which stands at Rs 502. This is the second hike in commercial LPG cylinders in the past one month. On November 1, the price of a commercial LPG refill was increased by Rs 266. Commercial LPG refill is used mostly by restaurants, eateries and even small tea venders. A steep hike of over Rs 350 on a cylinder comes in the midst of an already high petrol and diesel prices and bound to increase prices of food many times costlier in a hotels. The price of LPG cylinders is revised every month across the states and union territories. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/commercial-lpg-cylinder-prices-hiked-by-rs-100-1056464.html
01-12-2021||National||November saw lowest daily Covid cases in India in nearly 1.5 years||With over 3.1 lakh fresh Covid-19 cases, the month of November saw the lowest number of people contracting the viral disease in the country since May last year. The monthly tally of fresh Covid-19 cases registered a decline for the sixth time in a row in November. The number of daily cases peaked on May 6, when the country registered 4,14,188 Covid cases in a span of 24 hours, while the number of active cases was recorded below one lakh after 547 days. The daily rise in the number of new coronavirus cases has been below 20,000 for 54 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 156 consecutive days now. The first positive case of the coronavirus infection in the country was reported in Kerala on January 30, 2020. India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore coronavirus cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/november-saw-lowest-daily-covid-cases-in-india-in-nearly-15-years-1056473.html
01-12-2021||National||Rajya Sabha adjourned for third time amid opposition uproar over suspension of members||The proceedings of the Rajya Sabha were adjourned thrice on Wednesday amid unrelenting protests by opposition members over the issue of suspension of 12 MPs. The latest adjournment is till 3 pm. As soon as the House resumed in the afternoon, Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in the chair, asked Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to move The Dam Safety Bill, 2019 for consideration in the House. The minister moved the motion for consideration of the bill by the House and thereafter the Deputy Chairman asked him to speak on the bill. In the meantime, Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge asked the Deputy Chairman to allow him to speak on the issue of suspension of 12 members of the House. However, Harivansh did not allow him to raise the matter, and said he can speak on the bill. As the minster started his speech on the bill, opposition members started raising slogans and demanded that Kharge be allowed to speak on the issue of suspension of members. Harivansh requested the opposition members not to come into the well and to go back to their seats. He also told some members that photography in the House is not allowed when they tried to click pictures with their phones. But when opposition members refused to relent, the Deputy Chairman adjourned the House till 3 PM. The Upper House was first adjourned soon after it met for the day and then again at noon till 2 PM, after opposition members created uproar seeking revocation of the suspension of the MPs.  As the House met earlier, placard-carrying opposition MPs trooped into the well of the House and shouted slogans against the suspension. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu expressed dismay at their conduct, and said the suspended MPs have shown no remorse, and there was no question of revoking their suspension. "It is sacrilege of the House, I have said (on the conduct of the 12 suspended MPs during the last session in August). There is no remorse by members who have really insulted the parliamentary system," he said. Naidu ordered that nothing that the opposition MPs say would go on record but said their conduct in the Well of the House should be shown to the people of the country. When the House again met at 12 PM, the members continued with the protests and the Deputy Chairman urged the members to allow the Question Hour to function. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge sought to raise the issue of suspension but the Chair noted that Question Hour was on and nothing else could be raised. However, opposition members raised uproar after Kharge was not allowed to raise the issue and the House was adjourned till 2 PM. As the House met in the morning, Naidu said even after indulging in such unparliamentary behaviour the members did not express any remorse. "Coming to the well of the House, climbing on the table, throwing papers, snatching papers from the minister and also challenging the Chair... doing everything which is unparliamentary, undemocratic and they have no remorse. What can we do?" Naidu asked. He said placards should not be shown and brought into the House. "If you are determined... you don't want to have Zero Hour (where), very important issues (are listed to be raised), special mentions are there. You don't want special mentions, you don't want Zero Hour, you don't want House to run, crores of rupees are spent on this House and people are getting dismayed at what is happening in this House," he said before adjourning the proceedings till 1200 hours. No sooner had Jose K Mani taken oath as member of the Upper House and listed official papers laid on the table of the House, MPs from Congress and other opposition parties trooped into the well of the House shouting slogans. Kharge wanted to speak but couldn't be heard in the din. On Tuesday, Kharge had said that the motion for suspension moved by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi was in gross violation of the rules and action was taken in the current Winter Session of Parliament for alleged "unruly" conduct in the last session. As many as 12 opposition MPs were suspended from the Rajya Sabha on Monday for the entire Winter session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August, even as the Opposition termed the suspension as "undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House. Six suspended MPs are from the Congress, two each from the Trinamool Congress and Shiv Sena, and one each from the CPI and CPM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-adjourned-for-third-time-amid-opposition-uproar-over-suspension-of-members-1056478.html
01-12-2021||National||Minor fire in a room of Parliament House, doused in 10 minutes||A minor fire broke out in Parliament premises on Wednesday morning, which was doused by the firemen in just 10 minutes, an official said. According to the official, the fire broke out at 8.00 am in room no. 59 of the Parliament building. "The fire was minor and was brought under control by 8.10 am," a fire department official told IANS. Some tables, chairs and computers were burnt in the incident. "The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained," the official said. Notably, the winter session of Parliament is currently underway from November 29 to December 23. The session marks the presence of all top leaders of the country. The official informed that a fire engine is always stationed outside the Parliament to counter any untoward situation. "This time also the information about the fire was received through a wireless and the firemen present outside immediately swung into action," he said. Parliament is centrally located in the national capital and comes under a very high-security zone. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minor-fire-in-a-room-of-parliament-house-doused-in-10-minutes-1056482.html
01-12-2021||National||Sameer Wankhede asked to appear before Mumbai caste verification panel||A caste verification committee has asked Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede to appear before it on December 14, according to Bhim Army leader Ashok Kamble, who is the complainant in the matter. Kamble had filed the complaint with the Mumbai district caste verification committee against Wankhede for allegedly forging documents and presenting himself as member of the Hindu Mahar (Scheduled Caste) community to secure the government job. “We presented all the documents to the committee and asked it to take up the matter further. The committee told us that Wankhede will be asked to depose before it on December 14,” Kamble said on Wednesday. Notably, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik had also earlier alleged that Wankhede was born a Muslim but he forged his documents to get the government job. Wankhede had led a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast in October this year and drugs were allegedly seized onboard. Later, actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and some other people were arrested in that case. Malik had termed the cruise drugs case as "fake" and levelled a series of allegations against Wankhede. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sameer-wankhede-asked-to-appear-before-mumbai-caste-verification-panel-1056486.html
01-12-2021||National||Omicron scare: Resumption of scheduled international flights from Dec 15 postponed||Concerns over the new Covid-19 variant Omicron forced the government on Wednesday to defer the resumption of scheduled international flights from December 15, reversing a decision taken five days ago. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation issued a circular saying that an "appropriate decision indicating the effective date for resumption" of scheduled commercial international passenger services will be "notified in due course". The decision was taken "in view of the evolving global scenario with the emergence of new Variants of Concern (VoC)". The situation is being watched closely, it said. Scheduled international flights remain suspended since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 27, a day after the government announced the resumption of services, asked officials to review the plans for easing international travel restrictions. After a high-level meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Ajay Bhalla the next day, the government made it clear that the decision to resume the services will be reviewed. Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia also said on November 29 that the situation was being closely monitored and reviewed in consultation with other ministries regarding "any further decision" on resuming scheduled international passenger services. The government in Rajya Sabha claimed that the decision on resumption of flights was taken after recognising the increased vaccination coverage across the world, changing nature of the pandemic and considering health protocols, which have been put in place for international arrivals. Since July last year, international flights were allowed to operate under air bubble arrangements with 28 countries but no full-scale international operations were there since 23 March, 2020. While announcing the resumption of services, the DGCA had categorised countries into three categories -- not at risk, at-risk but have air bubble arrangements, and at-risk and no air bubble agreement. All services from countries identified as 'not at risk' will be allowed as per bilateral air service arrangements. For countries 'at-risk' but have air bubble arrangements, Indian and foreign carriers can have 75 per cent of pre-Covid operations, whichever is higher or a minimum of seven frequencies per week. Only 50 per cent of bilateral capacity entitlements or 50 per cent of pre-Covid operations, whichever is higher, will be allowed for countries 'at-risk' but have no air bubble arrangements. As on November 30, countries in Europe, including the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel are in the 'at-risk' category of countries. Bangladesh is the one country that has been taken off the at-risk list that was published on November 26, the day the government had announced the resumption of international services. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-scare-resumption-of-scheduled-international-flights-from-dec-15-postponed-1056498.html
01-12-2021||National||4 beat up man in MP, record video with 'Pawri ho rahi hai' meme||Four men allegedly beat up their friend severely on suspicion of being a police informer and recorded a video of the incident in Madhya Pradesh's Rewa district, police said. The incident took place in July this year but different videos of the brutal thrashing, including one based on Pakistani influencer Dananeer Mobeen's "Pawri ho rahi hai” meme surfaced on Tuesday. "We have got the information on Tuesday about the video pertaining to thrashing of a youth by his friends in July. An FIR has been registered against the four accused on the victim's complaint," Rewa's Superintendent of Police Navneet Bhasin told reporters on Tuesday. The victim, Amit Pandey, told reporters that he was going to his native village Khajua when the accused - Prince Patel, Suraj Prajapati, Lalla Pandit and Shadab - intercepted him in the night. “They accused me of giving information to police about the sale of their 10 boxes of cough syrup (sold as a narcotic substance). They brutally beat me up for three hours in Khajua. Later, they took me to Rewa and thrashed me again till morning,” he alleged. Meanwhile, five videos of the thrashing incident surfaced in which the victim was seen being hit with sticks, slapped and kicked. In one of the videos, an accused was heard saying in local dialect, “This is me, these are my friends and we are partying.” As he completes the statement, all the accused shout and start kicking the victim. Bhasin said the four accused have been identified. Two of them are already in jail (in other cases), another one has been detained and search is underway for the fourth accused, he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-beat-up-man-in-mp-record-video-with-pawri-ho-rahi-hai-meme-1056505.html
01-12-2021||National||MP tribal woman chases leopard, rescues son after fight||In a show of valiance, a feisty tribal woman from a Madhya Pradesh village displayed immense courage by chasing down a leopard that had snatched her eight-year-old son and rescued him by fighting the carnivore. The incident took place on Sunday night in Badi Jharia village, in the buffer zone of the Sanjay Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh's Sidhi district, located over 500 kilometres from the state capital Bhopal. Kiran, a Baiga tribal, was sitting beside a fire with her three children to keep them warm outside their hut. Suddenly, a leopard appeared and in a split second, caught hold of her son Rahul with its jaws and fled, a senior forest official said Wednesday. Despite her son being suddenly snatched by the leopard, the woman did not lose her presence of mind. She confined her other children inside her hut and rushed into the forest chasing after the feline. The child was wounded and the woman also suffered injuries when the leopard attacked her, but she managed to return alive with her son, an act of strength and grit that was hailed by the forest department staff and state Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The woman said that she was shocked by the sudden turn of events, but kept her cool, the tiger reserve's director, YP Singh, said. She chased the leopard for about a kilometre, but the big cat took cover in the bushes and then held the child with its claws, but Kiran did not relent. She kept trying to scare the leopard with a stick and also raised the alarm, the official said. "The leopard probably got scared by the woman's courage and left the child. While Kiran immediately took her son into her arms, the feline attacked her. However, she overpowered the big cat with her valour," the official said. In the meantime, other villagers also reached the spot on hearing Kiran's call for help and the leopard disappeared into the forest, he said. The boy received injuries to his back, cheeks and eyes and Kiran also got wounded in the attack, the official said. Buffer zone ranger Aseem Bhuria later got them admitted to a primary health centre and provided immediate assistance of Rs 1,000. The forest department will bear all the expenses of their treatment, the official said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-tribal-woman-chases-leopard-rescues-son-after-fight-1056506.html
01-12-2021||National||Free helmets, iPhone lucky draw: How states, businesses used incentives for vaccination||India's vaccination campaign is progressing steadily with over 124 crore doses administered so far and no news of a vaccine shortage recently. The detection of a new, more transmissible Omicron strain of the virus, however, has alarmed nations worldwide, and with little known about the virus yet, experts deem vaccination as the only weapon against it. While India has vaccinated over 80 per cent of its population with the first dose, authorities are struggling to get people to the vaccination centres for their second dose.  Apart from the Centre's campaigns to boost the vaccination numbers, state and city bodies are coming up with innovative ideas and incentives to encourage people to get their second dose. The civic body had earlier offered one litre of free edible oil and Samsung mobile phones via another lucky draw to draw more beneficiaries. It had administered nearly 67,000 vaccine doses with this initiative in October. In Haryana's Nuh district, free helmets, dinner sets and discounts on medicines in local shops are being offered to push up vaccination numbers. Nuh, which has the lowest vaccination rate in the state, saw a sharp rise in vaccination after this incentive. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday decided to ramp up the Covid protocols and also decided that those who do not take vaccines will not get free treatment anymore. According to the latest figures, 96 per cent of the above 18 age population in the state have taken the first Covid vaccine dose, and 63 per cent have taken both vaccines. The Chandrapur Municipal Corporation in Maharashtra announced a lucky draw in November with prizes like LED TVs, refrigerators and washing machines. Around 1.4 million people have missed the date for taking the second vaccine and all such people must ensure they take the second dose at the earliest, the government said. In the first leg of the vaccination campaign, DMK MLA in Tamil Nadu Udayanidhi Stalin offered bags of rice, wheat flour and condiments to residents of his constituency for getting vaccinated. IndiGo had offered 10 per cent discount to flyers who had gotten at least one dose of the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-helmets-iphone-lucky-draw-how-states-businesses-used-incentives-for-vaccination-1056514.html
01-12-2021||National||Plea in SC seeks censorship of Kangana's social media posts||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to censor or amend all future social media posts by Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut in order to maintain law and order in the country. Mumbai-based advocate, Saradar Charanjeet Singh Chanderpal, asked the top court to transfer all FIRs lodged against her across the country on derogatory statements made on Sikhs to Khar Police Station in Mumbai and to take appropriate preventive measures under the Code of Criminal Procedure and Information Technology Act against Ranaut.  He also pleaded for a direction to the government to instruct all social media platforms to censor, alter, modify or delete her posts. Referring to several controversial posts by the actress, the petitioner claimed that the actor is abusing her right to speech and expression through social media. If the behaviour of some person created an infringement on the fundamental rights of others, then it can be definitely be curbed by preventive measures and the use of criminal law. The plea said Ranaut's utterances made on a pubic platform of social media like Instagram, developed a sense of racial discrimination and hate, based on different faiths, and could lead to a lot of heated arguments on social media and have the potency of triggering riots.   “The remarks are not only outrageous and blasphemous but also intend to cause riots, hurt religious sentiments; they were defamatory and portrayed Sikhs in a totally anti-national manner. It also justifies innocent killing of Sikhs. The remarks are totally against the unity of our country and the actress deserves a serious punishment. They cannot be brushed aside or excused," the plea, filed through advocate Anil Kumar said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeks-censorship-of-kanganas-social-media-posts-1056524.html
01-12-2021||National||Central Vista: Nothing happening to Delhi Waqf properties, Centre tells HC||The Centre Wednesday assured the Delhi High Court that “nothing is happening” to Delhi Waqf Board properties in the vicinity of the ongoing Central Vista Redevelopment Project. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta urged Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva to adjourn for three weeks the Board's plea seeking preservation and protection of its heritage properties that are likely to be impacted by the project and said that being a “long plan”, the redevelopment has not reached the properties in question. “Kindly have it after three weeks. Nothing is happening to these properties. My learned friend (petitioner) can rest assured. We are before your lordship. It is a very long plan and we have not reached anywhere near it,” said the solicitor general who represented the Centre. The court adjourned hearing in the case till January 20, saying it has “full faith” in the Solicitor General and turned down the request of the senior lawyer representing the petitioner to take the statement on record. In its petition, the Delhi Waqf Board – represented by senior advocate Sanjoy Ghose -- has sought the preservation and protection of six of its properties in the area in which the redevelopment work is ongoing -- Masjid Zabta Ganj at Mansingh Road, Jama Masjid at Red Cross Road, Masjid Sunehri Bagh Road Near Udyog Bhawan, Mazar Sunehri Bagh Road behind Moti Lal Nehru Marg, Masjid Krishi Bhawan inside Krishi Bhawan Compound and Masjid Vice President at the official residence of the Vice President of India. Claiming that the six properties “are more than an ordinary mosque and have a distinction attached to them”, the petition has stated that neither the British Government nor the government of India ever created any hindrance in the observance of religious practices at these properties which were always preserved. “The waqf properties, subject matter of the present petition, are all more than 100 years old and are continuously being used for religious purpose. It is not the case that the Government Buildings were built first and thereafter these properties came into existence, to the contrary, these properties were well in existence when the Government buildings were constructed around them or in the vicinity,” the petition filed through lawyer Wajeeh Shafiq has claimed. In September, the court had granted time to the Centre to state its stand on the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-vista-nothing-happening-to-delhi-waqf-properties-centre-tells-hc-1056551.html
01-12-2021||National||India saw 645 heavy rainfall, 168 very heavy rainfall events in November; highest in 5 years: IMD||The country saw 645 events of heavy rainfall and 168 events of very heavy rainfall in November, the highest in the month in five years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. Peninsular India reported most of the extremely heavy to very heavy rainfall events which claimed 44 lives in Andhra Pradesh, 16 in Tamil Nadu, 15 in Karnataka and three in Kerala. The IMD said India recorded 11 extremely heavy rainfall (more than 204.5 mm) events this November, equalling the number reported last year. The country reported zero, four and one event of extremely heavy rainfall in November in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The country saw 645 events of heavy rainfall (64.5 mm to 115.5 mm) and 168 events of very heavy rainfall (115.6 mm to 204.5 mm) in November, the highest in the last five years, according to the IMD's data. To put things in perspective, the number of heavy rainfall events this November was more than the total such events in the last four years — 247 in 2020; 116 in 2019; 135 in 2018 and 139 in 2017. The Met office also said peninsular India gauged 160 per cent more rainfall — 232.7 mm against the average of 89.5 mm — in November, the highest in the month since 1901. The country as a whole received 56.5 mm of rainfall against the normal of 30.5 mm — an excess of 85.4 per cent — in November. Five low-pressure systems in November this year against the average of 2.4 is the reason behind the copious rainfall in peninsular India this time, officials said. Peninsular India comprises five meteorological subdivisions — Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikkal; coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam; Rayalaseema; Kerala and Mahe, and South Interior Karnataka. The IMD said the region is most likely to see above-normal rainfall (more than 132 per cent of the long period average) in December. Based on the data of the 1961-2010 period, the long period average of rainfall in peninsular India in December is 44.54 mm. The Met office said below-normal rainfall is most likely over most areas of northwest India and some parts of central and northeast India. Normal rainfall is most likely over the remaining parts of the country. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-saw-645-heavy-rainfall-168-very-heavy-rainfall-events-in-november-highest-in-5-years-imd-1056560.html
01-12-2021||National||Omicron threat: Special quarantine centers set up in Srinagar||In view of the rising global concerns over the new Covid of variant – Omicron - administration in Kashmir has set up three special quarantine centres for arriving international passengers, especially from ‘at-risk’ countries in Srinagar. Officials said a marriage hall in uptown Sanatnagar area of Srinagar and two hotels have been converted into quarantine centres, where international passengers will have to stay for eight-hour mandatory. “In case any traveller testing positive for the Covid-19 or the new virus mutant, he/she will be shifted to DRDO Covid hospital for special treatment,” they said. On Tuesday, the Centre extended the nationwide Covid-19 containment measures till December 31, given the emergence of the highly mutant coronavirus variant, Omicron, in some countries and recommended rigorous screening and testing of all international arrivals. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday that India has not reported any case of Omicron, but the government has taken measures to ensure that it does not reach the country. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-threat-special-quarantine-centers-set-up-in-srinagar-1056562.html
01-12-2021||National||Will not apologise to re-enter Rajya Sabha, says suspended MPs||Twelve suspended MPs on Wednesday resolved not to apologise for re-entering Rajya Sabha, saying that the government has to "say sorry" for subverting democracy. The comments came as the government insisted that the MPs, who started a sit-in near Gandhi Statue in Parliament House, have to apologise if their suspension has to be revoked. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said, "If they want to come to the House, then they should express remorse. Let them sit on dharna. I pray Mahatma Gandhi gives them wisdom." Congress' Rajya Sabha whip Syed Nasir Hussain, one of the 12 suspended MPs, said there is no question of apologising, as the government has "scant respect" for democratic processes and traditions in the country. "Do you think we need to apologise to the government for asking questions, seeking time for debate? This government has to apologise because of its dictatorial attitude. We have reached this impasse. The government has to say sorry to people as they are the people who are not allowing democracy to function in this country," he said. Congress MP Chhaya Verma, who is also among the suspended MPs, said the government had provoked the Opposition MPs by bringing in the General Insurance Bill without discussing it in the Business Advisory Committee. She also said the government was on a campaign to malign the Opposition by releasing "selective" CCTV footage of the incident. "We want the release of the full footage. Why are they not taking action against marshals who manhandled the MPs, including women lawmakers? Also, Union Minister Piyush Goyal referred to MPs who climbed the reporters' table but no action was taken. Is it because of the elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh?" she asked. Suspended CPI(M) Rajya Sabha floor leader Elamaram Kareem said the suspension of a dozen MPs was done because the BJP was wary of the numbers in the Upper House with some of the NDA friendly parties having distanced themselves from the alliance. "Now the Opposition strength is less. That was deliberately done. This suspension has eased some of BJP's pressure and now they can bring Bills and get it passed easily," he said. Dola Sen, who was one of the two suspended MPs from Trinamool, said the government alleges that the Opposition politicians are habitual offenders but actually, they are habitual offenders. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi brought in demonetisation with the goal of unearthing black money. The black money did not come, instead, 150 persons lost their lives. Then he imposed farm laws against the wishes of people. In the agitation for over a year, over 700 people were martyred. So, he is the habitual offender and he has never apologised for any of this," Sen said. She said suspension showed the arrogance of the government and they would continue their protest till they get justice. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-not-apologise-to-re-enter-rajya-sabha-say-suspended-mps-1056565.html
01-12-2021||National||MHA creates taskforce to prevent suicides by Central Armed Police Forces troops||The Union Home Ministry has set up a task force comprising its seniormost officers for the prevention of suicide by central paramilitary forces personnel who render internal security duties in some of the most challenging conditions and arduous terrains. The task force is headed by CRPF Director General Kuldiep Singh, while a special or additional DG of the BSF, ITBP, CISF, SSB and Assam Rifles will serve as members. The task force will draw a plan to "identify relevant risk factors and protective factors at the individual level; look at the existing and futuristic protective factors and study prevention strategies and also conduct research and interact with domain experts", according to the terms of reference accessed by PTI, Government data updated till August shows 680 Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) or central paramilitary forces personnel died by suicide in the past six years. According to officials, most times the issues that lead to stress and instances of suicide among the troops are related to problems they face at home, while some are related to service conditions and leaves. The task force has been asked by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to identify risk factors like "past suicidal attempt by the trooper, impulsivity as a personality trait, mental illness, alcohol or drugs abuse, aggressive tendencies, acute emotional crises, acute severe physical illness or chronic physical illness, acute stressful life events among others" during their analysis and frame recommendations The task force has also been asked to find if "any changes or modifications can be done in the deployment pattern of the troops and some way in which access to mobile phones can be limited during deployment phases" to check instances where troops take the extreme step. The panel of officers will also go through "protective factors" like the personnel having a strong relationship with family members; skills in problem-solving and conflict resolution; personal, social and religious beliefs and connections to spirituality. It has been suggested by the home ministry that the task force also looks into the aspects of improving awareness about suicide prevention, policies to reduce harmful use of alcohol and drugs, importance of mental well-being, etc. The panel will also devise plans to "screen" suicidal ideas or plans before and after personnel avail of leave(s). It will also look at training personnel to identify "vulnerable" colleagues and ways to address issues related to certain stigmas or taboo subjects. A senior home ministry official said the task force is an effort to "comprehensively address the issue of suicides in forces." "Life of every person is precious and a trained soldier is valuable for the country. While one can say the number of suicide cases is very less as compared to the overall strength of these forces, it is no doubt a very challenging subject to address," the official said. A CAPF officer, however, said that rather than creating a task force of officers, the ministry should bring in subject experts from the private domain. "An outsider with expertise on this subject will be able to suggest some harsh remedies, which may not be suggested by the in-house panel." “While the task force is authorised to talk to domain experts from the mental health arena, a free hand given to them can bring in radical changes,” the CAPF officer said. These paramilitary forces have a combined strength of over 1 million personnel and their troops are deployed from very hot temperatures, ranging from 50 degrees Celsius, to as low as minus 40 degrees Celsius. They not only guard Indian borders but also undertake counter-terrorism, counter-insurgency and anti-Naxal operations despite having few basic facilities owing to their remote or continuously mobile deployment. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-creates-taskforce-to-prevent-suicides-by-central-armed-police-forces-troops-1056571.html
01-12-2021||National||'You are insulting judges': SC warns ONGC of contempt over arbitrators' fees||The Supreme Court on Wednesday pulled up public sector behemoth ONGC for raising issue of fees to be paid to retired judges for acting as arbitrators in a dispute with another company.  A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked Attorney General K K Venugopal to speak to higher ups in the company to resolve the matter.  "What do you think of yourself? We will issue contempt notice for insulting judges," the bench told the ONGC.  The court stopped short of issuing a contempt notice to ONGC for "insulting" the arbitrators, appointed by it to resolve a dispute with Hong Kong-based Schlumberger Asia Services, over disagreement on fee payments and the meeting schedule. Terming it as “very unfortunate,” the bench told ONGC, “You are insulting former judges by not paying the fees as decided by them as per our order. You have a lot of egos. Is this the way you treat judges?”  "Because you have a lot of money, you keep filing frivolous proceedings. We will issue suo motu contempt notice against you,” the bench said. The court asked the AG to intervene and resolve the issue and fixed the case for hearing after a week.  “Talk to them, solve the problem. It's a very embarrassing situation. No retired judge would come and appear as arbitrators,” the CJI told the AG. The apex court had in January appointed Calcutta High Court's former Chief Justice Jai Narayan Patel and Punjab and Haryana High Court's former Chief Justice S Jal Vazifdar as the arbitrators. Subsequently, Justice S C Dharmadhikari, former judge of the Bombay High Court was appointed as one of the arbitrators after Justice Vazifdar recused himself. Even as SC judge Justice Anil Dave was appointed as the third arbitrator, he opted out of the panel due to a dispute over arbitration fees, followed by exit of Justice Patel over the same issue. Afterwards, Justice Dharmadhikari also recused from the tribunal and wrote a letter to the court highlighting ONGC's reluctance to pay the arbitration fees and agree on a fee schedule which was putting the arbitrators in an embarrassing situation. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/you-are-insulting-judges-sc-warns-ongc-of-contempt-over-arbitrators-fees-1056575.html
01-12-2021||National||Rajya Sabha Secretariat refused to answer query if Chinese have crossed LAC, says Subramanian Swamy||Rajya Sabha member and BJP leader Subramanian Swamy on Wednesday claimed that citing national interest, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat disallowed a question from him on whether the Chinese have crossed the LAC in Ladakh. The Rajya Sabha Secretariat said it acts on the recommendation of the "ministry concerned" when sensitive issues are involved. The issue is also being raised by the opposition members since the clashes between the armies of India and China in June last year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, during an all-party meeting on the issue last year, stated that no one had entered India or occupied its territory. The opposition has been attacking the prime minister and his government over the Indo-China face-off at the border and has demanded action against the Chinese. "It is hilarious if not tragic for Rajya Sabha Secretariat to inform me today that my Question whether the Chinese have crossed the LAC in Ladakh, cannot be allowed, ' because of national interest' !!!," Swamy said in a tweet.   It is hilarious if not tragic for Rajya Sabha Secretariat to inform me today that my Question whether the Chinese have crossed the LAC in Ladakh, cannot be allowed “ because of national interest”!!! A senior official of the Rajya Sabha Secretariat said, "The secretariat goes by the recommendation of ministry concerned if sensitive issues are involved." He said this has been the convention for a long time.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-secretariat-refused-to-answer-query-if-chinese-have-crossed-lac-says-subramanian-swamy-1056582.html
01-12-2021||National||Central Vista project not causing air pollution, Centre tells Supreme Court||The Centre on Wednesday defended before the Supreme Court about the ongoing construction activities for the parliamentary building and the Central Vista avenue site, saying these were projects of national importance, complying with waste management rules, and it does not cause any pollution. The top court had on Monday asked the Centre to explain within two days, why Central Vista project construction should go on, despite reimposition of ban due to severe air pollution in the capital. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing the petitioner Aditya Dubey, had then asked a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana to stop construction activities at the project site. In an affidavit, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, said, “so far as parliamentary building and the Central Vista avenue site is concerned, it complies with construction and demolition (C&D) waste management rules and each and every condition which is put to ensure that it does not cause any pollution”. It also said that all measures contemplated under the waste management rules have been taken, including use of anti-smog gun, mist spray system, dust suppressant like magnesium chloride, conveyor belt to transfer construction material, and keeping all construction material in wet condition. The court is scheduled to consider the matter on Thursday. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-vista-project-not-causing-air-pollution-centre-tells-supreme-court-1056590.html
01-12-2021||National||Serum Institute seeks DCGI's approval for Covishield booster dose||Serum Institute of India has sought the drug regulator's approval to administer Covishield as a booster dose, citing adequate stock of the vaccine in the country and the demand for a booster shot due to the emergence of Omicron coronavirus variant, official sources said. In an application to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), Prakash Kumar Singh, the Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII), cited that the UK's Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency has already approved the booster dose of AstraZeneca ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine, according to the sources. Singh is learnt to have said in the application that as the world continues to face the pandemic situation, many countries have started administering booster doses of Covid-19 vaccines. "People of our country, as well as citizens of other countries who have already been fully vaccinated with two doses of Covishield, are also continuously requesting our firm for booster dose," an official source quoted Singh as having said in the application on Tuesday. "You are aware that now there is no shortage of Covishield in our country and the demand for a booster dose is increasing day by day from the people who have already taken two doses in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and emergence of new strains," the source quoted Singh as having stated. It is the need of the hour and a matter of right to health of every individual that they should not be deprived of third dose/booster dose to protect themselves in this pandemic situation, Singh stated. The Union government has informed Parliament that the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 are deliberating and considering scientific evidence for the need and justification for a booster dose. Recently, Kerala, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh have urged the Centre to decide on allowing booster doses of Covid-19 vaccines amid concerns raised by the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The Delhi High Court on November 25 directed the Centre to clarify its stand on administering booster doses to those who are fully vaccinated against coronavirus, saying it does not want a second-wave-like situation on account of being conservative. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-seeks-dcgis-approval-for-covishield-booster-dose-1056592.html
01-12-2021||National||BJP MP urges government to bring Uniform Civil Code||BJP member Nishikant Dubey urged the Centre on Wednesday to bring a law soon to implement a Uniform Civil Code in the country. Raising the issue in the Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha, Dubey said the Allahabad High Court had last month asked the Centre to consider setting up a panel for implementing the mandate of Article 44 of the Constitution, which speaks about a Uniform Civil Code for the citizens throughout the territory of India. "Even after 75 years of Independence, we have not been able to bring in a Uniform Civil Code. I urge the government to soon bring a law to implement a Uniform Civil Code," he said. Speaking during the Zero Hour, Congress MP from Kerala Shashi Tharoor raised the issue of non-subsidised kerosene given to the southern state through the Public Distribution System (PDS). He urged the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas to increase the allocation of non-subsidised PDS kerosene to Kerala to help the fishermen community.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mp-urges-government-to-bring-uniform-civil-code-1056599.html
01-12-2021||National||68% of Indian ultra-processed food products have excess salt, sugar: Study||As much as 68 per cent of food and beverage products currently available in the Indian food market have excess amounts of at least one ingredient of concern, namely salt, sugar, and saurated fats, according to a study. Researchers from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC) analysed 10,500 products that had provided complete nutrition information in the nutrition facts panel. They found only 32 per cent are within the scientific thresholds recommended by the World Health Organisation's regional standards. The finding demonstrates that the nutrient profile model (NPM) from the WHO Southeast Asian Regional Office (SEARO) is appropriate and practicable for the Indian ultra-processed food market and may encourage the industry to embrace science and evidence-based cut-offs on salt, sugar, and saturated fat. NPM is a scientific method to categorise food and beverage items according to their nutritional composition with the ultimate aim of identifying and differentiating foods that are unhealthily high in salt, sugar, and saturated fats. "Our study finds that applying the SEARO NPM cut-off points would result in 68 per cent of products in the market requiring at least one warning label. This is in stark contrast to an earlier study undertaken by Nutrition Alchemy, utilising a small dataset of 1,300 which found that 96 per cent of products would require a label. This creates an erroneous impression that FOPL based on the SEARO NPM is not practicable and based on the ground reality," said co-author Dr Chandrakant S. Pandav, Professor and Head of the Department - Centre for Community Medicine, AIIMS. Based on the "cut off" established by the NPM, the front-of-the-pack food label (FOPL) informs consumers in a fast and straightforward way whether a product contains excessive sugar, sodium, and saturated fat, helping them make a healthier choice. India faces a rapidly escalating burden of non-communicable diseases (NCDs), particularly the rising incidence of nutrition related diseases such as diabetes, obesity among adults as well as an alarming increase in childhood obesity. The country also clocks the highest growth rate for ultra-processed food and beverages items high in added sugar, salt and additives, besides being ultra-processed. Over the past year, the Food Safety Standards Authority of India has been preparing to introduce a mandatory front-of-the-pack food label (FOPL) on all packaged foods which will require the food industry to ensure that ingredients of concern are within a certain threshold and also guide consumers towards making healthy choices. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/68-of-indian-ultra-processed-food-products-have-excess-salt-sugar-study-1056601.html
01-12-2021||National||Centre says Maharashtra order on international passengers in divergence with its guidelines, asks state to align||After the Maharashtra government revised the guidelines on quarantine for international passengers in view of concerns over the Omicron variant, the Centre on Wednesday asked the state to align its order with the SOPs issued by the Union Health Ministry. Maharashtra has mandated seven-day institutional quarantine for travellers arriving in the state from 'at-risk' countries under the guidelines issued by the State Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday night. Such passengers will also undergo RT-PCR test on the second, fourth and seventh day of arrival. If found to be Covid-19 positive, the passenger will be shifted to a hospital. In case the test is negative, the passenger will still have to undergo seven-day home quarantine. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a letter, said that the order issued by the Maharashtra government is in divergence with the Covid-19 SoPs and guidelines issued by Union Health Ministry for international passengers. "I would, therefore, urge you to align the orders issued by the state with the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health, Government of India, so that uniform implementation of the guidelines may be ensured across all states and UTs. "I would also advise that such modified orders of the state government are given wide publicity to obviate any inconvenience to travellers," he said in the letter addressed to Pradeep Kumar Vyas, Additional Chief Secretary of the state's Department of Health & Family Welfare. Under the new guidelines issued by the Union Health Ministry on November 28, passengers originating or transiting from at-risk countries will have to undergo RT-PCR testing post-arrival and will be required to wait for the results at the airport before leaving or taking a connecting flight  Travellers from countries excluding those countries at risk will be allowed to leave the airport and shall self-monitor their health for 14 days post-arrival but five percent of the total flight passengers shall undergo post-arrival testing at random at the airport on arrival, However, according to the Maharashtra government guidelines, passengers from other than 'at-risk' countries will have to undergo a compulsory RT-PCR test at the airport. Even if found negative, they will have to undergo 14-day home quarantine. The list of 'at-risk' countries has been announced by the Union government. According to an updated list, the countries designated as 'at-risk' are the European countries, the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-says-maharashtra-order-on-international-passengers-in-divergence-with-its-guidelines-asks-state-to-align-1056609.html
01-12-2021||National||Farmers slam Centre for claiming lack of data on protesters' deaths||Stating that the BJP government should stop attempting to divide farmers even at this stage, two days after the three farm laws were repealed in the Parliament, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday condemned the government's statement that it does not have data about farmers' death. "The SKM condemns the response of the government of India in the Parliament saying that it has no information about deaths in the farmers' movement and therefore, the question of financial assistance does not arise! SKM reiterates its demand for compensation and rehabilitation of the kin of more than 689 martyrs in the ongoing agitation," the SKM, which has spearheaded the farmers' agitation for over a year, said in a statement. It also criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not re-initiating formal dialogue and not responding formally to the letter sent by the SKM reminding the government about the pending demands. "Farm unions stand united in their demands to the government and SKM is awaiting formal communication with all required details from the government," it said. The SKM's statement came in the backdrop of alleged informal attempts by the Central government to reach out to the farmers on Tuesday, seeking five names to be included in a committee purportedly for discussing farm-related issues, including the minimum support price (MSP). Asserting that the farmers' unions are all united, the SKM, a consortium of 40-odd organisations, said that campsites around Delhi borders will continue to remain in place and their protests will continue with a renewed vigour. "More farmers are coming so that everyone can go back together victorious — SKM appeals to farmers and media not to believe falsehoods being spread about protests winding down — SKM will hold its meeting on December 4 as announced earlier," the statement said. The SKM also claimed that there has been no meeting between Manohar Lal Khattar and farm unions in Haryana. "In the Haryana SKM meeting, it was reiterated that the agitation will continue until the pending demands are met by the government, and until formal communication is received regarding the same, Haryana farmers' organisations will join the SKM meeting on December 4 like other constituents and a collective stock-taking will take place on that day," it said. Meanwhile, the All India Kisan Sabha, a component of SKM, said, "The BJP government has been incessantly peddling lies to cover up for their loss of face, having suffered a humiliating defeat at the hands of the united Kisan movement. Narendra Modi is graceless in defeat and insincere in the apology tendered, he has no remorse for the death of over 700 farmers and immense hardship farmers have had to undergo." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-slam-centre-for-claiming-lack-of-data-on-protesters-deaths-1056612.html
01-12-2021||National||Over 55% drop in number of students going abroad for higher education: MoE||The number of students going abroad for higher education has dropped by over 55 per cent between 2019 and 2020, Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan was replying to a written question in the Rajya Sabha. "While 5,88,931 students went abroad for higher education in 2019, only 2,61,406 students had gone in 2020," Pradhan said citing the data from the Ministry of Home Affairs. The Ministry of Education (MoE) informed Parliament that it has been taking several steps to provide better higher education opportunities to students. "Research and teaching collaborations and faculty or student exchanges with high-quality foreign institutions will be facilitated, and relevant mutually beneficial MoUs with foreign countries will be signed," the minister said in the written response. The minister further said that, in line with the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, the government encourages high-performing Indian universities to set up campuses in other countries, and similarly, selected universities from among the top 100 universities in the world will be facilitated to operate in India. "A legislative framework facilitating such entry will be put in place, and such universities will be given special dispensation regarding regulatory, governance, and content norms on par with other autonomous institutions of India," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-55-drop-in-number-of-students-going-abroad-for-higher-education-moe-1056623.html
01-12-2021||National||Centre moves Assisted Reproductive Technology Bill for consideration in Lok Sabha||The Centre on Wednesday moved the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill in the Lok Sabha seeking to regulate in-vitro fertilization (IVF) clinics that mushroomed all over the country while creating benchmark standards for the methods and practices followed in fertility clinics. Once enacted, the Bill would lead to the creation of a national board to lay down and implement a code of conduct for people working at such clinics, besides determining the minimum standards of physical infrastructure, laboratory, diagnostic equipment and expert manpower to be employed by ART clinics and banks. Moving the bill for consideration and passage, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said the draft legislation was introduced in the House in September 2020 and was referred to the Standing Committee. The panel made several suggestions that were considered by the government. One of the panel’s suggestions of not allowing same-sex and live-in couples to have babies born through in-vitro fertilization technology because of the complexities in Indian family system, has been retained in the Bill. But several Parliamentarians demanded withdrawal of such a clause. “The 2007 Adoption Rules prevents single fathers from adopting a girl and the Bill is silent on the availability of ART for people from LGBTQ community and single parents. I urged the Centre to make ART more inclusive and ensure its availability to all,” said NCP MP Supriya Sule. Taken together with the surrogacy bill - pending in the Rajya Sabha - the two legislation aim to regulate hundreds of fertility clinics that offer expensive IVF services to childless couples. Initiating the debate, Congress member Karti Chidambaram described the Bill as a Victorian law as it was not all-encompassing and excluded the LGBTQ community (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer). He also asked the government to consider supporting poor childless parents for taking the help of ART. BJP member Heena Gavit said the Bill sought to set minimum standards and codes of conduct for fertility clinics and egg/sperm banks. It also proposed stringent punishment for those practicing sex selection and sale of human embryos or gametes. She said about 80 per cent of ART clinics were not registered and the Bill would ensure strict adherence to the guidelines. According to a registry maintained by the Indian Council of Medical Research, there are 1,269 ART clinics in India as of November, 2019. The number rises to 1,846 when ART clinics and ART banks are taken together. But there are many unregistered clinics. The Bill seeks to offer ART services to any women below the age of 50 and men below the age of 55. It says that an egg donor will only be an “ever married” woman with a child with a minimum age of three years and she can donate eggs only once. Not more than seven eggs are to be retrieved. ''The Bill also has a provision that those involved in trafficking and sale of embryos will be fined Rs 10 lakh in the first instance and in the second instance the person could be imprisoned for up to 12 years," Gavit added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-moves-assisted-reproductive-technology-bill-for-consideration-in-lok-sabha-1056625.html
01-12-2021||National||Six Covid cases detected in India on screening passengers of 11 flights from 'at-risk' countries||Six Covid-19 cases were reported on Wednesday among 3,476 passengers in 11 flights from "at-risk" countries and the samples have been sent for genomic sequencing, the Health Ministry said amid concerns over the Omicron variant of coronavirus. The flights landed across the country, between midnight and 4 pm on Wednesday. The Centre's revised guidelines for international travellers came into effect on Wednesday after the World Health Organization (WHO) declared it a "variant of concern". "On the first day of operation of the guidelines for international travellers issued by the Centre as public health response measures for control and management of the newly reported variant of coronavirus, which has been designated as a 'variant of concern' by WHO, six passengers were reported to be Covid positive," the Union Health Ministry said. "All 3,476 passengers were administered RT PCR Tests, wherein only six passengers were found Covid-19 positive," the ministry said, adding the samples of Covid-19 positive passengers have been sent to INSACOG labs for "whole genomic sequencing". The list of "at-risk" nations (updated on November 30) comprises countries from Europe, including the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. Travellers from these countries need to follow additional measures on arriving in India, including post-arrival testing. The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday revised the guidelines for international arrivals, mandating that two per cent of the total passengers coming from countries that are not in the 'at-risk' category will also be tested for Covid-19 on a random basis. The travellers in each flight shall be identified by the airlines concerned (preferably from different countries).  Arrivals from countries not designated "at-risk" have also been directed to self-monitor their health for 14 days after arrival. Passengers originating or transiting from "at-risk" countries will have to undergo an RT-PCR test upon arrival and will be required to wait for the results at the airport before leaving or taking a connecting flight, according to the revised guidelines that came into effect from December 1. If tested negative, they will have to be in-home quarantine for seven days and undergo another test on the eighth day of arrival in India. If again negative, they will self-monitor health for seven more days, according to the guidelines. However, if such travellers test positive for Covid-19, their samples should be sent for genomic testing to the INSACOG laboratory network. They shall be managed at a separate isolation facility and treated according to the standard protocol, including contact tracing. Contacts of such positive cases should also be kept in institutional quarantine or at home quarantine monitored strictly by the state government concerned, the guidelines stated. The dos and don'ts shall be provided along with the ticket to the travellers by the airlines/agencies concerned. The airlines will allow boarding of only those passengers who have filled in a self-declaration form on the Air Suvidha portal and uploaded their negative RT-PCR test report, it stated. This test should be conducted within 72 hours before the journey. Only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed to board a flight after thermal screening and all passengers shall be advised to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile devices. The health ministry added that the Government of India continues to keep track of the evolving situation, and support states and Union Territories in the fight against the pandemic through a "whole of government" approach. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-covid-cases-detected-in-india-on-screening-passengers-of-11-flights-from-at-risk-countries-1056629.html
01-12-2021||National||Railways reduced losses by suspending fare concessions, says minister in Lok Sabha||The Indian Railways has reduced its loss from Rs 2,059 crore in 2019-2020 to Rs 38 crore in 2020-21 after it stopped giving fare concessions to most categories of passengers, the government said on Wednesday. "Revenue foregone due to concessions on passenger fare to various categories of passengers during the financial year 2019-20 and 2020-21 is Rs 2,059 crore and Rs 38 crore, respectively," Railways Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw informed Lok Sabha.   The Railways suspended concession in passenger fares of all categories, except for patients and students, due to Covid-19. Although Indian Railways restored many of its pre-Covid services as cases reduced, concessions, including the ones for senior citizens, are yet to be restored. The issue of granting concession to passengers remains a subject of debate as several committees have demanded the government scrap such subsidies. The minister also said that the railway passenger fare is highly subsidised and the revenue generated from it is less than the national transporter's operating cost. Vaishnaw also said the total revenue from the sale of passenger tickets during 2019-2020 was Rs 50,669.09 crore. The following year, when the pandemic hit, revenue from passenger ticket sales reduced to Rs 15,248.49 crore. Until September this year, the amount generated from passenger fare is Rs 15,434.18 crore, he said. The minister also said the national transporter suffered Rs 36.87 crore loss due to the agitations by farmers and other organisations. The Northern Railways suffered the most losses, amounting to Rs 22.58 crore, the minister said in his written reply.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-reduced-losses-by-suspending-fare-concessions-says-minister-in-lok-sabha-1056637.html
01-12-2021||National||Supreme Court grants bail to septuagenarian Maoist ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted bail to a Maharashtra-based Bengali engineer, Ashim Kumar Haranath Bhattacharya, accused of helping Maoists to manufacture rocket launcher, saying unduly long deprivation of personal liberty was a threat to public confidence in administration of justice. The top court also directed the Centre and West Bengal to ensure setting up of more designated special courts in the state for day-to-day trial. A bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and Abhay S Oka noted the charges against the accused are undoubtedly serious but those will have to be balanced with certain other factors like the period of incarceration undergone and the likelihood period within which the trial can be expected to be finally concluded.    The court also said deprivation of personal liberty without ensuring speedy trial is not consistent with Article 21 of the Constitution.  "While deprivation of personal liberty for some period may not be avoidable, period of deprivation pending trial/appeal cannot be unduly long. At the same time, timely delivery of justice is part of human rights and denial of speedy justice is a threat to public confidence in the administration of justice," the bench said. The court also pointed the appellant, arrested on July 6, 2012 in the case, is 74 years of age. It said the charge sheet was filed way back in 2012 and charges were framed only in 2019. The top court said its numerous judgements had emphasised that the liberty guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution would cover within its protective ambit not only due procedure and fairness but also access to justice. "A speedy trial is imperative and the undertrials cannot indefinitely be detained pending trial. Once it is obvious that a timely trial would not be possible and the accused has suffered incarceration for a significant period of time, the courts would ordinarily be obligated to enlarge him on bail," the bench said, rejecting opposition to the plea of bail by the NIA. The court also directed the West Bengal government to designate more special courts to try offences investigated by the NIA to ensure day-to-day trial as per mandate of the law. "Only one such special court has been designated by the State of West Bengal to try such cases under the Act 2008. The hearing in the instant case is taking place only one day in a month and if this procedure is being followed in conducting the trial under Act 2008, it frustrates the very purpose with which the special courts are designated," the bench said. The court also directed the Union government to take up the matter with the state government after consultation with the Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court for setting up more special courts for speedy trial in such cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-grants-bail-to-septuagenarian-maoist-1056656.html
01-12-2021||National||Need proper mechanism to decide on internet shutdowns: Parliamentary panel to Lok Sabha||Pulling up the government over the absence of parameters to decide the merit of shutting down telecom or internet services during certain times, a parliamentary panel on Wednesday suggested adopting a proper mechanism at the earliest. The Standing Committee on Communications and IT, in its report on 'suspension of telecom services/internet and its impact',  emphasised the need to put in place a proper mechanism at the earliest to decide on the merit or appropriateness of telecom and internet shutdowns. The committee, in its report tabled in the Lok Sabha, observed that although public emergency and safety are the only grounds on which internet shutdowns can be imposed, as of now, "there is no clear-cut definition of what constitutes public emergency and public safety" Due to a lack of such parameters, internet shutdowns have been ordered purely on the basis of subjective assessment and reading of the ground situations by district level officers and are largely based on executive decisions. Suspension rules have been "grossly misused" leading to huge economic loss and also causing untold suffering to the public, as well as severe reputational damage to the country, the committee said. Frequent suspension of the internet on "flimsy grounds" is uncalled for and "must be avoided", given that the government’s thrust on digitisation and knowledge economy with free and open access to internet is at its core, it said. Expressing unhappiness over lack of records relating to telecom services/internet shutdowns ordered by state governments, the panel recommended that both DoT and Ministry of Home Affairs should establish a mechanism at the earliest to maintain a centralised database of all internet shutdown orders in the country. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-proper-mechanism-to-decide-on-internet-shutdowns-parliamentary-panel-to-lok-sabha-1056662.html
01-12-2021||National||No Indian-origin scientists joined ISRO from foreign agencies in last five years: Jitendra Singh to LS||No Indian-origin scientists have joined ISRO from foreign space agencies during the past five years and no scientists from ISRO have left India to join foreign space agencies during the same period, the government said on Wednesday. In the Lok Sabha, Minister of State in the Department of Space and Department of Atomic Energy Jitendra Singh was asked about the number of scientists of Indian-origin who joined ISRO from foreign space agencies in the last five years and the number of scientists from ISRO who have left India to join foreign space agencies in the same period. He replied "nil" to questions. Responding to another question, he said the Department of Space/ISRO has taken measures to secure the Indian satellites from space debris. The Directorate for Space Situational Awareness and Management is established at ISRO-HQ to manage ISRO's space assets. The state-of-the-art Space Situational Awareness Control Centre is currently operational at Bengaluru for close approach analysis and assessment of threats to Indian satellites from space debris. It also designs and executes collision avoidance maneuvers whenever critical collision risk is identified, he said in a written response. Singh said ISRO has implemented fortification measures like strong encryption of commands and authentication protocols in its older in-orbit remote sensing satellites to prevent access to the satellites. To deny information from the satellites (payload and satellite data), measures like directional transmission antenna, transmission of dummy data, switching off information over non-visibility areas to Indian stations etc have been implemented. "More advanced fortification measures like strong encryption of both command and information are planned for the future satellites. Apart from encryption, techniques to protect satellites against jamming and spoofing are under development for implementation in its future communication and navigation satellites," he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-indian-origin-scientists-joined-isro-from-foreign-agencies-in-last-five-years-jitendra-singh-to-ls-1056665.html
01-12-2021||National||How long should youth be patient on lack of govt jobs? asks Varun Gandhi||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Thursday highlighted lack of government employment opportunities for the young and wondered how long should they keep patience.  The Pilibhit Lok Sabha MP has been critical of the government's handling of economic and employment issues without directly targeting the central dispensation.  He had also been vocal in his support to the farmers' agitation against the three farm laws. Parliament recently passed a bill to annul the three laws. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-long-should-youth-be-patient-on-lack-of-govt-jobs-asks-varun-gandhi-1056669.html
01-12-2021||National Politics||BJP-led Centre weakening states: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday alleged that the BJP government at the Centre is weakening the states instead of strengthening them. He also said that if all the office bearers and public representatives of the Congress fulfil their responsibility, then no one can stop the party from winning the upcoming assembly elections in the state. Gehlot was addressing a meeting organised by the All India Congress Committee at the state Congress headquarters regarding preparations for the 'Mehengai Hatao Rally' to be organized in New Delhi on December 12. The chief minister said that during the rule of the previous governments, basic excise duty was levied on petrol and diesel in which the Centre and the states had a share, but the present Centre increased the fuel prices by levying additional excise, special excise and cess. While the states do not have any share in it, the entire amount fills the central government's treasury, he claimed. He said that when the Centre reduces the price of petrol and diesel, the revenue of the states automatically decreases. Only if the central government reduces Rs 10 on petrol and Rs 15 on diesel, inflation will come down in the country. Due to this decision, Rajasthan will suffer a revenue loss of Rs 3,500 crore, which the state government is ready to bear, the chief minister said. According to a statement, Gehlot said, "The central government is working to weaken the states instead of strengthening them, while the states have important responsibilities like water, electricity, roads, education, health." Gehlot said that if all the Congress leaders, ministers, MLAs, MLA candidates fulfil their respective responsibilities, then no power can stop the Congress from forming the government again in 2023. At the same time, Ajay Maken, General Secretary of All India Congress Committee and the party's in-charge of Rajasthan, said in the meeting that due to the tireless hard work of Congress workers, the party has come to power in the state and the key to power is in the hands of Congress workers. He said that by respecting the workers and fulfilling the aspirations of the people, no one can stop the Congress from coming to power again in 2023. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-led-centre-weakening-states-ashok-gehlot-1056409.html
01-12-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha likely to discuss new 'Omicron' variant today||The Lok Sabha on Wednesday is likely to discuss the new Omicron variant of Covid along with other legislative Business. The government will also try to table 'The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020', which it failed to do in the first two days of the current session. According to sources, the discussion on the new Omicron variant will be held under Rule 193. Under this rule, members can seek details about the new Covid variant. "Short duration discussion is likely to be held in the Lok Sabha on the new Omicron variant. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya will tell the House about the new variant," sources said. On Tuesday, Mandaviya informed the Rajya Sabha that no case of Omicron variant had been reported in the country as of now. He also briefed the Upper House about the country's preparedness. Mandaviya will also introduce 'The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020'. The Bill is for the regulation and supervision of the assisted reproductive technology clinics and the assisted reproductive technology banks, prevention of misuse, safe and ethical practice of assisted reproductive technology services and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. For the first two days of the current session, Mandaviya failed to introduce the Bills due to continuous uproar in the House. The opposition is likely to continue to raise its voices on price rise, unemployment and extended jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in some States. The opposition parties are also demanding a law guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP). Several reports will be also tabled in the Lok Sabha. Shashi Tharoor and Rajyavardhan Rathore are to present the Reports of the Standing Committee on Communications and Information Technology. A motion to move to extend the time up to the last week of the Winter Session of Parliament for presentation of the Report of the Joint Committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-likely-to-discuss-new-omicron-variant-today-1056447.html
01-12-2021||National Politics||UP 'lives in fear' under 'dictators', says Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||Uttar Pradesh "lives in fear" under the BJP rule as it is a "party of dictators" where voices of dissent are stifled, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said Wednesday. Baghel, who has been appointed senior observer for the next year's Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, claimed that the BJP has not fulfilled any poll promise and instead, is trying to divert people’s attention by making religious remarks. “Congress is the only party in UP which is fighting against the ruling BJP. Two other opposition parties, SP and BSP, both appear to be compromised in favour of the BJP,” he told PTI in an interview. Baghel said Uttar Pradesh Assembly election results will be different from previous elections and may surprise many poll pundits. “It is a fact that UP lives in fear under the BJP rule. If I can express my opinion in just one sentence, Uttar Pradesh is being ruled by the party of dictators, where a voice of dissent is punished,” he said. The Chhattisgarh chief minister said the Centre’s decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws is a "political move" and farmers have lost faith in the Narendra Modi government. “It is clearly visible that farmers have lost all their faith in the Modi government. Now, they don’t trust the BJP anymore. The political damage is permanent. The decision to take the laws back cannot make the BJP a farmer-friendly party,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-lives-in-fear-under-dictators-says-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-1056495.html
01-12-2021||National Politics||UP election: Mayawati faces biggest challenge of her political career||With almost all her party's legislature group members deserting her and even her once closest associates parting ways, four-time Uttar Pradesh chief minister and BSP supremo Mayawati perhaps is facing the biggest challenge of her over three-decade long political career in the forthcoming state assembly elections. Mayawati, who, riding her social engineering formula that brought the 'Brahmins-Dalits-Muslims' together, had managed to win 206 seats in a House of 403 in 2007 assembly polls in the state and formed the government, saw her electoral fortunes nosediving in subsequent assembly elections. While the BSP won 80 seats in 2012 assembly polls, its tally declined sharply to 19 in 2017 assembly elections. What compounded to the woes of the party was that as many as 15 of its MLAs either shifted allegiance or were expelled on charges of anti-party activities since then. Senior leaders like Ram Achal Rajbhar, former UP BSP president, and Lalji Verma, a one time close confidante of Mayawati, have joined the Samajwadi Party (SP) along with half a dozen other BSP legislators. A similar number has switched loyalty to the BJP. Although Mayawati is still considered as the undisputed leader of the 'Jatav' (SC) community, which forms around 10 per cent of the total electorate in the state, BSP's vote share has witnessed gradual decline over the past few years. BSP had secured a little over 30 per cent votes in 2007, when it had formed the government in the state. It went down to less than 26 per cent in 2012 and further declined to around 22 per cent in 2017. Political analysts say that BSP had support base among the Muslims, OBC and other SC communities, besides the 'Jatavs', but it had witnessed a gradual erosion over the years. ''It will not be a surprise if it (vote share) goes down further,'' said a Lucknow-based analyst. Chandrashekhar alias Ravan, the founder of Bhim Army (a dalit outfit) has emerged as a potential challenger to Mayawati, especially in the Western UP region. Mayawati, however, dismissed any such threat from Chandrashekhar's party. BSP MLA Shah Alam alias Guddu Jamal, who joined the SP a few days ago, says that the Muslims will not be supporting Mayawati this time. ''BSP is no longer in a position to defeat the BJP...SP is the only party which can do it,'' he said. No wonder Mayawati has returned to her tested success formula of ''social engineering'' and her party organised a series of statewide 'Brahmin Sammelans' in different parts of the state aiming at bringing back the electorally influential community to her fold in the polls. Mayawati has made it clear that her party will not forge electoral alliances in future and would contest the next UP assembly poll on its own. BSP had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in alliance with the SP and had managed to win 10 seats in UP.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-election-mayawati-faces-biggest-challenge-of-her-political-career-1056518.html
01-12-2021||National Politics||'There is no UPA', says Mamata Banerjee after meeting Sharad Pawar||Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday met Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai and took a not-so-subtle dig at the Congress, accusing the grand old party of not doing enough to fight the Bharatiya Janata Party. “There is no UPA (United Progressive Alliance) now,” Banerjee told journalists after meeting Pawar, thus denying the existence of the Congress-led coalition that included both the NCP and the Trinamool Congress and ran the government at the Centre till 2014. She also mooted earlier on the day the idea of a coalition of the regional parties without the Congress to counter the BJP. Pawar, however, refrained from publicly lending support to West Bengal Chief Minister's suggestion to leave the Congress out of the coalition to take on the BJP. “All those opposed to the BJP are welcome to join us. There is no question of excluding anyone,” the NCP patriarch said, when a journalist asked him if he had discussed with the Trinamool Congress supremo about the possibility of an anti-BJP alliance without the Congress. “One cannot fight fascism alone. We have to fight unitedly. Those who fight should come together. What can (one) do if one doesn't fight,” the Trinamool Congress supremo said, tacitly accusing the Congress of not doing enough to counter the BJP. She also took a swipe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, saying: “Continuous endeavour is necessary in politics. You can't be abroad most of the time.” Banerjee had a meeting with Aditya Thackeray and Sanjay Raut of the Shiv Sena soon after her arrival in Mumbai on Tuesday. She had a meeting with Medha Patkar and other civil society activists, film personalities like Javed Akhtar, Shatrughan Sinha, Mahesh Bhatt and Swara Bhaskar as well as comedian Munawar Faruqui. “Unfortunately, we are facing a cruel, undemocratic and unethical attitude of the BJP,” she said, adding: “I know Mahesh Bhatt is victimised, Shah Rukh is victimised. There are many more... Some can open their mouths and some cannot”. She reached Mumbai on Tuesday, less than a week after her visit to New Delhi, and brought to the fore the rift between her Trinamool Congress and the Congress. Unlike her last visit to the national capital, she did not have a meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Her party also last week opened its door for 12 of the 17 Congress MLAs in Meghalaya and thus, turned into the main opposition party in the BJP-ruled north-eastern state overnight. She also admitted into her party Rahul Gandhi's former confidante Ashok Tanwar and cricketer-turned-politician Kirti Azad, who had quit the BJP to join the Congress in February 2019. Two other well-known leaders of the Congress in Goa and Assam – Luizinho Faleiro and Sushmita Dev – had earlier joined the Trinamool Congress. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/there-is-no-upa-says-mamata-banerjee-after-meeting-sharad-pawar-1056542.html
01-12-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha faces disruptions over opposition to MPs' suspension||Disruptive events dominated Rajya Sabha proceedings on Wednesday as Opposition MPs protested the denial of their demand to revoke the suspension of 12 lawmakers, who began their sit-in protest at the Gandhi Statue in Parliament complex. The 12 suspended MPs were joined by their colleagues from the opposition benches in expressing solidarity, before proceedings began in Parliament in the morning with the issue echoing in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. Opposition floor leaders, following a meeting chaired by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, decided to raise the issue in Parliament during the day and force the government to reverse the decision to suspend the MPs. Sources said leaders decided that they should not "meekly surrender" and voice their protest vociferously in both the Houses accordingly during the day in solidarity with the protesting MPs. While a section of the Opposition staged a walk-out in Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha witnessed repeated adjournments throughout the day after the Chair refused to give Kharge a chance to raise the issue of suspension. This led to sloganeering by the Opposition at repeated intervals. As soon as Rajya Sabha assembled and after Kerala Congress' Jose K Mani took the oath and official papers tabled, Kharge rose to his feet raising the issue but Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu refused to allow him saying, "coming to the well of the House, climbing on the table, throwing papers, snatching papers from the minister and also challenging the Chair... doing everything which is unparliamentary, undemocratic and they have no remorse. What can we do?" "...crores of rupees are spent on this House and people are getting dismayed at what is happening in this House," he said, adjourning the House till noon. Similar scenes were witnessed at noon and 2 pm, when the House reassembled. Finally, the House adjourned for the day a little after 3 pm although Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat introduced the Dam Safety Bill At the protest site, Rahul Gandhi, Kharge (Congress), Sougata Roy (Trinamool), Supriya Sule (NCP), TR Baalu (DMK), NK Premachandran (RSP) and Thol Thirumavalavan (VCK), among others, expressed solidarity with the protesters. Congress Rajya Sabha whip Syed Nasir Hussain, one of the 12 suspended MPs, said that an apology is out of the question, as the government has "scant respect" for the democratic process and traditions in the country. "Do you think we need to apologise to the government for asking questions, seeking time for a debate? This government has to apologise because of its dictatorial attitude. We have reached this impasse. The government has to say sorry to people as they are the people who are not allowing democracy to function in this country," he said. Congress MP Chhaya Verma, who is also among the suspended MPs, said the government had provoked the Opposition MPs by bringing in the General Insurance Bill without discussing it in the Business Advisory Committee. She also said the government was on a campaign to malign the Opposition by releasing "selective" CCTV footage of the incident. "We want the release of the full footage. Why are they not taking action against marshals who manhandled the MPs, including women lawmakers? Also, Union Minister Piyush Goyal referred to MPs who climbed the reporters' table but no action was taken. Is it because of the elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh?" she asked. Suspended CPI(M) Rajya Sabha floor leader Elamaram Kareem said the suspension of a dozen MPs was done because the BJP was wary of the numbers in the Upper House with some of the NDA friendly parties distancing themselves from the saffron party. "Now the Opposition strength is less. That was deliberately done. This suspension has eased some of BJP's pressure and now they can bring bills and get it passed easily," he said. Dola Sen, who was one of the two suspended MPs from Trinamool, alleged that the government had such habitual offenders, and it was ironic to be labelled one. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi brought in demonetisation with the goal of unearthing black money. The black money did not come, instead, 150 persons lost their lives. Then he imposed farm laws against the wishes of people. In the agitation for over a year, over 700 people were martyred. So, he is the habitual offender and he has never apologised for any of this," Sen said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-faces-disruptions-over-opposition-to-mps-suspension-1056555.html
01-12-2021||National Politics||Allot common symbol to Azad Samaj Party, Delhi HC tells EC||The Delhi High Court Wednesday asked the Election Commission (EC) of India to allot a common election symbol to Chandra Shekhar Aazad's political party for the upcoming assembly elections in five states. Justice Prateek Jalan directed the EC to facilitate the process after it said that it had no objection to granting a common symbol to the Bhim Army chief for his 'Azad Samaj Party (Kanshi Ram)' as long as a common symbol is available in all five states and the already allotted common symbol for three states is surrendered. “The Commission will inform the petitioner of the symbols that are available in each of the five states and the petitioner may opt for any of those and it may be allotted to him. The Election Commission is directed to facilitate this process,” said the judge who was hearing Aazad's petition seeking a common election symbol for his political outfit. “Make sure that he gets a common symbol, whatever it is... Whatever you find is available in all five states, give it to him,” the court told the EC. “Tell your client no fussing about which symbol it is,” the judge told the counsel for the petitioner. The petitioner's lawyer said that in terms of an earlier order asking him to approach the EC for the grant of a common symbol, applications were made by him but no action was taken by the authorities. Advocate Sidhant Kumar, representing the EC, stated that pursuant to the applications, the petitioner has been allotted helicopter as a common symbol for three states — Punjab, Goa and Manipur. He said that while the application for Uttar Pradesh was rejected for being premature, the symbol sought was also not available for Uttarakhand. The petitioner's lawyer asserted that there was no preference and any common symbol may be allotted for the petitioner's political party. Considering that the petitioner was seeking “any” common symbol for his political party, the court asked the EC to inform him about the symbols available in the five states and facilitate the process after fresh applications are made. “They want a common symbol... For Uttarakhand, you are saying it is rejected because the symbol that you (Aazad) have chosen resembles some other symbols... Then either you (EC) decide (which symbol is to be given) or you update the list (of free symbols) on a real-time basis so that the person knows which symbol is available today. We can't have a completely opaque system like this,” the judge remarked. On November 12, the EC had told the high court that it would consider in accordance with law Aazad's application for allotment of a common symbol for the upcoming assembly elections. The judge had then disposed of Aazad's petition seeking a common election, observing that the petitioner's application may be considered by the commission in terms of the Symbols Order and other applicable laws. The EC's lawyer had stated that there was a separate process of allotment for each assembly election and the petitioner's plea for a common symbol for his unrecognised, registered party “could be considered” in accordance with the law. The plea had contended that since the political party was going to contest the upcoming assembly elections and continuously organising rallies, the general public desired to know the common election symbol. The petition claimed that Aazad was “suffering irreparable losses” due to the absence of a common election symbol. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/allot-common-symbol-to-azad-samaj-party-delhi-hc-tells-ec-1056580.html
01-12-2021||National Politics||Come out of 'hangover of feudal arrogance': Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi to Opposition||Amid uproar over the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs, Deputy Leader of the Upper House Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday hit out at the Opposition, saying they should come out of their "hangover of feudal arrogance" and accept their "mistake" instead of justifying their actions. The 12 MPs were suspended from Rajya Sabha on Monday for the entire Winter Session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August, prompting protests by the Opposition which called it "undemocratic and a violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House. The government has stoutly defended the suspension of the 12 opposition members and demanded that all those guilty of disrupting the House in the Monsoon Session should not only apologise to the Chair for questioning him, but also to the House and the nation. The Opposition MPs have categorically rejected the demand, saying they would not apologise as they were raising people's issues. Talking about the suspension issue, Naqvi said the government is always in favour of the participation of all members in debate and discussion but "unfortunately priorities of some members seems to be to disrupt and destroy the decorum of the House". "Those who have harmed the dignity of the temple of democracy should accept their mistake rather than justifying their acts," the Minority Affairs Minister said. "Unfortunately, instead of accepting their mistake, they are not only justifying their actions but also saying they will continue to do so. This kind of behaviour weakens the democratic system," the BJP leader told PTI. The Opposition should come out of the "hangover of feudal arrogance" and perform their constitutional duties, maintaining parliamentary decorum, he added. One does not become small by accepting one's mistake. Instead, one's stature grows on accepting a "mistake", Naqvi said. The MPs suspended are Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Bora, Rajamani Patel, Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh of the Congress; Dola Sen, Shanta Chhetri of Trinamool Congress; Priyanka Chaturvedi, Anil Desai of Shiv Sena; Elamaram Kareem of CPM; and Binoy Viswam of the CPI. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has said he was not considering Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge's appeal of revoking the action as the suspended MPs have not shown any remorse, but on the contrary, justified their acts. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/come-out-of-hangover-of-feudal-arrogance-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-to-opposition-1056593.html
01-12-2021||National Politics||Turf war in Opposition camp as Trinamool Congress, Congress trade barbs||It is now an open turf war in the opposition camp, with TMC leader Mamata Banerjee claiming that the UPA, in which she was the cabinet minister of Railways under Manmohan Singh, is now non-existent. With this, Congress will have a tough time retaining the leadership of the Opposition. However, Congress insists that no front can come up without it. "It is a dream if someone thinks it can fight the BJP alone," Congress General Secretary KC Venugopal said. Although the TMC has charted its own course and maintained a distance from the opposition meetings, the surprise entry is the TRS, which has often been seen with the government and was a fence-sitter. TRS leader K Keshav Rao has now joined the meetings called by the leader of Opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge, of the Congress. The change of heart is due to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) asserting itself in the state, becoming its main rival in Telangana. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday met NCP leader Sharad Pawar and said that the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) is currently non-existent and all the like-minded opposition parties must unitedly fight the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. Banerjee discussed the strategy for all opposition parties to take on the BJP unitedly in the next elections. Pawar, who met Banerjee along with his senior party leaders, said that they held a long discussion on various political issues. "We agreed upon the need to strengthen the collective efforts and commitment towards safeguarding democratic values and ensuring the betterment of the people," he said. The meeting was the prime political highlight of Banerjee's two-day Mumbai trip when Shiv Sena leaders, MP Sanjay Raut and Maharashtra Tourism Minister Aditya Thackeray called on her. However, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray could not meet her as he is currently convalescing after a spine surgery last month. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/turf-war-in-opposition-camp-as-trinamool-congress-congress-trade-barbs-1056595.html
01-12-2021||National Politics||Congress shifts 'Modi-made Mehangai' rally to Jaipur||Congress on Wednesday shifted its mega rally against 'Modi-made Mehangai' (price rise) in the national capital on December 12 to Jaipur, claiming that theModi government revoked permissions granted to the party to hold the programme, which was to be attended by top leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, in Delhi. Describing the Modi government as "behaving like a full-fledged authoritarian dictatorship", Congress General Secretary (Organisation) KC Venugopal said the party had sought permission for holding the protest rally and "the Modi government after much effort"  gave its nod for the programme to be held in Dwarka. However, he said in a statement, the Modi government "in a prejudiced conspiracy got the Lt Governor of Delhi to cancel permission" for the rally even as the party was making arrangements for a "massive public show with people and party workers" from all over the country. "However, the Congress is neither going to get intimidated by their tactics nor is it going to withdraw even an inch from its age-old commitment to raising issues concerning the people. It has been decided that the 'Mehangai Hatao Rally' will be organised in Jaipur on December 12 itself," Venugopal said. Congress would keep raising the voice of the people and keep fighting their battles against the "insensitive, arrogant and crony-driven" government till it does not take corrective measures and provide a much-needed relief from inflation, he said. "A jittery government does not want people to take to the streets and a people's protest movement takes shape around the valid issues of unprecedentedly costly petrol, diesel and gas cylinders, unaffordable edible oil and a burning food basket. They are obviously scared that a massive public rally by the Congress will bring the issue of inflation to the fore and make the people see that none but the Modi government is responsible for it," he said. He alleged that this is the first government that is neither ready to heed to the MPs nor the Parliament or the people. "Whenever the Congress-led Opposition tries to raise and debate the issues of sky-rocketing inflation, record unemployment, sinking economy, misery of the farmers and labourers and the rights of Dalits, adivasi and minorities in Parliament, the government in a predetermined conspiracy itself makes the Parliament dysfunctional," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-shifts-modi-made-mehangai-rally-to-jaipur-1056606.html
01-12-2021||National Politics||Will stand in Gandhian style before dictatorship, says Rahul Gandhi||Backing Opposition protest against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs, Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said they will not bow before "dictatorship" and continue to agitate in Gandhian style. He said this while sharing a picture of opposition protesting outside Mahatma Gandhi's statue on the parliament complex. Opposition MPs have unitedly protested the suspension of Rajya Sabha members for their "unruly" behaviour on the last day of the previous session (Monsoon Session). They they have termed the suspension "wrong and undemocratic and against the rules and precedents of the house". "We will stand in Gandhian style before the dictatorship. And, we will not bend," he said in a Facebook post, using the hashtag "#NoFear" and shared a picture of the protesting opposition MPs. Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu has said he was not considering Rajya Sabha Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge's appeal of revoking the action as the suspended MPs have not shown any remorse, but on the contrary, justified their acts. Rahul Gandhi also attacked the government over inflation and rise in the prices of cooking gas. He said this after the price of a commercial LPG cylinder rose by Rs 101 on the first day of December.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-stand-in-gandhian-style-before-dictatorship-says-rahul-gandhi-1056613.html
01-12-2021||National Politics||Suggested to Congress to form panel for giving direction to Opposition: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said she had suggested to the Congress that an advisory council comprising prominent personalities from civil society be set up to give a direction to the opposition, but rued that the plan did not materialise. If all regional parties come together, it would be easy to defeat the BJP, Banerjee said while interacting with some civil society members here. "We want to say BJP hatao, desh bachao," she said, adding that her party Trinamool Congress (TMC) will not contest the forthcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. "I don't want my opposition to make their own strategy. So, I am not revealing much," she said. Banerjee is on a three-day visit to Mumbai to meet leaders of the Shiv Sena and the NCP, amid a strain in ties between the TMC and the Congress. After its landslide victory in West Bengal earlier this year, the TMC inducted several Congress leaders in its fold. Recently, 12 out of 17 Congress MLAs in Meghalaya defected to the TMC, making it the principal opposition party. To a query on if she would lead the opposition alliance against the BJP, Banerjee said she is a "small worker" and wants to continue so. "Continous endeavour is necessary in politics. You can't be abroad most of the time," she said in a veiled dig at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. "I had suggested to the Congress that there should be an advisory council comprising prominent personalities from the civil society to give a direction to the opposition, but in vain," she said. Banerjee said the BJP is "not safe" and the need is to keep the country safe. "Have faith in your cadre. Three farm laws were repealed (by the Centre) and a debate was not allowed in Parliament...why? Because they are afraid and the decision to repeal (the farm laws) was made with an eye on the forthcoming Uttar Pradesh elections," she claimed. "I am not contesting the UP elections," she said adding that her party will work for all sections of the society without bias, but the focus will be on the poor people. She said laws like the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) were being misused in the country. "The UAPA is for the internal security and protection from external forces. This is not for common people. The UAPA is being misused like anything. The I-T department, CBI ED are also being misused," the TMC chief claimed. Banerjee said there was no need to be afraid and that she will fight till her last breath. The West Bengal CM also said she was against the sell out of public sector enterprises. "More employment should be created. We feel the public and the private sector should co-exist, but employment and the poor should not be impacted," she said. On her meeting scheduled with NCP president Sharad Pawar later in the day, Banerjee said Maharashtra and West Bengal have good relations and that is why she is going to meet Pawar. "Let's be united, give justice to people and save our country and democracy," she said. Banerjee appealed to members of the civil society to travel across the country to generate awareness towards this cause. On the occasion, NCP leader Majeed Memon said West Bengal and Maharashtra account for 90 Lok Sabha seats and claimed the BJP's strength can be reduced substantially in the Lower House of Parliament. Noted lyricist Javed Akhtar, social activist Medha Patkar, actor Richa Chadha and stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui were among those who participated in the interaction. On Tuesday, Banerjee met Shiv Sena leaders Aaditya Thackeray and Sanjay Raut. The meeting was seen as an outreach to fellow opposition leaders by the TMC head. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/suggested-to-congress-to-form-panel-for-giving-direction-to-opposition-mamata-1056614.html
01-12-2021||National Politics||SAD leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa joins BJP||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Wednesday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), ahead of the next year's Punjab Assembly elections. Sirsa, a former member of the Delhi Assembly, joined the saffron party in the presence of Union Minister and Punjab election in-charge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, national general secretary and Punjab in-charge Dushyant Gautam, and national media in-charge Anil Baluni. Before joining the BJP on Wednesday evening, Sirsa resigned from the post of president Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee -- to which he was elected as an SAD member. In a tweet, Sirsa said: "With gratitude to all office bearers, members, staff and people who worked with me; I am resigning from Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee as President. I will not contest the upcoming DSGMC internal elections. My commitment to serve my community, humanity and nation remains the same." Before his formal joining at the party headquarters here, Sirsa also met BJP chief JP Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. "He worked for three years as president of Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee. The BJP is strengthened with the joining of new faces. His joining will benefit the party in Punjab assembly polls. I welcome Sirsa," Shekhawat said. After joining the party, Sirsa, a former MLA from Rajouri Garden in the national capital, thanked the BJP leadership. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sad-leader-manjinder-singh-sirsa-joins-bjp-1056621.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||Jaish’s IED expert killed along with Pakistan militant in Pulwama||A commander of Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, Yasir Parray, who was an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) expert, was killed along with a Pakistani terrorist in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Wednesday. “#PulwamaEncounterUpdate: #Terrorist commander of proscribed #terror outfit JeM Yasir Parray, an IED Expert & foreign terrorist Furqan #neutralised. Both were involved in several terror #crime cases. A big #success (sic),” Kashmir Zone police tweeted. The gunfight, as per police, broke out before dawn after the security forces launched a search operation in Qasbyar village of Pulwama. As the security forces zeroed in on the spot where the terrorists were hiding they came under a heavy volume of fire that triggered the encounter,” a police official said. In the retaliatory action, both the hiding militants were killed, he added. 150 militants have been killed in the Valley so far this year, of which 128 were locals and 22 Pakistanis. In 2020, the number of militants killed in the Valley stood at 195. According to official estimates over 200 militants were still active in the Valley. “Among the active militants, 80 are believed to be from Pakistan and more than 120 are locals. Between January and July this year, 76 locals picked up arms and by now the number may have reached 100,” a senior police officer said. “The local recruitment into militancy is still happening although not at the scale of 2017 or 2018. We have to keep a watch on developments as Taliban’s takeover in Afghanistan is sure to have some impact in Kashmir, if not this year, maybe in coming years,” he warned. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaish-s-ied-expert-killed-along-with-pakistan-militant-in-pulwama-1056438.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||Opposition parties cannot fight BJP on their own: UP Deputy CM||Uttar Pradesh deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma has said that none of the opposition parties is in a position to contest the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections on its own against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Sharma said that the opposition parties were stitching up alliances because they know they cannot put up a single-handed fight against the BJP. The deputy chief minister said, "None of the (rival) political parties is in a position to contest elections alone against the BJP, and hence various alliances are being stitched up." Alleging that the opposition parties have been making false promises to the people of Uttar Pradesh, Sharma urged the voters to vote for the BJP in the 'mahayagya' of democracy. "The previous governments have given only crime and criminals to the state. During their regime, the state was deprived of development. The current government has given facilities of education, health, medical college and expressways to the state," Sharma said. Sharma's comments were apparently aimed at the Samajwadi Party that has been announcing alliance with various parties. The Samajwadi Party (SP) has announced its alliance with Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and with Apna Dal (K). Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav also met Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh triggering speculations of a likely alliance between the two parties. Om Prakash Rajbhar's Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) is already in talks with the SP besides Sanjay Chauhan's Janwadi Party (Socialist) and Keshav Dev Maurya's Mahan Dal are ready to contest the UP polls in alliance with SP. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-parties-cannot-fight-bjp-on-their-own-up-deputy-cm-1056439.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||UP action plan to deal with Omicron Covid-19 variant||After successfully controlling the first and second waves of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Uttar Pradesh government has prepared an action plan to effectively check the spread of the Omicron variant. As per the directives issued by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, a special team of doctors and health experts formed during the second wave of Covid-19 has prepared an action plan to avoid the spread of the Omicron variant. According to the action plan, the special team of doctors from Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) has discussed the precautions to be taken in the state regarding the spread of the new variant and its effects after vaccination. Dr R K Dhiman, Director, SGPGI, said that vaccination will prove to be the most effective weapon for Uttar Pradesh against the new variant. The state is fully prepared to deal with the new variant in view of the increased medical facilities and adequate presence of medical resources in the last one and a half years. Dhiman further said that in view of the increasing cases of Omicron in other countries, different aspects have been discussed by the institute regarding this new variant. In this particular meeting, it has come to the fore that this new variant of Corona spreads rapidly and its transmission rate is also high. According to the assessment of doctors, the transmission rate of this new variant may be high but it is not more dangerous than the previous variants. He added that according to the assessment of experts, the possibility of increased mortality from this new variant is less as compared to the Delta. To avoid the outbreak of the third wave, there is a need to follow the Covid protocol along with vaccination at the earliest, he said. On the instructions of the chief minister, along with increasing the daily monitoring in the state, RT-PCR tests of all the travellers coming from abroad are being done and samples are being sent for genome sequencing to avoid any future risks of transmission. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-action-plan-to-deal-with-omicron-covid-19-variant-1056444.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||No major VHP event in Ayodhya on December 6 this year||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) will not hold any major programme on December 6 this year. It will be a 'routine affair' with no special event scheduled on the day. On December 6, 1992, the Babri Mosque was pulled down by a frenzied mob of kar sevaks in Ayodhya and the VHP has been observing the day as Shaurya Diwas ever since. "Some things have become a routine affair and there is no need to make the occasion an extra spectacle," VHP national working president Alok Kumar told reporters. VHP spokesperson in Ayodhya, Sharad Sharma said that an appeal" will be made to the people to light earthen lamps to mark the occasion. "The determination has attained accomplishment)," he added. The development is politically significant in Uttar Pradesh because the BJP has been seeking to pitch construction of Ram Temple as 'delivery of a promise' in the state where polls are due in the next few months. Ayodhya had been in focus after the BJP came to power in 2017 with Yogi Adityanath government organising Deepotsav in the temple town every year. Interestingly, the VHP decision comes at a time when tension is brewing in Mathura where the police has imposed prohibitory orders after Hindu Mahasabha activists threatened that they would install an idol of Lord Krishna in Shahi Idgah on December 6. The police have warned of strict action against people who try to disturb peace in the holy city. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-major-vhp-event-in-ayodhya-on-december-6-this-year-1056445.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||'One in three students below high school level consume tobacco in UP'||A Global Young Tobacco Survey by the World Health Organisation has found that one in every three students below the high school level in Uttar Pradesh consumes tobacco in some form or the other. Seeking a safe place, 37.4 per cent students smoke at their own home while 19.8 per cent do so at a friend's place, the survey found. The friend's place in obviously the more preferred smoking corner of nearly 20 per cent of teenagers in the state. The report said, "About 13.5 per cent of the respondents said they smoke at school, 10.8 per cent at public places and 8.9 per cent at social events while 9.7 per cent students smoke at random places." The Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS) report on tobacco consumption among students reveals that about 23 per cent of the students in Uttar Pradesh, including 22 per cent boys and 24 per girls, use tobacco in some form. GYTS is a cross-sectional nationally representative, school-based survey of students in the 13 to 15 years age group. It uses global standardised methodology with a probability proportional to enrolment size. The survey questionnaire covers tobacco use, cessation, second-hand smoke and other aspects of tobacco usage. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-in-three-students-below-high-school-level-consume-tobacco-in-up-1056449.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||At -2.5 degrees Celsius, Srinagar records coldest night of the season||The minimum temperature settled below the freezing point across Kashmir, with several weather stations in the valley including Srinagar city recording the coldest night of the season so far, officials said on Wednesday. Srinagar recorded a low of minus 2.5 degrees Celsius on Tuesday night, down from minus 1.5 degrees Celsius the previous night, the officials said.  This was lowest minimum temperature recorded in the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir this winter, they said.  The officials said Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra, recorded a low of minus 5.2 degrees Celsius, dropping from minus 3.3 degrees Celsius 24 hours earlier. Gulmarg resort in north Kashmir's Baramulla district also recorded a minimum temperature of minus 1.6 degrees Celsius. The famous ski resort was the warmest place in the valley last night. The mercury in Kupwara in north Kashmir settled at a low of minus 3.5 degrees Celsius. Qazigund, the gateway town to the valley, recorded minus 3.3 degrees Celsius, while Kokernag recorded a low of minus 1.8 degrees Celsius. The MET Office has said the weather will most likely remain dry but cold till December 3. A weak Western disturbance is likely to hit the region towards the weekend, the officials said, adding the precipitation will end the dry spell of weather in the valley.  The wintry conditions in the valley set-in much ahead of the beginning of extreme harsh weather conditions which usually start around the third week of December. 'Chillai Kalan', the 40-day period of harsh winter in Kashmir, begins on December 21 every year. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-25-degrees-celsius-srinagar-records-coldest-night-of-the-season-1056460.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||Opposition parties stage protest in Parliament complex against suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs||Opposition parties put up a united front and staged a joint protest in front of the Gandhi statue inside the Parliament complex on Wednesday against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi joined the protest and so did the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which had so far been staying away from Opposition meets. Holding placards, the protesting MPs raised slogans against the government and demanded that the suspension of the Rajya Sabha members be revoked. Leaders of several parties, including the Congress, TMC, SP, DMK, Shiv Sena, TRS, NCP, CPI(M), CPI, RJD, IUML, NC, LJD, RSP and Kerala Congress took part in the protest. Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said the suspension of the MPs was undemocratic and demanded that it be revoked. TMC's Saugata Roy said the government has lowered the dignity of Parliament. "Unless it withdraws the suspension, our protests will continue," he added. The 12 suspended MPs will sit in protest in front of the Gandhi statue for the entire day against their suspension from the Upper House of Parliament. The Opposition leaders said they would decide their future course of action on the issue jointly in a meeting, which was held in Kharge's chamber. The Opposition MPs boycotted Tuesday's proceedings in the Rajya Sabha after staging a walkout. Opposition MPs in the Lok Sabha also staged a walkout, but later joined the proceedings.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-parties-stage-protest-in-parliament-complex-against-suspension-of-12-rajya-sabha-mps-1056461.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||Relief to Delhiites: Petrol now cheaper by Rs 8 a litre||The Delhi government on Wednesday decided to reduce the VAT on petrol, bringing down the price of the fuel in the city by about Rs 8 per litre, official sources said. At a cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, it was decided that the Value-Added Tax (VAT) on petrol will be reduced from the present 30 per cent to 19.4 per cent, leading to a cut of around Rs 8 per litre, they added. The price of petrol after the VAT cut will go down from the current Rs 103 per litre to Rs 95 per litre, the sources said. The petrol price in Delhi was higher as compared to the NCR cities in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, where the state governments had announced a VAT cut following the Centre reducing the excise duty on fuel prices. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/relief-to-delhiites-petrol-now-cheaper-by-rs-8-a-litre-1056467.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||All is not well in Punjab: Channi meets block leaders, Sidhu not present||Punjab's political stability seems constantly fraught with disruptions. Weeks after Amarinder Singh resigned as CM and from Congress after a bitter tussle with Punjab Congress Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, it is now Channi who is having a hard time with Sidhu. Singh had resigned as the Punjab Chief Minister in September blaming Sidhu and senior Congress leaders. Channi recently called region-wise meets with block leaders from Malwa, Doaba and Majha regions, for which Sidhu was reportedly absent. “Had he been invited, he would have gone,” a source close to Sidhu told The Indian Express. “A few asked that Sidhu should be asked not to criticise the government as it showed the Congress in poor light,” one of the leaders reportedly said. Recently, Deol was replaced as the AG. Earlier in November, Sidhu targeted his government over the issues of sacrilege and drug trafficking, to which Channi retorted that "I may be poor but not weak" and asserted that matters will be resolved soon. Sidhu had questioned the state government over the steps taken for the delivery of justice in the cases of desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib and drug trafficking. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-is-not-well-in-punjab-channi-meets-block-leaders-sidhu-not-present-1056469.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||BJP MLA challenges Akhilesh Yadav to contest Uttar Pradesh polls from Bairia||Challenging Akhilesh Yadav to contest the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls from Bairia, BJP MLA from the constituency Surendra Singh has said he will retire from politics if he does not trump the Samajwadi Party (SP) chief by over one lakh votes. He also slammed farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and called him a "seasoned politician", saying he is carrying out the farmers' movement as he is enjoying the patronage of opposition parties. "If I do not defeat Yadav by over one lakh votes, I will take sanyas (retire) from electoral politics," Singh told reporters on the sidelines of a tractor rally organised by the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Kisan Morcha at the district headquarters here on Tuesday. Taking a swipe at Tikait, he said the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader was doing politics because he received "funds". "He has been organising the farmers' agitation at the behest of the SP and the Congress," the BJP leader alleged. Singh questioned the rationale behind continuing with the farmers' movement when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the withdrawal of the new farm laws, "respecting the sentiments of the people". The Parliament approved the repeal of the three laws on Tuesday. Singh said Yadav and Tikait are "dishonest" and they will not be able to stand against Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Modi has considered the world as his family, whereas for Yadav, his family is the world, he said. "One who considers his family as the world is dishonest," the BJP MLA said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mla-challenges-akhilesh-yadav-to-contest-uttar-pradesh-polls-from-bairia-1056476.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi High Court asks police to respond to Sharjeel Imam’s bail plea in sedition case||The Delhi High Court Wednesday asked the police to reply on a plea by JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested in a sedition case for allegedly delivering an inflammatory speech and inciting violence during the CAA-NRC protests in 2019. Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar issued notice to the prosecution and asked them to file reply to the bail plea while listing the matter for further hearing on February 11, next year. Imam, represented through senior advocate Sanjay R Hegde, challenged a trial court’s October 22 order by which his bail plea was dismissed. The prosecution was represented through Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad. Imam submitted that all the co-accused, who were arrested for allegedly causing the violence, have been granted bail in the case and he was still incarcerated for over 20 months now. The trial court had denied him bail saying free speech cannot be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony. According to the prosecution, on December 13, 2019, Imam had allegedly delivered a provocative speech which resulted in riots two days later when a mob consisting of over 3,000 people attacked police personnel and torched several vehicles in the Jamia Nagar area in south Delhi. The trial court had said that the evidence in support of the allegations that the rioters got instigated by Imam's speech and thereafter indulged in the acts of rioting, mischief, attacking the police party, was scanty and sketchy. It had said however that a cursory and plain reading of the speech showed it was clearly on communal lines. “The tone and tenor of the incendiary speech tend to have a debilitating effect upon public tranquillity, peace, and harmony of the society,” the trial court had said, adding that “it is no gainsaying that fundamental right of ‘freedom of speech and expression’ cannot be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony of the society.” Delhi Police had claimed that Imam instigated a “particular religious community” against the Central Government by creating unfounded fears in their minds regarding the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC). Besides this case, Imam is also accused of being the "mastermind" of the February 2020 riots, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. He has been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-asks-police-to-respond-to-sharjeel-imam-s-bail-plea-in-sedition-case-1056484.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi to launch development projects in Uttarakhand on December 4||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple projects, including the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor, worth around Rs 18,000 crore in Dehradun on December 4 during his visit to Uttarakhand.  The PMO said in a statement that a significant focus of the visit will be on projects to improve road infrastructure, which will make travel smooth and safer, and also increase tourism in the region.  This is in line with Modi's vision to boost connectivity in the areas which were once considered far-flung, it noted.  The prime minister will lay the foundation stone of 11 development projects, and this includes the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor (from Eastern Peripheral Expressway Junction to Dehradun) which will be built at a cost of around Rs 8,300 crore. It will significantly reduce the travel time from Delhi to Dehradun from six hours to around 2.5 hours. It will have seven major interchanges for connectivity to Haridwar, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Yamunagar, Baghpat, Meerut and Baraut. It will have Asia's largest wildlife elevated corridor (12 km) for unrestricted wildlife movement. Also, the 340 metre long tunnel near Dat Kaali temple, Dehradun will help reduce impact on wildlife, the PMO said.  Further, multiple animal passes have been provided in the Ganeshpur-Dehradun section for avoiding animal-vehicle collisions. The Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor will also have arrangements for rainwater harvesting at intervals of 500 metre and over 400 water recharge points.  The greenfield alignment project from Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor, connecting Halgoa, Saharanpur to Bhadrabad, Haridwar will be constructed at a cost of over Rs 2,000 crore. It will provide seamless connectivity and reduce travel time from Delhi to Haridwar as well.  The Haridwar Ring Road Project from Manoharpur to Kangri, to be built at a cost of over Rs 1600 crore, will give a respite to residents from traffic congestion in Haridwar city, especially during peak tourist season, and also improve connectivity with Kumaon zone, it added.  The Dehradun-Paonta Sahib (Himachal Pradesh) road project, to be constructed at a cost of around Rs 1,700 crore, will reduce travel time and provide seamless connectivity between the two places. It will also boost inter-state tourism. The Nazimabad-Kotdwar road widening project will reduce travel time and also improve connectivity to Lansdowne. A bridge across the River Ganga next to the Laksham Jhula will also be constructed. The world renowned Lakshman Jhula was constructed in 1929, but has now been closed due to decreased load carrying capacity. The bridge to be constructed will have provision of a glass deck for people walking, and will also allow light weight vehicles to move across, the statement said.  The prime minister will also lay the foundation stone for the Child Friendly City Project, Dehradun to make the city child friendly by making the roads safer for their travel. Foundation stone for projects related to development of water supply, road and drainage system in Dehradun at a cost of over Rs 700 crore will also be laid.  In line with Modi's vision to develop smart spiritual towns and upgrade tourism related infrastructure, the foundation stone for infrastructure development works at Shri Badrinath Dham and Gangotri-Yamunotri Dham will be laid. Also, a new medical college in Haridwar will be constructed at a cost of over Rs 500 crore, it said.   He will also inaugurate seven projects, including those which focus on making travel safer by tackling the problem of chronic landslides in the region.  Among these projects are the landslide mitigation project at Lambagad (which is en-route the Badrinath Dham), and chronic landslide treatment at Sakanidhar, Srinagar and Devprayag on NH-58. The Lambagad landslide mitigation project in the chronic landslide zone includes construction of reinforced earth wall and rockfall barriers. The location of the project further adds on to its strategic significance. Also being inaugurated are the road widening projects from Devprayag to Srikot, and from Brahmpuri to Kodiyala on NH-58, under Chardham road connectivity project, the PMO said.  The 120 MW Vyasi Hydroelectric Project, built over River Yamuna at a cost of over Rs 1700 crore, will also be inaugurated, along with a Himalayan Culture Center at Dehradun. The Himalayan Culture Centre will house a state level museum, 800 seat art auditorium, library, conference hall, etc. which will help people follow cultural activities as well as appreciate cultural heritage of the state. Modi will also inaugurate the state-of-the-art Perfumery and Aroma Laboratory (Centre for Aromatic Plants) in Dehradun.  The research done here will prove useful for production of a variety of products including perfumes, soaps, sanitisers, air fresheners, incense sticks etc., and will lead to establishment of related industries in the region as well.  It will focus on development of high yielding advanced varieties of aromatic plants as well. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-launch-development-projects-in-uttarakhand-on-december-4-1056492.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||Bihar Assembly Speaker voices disapproval of ugly spat between members||Bihar Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Wednesday had a word of admonition for an incident of the previous day when two members of rival political groups hurled abuses at each other and virtually came to blows outside the House. RJD MLA Bhai Virendra and BJP’s Sanjay Saraogi had engaged in an ugly spat before the commencement of the day's proceedings when they were on camera, lined up by TV journalists to offer their take on some issue. The speaker said "it was such an unfortunate episode. Yesterday was a rare day when this House conducted cent per cent business. Members could ask all their scheduled questions and the government replied to these. But, we are in the news for another regrettable reason". He sought to remind the members that "reputation of this august House is at stake" and "we all are facing nothing short of a trial by fire (agni-pariksha). Comparing the membership of the legislature to "riding a tiger", Sinha warned that "if we let our guard down, the beast is going to devour us". The speaker, who is himself a veteran BJP leader, also said, "I have been a member of this House for long. For me, all its members are like a family. As the head of this family, I urge you all, irrespective of whether you are in the opposition or the ruling dispensation, to refrain from making baseless allegations against each other which only tarnishes the reputation of this House" Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-assembly-speaker-voices-disapproval-of-ugly-spat-between-members-1056503.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||10 houses damaged in fire in J&K's Bandipora||At least 10 houses were damaged in a fire in Gurez area of Bandipora district near the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Wednesday. A fire broke out at Tatri-Kilshay village in Gurez on Tuesday night which was put out by fire brigade personnel and the locals, they said. At least 10 houses got damaged, but there are no reports of any casualties so far, they said, adding the cause of the fire is being ascertained. Meanwhile, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah urged the administration to help the victims. "Very unfortunate. I hope the local administration reaches out and helps these people with relief and assistance, especially as winter is very tough in this area. cc @OfficeOfLGJandK," Abdullah tweeted. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-houses-damaged-in-fire-in-jks-bandipora-1056507.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||In a first in Madhya Pradesh, woman constable gets nod for sex change||A woman constable in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday got permission from the state home department for getting her sex changed to male, a senior official said. “This is the first case in Madhya Pradesh where permission to change the sex from female to male has been given in any government department of the state,” Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Dr Rajesh Rajora claimed while talking to PTI. She discharges all her duties like any other male constable. Prominent psychologists have confirmed that she was having the gender identity disorder since childhood, the official said. “The home department has given its permission to the state director general of police (DGP) to allow the woman constable to get her sex changed as she has been having the gender identity disorder since childhood,” he said. In 2019, the constable applied for getting her sex changed by formally submitting an application along with an affidavit to the police headquarters and also published her intention for the same in a government gazette, he said. The police headquarters forwarded her application to the home department for granting the nod, he said. “As per the rules, an Indian citizen has the right to choose his/her sex without taking into account his/her religion and caste. Based on this premise, the state home department has given its permission to the police headquarters to allow the constable to change her sex as desired," the official said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-a-first-in-madhya-pradesh-woman-constable-gets-nod-for-sex-change-1056512.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||IRS officer Vivek Johri takes charge as CBIC Chairman||Senior bureaucrat Vivek Johri on Wednesday took charge as the Chairman of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC). Johri, a 1985-batch Indian Revenue Service (Customs and Indirect Taxes) officer, has been a member of the board. He has succeeded M Ajit Kumar, who completed his tenure on November 30. "Vivek Johri, IRS (C&IT:1985) takes over as Chairman of Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) from today, December 1, 2021," CBIC tweeted. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet had last month approved the appointment of Johri as the Chairman of the CBIC, which is the apex body related to customs and other indirect taxes. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/irs-officer-vivek-johri-takes-charge-as-cbic-chairman-1056517.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||Booster doses of Covid vaccines easiest barrier against Omicron, must be created: Virologist Dr T Jacob John||Booster doses of Covid-19 vaccines are the easiest barrier that must be created immediately against Omicron, according to eminent virologist Dr T Jacob John, who noted that it may not seed the third wave of the pandemic, but breakthrough infections may be common due to the new variant. When a person gets an infection even after being vaccinated against it, it is called a breakthrough infection. A new variant of Covid-19, feared to have a high amount of spike mutations, has been detected in South Africa. On November 26, the World Health Organization (WHO) designated B.1.1.529, first detected in southern Africa, as a variant of concern, on the advice of its Technical Advisory Group on Virus Evolution (TAG-VE) and named it Omicron. Speaking to PTI on Omicron, John, an eminent virologist and the former director of the ICMR's Centre of Advanced Research in Virology, on Tuesday said the dictum here should be "expect the best but be prepared for the worst". "While only some 30 per cent of the population is vaccinated with two doses, the cup is one-third full," he added. John said India's population is well-immunised by the massive first wave (which lasted eight months, infecting probably some 30 per cent of the population) of the Covid pandemic and the deadlier second wave (which in 12 weeks infected probably some 75-80 per cent of the remainder, plus many reinfections within these numbers). "Against this background, what may happen if the variant enters and spreads far and wide is unpredictable. It may not be as bad as people fear. It may not seed a third wave. Yet, the wise course is to avoid importation and bolster our 'population immunity' (popularly called herd immunity). That means two things -- vaccinate the unvaccinated and offer booster doses to all two-dose vaccinated," he said. Booster doses are the easiest barrier that "we can and must create" immediately against the variant, he added. "Also, second doses to first-dose recipients and first doses to all others, including children, must be given. Pregnant women -- two doses in first pregnancy, starting as early as possible, and one booster dose in the next pregnancy," John said. Talking about the effectiveness of vaccines against the new variant, he said breakthrough infections may be common. "Looks like breakthrough infections will be common. However, the basic virus is the same and high levels of immunity that can be achieved with booster doses can be expected to be highly protective both against the disease and even transmissibility," he said. Talking about mutations in Omicron, John said 34 mutations are observed, which is more than Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta and all other variants of concern. On the transmissibility of the new variant, he said, "If the original virus transmission level is taken as a baseline, level 1, then Delta was about two to three times higher and Omicron even higher, one scientist in Switzerland thinks 10 times higher." On a comparison of Delta with Omicron, he said the latter is a "more efficient transmitter, more resistant to immunity due to two doses of vaccines, most probably no more virulent or causing more severe disease than Delta". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/booster-doses-of-covid-vaccines-easiest-barrier-against-omicron-must-be-created-virologist-dr-t-jacob-john-1056525.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt to issue notices to CPWD over construction work at Central Vista project site despite ban||The Delhi government will issue notices to the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) for carrying out construction work at the Central Vista project site despite a ban and violating dust control norms, Environment Minister Gopal Rai said on Wednesday. “We had been receiving a lot of calls regarding work being carried out at the Central Vista project site despite a ban on construction and demolition activities. During an inspection, we found that it was indeed true,” Rai said. “We will ask the Delhi Pollution Control Committee to issue a notice to the CPWD, asking it the reason for continuing the construction work despite restrictions in view of air pollution,” he said. Rai said a separate notice will be issued to the agency for violating dust pollution control norms at the site. The Delhi government had earlier said the ban on construction and demolition activities in the capital will continue till further orders in view of the high air pollution levels. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-issue-notices-to-cpwd-over-construction-work-at-central-vista-project-site-despite-ban-1056529.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||Bhopal disaster: 37 years after, ground zero continues to haunt||Spread over 85 acres, the Union Carbide factory premises gives an eerie feeling with falling buildings and ever-growing shrubs, a remnant of an unparalleled tragedy that saw thousands die and lakhs suffer. Thirty-seven years after the Bhopal gas tragedy, December 3 is one of those blot marks of history that can never see closure. Around half a dozen buildings, which include offices, guestrooms, canteen for employees and workers, etc, are situated at different locations of the land area in a dilapidated state. Each one of these buildings had a specific role to play in the process of making and storing the highly toxic substances -- methyl isocyanate (MIC). Surrounded by dense bushes, and a warning note as a prohibited zone for the general public, the only building appearing to be in a better condition -- is the three-storey structure, which used to be the office and the residence of senior employees of the Union Carbide Corporation (UCC), an American chemical corporation owned by Dow Chemical company. In other buildings, time and thieves have imprinted their mark. Apart from the buildings, some other residues such as big size tanks, iron pipes along with flare towers and some other materials are also available. A heavily concrete portion of land within its boundary, located hardly 300-350 meters away from the MIC production site, appeared to be a helipad. One of the three iron tanks (Tank - E610), whose malfunctioning had resulted in the leakage of toxic MIC gas and caused deaths of around 3,000 people within the next few hours after the leak, is seen lying along the roadside within the premises. The reports suggest that the Bhopal UCIL facility had housed three underground -- 68,000 liters liquid MIC storage tanks, named -- E610, E611 and E612. As per the government's data, over five lakh people were exposed to methyl isocyanate (MIC) gas, however, estimates vary on the death toll. A total of 2,259 deaths were immediate, the activists, however, said that around 8,000 people died within two weeks, and another 8,000 or more died from gas-related diseases over the following years. Underground tank - E610, which had stored around 42 tonnes of MIC gas at the time of disaster -- the intervening night between December 2 and 3 -- was removed from its foundation and set aside later in 2010. To protect the factory assets from thieves and to prohibit the general public's entry within its premises, the Madhya Pradesh government in 2010 set up a concrete boundary wall. The state government has also deployed Bhopal district police for security concerns. However, only three police personnel, who are permanently deployed for security, could be seen playing cards inside. The building, in which the police personnel are residing, is also in a poor state, with broken iron rods and damaged parts. "A total of 15 police personnel are deployed for security of the premises. Thieves would enter from the backside and break the iron rods to make a quick buck. No one is allowed to enter here without permission from the state government," one of the police personnel told IANS while enjoying cards with two other colleagues. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhopal-disaster-37-years-after-ground-zero-continues-to-haunt-1056532.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||NHAI borrowings jump over 2-fold to Rs 3.38 lakh crore in 3 years||Total borrowings of state-owned National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) have increased more than twofold to Rs 3,38,250 crore in three years to March 2021 compared to Rs 1,22,561 crore as of March 2018, Parliament was informed on Wednesday. Replying to a written question in the Rajya Sabha, Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari said NHAI creates valuable road assets which are financially viable. Gadkari said that tolling of the completed public funded road assets and monetizing the assets through ToT/InVIT modes are major steps taken by the government to generate revenue for repayment of the loans and further construction by NHAI. With a view to ensuring a sustainable debt level, regular exercise for balancing its assets and liabilities is undertaken by NHAI, he added. Replying to a separate question, the minister said during the last five years, 58,408 km length of National Highway (NH) projects have been awarded and 52,479 km length of NHs have been constructed. Gadkari also said in the last five years, 4,358 km of National Highway have been constructed in the mountainous and border areas with an expenditure of Rs 70,733 crore. To another question, he said the total number of plants planted by NHAI along the National Highways from 2017-2018 to 2021-22 (till October, 2021) is 223.94 lakhs. Around 55.10 lakh plants have been planted in 94 projects, completed by March 2021, Gadkari added Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nhai-borrowings-jump-over-2-fold-to-rs-338-lakh-crore-in-3-years-1056537.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||Rift within J&K opposition ranks opens over position on Article 370||The rift within opposition ranks in Jammu and Kashmir is coming to the fore with each passing day with the National Conference (NC), the PDP and the Congress targeting each other over the revocation of erstwhile state’s special status under Article 370. Former chief minister and National Conference (NC) leader Omar Abdullah said that had People’s Democratic Party (PDP) patron and former CM, late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed not entered into an alliance with the BJP after 2014 Assembly elections, the erstwhile state’s special status under Article 370 could have been saved. “We were aware of the intentions of the BJP and even warned him of the repercussions of his bonhomie with BJP.  The NC even offered unconditional support to the PDP then to form the government,” he said while addressing a public gathering in Jammu. However, late Mufti had his compulsions and took a decision, he said and referred to a famous couplet “lamhon ne khata ki thi, sadiyon ne saza payi” (Much injustice has been seen by the eyes of history / when for a mistake made by a moment, centuries were punished.” “We do not know how long we have to suffer for that decision,” Omar said. Reacting to Omar’s assertion, senior PDP leader Naeem Akhtar said they don’t know on what basis such a statement was issued by the NC leader. “PDP will continue with its stand till the rights of people are not restored. Such absurd statements would not let us down,” Akhter was quoted by a local news gathering agency as having said. Earlier this week, Omar contested senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad’s observation that it was “futile to talk about Article 370 as it won’t be restored.” The NC leader reminded him that the Congress party had incorporated it in the Constitution and the Sonia Gandhi-led party had conceded “defeat” at the outset. Azad had said that he raised his voice and talked continuously for two years in Parliament regarding Article 370. “But now is the time to move on and restoring Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood and early Assembly elections will be my top priority,” he had said. The NC and the PDP are the two main constituents of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) which was floated by the Kashmir based mainstream political parties in October last year on the slogan of restoring the special status of the erstwhile state. The alliance emerged as the single-largest party in the first-ever District Development Council polls held in December last year in J&K by bagging 110 seats. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rift-within-jk-opposition-ranks-opens-over-position-on-article-370-1056544.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||'Only those having families can feel others' pain': Akhilesh's dig at Yogi||In an apparent retort to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who had a few days ago referred to Samajwadi Party (SP) patron Mulayam Sing Yadav as SP president Akhilesh Yadav's 'abbajaan' (father in Urdu), the latter on Wednesday said that those without families would never understand the pains and sufferings of people, who had families. Addressing a public meeting at Banda, Akhilesh said that lakhs of people had to walk to their home towns, when lockdown was imposed during the pandemic as the state government failed to arrange transport for them. ''Many people died while walking....the cops extorted money from them...the state government did nothing for them,'', he said. "Only those having families can feel the pains and sufferings of the people," Akhilesh said apparently referring to Adityanath. He also attacked the BJP government for "failing to arrange fertilisers" for the farmers and rising prices.   Adityanath had earlier, in a sarcastic remark, called Mulayam as Akhilesh Yadav's 'abbajan'. Adityanath's jibe came when his attention was drawn to Akhilesh's remarks that he (Akhilesh) was a "more devout" Hindu that the BJP leaders. "If it is so then why did his (Akhilesh) abbajan declare that even a bird would not be able to enter Ayodhya?," Adityanath had said while referring  to the assertion of Mulayam, who was then the chief minister of UP, when the karsevaks threatened to demolish the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya in 1990. A furious Akhilesh had warned Adityanath to be careful in his choice of words. "The CM should be careful in choosing his words....I will too start saying things about his (Adityanath) family if he does not stop," he had said.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/only-those-having-families-can-feel-others-pain-akhileshs-dig-at-yogi-1056553.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||Tension during 'Mahapadyatra' by Amaravati farmers||Farmers and women from Amaravati participating in the ongoing 'Mahapadyatra' staged a sit-in on the road in Nellore district on Wednesday to protest the alleged restrictions imposed by the police. Alleging that the police are creating hurdles in their foot march, they sat on the road near Marupuru, leading to a huge traffic jam and triggering tension. The protestors raised slogans denouncing the attempts by the police to impose restrictions. The protest led to a nearly two km-long traffic jam, causing hardship to motorists. The farmers and women, who are demanding that Amaravati be developed as the only state capital, resumed their 'Mahapadyatra' for the 31st day on Wednesday. Former minister and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader S. Chandramohan Reddy welcomed them. The protestors alleged that the police at the instance of the leaders of the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) were creating problems during their walkathon. They said they were denied any place for a night halt at Marupuru. After completing the day's programme on Tuesday, the farmers and women were scheduled to stay at an ashram in Marupuru. However, the police conveyed to them that the villagers do not want them to stay there. This forced the farmers and women to go back to Nellore and resume the padyatra from Marupuru on Wednesday. Called 'Court to Temple', the walkathon from Amaravati to Tirupati began on November 1. Raising slogans of 'Jai Amaravati', the protestors are covering 10-15 km every day. Organised by Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi and Amaravati Joint Action Committee (JAC), it is scheduled to reach Tirupati on December 15 after stopping at 70 villages. The Amaravati farmers have been protesting for over 700 days against the state government's plans for trifurcation of the state capital. With the 'Mahapadyatra', their protest entered a new phase. The police restrictions on the 'Mahapadyatra' at a few places in Prakasam district had also evoked strong protests from the organisers. Last week, the YSRCP government withdrew two legislations enacted last year for trifurcation of the state capital. However, the government clarified that this was done to bring new and comprehensive legislation for developing three state capitals. The protestors have vowed to continue their protest till the government drops its plans and continues with Amaravati as the only capital. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tension-during-mahapadyatra-by-amaravati-farmers-1056591.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||Sedition case: Nothing in speech caused religious animosity, Sharjeel Imam tells court||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam, arrested for allegedly making inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC, told a Delhi court on Wednesday that there was nothing in his speech that caused religious animosity. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat was hearing a case filed against Imam for the alleged speeches given by him at two universities in 2019, where he allegedly threatened to “cut off” Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India. He was arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and for the alleged offence of sedition under the IPC and has now sought bail as well discharge in the case. Imam has also approached the Delhi High Court seeking bail in another sedition case relating to 2019 Jamia violence. During the proceedings, counsel for Imam said, “From the impugned speech, there is nothing which per se causes any kind of religious animosity. We cannot lose sight of the context. What Sharjeel Imam says, in relation to CAA-NRC, is that in much as it affects one community directly, what kind of support is to be elicited from the majority community.” Advocate Tanveer Ahmed Mir added, “If a person is to say in regard to a government policy which directly affects a community 'A' that people of other community 'B' should stand with them otherwise they are not supporting you, then we cannot say that that part of the speech promotes animosity between two communities.” He also apprised the judge about the recent Allahabad High Court order granting bail to Imam in a sedition case registered against him for a speech he made at Aligarh Muslim University in January 2020. “Rest I leave to the great wisdom of the court,” he told the court and concluded his argument. Following this, ASJ Rawat reserved for December 7 the order on his applications seeking bail and discharge and directed Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad to file detailed written submissions on behalf of the State. In the last hearing, the prosecutor told the court that violent riots took place pursuant to Imam's speech. "He tried to create an anarchy by saying that there is no hope left for the Muslim community and that there is no other way left,” Prasad had said. The alleged inflammatory speeches for which he was arrested were allegedly made at Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13, 2019, and at Aligarh Muslim University on December 16, 2019. He is in judicial custody since January 2020. Imam is accused of offenses relating to sedition, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, imputations prejudicial to national integration, and public mischief under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and indulging in unlawful activities under the UAPA. Delhi Police had filed a charge sheet against Imam in the case, in which it alleged that he allegedly gave speeches inciting hatred, contempt, and disaffection towards the Central Government and instigated the people which led to the violence in December 2019. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sedition-case-nothing-in-speech-caused-religious-animosity-sharjeel-imam-tells-court-1056598.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||Yogi's deputy rakes up Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi issue ahead of UP polls||"Construction is going on in Ayodhya and Varanasi, now preparing for Mathura," Maurya posted on Twitter. The statement comes barely days before the 29th anniversary of the Babri Masjid demolition at Ayodhya. It also came amid calls by a saffron outfit to march to the Shahi Idgah Mosque, adjoining the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi Complex, and install a statue of Lord Krishna and perform 'jalabhishek' (offering of water). The outfit later called off the march after the district administration deployed additional security around the mosque. Hindu outfits claim that a portion of the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi temple had been demolished during the Mughal period and claim ownership over the entire complex. A Mathura court had earlier admitted a petition claiming ownership of the entire land on which the Srikrishna Janmabhoomi was situated and seeking removal of the adjoining Shahi Idgah Mosque. Although the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), which had spearheaded the Ram Temple movement, had made it clear that Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi was not on its agenda, the All India Akhara Parishad (AIAP), an apex body of seers in the country, had extended its support to the petition. The AIAP had also called for the removal of the Gyanvapi Mosque, which was adjacent to the famous Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi. A court in Varanasi is hearing a petition in this regard. BJP leaders, including Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, had also dropped hints that 'Hindutva' was one of their party's major planks in the forthcoming assembly polls. In his public meetings, Adityanath had sought to paint his rivals as pro-Muslim parties, who during their regime, spent money on renovating graveyards and thwarted attempts to build Ram Temple at Ayodhya. Union home minister Amit Shah had also, in his public meetings, compared the rule of his rivals to the Mughal period as the people of the state did not know that UP was the land of Rama, Krishna and Shiva. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogis-deputy-rakes-up-shrikrishna-janmabhoomi-issue-ahead-of-up-polls-1056602.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||Hindu outfit rolls back plan to hold Bal Gopal’s bath ritual at Shai Masjid||A Hindu religious body that had planned to hold the pre-worship bath ritual of child deity ‘Bal Gopal’ at his so-call actual birthplace at Shahi Jama Masjid inside the Lord Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi temple complex on December 6 rolled back its plans on Wednesday. The Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha withdrew the contentious plan after the Mathura administration beefed up the security in the district, and declared the temple complex a Red Zone, deploying additional security personnel. Rolling back the ABHM’s plan, its national president Rajyashri Chaudhary on Wednesday appealed to the people to undertake the religious ritual for the Bal Gopal at their homes. Chaudhary made the appeal following the denial of permission for holding the ritual by the Mathura administration. With Chaudhary’s announcement, various other Hindu outfits, which too had announced plans like undertaking “Sankalp Yatra” and holding Ram Leela, also have become cold to their respective proposals. Taking the Hindu bodies’ announcements seriously, the Mathura administration had on November 24 imposed prohibitory order under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, banning any assembly of four or more persons. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hindu-outfit-rolls-back-plan-to-hold-bal-gopal-s-bath-ritual-at-shai-masjid-1056622.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||Channi calls AAP ‘kale angrej', Kejriwal vouches for ‘fair’ intention||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday dubbed the AAP a party of “kale angrej” trying to win the 2022 state assembly elections, prompting his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal to retort that he may be black but his intention is fair. Amid the ongoing spat between the AAP and Punjab Congress, Channi resorted to the colourful expression while addressing a gathering at Badhni Kalan in Punjab's Moga district. “…and now (Arvind) Kejriwal, they say this time Kejriwal (AAP saying they will form next govt). Do no people live in Punjab? Are there no youths in Punjab? Are there no Punjabis in Punjab? Will 'kale angrej' come here (the state) and rule?” asked Channi. He further said these “kale angrej” are trying to take over Punjab after '(gore) chitte angrej' (Britishers) were ousted from the country earlier. Talking to reporters, Channi elaborated, “We are saying Punjab belongs to Punjabis, you do not create disruptions here. These outsiders 'kale angrej' want to rule (the state).” Reacting to Channi's remarks, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal accused the Punjab CM of abusing him for promising Rs 1,000 a month to women in the state if his party comes to power. He further said he may be “black” but his “intentions are fair.” “Channi Sahab has been abusing me ever since I said each woman in Punjab will be given Rs 1,000 per month. (He) Says that Kejriwal's clothes are bad. Today (he) said Kejriwal is 'kala' (black),” Kejriwal said. “Channi sahib, my complexion is black but my mothers and sisters in Punjab like this 'kala' son/brother. They know that my intention is fair,” said Kejriwal in a tweet in Hindi. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/channi-calls-aap-kale-angrej-kejriwal-vouches-for-fair-intention-1056639.html
01-12-2021||North and Central||34 proposals recommended under project on cow science||As many as 34 proposals have been recommended for financial support to develop socially useful and commercially relevant knowledge, process, and technologies in identified thrust areas by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), the Lok Sabha was informed on Wednesday. The government had initiated an Inter-Ministerial funding programme 'Scientific Utilisation Through Research Augmentation-Prime Products from Indigenous Cows' (SUTRA-PIC) in 2020 with the objective of providing scientific basis for traditional and ancient knowledge of the country with respect to indigenous cows and their products through scientific research and validation. Five thematic areas have been taken up for Research and Development pertaining to Prime Products from Indigenous Cows, Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Science and Technology, Dr Jitendra Singh told in reply to a set of questions by MPs Raksha Nikhil Khadse and Manoj Kishorbhai Kotak. "A call for proposals was put up by DST for the SUTRA-PIC programme. Out of 337 proposals received, 34 proposals were recommended for financial support to develop socially useful and commercially relevant knowledge, process and technologies in identified thrust areas such as medicine and health, agriculture, food and nutrition, and utility items," the Minister said. The thematic areas identified are: Scientific Research on Uniqueness of Indigenous Cows; Scientific Research on Prime Products from Indigenous Cows for Medicine and Health; Scientific Research on Prime Products from Indigenous Cows for Agricultural Applications; Scientific Research on Prime Products from Indigenous Cows for Food and Nutrition and Scientific Research on Prime products from indigenous Cows-based Utility Items. Each of the thematic areas above is adopted by a Ministry/Department as a lead agency for funding. The MPs had asked whether the government has any proposal to emphasis on Research and Development on Cow Science, the Indian old wisdom with new Technology for Aatmanirbhar Bharat and to explore the potentials of Indian Cow and Panchagavya to bring forth the science of Cows. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/34-proposals-recommended-under-project-on-cow-science-1056654.html
01-12-2021||Oasis||Acceptance is a virtue||Just a day before the school annual function, our King made a hasty exit from the play due to a family emergency. There was some panic but a replacement was chosen and to our surprise, this otherwise quiet child performed exceptionally well.  A beautiful explanation is given in Sundarakanda in Ramayana about how some of our roles and duties are predestined. Upon reaching Ashok Vatika, Hanuman sees Ravana approaching Sita with a huge sword intending to harm her. Hanuman thinks… ‘I must pull the sword from Ravana and kill him with it’. But Mandodari stops Ravana from getting close to Sita. This makes Hanuman guess that whilst the job of protecting Sita was his duty, lord Ram has entrusted this task to Ravana’s wife Mandodari. Just then, Trijata, Sita’s guard, mentions about a certain monkey in her dream who is setting fire across Lanka. Hanuman recounts lord Rama never assigning or mentioning about burning anything. Later, when soldiers captured and moved forth to kill the little monkey, Vibhishana argues that an unarmed ambassador must not be killed; an assurance to Hanuman that his protector was also assigned. Subsequently, when Ravana announces that Hanuman shall not killed but his tail be set on fire, Hanuman connects the dots and realises that his real task was never to find out about the well-being of Sita but to set fire to Lanka for which lord himself made arrangements of ghee, oil, flame and cloth provided by Ravana himself. Whatever happens in the world is for a reason and if certain things do not shape out as we had imagined. maybe it wasn’t meant to be that way. Never feel superior about accomplishments nor take too much regret about failures. Learn to move on. There is no reason to stress on what you cannot change. Accept life as it is.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/acceptance-is-a-virtue-1056672.html
01-12-2021||Opinion||Omicron: The map and the terrain||The World Health Organization (WHO) designated variant B.1.1.529 a variant of concern, named Omicron, on November 26, 2021. This has put the world on tenterhooks, with countries scrambling for potentially turbulent times ahead after a relative calm of several months. A navy engineer in Thane, Maharashtra, who tested positive for Covid-19 after returning from South Africa, has been kept in isolation, and his sample has been sent for genome sequencing. Two South African citizens in Bengaluru tested positive, and the state health minister reportedly said the sample of one of them is "different from the Delta variant". Another person in Chandigarh who returned from South Africa has tested positive alongside his family contacts; their samples await genome sequencing. What happened in Gauteng province, South Africa? An index case, in epidemiology jargon, is the patient in an outbreak who is first noticed by the health authorities and who makes them aware that an outbreak might be emerging. As in the HIV pandemic, the primary case will never be known, but there will always be one (or even more). South Africa's National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) reported 77 samples collected from Gauteng province between November 12-20; the first confirmed infection was from a specimen collected on November 9 2021. With 1.5 per cent of the country's land area, more than a quarter of the country's population lives here. The province is home to several large urban agglomerations, including Johannesburg, a megacity with international air traffic of about 10 million passengers. The province has the highest density for both HIV prevalence and persons living with HIV (PLHIV); add to this that 80 per cent of all areas in the country were identified as underserved areas. Persistent SARS-CoV-2 infection with accelerated intra-host evolution has been reported in patients with advanced HIV and antiretroviral treatment failure from South Africa. This is an important working hypothesis in the emergence of this variant. It currently affects those under the 25 years age group in South Africa, about a quarter of whom are vaccinated. Reports from South Africa have sought to establish correlations between the local elections and the rapid spread of the new variant not just in the Gauteng province but in other provinces too. Why is the WHO worried, and how has the globe responded? The WHO is concerned as the genetic profile of B.1.1.529 carries over 30 mutations in the spike protein, which makes up most of the vaccines. Some of the genetic changes are known to have worrisome features affecting transmissibility and immune evasion. In response to the genomic evidence, it was declared as a 'variant of concern'. The story of C.1.2 is not dissimilar. Also originating in the Gauteng and Mpumalanga provinces of South Africa in May 2021, it had also "mutated substantially" from the original Wuhan variant. It raised similar worries, too, spread across Europe and Asia but failed to dislodge Delta as the dominant variant. The emerging evidence for Omicron shall be keenly watched to detect the increase in transmissibility or "detrimental change in Covid-19 epidemiology"; increase in virulence or change in clinical disease presentation; or decrease in public health and social effectiveness measures or available diagnostics, vaccines, therapeutics. As far as we know at present, there is evidence of rapid spread in South Africa, but clinical symptoms are mild, i.e., there is no increased virulence, and it remains largely detectable by current tests. The jury is out on whether existing vaccines are sufficient against Omicron or whether an updated vaccine is required. The WHO has clarified that it will be several weeks before definitive evidence emerges on these epidemiological features. Notwithstanding the available evidence and caveats, several countries banned flights from South Africa (and several other countries in the region) while Germany labelled it as a "virus variant area". President Cyril Ramaphosa termed these restrictions "not informed by science". The detection and rapid spread of this variant in southern Africa have rekindled debates on vaccine inequity. The global share of the population vaccinated with fully against Covid-19 is 43 per cent, and the corresponding figure for South Africa is about 24 per cent and nearly seven per cent for the continent as a whole. It has also brought to focus the inability of WHO's Covax initiative (intended to supply almost a hundred low-income countries) to acquire both doses and funds amidst ongoing hoarding by wealthy economies for boosters. What will it mean for India? Serosurveys at both national and state levels point to about 90 per cent seropositivity on account of both natural infection and vaccination. There is little difference in seropositivity among urban and rural populations or adults and children in most states. An absence of any post-festival surge (in October and November) confirms continuing high levels of protection. The AY.4.2 variant, also known as "Delta Plus", is about 10–15 per cent more transmissible than the Delta variant. While first detected in the country in April 2021, it has not been able to establish itself in any significant manner so far. Unless the Omicron has the substantial ability for breakthrough infections, Indian populations may continue to be relatively protected. About a third of the total population is now immunised with two doses and about 58 per cent with a single dose. 'Patchwork vaccination' signifies pockets of low coverage of vaccination among areas with high levels of coverage; such areas are vulnerable to 'hyperlocal outbreaks' and may emerge as hotspots should the new variant get introduced. India's current concern is vaccine complacency in the backdrop of low numbers of daily new cases leading to large numbers not completing the full schedule. Nearly 2.7 million health and frontline workers are yet to complete their full schedule despite vaccination beginning for them early this year. Prior infection-induced immunity protects against reinfection, but this acquired immunity wanes over time, and vaccine complacency can prove to be costly in the wake of this new variant. Also being closely awaited is the policy on additional and booster doses by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) in the next few weeks. While central and state governments are gearing up to rise to the challenge, Omicron can stand a real chance if fatigue in both community mitigation strategies - face masking, physical distancing, respiratory etiquette, and washing and indoor gatherings - as well as test-track-treat strategy, are not quickly shaken off. (The writer is Chairperson at the Centre of Social Medicine & Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/omicron-the-map-and-the-terrain-1056456.html
01-12-2021||Opinion||Shakti Mills gang-rape case: In defence of life sentence||This verdict has disappointed those who believe rapists deserve nothing less than the death penalty because of the brutality that the rape victim/survivor had been subjected to. However, the court's decision to stay the death sentence, and award life imprisonment, can also be viewed in keeping with feminist calls for the abolition of capital punishment. In her article "Sexual Violence against Women, the Laws, the Punishment, and Negotiating the Duplicity" (2021) for the journal Laws, sociologist Suvarna Cherukuri argues that the death penalty "does not deter crime". This argument also appears in the 2013 report of the Justice Verma Committee, which the Centre appointed after the 'Nirbhaya' rape case in 2012 to review possible amendments to criminal law and suggest measures for faster trials and harsher penalties for criminals accused of sexual assault. In January 2020, feminists and women's organisations from across India appealed to the President of India to stop the execution of Akshay Kumar, Vinay Sharma, Pawan Gupta and Mukesh Singh, convicted of the brutal assault, gang-rape and murder of a 23-year-old medical intern in Delhi in December 2012.  The statement acknowledged the "inexorable pain" of parents and loved ones of people who are raped and killed but cautioned against "efforts by politicians and parties, courts and other vested interests to capitalise on their pain and make the case a matter of the nation's honour." It notes, "The bare truth is that even after the Indian state executed Auto (Gowri) Shankar in 1995, Ranga and Billa (Kuljeet Singh and Jasbir Singh) in 1982, and Dhananjay Chatterjee in 2004 for rape/s and murder, sexual assault and killings continue unabated." If the fear of capital punishment has been found ineffective in deterring rapists from raping, why is there such a strong push towards awarding a death sentence in our society? What is the nature of this so-called collective conscience, which demands punitive action of a kind that is unlikely to stop sexual violence against women? What gratification or victory does it seek from retribution? Who, if anyone at all, benefits from this notion of justice? Cherukuri draws attention to the "disproportionate sentencing of racial-ethnic, religious minorities to death." She writes, "There cannot be a fair application of the death penalty; the 'rarest of the rare' doctrine is left to subject interpretations." This feminist critique of the legal discourse on rape and the death penalty is supported by lawyer Flavia Agnes. "Rape of Dalit women and girls by upper caste men is treated as less of a crime, and in contrast, those who are awarded death penalty in most cases of rape belong to the lower caste and class," she has said. People who think that minorities in India are always being coddled might hear Agnes and Cherukuri's arguments as attempts to ask for differential treatment for perpetrators from marginalised backgrounds. However, Agnes backs up her statement by pointing out that the outrage in the wake of the Hathras rape case of 2020 was "nowhere close" to the protests that "erupted in almost every major city" after the 'Nirbhaya' rape case of 2012. The Death Penalty India Report (2016), published by Project 39A at the National Law University, Delhi, notes that 76 per cent of prisoners sentenced to death are "backward classes and religious minorities." It does not suggest any "causal connection or direct discrimination" but does mention that the "disparate impact of the death penalty on marginalised and vulnerable groups must find a prominent place in the conversation on the death penalty." There is another reason that makes many feminists oppose the death penalty. Agnes explains, "Where women are concerned, the state draws a line between the so-called 'good' woman who needs protection and the 'bad' woman who needs to be penalised as she does not fit into the 'good' woman category." According to her, when the state takes on the role of "a benevolent patriarch", it tries to "curb female sexuality". Bar dancers, sex workers, lesbians, and others, are at the receiving end of this punitive agenda cloaked as protection. Do Justices Sadhana Jadhav and Prithviraj Chavan share this view of the state? It would be presumptuous to make any such conclusions from their judgement, which states that the rapists deserve imprisonment "for the remainder of their natural life." The judges added, "Every day, the rising sun would remind them of the barbaric acts committed by them, and the night would lay them with a heavy heart filled with guilt and remorse." The judges are against the death penalty, but they want the rapists to suffer. They do not harbour any hope that the mindsets of these men might change. This is evident from their observation that "death puts an end to the whole concept of repentance, any sufferings and mental agony." They believe that the convicts "do not deserve to assimilate with the society" because they "look upon women with derision, depravity, contempt and as objects of desire." The judgement states, "The conduct of the accused, and their bold confession to the survivor that she is not the first one to satisfy their lust, is sufficient to hold that there is no scope for 'reformation' or 'rehabilitation'." Is life imprisonment then a more severe punishment than the death penalty? If the fear of death does not deter men from raping women, what might? What kind of justice would genuinely open up possibilities for reformation or rehabilitation? These are important questions to think about, whether you identify as a feminist or not. (Chintan Girish Modi is a freelance writer, journalist and book reviewer) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/shakti-mills-gang-rape-case-in-defence-of-life-sentence-1056472.html
01-12-2021||Panorama||Body Mass Index, an outdated health calculator||For decades, people have been told that the Body Mass Index (BMI) is the most effective technique to measure a person’s body fat. But that’s not true! BMI can be a helpful health measure for large groups of people, but it won’t give an accurate individual health index. Introduced in the 1830s by a Belgian statistician who wanted to describe the ‘average man’ quantitatively, the calculation was named the Body Mass Index and popularised in the 1970s by the Minnesota physiologist Ancel Keys. Dr Keys wanted to prove to life insurance companies that estimating people’s body fat and their risk of dying cannot be determined by comparing their weights with the average weights of others of the same height, age, and gender. Through an extensive study, he and his colleagues showed that the BMI was a more accurate — and far simpler — predictor of body fat. This became the most popular technique to measure body fat. But this technique is quite deceiving. How is BMI calculated? Take your weight (kg) and divide it by the square of your height (m). The result is meant to divide your body weight into four main categories - underweight (BMI less than 18.5 kg/m2), normal weight (18.5 to 22.9kg/m2), overweight (23 to 24.9kg/m2), and obese (25kg/m2 or more). People around the world, thin and overweight alike, have struggled to achieve the ‘perfect’ BMI. So, the question is does it accurately describe individual health? BMI can’t tell what percentage of a person’s weight is from their fat, muscle or bone. The way BMI is calculated, it leaves no room for the relative proportions of bone, muscle and fat in the body. This explains why muscular athletes often have high BMIs despite having little body fat. And as people age, it’s common to lose muscle and bone mass but gain abdominal fat, a change in body composition that would be concerning for health but might go unnoticed if it didn’t change a person’s BMI. The measure also does a poor job of predicting a person’s metabolic health. For example, in 2016, a study was conducted in the US to understand the relation between BMI and metabolic health. This study found that measuring a person’s BMI does not consider the metabolic health of the individual. The study including 40,000 adults in the US was found to be ‘overweight’ since researchers calculated their BMIs, keeping their insulin resistance, markers of inflammation and blood pressure, cholesterol and glucose levels in mind. A quarter of those classified as obese were metabolically healthy by these measures. However, 31% of people with a ‘normal’ body mass were metabolically unhealthy. If BMI isn’t accurate, then what is? Don’t be entangled in the fatphobia concept. Rather than calculating body fats, people should check their blood glucose levels, triglyceride and blood pressure to ensure a healthy lifestyle and body. Rather than focusing on your weight, give importance to how you feel while carrying out physical activities. If you know anyone struggling with body image issues, reach out to them and make them understand that having a healthy lifestyle is all that matters. BMI does not determine anyone’s physical health. It is a healthy lifestyle that will determine your overall health and wellbeing. (The writers are a clinical nutritionist and a general physician respectively, at a hospital in Mumbai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/body-mass-index-an-outdated-health-calculator-1056676.html
01-12-2021||Right in the Middle||Memories of Sher-e-Kashmir||In recent times Kashmir is discussed, debated in television, newspapers and in drawing room conversations. This is also a topic that engages my nonagenarian father. My father was posted to Srinagar in the mid-seventies. His friends and relatives jokingly said that he was heading to Si Naraka (hell). However, my dad maintains that it was one of his best postings. I would like to add a caveat that he escaped the harsh winters as the government shifted to Jammu. He still has vivid memories of the enthusiasm and expectation of the locals when Sheikh Abdullah was sworn in as the chief minister. Locals revered him as Sher-e-Kashmir. My dad tends to share vignettes of his meetings with this towering personality. My father recalls that when he made his first courtesy call on Sheikh Sahib, he enquired why his office had more Kashmiri Pundits than Muslims. My dad replied that the Kashmiri Muslims were talented craftsmen while historically the pundits were inclined to administrative work. Apparently, it struck a chord with Sheikh sahib and he never referred to the issue again. In the seventies, the spirit of kashmirayat swept the valley state. There was lot of camaraderie amongst the Muslims and Pundits. The local politicians went out of the way to make my father comfortable by conversing in English while dealing with him officially. Forget Urdu! My father’s knowledge of Hindi was rudimentary having studied in then Madras. He has lot of anecdotes about his staff who went the extra mile to make his posting comfortable. During my dad’s stint, the Governor of J&K was Mr L K Jha. His wife was a devotee of Ramakrishna ashram and had invited the well-known Monk Swami Ranganathandaji to deliver a series of lectures. I was pleasantly surprised to learn that Sheikh Abdullah and begum Abdullah attended a couple of the lectures. In today’s scenario, I can’t imagine any of the politicians of Kashmir doing the same. All good things come to an end. So when my father was transferred out of Kashmir he took leave of Sheikh Sahib and informed him that his successor is a Hyderabadi Muslim who in his spare time is an Urdu poet. My father cherishes the words of Sheikh Sahib, who said 'lack of Urdu knowledge never came in the way of our relationship’. In his twilight years my father looks at the state of Kashmir today and wonders what went so drastically wrong.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/memories-of-sher-e-kashmir-1056671.html
01-12-2021||Second Edit||Time to think why Kerala fares better||The first-ever Multi-dimensional Poverty Index (MPI), prepared by the Niti Aayog, has shown not only the long distance to be covered in the country’s fight against poverty but also the large gap that exists between many regions and states in poverty levels. While 25.01% of the population is identified as poor at the national level, over half the population (51.9%) is poor in Bihar. Kerala has only less than 1% of the people classified as poor. Bihar also has the highest number of malnourished people, followed by Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Kerala, Goa and Sikkim have the lowest percentage of multi-dimensionally poor persons at 0.71%, 3.76% and 3.82% respectively. Kerala’s Kottayam is the only district in the country where there is no poverty (0%).  The MPI seeks to measure poverty in many dimensions by going beyond the existing method of assessing it on the basis of per capita income only. It takes into consideration three equally weighted dimensions – health, education, and standard of living – which are represented by 12 indicators such as nutrition, school attendance, years of schooling, drinking water, sanitation, housing, bank accounts, among others. So, the index gives a real and more complete idea of the level of poverty. The index is aligned with the target of achieving the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. It was based on National Family Health Survey 4 (NFHS-4) of 2015-16 and computed before some flagship welfare schemes were launched. Updated data based on NFHS-5 (2019-20) is expected to give a clearer picture. But it could most likely be worse because the performance on most dimensions deteriorated during the pandemic.  It is not a surprise that northern and central India and the north-east are the worst performers and the southern region has topped the index. Karnataka has 13.16% of its population classified as poor. Within the state, northern Karnataka has fared much worse than the southern region. The state has to strive more to improve its performance in all areas that have a bearing on the making of the index and to give special attention to the backward regions to bring them up. Uneven development within the country and within states has always been a reality and there are several reasons for it. They need to be addressed through effective policies and actions, especially because the most backward states are also the most populous ones. The MPI gives data for 700 districts in the country, and that should facilitate formulation of policies and targeted interventions that contribute towards ensuring that "no one is left behind," as the NITI report says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/time-to-think-why-kerala-fares-better-1056674.html
01-12-2021||South||Mullaperiyar water level reaches 142 feet; Kerala former minister terms it 'water bomb'||As the water level of the Mullaperiyar dam in Kerala reached the permissible level of 142 feet by Tuesday, Kerala has stepped up vigil. Kerala Water Resources Minister Roshy Agustine said that the Tamil Nadu authorities were asked to open the spillway shutters only during day time and give adequate alerts. The Tamil Nadu authorities opened the shutters during the early hours of Tuesday to maintain the water level at 142. Earlier also there were allegations by the people living near the river banks that the water level of the river had gone up with out alerts as the shutters were opened with out adequate warning. Meanwhile, a CPM leader and former minister of Kerala M M Mani had termed the Mullaperiyar dam as a water bomb over parts of Kerala. Addressing a public meeting of high range farmers he also alleged that Tamil Nadu was playing politics over the dam by seeking increase of the water level. But the over a century old dam was remaining as a bomb of water over Kerala's Idukki district. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had recently warned against social media campaigns that the dam was unsafe. The Mullaperiyar dam situated in Idukki district in Kerala is being managed by Tamil Nadu. Kerala has been demanding construction of new dam after decommissioning the existing one citing safety concerns. Kerala fears that several districts, including Kochi city, might be badly affected in case of any unfortunate incident for the dam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mullaperiyar-water-level-reaches-142-feet-kerala-former-minister-terms-it-water-bomb-1056411.html
01-12-2021||South||AIADMK expels its Muslim face for supporting Sasikala||AIADMK late Tuesday showed the door to its minority wing secretary and senior leader A Anwhar Raajha after he spoke against the “dual leadership” and backed V K Sasikala’s re-entry into the party. This is the first major expulsion from the AIADMK after the party lost power to the DMK in May this year. Raajha’s expulsion also came a week after he was targeted at a party meeting for speaking against the joint leadership of OPS and EPS which he said was “hurting the party.” A former minister in the J Jayalalithaa cabinet and ex-MP from Ramanathapuram, Raajha has received flak for the past few days for openly speaking against the “dual leadership”. The former MP has also been supporting Sasikala’s re-entry into the AIADMK saying she is no longer a “liability” for the party. Raajha, the AIADMK’s Muslim face, was expelled from the primary membership on the eve of the party’s crucial Executive Committee meeting on Wednesday. The Executive Committee is likely to discuss the urban local body polls, intra-party elections, and convening of the General Council. Party coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami said in a joint statement that Raajha has been expelled from the primary membership for “speaking against the decisions of the High Command and bringing disrepute to the AIADMK”. He is understood to have been heckled at the meeting which upset many senior leaders. In interviews to Tamil channels, Raajha said the dual leadership and “confusion” at the top was hurting the party’s prospects. Raajha is one of the first leaders in the AIADMK to speak against the party’s alliance with BJP. Raajha’s expulsion is likely to create a stir in the AIADMK, which is facing a challenge from Sasikala who has staked her claim for the party’s leadership. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-expels-its-muslim-face-for-supporting-sasikala-1056450.html
01-12-2021||South||AIADMK appoints Tamil Magan Hussain as Interim Presidium Chairman||Senior leader Tamil Magan Hussain was on Wednesday appointed as the Interim Presidium Chairman of the AIADMK, succeeding E Madhusudhanan who passed away in July due to Covid-19 complications.  The appointment of Hussain comes as the AIADMK makes a concerted effort to reach out to minority communities that are upset at its alliance with the BJP. Hussain’s appointed was announced by party coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami at the Executive Committee meeting.  Hussain, secretary of MGR Mandram, a frontal organisation of the AIADMK, is a senior leader of the party and has been demanding a post for himself for the past few years. His appointment comes a day after the AIADMK expelled Anwhar Rajaah, the party’s Muslim face, for speaking against the dual leadership and supporting V K Sasikala’s re-entry into the party.  Presidium Chairman is considered a very crucial post in the AIADMK. The post assumed significance after Madhusudhanan had in 2017 moved against Sasikala before the Election Commission seeking the party’s 'Two Leaves' symbol to the faction led by O Panneerselvam. Madhusudhanan, one of the founding members of the party and a die-hard fan of the party's founder and legendary actor M G Ramachandran, served as the presidium chairman of the AIADMK for over 15 years.  By appointing Hussain, political observers said, the AIADMK is reaching out to Muslims who appeared to have weaned away from supporting the party due to its alliance with the BJP.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-appoints-tamil-magan-hussain-as-interim-presidium-chairman-1056489.html
01-12-2021||South||Happy to consider myself a slum dweller: Tamil writer Perumal Murugan on BJP hoarding gaffe||A day after the BJP apologised to Perumal Murugan for using his photograph in a slum outreach campaign poster, the Tamil author has said that he was "extremely happy" to consider himself as "a slum dweller”. A party leader told the publication that the hoarding was prepared by an ad agency and the national unit of the party "demanded an explanation." The protocol of checking hoardings and posters for party events before being produced appears to have been ignored in this case, another leader said.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/happy-to-consider-myself-a-slum-dweller-tamil-writer-perumal-murugan-on-bjp-hoarding-gaffe-1056500.html
01-12-2021||South||Income Tax searches at Tamil Nadu's Saravana Super Stores||The Income Tax department is conducting searches at several premises of the supermarket chain, Saravana Super Stores on Wednesday. Around 100 teams of IT sleuths are involved in the searches at different locations in Chennai, Madurai, and Coimbatore. According to sources in the I-T department, the searches are being conducted at 14 places across the state with eight premises in Chennai are being searched. The rest of the searches are held at Madurai and Coimbatore. The I-T officials are tight-lipped and are not allowing customers inside the shop at Purusawalkam and T-Nagar in Chennai. Saravana Super Stores is a multi-supermarket with chains across Tamil Nadu and one of the biggest shopping points for people of Tamil Nadu. The T-Nagar and Purusawalkam shops have huge turnovers and the roads inside and outside the shops are generally blocked with a large number of people reaching to shop. The Saravana Super Stores, textile shop at Purasawalkam, and grocery shop at T-Nagar generally witness huge crowds and both the shops were subjected to searches. The furniture shop of the group at Chrompet is also being searched. Quality materials at cheap rates were the major attraction of the Saravana Super Stores for many years in Tamil Nadu and was a market leader in many areas. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/income-tax-searches-at-tamil-nadus-saravana-super-stores-1056501.html
01-12-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan accuses Centre of stalling development of Kannur airport||Kerala Chief Minister has accused the Centre of stalling the development of the state-of-the-art airport at his home town Kannur saying permission has been denied for foreign carriers to operate from the airport. He made the remark while speaking at a protest march against the Centre on Tuesday evening in front of the Governor's residence. Vijayan's attack was based on a question that his closest aide and journalist-turned Rajya Sabha member John Brittas had asked in the House. In his reply, Union Minister Minister of State for Civil Aviation V K Singh had said that Vijayan had submitted a Memorandum to the Prime Minister on July 13, 2021 seeking permission for foreign carriers to operate out of Kannur International Airport. "Kannur International Airport was commissioned in December 2018. Within a period of one year, by Winter 2019 schedule, Indian carriers were operating 65 international services per week from Kannur, before scheduled international commercial passenger services were suspended on account of Covid-19 pandemic". "Currently, due to significant imbalance in the number of points of call in favour of foreign carriers, the Government of India is not granting any non-metro airport as a new point of call to any foreign carrier for the purpose of operating passenger services. However, Indian designated carriers are free to mount scheduled operations to/from any international airport including Kannur International Airport to foreign destinations under the ambit of bilateral air service agreements concluded by India with foreign countries," Singh had stated. Vijayan said in a federal system of governance, sidelining states don't augur well for the democracy and this is happening when the Centre is stalling development of the Kannur Airport. This, he said, comes at a time when Kerala is trying to get its fifth airport to facilitate the easy pilgrimage to the temple town of Sabarimala. "We will go forward with our Sabarimala airport plan," said Vijayan. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-accuses-centre-of-stalling-development-of-kannur-airport-1056520.html
01-12-2021||South||Kerala college students dance their way to raise awareness on AIDS||A group of college students in the city on Wednesday danced and exhibited posters to express solidarity with AIDS patients across the world and seeking to end discrimination shown towards them. The National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers of the Zamorin's Guruvayurappan College and the JDT Islam Polytechnic College gathered on the busy SMS street, a heritage area here, and showcased their artistic skills to commemorate the World AIDS Day and highlight the plight of the affected persons. 'End inequalities, End AIDS' is the commemorative theme of the day this year. When the students, cutting across gender, grooved to film songs played, a large number of people gathered to catch a glimpse of the live performance. After the flash mob and skit, the students conveyed the message of the day among the audience and stressed the need to end inequality in the name of the disease. Besides NSS, the Government Women and Children Hospital at Kottaparambu here was also associated with the awareness drive. "The campaign is organised to create awareness in the society on the need to end inequalities shown to AIDS patients and consider them as one among them," Dr C K Afzal, one of the organisers of the programme, said Posters, expressing solidarity with the AIDS patients across the world, were also put up during the event.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-college-students-dance-their-way-to-raise-awareness-on-aids-1056526.html
01-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu buses start plying to Kerala||After a gap of over 21 months, government buses started plying to Kerala from the city from Wednesday, much to the delight of the general public. According to Transport department sources, buses were plying to Palakkad, Kochi, Munnar, Thrissur and there was good response from the public, who travelled by trains all these days. Bus services were stopped due to increased cases of Covid-19 in Kerala and it commenced after the Tamil Nadu government announced resumption of services on Tuesday. District Collector G S Sameeran asked people to be alert while travelling by wearing face masks and using sanitisers. He also said that it would be mandatory for those coming from Kerala by car and other transport, to ensure certificates that they had taken two doses of Covid vaccine and also undergone RTPCR tests, which will be checked at Walayar check post. Meanwhile, buses also started plying from nearby Nilgiris district, particularly from Gudalur on the border to Wayanad, Sultan Bathery. A few buses from Perinthalamanna and Mannarkad from Kerala also arrived in Gudalur. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-buses-start-plying-to-kerala-1056530.html
01-12-2021||South||Kamal Haasan recovers from Covid-19||Tamil film icon Kamal Haasan, who was treated for Covid-19, has “fully recovered” but has been advised to be under isolation till December 3, the hospital which treated him said on Wednesday.  “Shri Kamal Haasan who has been admitted on November 22 was Covid positive. He has fully recovered but is advised to be in isolation until December 3. He will be fit to resume his routine work from December 4,” Dr Suhas Prabhakar, Medical Director, Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre, said.  Kamal Haasan, also the chief of Makkal Needhi Maiam, returned from the US recently after which he experienced cough. After his hospitalisation, he was found to be Covid positive and treated at the hospital. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasan-recovers-from-covid-19-1056534.html
01-12-2021||South||Dual leadership to continue, all is well within party, says AIADMK||Tamil Nadu’s principal opposition party, AIADMK, on Wednesday, put up a brave face by sending a signal that "all is well" within the party and asserting that the “dual leadership” arrangement will continue, despite voices against the current leadership and support of VK Sasikala continuing to grow.  The executive council, which met at the party headquarters on Wednesday morning, passed a resolution approving an amendment to the AIADMK Constitution that allows primary members, instead of the general council, to elect the coordinator and joint coordinator. With this, the party will revert to its earlier style of primary members electing the leadership.  The amendment seeks to achieve two goals — one the establishment of the current coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami firmly in the leadership saddle and the other to thwart attempts by Sasikala to take over the party.  According to AIADMK leaders, Sasikala is not a primary member of the party as she failed to renew her membership in 2017. However, the former aide of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa continues to address herself as the general secretary of the party.  As Panneerselvam and Palaniswami came under attack from party leaders on their “indecisive” nature, the amendment will cement their position within the AIADMK, at least for now. At a general council meeting on September 12, 2017, the AIADMK did away with the post of general secretary and introduced the posts of coordinator and joint coordinator.  The amended constitution says the coordinator and joint coordinator will be elected by ‘single vote’ system by primary members of the AIADMK. The amendment was approved, signalling to those opposing the dual leadership and supporting Sasikala to end their dissent. Though Panneerselvam and Palaniswami have clashed on several occasions, sources said that they don’t have any other option but to put up a “united front.”  The decision of the executive council comes a day after the party expelled its Muslim face, Anwhar Rajaah, for speaking against the current leadership and batting for Sasikala’s re-entry. Sources said the meeting also sent a strong signal to dissenters, that they would meet the “same fate as Rajaah’s.”  Former minister and senior AIADMK leader D Jayakumar told reporters that Rajaah’s expulsion was “absolutely necessary” to prevent others from talking “like him.”  Sasikala has vowed to “reclaim” the AIADMK from the current leadership following the party’s defeat in the April 6 assembly elections. However, the close friend of late Jayalalithaa is yet to make any headway in her efforts to take over the AIADMK leadership, with no visible swell in her support base. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dual-leadership-to-continue-all-is-well-within-party-says-aiadmk-1056569.html
01-12-2021||South||Telangana Police develop software for fight against drug trafficking||As part of its efforts to curb drug menace and fight against drug trafficking in the state, the Telangana Police have developed a software application—'DOPAMS' (Drug Offenders Profiling, Analysis and Monitoring System). The software application launched on Tuesday has been developed in-house by the Counter Intelligence Cell for profiling, monitoring, and analysis of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act cases, and built using the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) data, Telangana Police said in a release. The software application enables the Investigating Officers to build, update and search profiles of all known drug offenders, police said. It enables to identify of habitual offenders involved in multiple crimes and also offenders based on the area of their operation and also the kind of drugs they deal with. Police further said the application also helps identify the hot spots of drug peddling, cultivation, and supply. It allows Investigating Officers to keep a track of drug offenders throughout the state and monitoring of NDPS cases reported in the state, the release added. Police in Telangana have stepped up their drive against the drug menace, particularly ganja trade, and busted several gangs, including interstate, and arrested several persons who were allegedly engaged in peddling, consuming, and transporting ganja and other narcotic substances. Huge quantities of ganja and other drugs have been seized during the ongoing drive. Continuous raids are being conducted on a daily basis and bulk buyers, local retailers, and drug transporters are on police radar in order to curb ganja peddling and usage. At a review meeting in October, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had told police and excise department officials to crack the whip on smugglers and peddlers and to intensify their efforts to eradicate the ganja mafia and make Telangana a drug-free state. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-police-develop-software-for-fight-against-drug-trafficking-1056579.html
01-12-2021||South||Kerala determined to prevent new HIV infections by 2025: CM||Kerala is determined to prevent new HIV infections in the state by 2025 and due to the significant strides it has made in the health sector it can achieve this goal much earlier, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday. The CM, in a Facebook post on the occasion of World AIDS Day, said the state can achieve the goal of preventing new infections by intensifying the preventive measures as well as by finding out HIV patients and providing them proper treatment and care. Vijayan said that in October 25,775 cases of HIV were registered in the state and the prevalence of the infection among adults here was 0.08 per cent as compared to the national figure of 22 per cent. While the prevalence of HIV cases in Kerala was low compared to other states, there is still room for improvement, he added. The CM said that the state Health Department and the AIDS Control Society have jointly planned extensive programmes at the state, district, and taluk levels as part of the government's plan to prevent new HIV infections. He said that this year's World AIDS Day message was to 'End inequality, AIDs and pandemic' for making an HIV-free community possible, and for this necessary awareness has to be created. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-determined-to-prevent-new-hiv-infections-by-2025-cm-1056581.html
01-12-2021||South||Kottiyoor rape case: Kerala HC commutes jail term of defrocked priest||The Kerala High Court has commuted the sentence of a priest accused of raping and impregnating a minor girl from 20 years to 10 years. Robin Vadakumcherry, a former priest of the Mananthavady diocese in Wayanad in Kerala, was convicted by a POCSO court in Kannur district in Kerala in 2019. He was imposed with a fine of Rs 3 lakh also. He was subsequently defrocked. Considering the appeal filed by Vadakumcherry, the High Court commuted the sentence to 10 years and reduced the fine to Rs one lakh. While the sentence awarded for rape under POCSO Act was not altered by the court, the sentence under section 376 of IPC was commuted by alerting the sub sections. Earlier Vadakumcherry, who is in his 50s, moved a bail application expressing intention of marrying the victim who is in early 20s. After the court rejected it, the victim had moved a petition seeking bail for the convict expressing wish to marry him. But the prosecution and the police were learnt to have given reports against the move as it was suspected to be a bid to give undue relief to the convict. Vadakumcherry raped the victim girl belonging to his parish several times during 2016 at Kottiyoor in Kannur district. The girl, who was only 16 at that time, became pregnant and delivered a child. Efforts were made to conceal the crime. He was held just ahead of his bid to leave the country. He was defrocked after he was convicted by the lower court. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kottiyoor-rape-case-kerala-hc-commutes-jail-term-of-defrocked-priest-1056594.html
01-12-2021||South||IIT-Madras' day one placements up 43% from 2020 figures||Phase-1 of campus placements at the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) began on Wednesday with a record 43 per cent increase with 176 offers being made by 34 companies, including Microsoft and Goldman Sachs.  Other top recruiters who gave offers to IIT-M students include Texas Instruments, Bajaj Auto, Bain and Company, Qualcomm, Boston Consulting Group, JP Morgan Chase & Co, and McKinsey.  The institute said a total of 176 offers have been made by 34 companies during day one’s session 1.1 on Wednesday, which is higher than any of the preceding academic years. In the academic year of 2020-21, 123 offers were made by 22 companies at the end of Session 1.1. A total of 11 international offers were received from four companies by the end of session 1.1. “Further, during the current 2021-22 Academic Year, IIT Madras students received 231 PPOs. Thus, a total number of 407 job offers have been received by the end of the 1.1 session,” IIT-M said, adding that the phase-I of placements is expected to continue till December 10, 2021. In the second and final slot of day one placements (session 1.2) that are being held between 4 pm to midnight today, 32 companies are looking for 68 profiles. These companies include Amazon, Groww, Flipkart, Intel, Samsung and Twitter. “This fantastic performance by our students is a testament to their academic training and quality, and the value that they bring to their recruiters. The Institute Placement team has worked tirelessly to ensure the best possible job opportunities for our students. I hope that we continue to place more students in jobs that meet their aspirations over the next few days,” Prof. C.S. Shankar Ram, Advisor (Training and Placement), IIT-M, said. The institute said a total of 1,498 students across different streams of study have registered for placements in the 2021-22 academic year, while the number of companies that have registered for phase-I placements is 382. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-madras-day-one-placements-up-43-from-2020-figures-1056618.html
01-12-2021||South||Five CPM workers held for Youth Cong workers' murder in 2019||Five CPM activists, including a local leader, were arrested by the CBI on Wednesday in connection with the murder of two Youth Congress workers at Periya of Kasargod in 2019. The ruling CPM in Kerala has been facing much embarrassment over the case as the Supreme Court also rejected the pleas of the state government to hand over the probe to the CBI. It was alleged that the Pinarayi Vijayan government trying to sabotage a fair investigation to protect the party workers involved. The CBI summoned the five for questioning and recorded their arrests thereafter. Those arrested include a party branch secretary. They will be produced in a court in Kochi on Thursday, sources said. The case pertains to the death of Youth Congress workers Kripesh and Sarathlal, who were killed by a gang on February 17, 2019. The Kerala Police that probed concluded that personal rivalry led to the murder and filed a charge sheet against 14 persons, including local CPM activists. However, the parents of the deceased approached court seeking a CBI probe, alleging that the police investigation was not fair. The Left-front government spent around Rs 85 lakh from the state exchequer for hiring senior lawyers to fight against the plea for a CBI probe. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-cpm-workers-held-for-youth-cong-workers-murder-in-2019-1056620.html
01-12-2021||South||Will Pongal couple up as Tamil New Year’s Day from 2022?||Is the Tamil Nadu government planning to change the Tamil New Year’s Day to January 14 from April 14?  “Happy Pongal and Tamil New Year’s Day wishes to everyone.” This phrase on cloth bags containing 20 grocery items to be distributed to over 2 crore ration cardholders in the state on Pongal has triggered frenzied speculation on the subject. Tamil New Year’s Day is usually celebrated on April 14 at the beginning of Tamil month Chithirai, but the then DMK government under M Karunanidhi had in 2008 changed it to January 14 to coincide with the beginning of the Tamil month of Thai, celebrated as the harvest festival or Pongal.  Though Karunanidhi said he was only fulfilling the demands of scholars that Tamil New Year’s Day should be celebrated on the first day of Thai, his arch-rival J Jayalalithaa, who stormed to power in 2011, repealed the law that the previous DMK government passed and reverted to observing the New Year’s Day on April 14.  Ever since the DMK came to power in May this year, there was intense speculation on the change in Tamil New Year’s Day. But things seems to have been sorted when the holiday list published by the state government mentioned April 14 as Tamil New Year’s Day.  However, the phrase printed on the cloth bags with Chief Minister M K Stalin’s name has renewed the debate. Officials were tight-lipped on the issue and refused to speak when approached for their comments.  Even as there is no clarity on the issue, Paatali Makkal Katchi (PMK) on Wednesday asked the DMK dispensation to pass a law to ensure that Tamil New Year’s Day is celebrated on January 14 instead of April 14.  “PMK firmly believes that the first day of Thai is the beginning of the Tamil New Year. There is numerous proof to establish the fact that Thai is the first month of the Tamil calendar including in the age-old Sangam Literature,” PMK founder S Ramadoss said in a statement.  He also recalled that over 500 scholars led by renowned Tamil scholar Maraimalai Adigalar had in 1921 resolved that Tamil New Year’s Day should be celebrated only in January and not in April. The proponents of changing the day say Chitirai (April) was made the first month of the Tamil calendar due to the influence of Sanskrit scholars.  BJP warned the DMK against changing the Tamil New Year’s Day. State unit chief K Annamalai said the DMK was trying to “cheat” Tamils by trying to change the New Year’s Day from April 14 which has been the tradition “for long.” The DMK has already decided to change Tamil Nadu to July 18 from November 1, which was announced by the previous AIADMK government. DMK’s contention is that though Madras state came into being on November 1, the state was renamed on July 18, 1967, and hence the State Day should be observed on the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-pongal-couple-up-as-tamil-new-year-s-day-from-2022-1056649.html
01-12-2021||South||Sabarimala Temple goes digital, sets up Google Pay to receive offerings||The Sabarimala Ayyappa Temple in Kerala has enhanced the digital payment options by introducing Google Pay facility. QR code for making the offering through Google Pay has been displayed at 22 spots near the temple so that the devotees can make digital payments instead of depositing offerings in the offering boxes. Offerings could be also made from anywhere in the world through the Google Pay number -- 9495999919. Sabarimala temple executive officer Krishnakumar Warrier said that steps would be taken to display the QR code at more places and that the facility is expected to be well received. When Covid restrictions were imposed with regard to the number of pilgrims allowed to enter the temple, the online payment facilities for making offerings was introduced. Meanwhile the Travancore Devaswom Board that manages the temple urged the government to allow further relaxations for devotees. The board suggested that those who took both doses of Covid vaccine should be allowed darshan without booking on the virtual queue system and trekking along the traditional 'Neelimala' route. The temple authprities are also pushing for giving permission to pilgrims to stay back at the temple premises for up to 12 hours. Children below the age of five are exempted from the requirement to book on virtual queue for darshan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-temple-goes-digital-sets-up-google-pay-to-receive-offerings-1056653.html
01-12-2021||South||Wakf Board postings: Row over protests in Kerala mosques||A move to protest against the Kerala government’s decision to entrust the recruitments to the Wakf Board with the state Public Service Commission in mosques has triggered a row. The CPM alleged that the Indian Union Muslim League was behind the move to protest in mosques with the intention of a communal polarisation against the Left Front government by triggering communal sentiments. The IUML, which is a coalition partner of the opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front, maintained that it was the decision of the Muslim Coordination Committee, to discuss the protest in the mosques. Various Muslim outfits also protested the move citing that the provision to appoint only members from the Muslim community to the board needed to be protected as religious beliefs were required to protect Waqf properties. The IUML also said that it would move legally against the decision. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/wakf-board-postings-row-over-protests-in-kerala-mosques-1056655.html
01-12-2021||State||HC disposes of PILs relating to IMA scam||The High Court has disposed of a batch of PILs filed in relation to the multi-crore I Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam, considering the submissions that both the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) have filed the charge sheets in the cases. “We are of the considered view that the purpose for which the writ petitions were filed has been fulfilled. The concerning investigating agencies have taken the investigation and have submitted their reports before the concerning competent courts. So far as the action by the competent authority under the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments (KPID) Act, 2004 is concerned, it is needless to observe the concerning competent authority shall take appropriate legal steps as may be prescribed under the law in coordination with the investigating agencies,” the bench said. The court was informed that the competent authority established under the KPID Act is required to complete the process of attachment of properties in coordination with the ED. It directed the competent authority to continue the proceedings as prescribed under the statute in coordination with the ED.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-disposes-of-pils-relating-to-ima-scam-1056377.html
01-12-2021||State||Akram Pasha is labour commissioner||The state government has appointed IAS officer Akram Pasha as Labour Commissioner. Before the transfer, Pasha was secretary of the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/akram-pasha-is-labour-commissioner-1056388.html
01-12-2021||State||DH Toon | To watch comedy show, tune in from Delhi||Comedian Munawar Faruqui hinted at an exit from standup comedy after his Bengaluru show on Sunday was cancelled due to vandalisation threats from right-wing groups.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dh-toon-to-watch-comedy-show-tune-in-from-delhi-1056419.html
01-12-2021||State||DC knocks houses in Davangere for Covid-19 vaccination drive||"I am just 12-years-old, so, I have not taken vaccine against Covid-19", said a youth who was trying to escape the health department team during a door-to-door vaccination drive in Davangere on Wednesday. But Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi asked, "You have beard and moustache. Will anyone get them at the age of 12?" and directed the staff to administer the vaccine to him. All members of a family were inside their house by locking the door at Mustafanagar in Old Davangere area. But the team knocked the door of the house and made them open it. Later, all of them were vaccinated against Covid-19. Such scenes were witnessed during the campaign launched by the district administration. Youths who were walking on the streets were enquired about their vaccination status and those who were hesitating to respond to the queries raised by the team were vaccinated on the spot. Later, the staff asked them to submit a photocopy of their aadhar card to the officials concerned. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dc-knocks-houses-in-davangere-for-covid-19-vaccination-drive-1056667.html
01-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Nandi Hills open for tourists from today||The district administration will throw open the famous Nandi Hill Station for tourists from December 1, Tuesday. The tourists, who have booked rooms in advance, can stay in the hill station on Saturdays and Sundays. General tourists will not be allowed. The tourists have to compulsorily follow the Covid norms, the district administration has said.  The entry to the famed hill station was banned due to a landslide following heavy rain on August 24. A new road has been laid at the landslide spot now.  Deputy Commissioner R Latha, SP G K Mithun Kumar and PWD officials inspected the arrangements made for tourists in the hill station on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nandi-hills-open-for-tourists-from-today-1056371.html
01-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex CD case: Probe report okayed by SIT chief, HC told||The High Court on Tuesday said that the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the ‘sex for job’ case, involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, can move necessary application seeking leave of the court to file a final report of the investigation.  A division bench headed by Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi said this after it was informed that the head of SIT, additional commissioner of police Soumendhu Mukherjee, has approved the investigation conducted in his absence. While extending the interim order restraining submission of the final report, the court had directed that the report by the investigating officer be placed before Mukherjee for appropriate orders.  The report submitted by the investigating officer was not signed by Mukherjee since he was on medical leave for two months. P Prasanna Kumar, special public prosecutor for SIT, submitted that the report of the investigating officer has been approved by the head of the SIT. He sought the leave of the court to file the final report before the magistrate. Senior counsel Indira Jasing, appearing for the victim woman, argued that the petition filed by her challenges the constitution of the SIT.  She said the investigation report doesn’t conform to the criminal procedure code. Indira submitted that the SIT was constituted based on the letter addressed by the then home minister to the commissioner of police, Bengaluru city. “It is to be noted that this court, vide order dated July 27, 2021, had restrained any investigation report to be submitted before the competent court without the leave of this court. In case the respondent investigating agency (SIT) wants the report to be placed before the competent court, then let an application in this regard be filed,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-cd-case-probe-report-okayed-by-sit-chief-hc-told-1056380.html
01-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 291 new Covid cases, eight deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday logged 291 fresh Covid-19 cases and eight deaths, taking the caseload and cumulative fatalities to 29,96,148 and 38,211 respectively.  As many as 745 people were discharged, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,51,492. Active cases stood at 6,416. Bengaluru Urban district remained the major contributor of Covid cases with 185 fresh infections and six deaths. Other districts too reported new cases, including Mysuru with 28 cases and Dakshina Kannada with 19cases.  The positivity rate for the day was 0.47% and the case fatality rate stood at 2.74%. A total of 61,804 samples were tested on Tuesday, taking the cumulative number of samples tested to 5.32 crore. The number of vaccines administered rose to 7,44,20,942, with 5,35,092 people being inoculated on Tuesday. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-291-new-covid-cases-eight-deaths-1056382.html
01-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No lockdown, but Covid norms must: Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the government was tackling a two-pronged issue involving the new Covid-19 variant and the emergence of clusters in various parts of the state.  Bommai asserted that his government had no plans to take lockdown-like measures.  “Instructions have been given to increase the number of tests per day,” the chief minister told reporters.  He said there was no question of a lockdown. “Normal public life should continue, but Covid-19 norms should be followed at places where people gather. Organizations that hold such gatherings should be responsible. We’re taking utmost precautions and wherever clusters have emerged, we’re keeping extra vigil,” he said. “The government has to manage things at two levels. We’re doing whatever we can, such as scientific observation and management to control the new Omicron strain. Test swab samples in suspicious cases have been sent to the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) for genome sequencing to ascertain the exact variant,” he said. The government is monitoring foreign arrivals by “tracking, tracing and testing them as well as their contacts,” Bommai said.  Covid-19 clusters have been reported in Dharwad, Anekal, Sarjapur (both in Bengaluru) and Mysuru where mostly students have tested positive.  “People in clusters are being tested again seven days after they get a positive report of the first test. About 4,000 persons have been tested in the SDM college in Dharwad. Similar tests are on at clusters in Mysuru, Hassan and Anekal in Bengaluru,” Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-lockdown-but-covid-norms-must-bommai-1056384.html
01-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||15 nursing students test positive in Tumakuru||Fifteen students from Kerala studying in two nursing colleges in Tumakuru have tested positive for Covid-19. All these students have been isolated. Eight students in Siddaganga Nursing College and seven in Varadaraju College have contracted the infection. Following directions from the state government to ramp up testing, the officials from the health department tested 200 students of nursing colleges in and around Tumakuru for Covid. A majority of students in most of the colleges are from Kerala.  “All the students who tested positive are studying in first-year of the nursing course. Such classes have been suspended temporarily. The infected have been isolated,” District Health and Family Welfare officer Dr Nagendrappa said. 2 quarantined in Hosapete Meanwhile, two persons who have returned from South Africa to Hosapete (Vijayanagara), have been quarantined in home. Their RT-PCR tests have come out negative, said Taluk Medical Officer Dr Bhaskar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/15-nursing-students-test-positive-in-tumakuru-1056385.html
01-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Missing ‘S’ gene in RT-PCR test can point to Omicron||The Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) has procured ‘S’ gene RT-PCR test kits to identify possible Covid samples with Omicron variant of the virus. If there are 200-odd Covid positive samples, for example, the state can prioritise those without ‘S’ gene for sequencing to determine the Omicron variant, said experts. The ‘S’ gene sequencing kits were in use in the first and second Covid wave in Karnataka, before other kits that identify other genes (‘N’, ‘E’, ‘ORF’, and ‘RDRP’) were used. This kit can be used again now, say microbiologists in the state, as this can serve as a proxy marker for Omicron while waiting for sequencing results.  Even the World Health Organisation, on November 26, said that in one widely used PCR test, the ‘S’ gene is not detected and this test can, therefore, be used as marker for the Omicron variant, pending sequencingconfirmation. Dr V Ravi, head of the state genomic surveillance committee, told DH, “TaqPath ‘S’ gene Covid-19 diagnostic kit by Thermo Fisher has already been used by government hospital labs during the first and the second Covid wave. It can be a screening marker, but the final confirmation should come from genomic sequencing. After Indian manufacturers started providing PCR test kits, the prices started plummeting.”  Dr Ambika R, HoD, microbiology, BMCRI, told DH, “For testing 96 samples, the company is giving us the test kit at Rs 5,000, which works out to Rs 50 per sample, to test for Omicron. We will test Covid positive samples to see if the ‘S’ gene can be detectedor not.” “We can then know which samples to send for genomic sequencing on priority. We are expecting the kits to arrive by Wednesday. Even the Maharashtra government has procured these test kits, but only for Rs 18 per sample, as they have got them in bulk,” she said. Dr Kala Yadav, HoD, microbiology, Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, said, “Initially, we used to look for ‘S’ gene, then the government included all types of kits. In the backdrop of Omicron, now the government can take the initiative to supply ‘S’gene kits.” The head of a private hospital diagnostic chain, requesting anonymity, said, “In places where there is no sequencing capacity, knowhow or turnaround time is several days. So, this will help. We have 2,000 kits lying with us and these can detect all genes, including ‘S’ gene. But we can’t use them as the government has capped the cost of a RT-PCR test at Rs 800. Our operational cost is Rs 1,000,” he said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/missing-s-gene-in-rt-pcr-test-can-point-to-omicron-1056386.html
01-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai bats for Covid booster shot for frontline workers||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday stated that he would seek the Union Government's opinion and the status of scientific progress made in the issue of administering the booster dose of anti-Covid vaccine to health and frontline workers as experts in the State have expressed a favourable opinion in this regard. "I am going to Delhi on December 2 (Thursday), and I will meet Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. I will seek the Centre's views and recommendation about giving the booster dose to health and frontline workers, and scientific progress related to it. Experts here have opined that it is good to administer the booster dose to at least health workers, who were administered the second dose of the vaccine several months ago," he said. To prevent the spread of Covid infection, instructions are given to keep strict vigil on international travellers arriving in the State and also those who come from other states especially Kerala. Based on the experience of the last year, strict measures including mandatory testing for international and inter-state arrivals have to be taken at the initial stage itself, he noted. Reiterating that lockdown would not be imposed, Bommai stated that vaccination drives would be intensified, and there is no plan to link the vaccination with facilities offered by the government. Decision about the new year celebrations is not yet taken, and people need not panic unnecessarily, he said. Commenting on the possibility of Omicron variant entering the State, he said, a sample is sent to National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) for testing, as experts noted that it is of a different strain. On BJP-JD(S) pact In the wake of speculation about BJP-JD(S) pre-poll pact for Legislative Council elections as JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda and Prime Minister Narendra Modi held talks in New Delhi, Bommai stated that the decision is left to be taken at the local level, while H D Kumaraswamy and B S Yediyurappa would take the final call. Required infrastructure for newly-formed taluks would be provided in coming days, Bommai added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-bats-for-covid-booster-shot-for-frontline-workers-1056455.html
01-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BDA chief Vishwanath claims Congress leader wants him killed||Bangalore Development Authority chairperson and BJP’s Yelahanka MLA SR Vishwanath on Wednesday lodged a complaint with the police and the home minister claiming that a Congress leader wanted him killed.  Vishwanath said he got to know of the alleged supari plot late Tuesday evening after one Devaraj sent him video material and an apology letter.  “I am shocked. The very thought that an MLA can be finished off with a supari is a dangerous trend,” Vishwanath said.  “There are audio and video clippings in which Congress leader MN Gopalakrishna is heard and seen plotting to kill me while talking to Devaraj, who is a Congress worker,” Vishwanath said, adding that he had lodged a complaint with the Rajanakunte police.  Vishwanath defeated Gopalakrishna twice in the Yelahanka assembly elections. Gopalakrishna has denied the allegation, suggesting that this is Vishwanath’s ploy.  Throughout the day, video clips purportedly showing Gopalakrishna were aired by local news channels. “They discuss getting the killers from Andhra Pradesh. They also discuss finishing me off at my farmhouse that I frequent,” the MLA said, adding that he had brought this to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s notice.  “In one of the videos, Gopalakrishna is heard saying that I can’t be defeated in elections. Such a thing has never happened in Karnataka and in my 42-year career. I don’t know why Gopalakrishna did this. Should all the winning candidates be killed,” Vishwanath asked.  Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said the government has taken this case seriously. “Investigation is in its preliminary stages,” he said.  Speaking to reporters, Gopalakrishna said much of the videos aired by local channels were fake. “All this is the MLA’s plan. I don’t have such a criminal mind. Let it be probed and I’ll cooperate with the police,” he said. “It’s true that I met Devaraj. We discussed some land matters. Everything else is edited and manipulated. This has been done to tarnish my image. I’ll lodge a complaint against Devaraj and sue him for libel,” he said.  Gopalakrishna went on to demand a CBI probe into the 2017 assassination attempt on rowdy-turned-neta Kadabagere Srinivas, alluding to Vishwanath’s involvement.  Reacting to Vishwanath’s claims, Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar favoured an impartial probe. “Let the guilty be punished. But this looks like an attempt to oppress political opponents. Also, all of Bengaluru’s rowdies are with Vishwanath,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bda-chief-vishwanath-claims-congress-leader-wants-him-killed-1056584.html
01-12-2021||West||Omicron scare: 7-day institutional quarantine must for travellers to Maharashtra from 'at-risk' countries||Amid concerns over the Omicron variant of coronavirus, Maharashtra has mandated seven-day institutional quarantine for travellers arriving in the state from 'at-risk' countries. The State Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday night issued the guidelines, an official said. The list of 'at-risk' countries is announced by the Union government. According to an updated list, the countries designated as 'at-risk' are the European countries, the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. Such passengers will also undergo RT-PCR test on second, fourth and seventh day of the arrival, the authority said in its latest guidelines. If a passenger is found to be positive, he or she will be shifted to a hospital. In case the test is negative, the passenger will still have to undergo seven-day home quarantine. Passengers from other than 'at-risk' countries will have to undergo compulsory RT-PCR test at the airport. Even if found negative, they will have to undergo 14-day home quarantine. If found positive, the patient will be shifted to a hospital, the guidelines added. While no cases of Omicron have been reported so far in India, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Tuesday advised states not to let their guard down and keep a strict vigil on the international passengers coming to the country through various airports, ports and land border crossings.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/omicron-scare-7-day-institutional-quarantine-must-for-travellers-to-maharashtra-from-at-risk-countries-1056441.html
01-12-2021||West||Maharashtra imposes new Covid-19 curbs for air passengers in wake of Omicron||The Maharashtra government released a new set of rules for flight passengers in the wake of the new threat from Covid-19 variant Omicron and the panic it caused across the world. The new rules will come into effect from today (December 1).  The new order released on Tuesday states that the travel history of all international passengers will be checked upon landing in the state, for which a special proforma is being prepared. European countries like UK, South Africa, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel are considered to be 'at risk' nations currently. Mandatory institutional quarantine for a week for those coming from 'at-risk' nations and home isolation even for those who test negative on arrival are among the new rules. Here's a look: 1. The state government has stated that passengers coming from 'at-risk' nations will be deboarded from their flights on priority and be taken for checking to separate counters. All such passengers have to undergo mandatory institutional quarantine for seven days, with RT-PCR tests conducted on days 2, 4 and 7. If any of them test positive in these tests, they will be shifted to a hospital. If the test results are found negative, the passengers will have to undergo home quarantine for another week.  2. Passengers from nations except the 'at-risk' countries are required to undergo RT-PCR tests at the airport on arrival. If they are negative, they will have to be isolated for 14 days at home. They will be hospitalised if they are found to be positive. 3. For domestic passengers, a vaccination certificate or an RT-PCR test result not older than 48 hours has to be produced at the time of arrival. Passengers from all other states have to carry a negative RT-PCR test. 4. For international passengers with a connecting flight within India, an RT-PCR test has to be taken at the airport arrival. Only upon a negative result will the person be allowed to board the next flight. The Centre revised its travel guidelines for international passengers last week after the Omicron scare created widespread panic. International passengers travelling to India will have to submit a Covid-negative report and share their travel history for the previous 14 days before boarding a flight, while those coming from the Omicron-hit countries will have to carry out mandatory Covid-19 test on arrival in India and stay in an isolation facility if tested positive. Omicron scare in Maharashtra Six passengers, who arrived in Maharashtra from South Africa and other high-risk countries, tested positive for coronavirus and their swab samples have been sent for genome sequencing on Tuesday. Of those who have come from South Africa and other countries, one each has been found in the municipal corporation limits of Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivali, Mira-Bhayandar and Pune. Two passengers who arrived from Nigeria have been found in the Pimpri-Chinchwad corporation area neighbouring Pune. At least 1,000 travellers landed in Mumbai in the last fortnight from African countries where the potentially more transmissible variant has been detected, a senior BMC official said on Monday. Swab samples were collected of at least 100 travellers out of the 466 whose list was received so far, Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani told PTI. BMC has also pushed the reopening of schools in the city to December 15, instead of December 1. Schools for Classes 1 to 4 will reopen in rural areas and for Classes 1 to 7 in urban areas of Maharashtra from December 1. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-imposes-new-covid-19-curbs-for-air-passengers-in-wake-of-omicron-1056454.html
01-12-2021||West||Sudha Bharadwaj granted default bail in Elgar Parishad case||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted default bail to lawyer-activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case.  Bharadwaj (60) is a trade-unionist, activist and lawyer who has lived and worked in Chhattisgarh for over three decades.  She would be produced before the special NIA court on 8 December, which will impose bail conditions and finalise her release on bail. The court, however, rejected the plea filed by eight other accused Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, P Varavara Rao, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sudha-bharadwaj-granted-default-bail-in-elgar-parishad-case-1056463.html
01-12-2021||West||Ashok Gehlot hints at another Cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan||Rajasthan may see another Cabinet reshuffle in the coming months. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has indicated this possibility in a meeting of the party at its headquarters, said Congress sources. The meeting was held on Tuesday. The Rajasthan Chief Minister said that many MLAs, who have stood by the Congress during tough times, could not be accommodated in the recent cabinet expansion and reshuffle carried out in November. "However, we will ensure that work should not face any hindrance in their constituencies. They will be accommodated in the cabinet during another reshuffle if party high command allows," said Chief Minister in the meeting, which was confirmed by party sources. The CM was addressing party workers during a meeting to discuss the protest to be staged in Delhi against rising inflation on December 12. On this occasion, state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra and Rajasthan in-charge Ajay Maken were also present. It needs to be mentioned here that five out of the six BSP MLAs, who had joined Congress, and 13 independents, who supported the Congress during the rebellion could not be accommodated in the cabinet reshuffle. Rajendra Guda, one of the six former BSP MLAs had already expressed his displeasure on five of his team members being left unattended. Similarly, Ramkesh Meena, another independent also went vocal over the same issue. He has been appointed as advisor to the Chief Minister. But, the advisor posts would not hold cabinet rank, Gehlot clarified recently. Watch the latest DH Videos here: Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ashok-gehlot-hints-at-another-cabinet-reshuffle-in-rajasthan-1056496.html
01-12-2021||West||Centre, states, auto industry to meet in Goa in December to discuss ways to promote EVs||Heavy Industries Minister Mahendra Nath Pandey, transport ministers from different states, top officials and industry leaders from the automotive sector will gather at Goa on December 4 and deliberate about ways to promote electric vehicles in the country and attract investments, an official said on Wednesday. The Ministry of Heavy Industries is organising this round table to promote electric vehicles (EVs). "Ministers of transport and chief secretaries/ senior officers from states, industry leaders from the automotive sector, start-ups and technical experts have been invited to participate," the official said. The round table is being organised to bring stakeholders together to work out strategies to promote the adoption of EVs in India and attract investment in the manufacturing of EVs, batteries and high-technology automotive components in India, the official added. To give an impetus to the manufacturing and adoption of EVs and high-technology automotive, the ministry is executing three major schemes with a total outlay of Rs 54,038 crore. These schemes are Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles in India II (FAME India II); National Programme on Advanced Chemistry Cell; and Productivity Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for Automobile and Auto Components. The FAME India II scheme is being implemented with an outlay of Rs 10,000 crore to incentivise demand for EVs by providing upfront subsidies and creating EV charging infrastructure. One million electric two-wheelers, five lakh electric three-wheelers, 55,000 electric cars and 7,090 electric buses are to be supported under FAME II through subsidies. The National Programme on Advanced Chemistry Cell (ACC), with an outlay of Rs 18,100 crore, aims at incentivising the setting up of manufacturing facilities in the country for 50 gigawatt-hour of ACC and 5 GWh of 'Niche' ACC. A total investment of Rs 45,000 crore is envisaged under this scheme. "It will reduce the import bills of ACC by Rs 1,50,000 crore. Request for proposal (RFP) has been issued on October 22, 2021, for inviting proposals from domestic and international manufacturers for setting up manufacturing facilities for ACC Battery Storage in India," the official added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-states-auto-industry-to-meet-in-goa-in-december-to-discuss-ways-to-promote-evs-1056540.html
01-12-2021||West||Plea alleging larger conspiracy in 2002 post-Godhra riots to keep 'pot boiling', SC told||The Supreme Court-constituted SIT, which investigated nine major cases connected with the 2002 post-Godhra riots in Gujarat, on Wednesday claimed before the top court that it left no stone unturned during the probe and the plea alleging larger conspiracy was nothing but an attempt to keep the pot boiling by vested interests. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing the SIT, asked a bench presided over by Justice AM Khanwilkar to close the lid on the matter.  “This is just an attempt to keep the pot boiling and this is done at the behest of somebody, some vested interests….That person is none other than petitioner no.2 (Teesta Setalvad),” Rohatgi alleged. The top court was hearing a plea filed by Zakia Jafri and activist Teesta Setalvad challenging the clean chit given to then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi, several politicians and bureaucrats in the 2002 Gujarat riots. Zakia challenged the SIT report that ruled out any "larger conspiracy" by high state functionaries in instigating the communal riots post-Godhra massacre. Rohatgi claimed the SIT left also examined complaints claiming rewards for the policemen. The SIT said it found the Gujarat government took a timely decision to call the Army on the day riots broke out and there was an immediate deployment.  “Topmost in the mind of the SIT was the task entrusted by the highest court of the land. We did not want the Supreme Court to raise a finger against us," he said.  Rohatgi emphasised the SIT carried out a full-fledged investigation into a complaint by Zakia Jafri, the wife of ex-MP Ehsan Jafri who was killed during riots, and a closure report was filed as there was no “prosecutable evidence” against all those named by the complainants.  He said, “The complaint was examined threadbare and statements were recorded…..There was no substance to lodge an FIR or chargesheet”. The bench, however, asked the counsel to bring on record empirical data to show the time the SIT spent in probing the case. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/plea-alleging-larger-conspiracy-in-2002-post-godhra-riots-to-keep-pot-boiling-sc-told-1056586.html
01-12-2021||West||Trinamool, Goa Forward Party trade barbs, blame each other for strengthening BJP||The Goa Forward Party (GFP) and the All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) got into a spat Wednesday, a day after Vijai Sardesai, GFP president and a former deputy chief minister, met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and declared his intention to stand with the Congress in next year's state elections. Mahua Moitra, Trinamool MP and party’s state in-charge for Goa, alleged that it’s the GFP that was responsible for the BJP’s rise to power in Goa in 2017, despite Congress having the majority. “I wish to make everyone in Goa aware that this was the same unholy alliance that caused the BJP to come into Goa in the first place in 2017, even when they had won only 13 seats,” Mahua said. In conversation with Deccan Herald, Moitra claimed that while the Congress had won 17 seats, the GFP entered into a deal with the BJP and allowed the BJP to come in even when the mandate of the voters was not in favour.  Making her allegations public, Moitra also tweeted on Wednesday, “INC win 17 seats in Goa 2017, BJP won only 13. Yet while AICC’s Digvijay Singh 'observed', BJP sealed deal with GFP to form unholy govt. GFP suddenly on poll eve realises BJP is evil, hugs INC! Come on Goa- you’re better than this!” Sardesai retweeted a post put up by the party’s handle, as a response to Mahua’s post, “#GOANS ARE MUCH BETTER. They can tell the difference between those who have a track record of upholding their interests and #Kolkata imports who see #Goans as use-and-throw items to fulfil their leader’s selfish ambitions. Learn to write one word in correct #Konkani; then talk!”   While the GFP was a significant partner in the BJP-led state government, at present, before the next assembly elections, political parties, including the Trinamool, were keen on having the GFP on board. Speaking to Deccan Herald, Sardesai said that his party did not have a pre-poll alliance with Congress in 2017. “In fact, we fought them in our constituency. This time this unity is a message from the top-most level to all those who are serious and sincere about defeating the BJP to come together and fight on a common platform,” he said, adding, “In 2017 we were not in an alliance. We took the decision to bring Manohar Parrikar back. We do not regret that. We didn't join the government.” Sardesai alleged that it’s the Trinamool that is cracking the Opposition’s unity. “Yesterday (on Tuesday) TMC kept away from signing a joint statement by the opposition parties because it doesn’t serve somebody’s personal ambitions... This is selfishness at the cost of opposition unity. Who benefits from it? The same party that benefits by splitting the anti-BJP votes in Goa. Goans are smart and know how to differentiate serious political players and political tourists.” he told Deccan Herald. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/trinamool-goa-forward-party-trade-barbs-blame-each-other-for-strengthening-bjp-1056600.html
