02-12-2021||First Edit||Let’s remember our own heroes, too||Kannadigas have launched a movement to reclaim their forgotten heroes and have begun to question why ‘outsiders’ like Chhatrapati Shivaji are excessively promoted in the state at the cost of local icons whose tales of valour are no less inspiring. To begin with, the activists have demanded that the 7th century ruler Pulakeshi II, the best-known ruler of the Chalukya dynasty, whose reign extended over most parts of the Deccan region, be given his rightful place in history. On Sunday, hundreds of Kannada activists, politicians, history enthusiasts and Sandalwood actors joined a social media campaign demanding the installation of Pulakeshi’s statue at Badami (Vatapi), in Bagalkote district, the capital of the Chalukyas. While the “over-glorification” of Shivaji by right-wing politicians and groups appears to be the immediate provocation, the activists may not be way off the mark when they complain that there are more statues of outsiders than that of native rulers who built empires, dating back to the early Indian era. Senior JD(S) leader Y S V Datta pointed out that the Kannada and Culture Department celebrates the birth anniversary of Shivaji, though the Maratha army had invaded Karnataka on many occasions and even destroyed temples, but it has forgotten native rulers. Karnataka’s history has been shaped and enriched by many indigenous dynasties, including the Kadamba, Ganga, Chalukya, Rashtrakuta, Hoysala and the Vijayanagar rulers. The state’s modern history saw the emergence of the Wadiyars of Mysuru and the father-son duo of Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan. Hyder Ali, who had distinguished himself for his military acumen, had also entered into an alliance with the French. Tipu Sultan, who held the British at bay for years, was the pioneer of rocket artillery and introduced many administrative innovations, including land revenue reforms and a new coinage system. In taking on the British, Tipu’s diplomacy extended to the global level, seeking to link up with the American independence struggle and the French. The Wadiyars laid the foundation for modern Karnataka, setting up dams, industries and educational institutions. While installing statues may not be the best way to honour native rulers, efforts should definitely be made by the government and historians to restore them to their rightful place in history. These could include setting up chairs in various universities to undertake research on the contributions of different dynasties and rulers of the state and commissioning and popularising objective histories of these. While there is nothing wrong in celebrating legends from other parts of the country, it is foolhardy to forget our own heroes and to not learn the lessons of history from them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/let-s-remember-our-own-heroes-too-1057007.html
02-12-2021||In Perspective||Mamata’s method: Scuttle Rahul, open door to Delhi||Just after her West Bengal election victory, Mamata Banerjee vowed to be the prime mover of the united Opposition in the country and met Congress chief Sonia Gandhi in Delhi. It galvanised the entire anti-BJP populace.  But then, something inexplicable happened, and the Trinamool Congress started preying on leaders of the parties from the Opposition itself. Though the Congress became Mamata’s prime target, her party did not spare other opposition parties. The poaching started with Sushmita Dev of Assam/Tripura. Luizinho Faleiro of Goa was added, and most recently Mukul Sangma of Meghalaya defected to TMC along with 11 fellow legislators, replacing the Congress with the TMC as the main opposition party in the state. Next, former JD(U) leader Pawan Verma walked into the TMC. The waiting list to enter TMC, it can be safely assumed, has more exciting names.  Meanwhile, in Tripura, the CPI(M) has suffered in the recent municipal polls that saw the TMC finishing third, snapping at its heels.  The political paradigm has shifted. Earlier, the TMC used to target discontented former, or lapsed, BJP leaders for poaching, and the best example of this was Yashwant Sinha of Jharkhand. Now, except in Bengal, the Congress and CPI(M) have alleged that the TMC is doing it at the behest of the BJP to save Abhishek Banerjee from the CBI's clutches.  It is not rocket science to understand that an anti-BJP front cannot shape up as a meaningful entity without the Congress. In several states such as Rajasthan, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat, the Congress is the sole force against the BJP. In several other states such as Punjab, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Assam and Goa, it is the leading force against the BJP. In states like Jharkhand, it is a significant junior partner in the anti-BJP camp.  The Congress is a significant player in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana as an opposition party against regional forces, including the CPI(M). So, altogether, it still has a strong presence in about 200 of 543 seats of the Lok Sabha and has about 20% vote share, which is far above that of any other opposition party. That makes the Congress a natural leader of the opposition forces.  Trinamool's agenda  So, what is it that the TMC is trying to achieve? Why are some people entertaining such a tricky effort? On Tuesday, Mamata Banerjee landed in Mumbai and met with Shiv Sena's Aditya Thackeray (since his father, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, was indisposed). She met Sharad Pawar on Wednesday. Some others like Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal and Samajwadi Party's Akhilesh Yadav have a good equation with Bengal's Didi.  The only plausible explanation of the TMC's recent activities is its attempt to forge a regional front that will combine all the anti-BJP regional parties. Indeed, such a front cannot displace the BJP from New Delhi if it does not have the support of the Congress. But the obverse is true as well.  It appears that the TMC, and many other regional leaders, are not prepared to surrender the prime minister's seat to the Congress in perpetuity. The main driving force here is, of course, personal ambition, but it is not all. Most of these leaders are not keen to elevate Rahul Gandhi to the topmost seat.  As both points merge perfectly with the mindset of quite a few ambitious leaders of the regional parties, Didi's game is gaining ground. All these leaders feel that Rahul Gandhi is arrogant, uncompromising and incompetent. And, at 51, he is young, politically speaking. So, the fear is that once he establishes his right over Delhi's seat, it could stay with him for several years.  So, the TMC's game plan is to establish the regional front's (Mamata once proposed "Federal Front" as its name) equal right over the seat of the Union government. At present, she has stature and age (she is 66). If Rahul Gandhi gives in, Mamata will be the natural choice to be the challenger to Narendra Modi in 2024, as other stalwarts like Sharad Pawar do not have age on their side.  The second most ambitious leader in the Opposition fold is Arvind Kejriwal, who is 53, and in the near future, the AAP could emerge a much more significant force than it is now. And he will be on board with Didi, for if a strong ‘Federal Front’ emerges, probably he will be its natural leader in the next decade. The same is true for a lot of sons and daughters of various regional family-based parties. It makes Mamata Banerjee's game plan alluring. But it is risky, too, as it may portray the Opposition as an unstable house and work in favour of the BJP.  (The writer is a journalist and author based in Kolkata)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/mamata-s-method-scuttle-rahul-open-door-to-delhi-1057009.html
02-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Student tests positive for Covid, Hubballi school shut till Dec 4||A class 9 student of a school at Adarsh Nagar in Hubballi has tested positive for Covid-19, prompting the management to declare a holiday for the school till December 4. After the boy’s RT-PCR test report came, holiday was declared for the school, while swabs of 36 staff of Dr G V Joshi Rotary English Medium High School were drawn for testing on Wednesday. Samples of 50 students of the section, in which the boy is studying and their parents will be collected on Thursday. “The boy’s sister is an MBBS student at SDM Medical College in Dharwad, and she had turned positive, due to which her primary contacts were also tested. He had come to the school on Monday, and he is asymptomatic,” said Block Education Officer Shrishail Karikatti. Meanwhile, Tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal also visited the school and supervised the sanitisation of classrooms. School management has been asked to give a report about total vaccine coverage of all the staff of the school, and to ensure that all get both doses of the vaccine, he added. Mundgod school closed A government higher primary school at Mainalli in Mundgod taluk of Uttara Kannada has been closed for two days after two brothers, studying in class 3 and 4, contracted Covid-19 on Wednesday. All students and the staff of the school have been subjected to Covid-19 tests. The brothers are said to have contracted the virus from their father, who tested positive for the virus on Nov 25. An anganwadi and a government Urdu school in the vicinity have also been closed for two days as midday meal was supplied there from the government higher primary school. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/student-tests-positive-for-covid-hubballi-school-shut-till-dec-4-1056696.html
02-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Staff body wants Belagavi session cancelled||The Secretariat Employees' Association on Wednesday urged Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to cancel the Winter Session of the legislature in Belagavi in the wake of the fresh threat posed by the Omicron variant of Covid-19. The Winter Session is scheduled to start on December 13 in Belagavi. The association, in its petition, said Belagavi borders Maharashtra and Goa. "Thousands of officials, staff and politicians will be in the same place at the same time for the session, stoking fear that the virus may spread faster," it said, asking Kageri to reconsider the session plan.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-staff-body-wants-belagavi-session-cancelled-1056699.html
02-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Forest Department personnel open fire on tribal man in Mysuru||A tribal man sustained severe injuries as Forest department personnel opened fire on him, at Jenu Kuruba hamlet in Periyapatna taluk, late on Wednesday. The tribal leaders staging a protest against the incident and demanding police to register FIR against the Forest department officials. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-department-personnel-open-fire-on-tribal-man-in-mysuru-1056807.html
02-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Efforts of this government school have literally borne fruits||The Government Higher Primary School at Kadeshwalya in Bantwal taluk is surrounded by greenery with arecanut and coconut plantation. That apart, medicinal plants, vegetables and fruit-bearing trees have also been planted. The school has also started earning  income from its farming activities. The efforts of the school teachers and children have borne fruit this year with arecanut trees, planted four years ago, bearing nuts. “I am happy that around 40 to 45 trees out of 75 arecanut trees have started bearing nuts this year. We are expecting income from selling the arecanuts,” said Physical Education Teacher Bhaskar Naik, who took an initiative to plant arecanut, coconut and other fruit-bearing trees, along with growing vegetables, in the school. "There are 25 coconut trees in the school which too are bearing coconuts. In addition, there are fruit-bearing trees like ‘seethaphala’, bananas and grape vines. The fruits grown in the school campus are given to the school children to consume," Naik told DH. The school campus is spread over an acre. Due to the efforts of Bhaskar, the students actively participate in farming on campus. “The saplings of arecanut trees were given by villagers to the school, four years ago. With the help of the teachers and school children, saplings were planted four years ago. Further, Yuva Shakthi, an youth organisation in the village with a majority of the members being the alumni of the school, has been engaged in removing weeds that were grown in the arecanut and coconut garden frequently. Further, they have been applying poultry manure to the arecanut trees for the last few years. Earlier, we were purchasing ‘hatti gobbara’ and were using it for cultivating vegetables, arecanuts and coconuts. Chemical fertilisers have not been used,” the teacher said. The school, which has a borewell, has enough water to carry out farming. The Gram Panchayat has given a 5 HP pumpset as well for irrigating the arecanut and coconut plantation. Close to 150 varieties of trees, including medicinal plants, can be found on the school campus. “Our children also get various plants from their houses to the school for planting. In addition, I also get a variety of plants from wherever I visit, to the school for planting. In fact, we have about 18 varieties of ‘Kepula’ flowers with different colours on the campus,” he said proudly. The teacher’s efforts have brought laurels to the school as it has bagged the Hasiru Parisara Mitra Shale Award more than five times in the district. Farming activities are taken care of by the children, along with the teachers. The school has about 227 students studying from LKG to class VII. The income earned from farming is utilised for school activities. Before the Covid-19 pandemic, the school campus used to grow vegetables, which were used for mid-day meal programmes. “We were cultivating brinjal, okra, long yard beans, ash gourd, snake gourd, sambar cucumber, ivy gourd and others. As the school was reopened a month ago, I have just planted okra and brinjal,” the teacher said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/efforts-of-this-government-school-have-literally-borne-fruits-1056820.html
02-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Udupi DC directs officials to organise special Covid vaccine camps for migrant workers||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M Kurma Rao directed Health and Family Welfare Department officials to organise special Covid-19 vaccination camps for migrant workers between 7 am and 10 am on Sundays. He stressed on the need to organise special camps during his visit to camps where migrant workers stay in Beedinagudde in Udupi. The DC was told that workers would leave for work early in the morning and return late in the evening. As such, they do not get time to get vaccinated. The special camps should be organised at bus stands, railway stations and other places where workers congregate in large numbers on Sundays. Officials should ensure everyone gets both doses of vaccines. The health department, labour department and CMC should chalk out a plan for the same, he said. The DC also visited the vaccination centre at Rajangann in Sri Krishna Mutt. On noticing a staff struggling to enter data, the DC directed the PHC doctor to deploy additional staff. The DC also held talks with the beneficiaries, who were administered with the vaccine. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupi-dc-directs-officials-to-organise-special-covid-vaccine-camps-for-migrant-workers-1056831.html
02-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||23 nursing students test positive for Covid-19 in Shivamogga||Fear gripped Shivamogga on Thursday after 23 nursing students of Nanjappa Institute of Nursing Sciences tested positive for Covid-19. Sources in the health department stated that the students returned from Kerala recently and were posted in Nanjappa hospital on Kuvempu Road and Nanjappa Life Care on Sagar road in the city as part of their academic activities. As a precautionary measure, outpatient departments in both the hospitals had been shut. The throat swabs of staff of both the hospitals had been sent to the laboratory to diagnose whether they were tested positive or not.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/23-nursing-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-shivamogga-1056999.html
02-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Decision on truck with BJP after Gowda’s return: HDK||The JD(S) will take a call on a tie-up with BJP for the upcoming MLC polls once party supremo H D Devegowda returns from New Delhi, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said on Wednesday. He was speaking to reporters after a meeting with assembly constituency voters in Ramanagara. Kumaraswamy said senior BJP leader B S Yediyurappa has given an open call to JD(S) to support the saffron party in constituencies where the party has not fielded candidates. The party will think about it and take an appropriate decision, he said. On the contrary, Congress has specifically said it does not want any support from JD(S). “The JD(S) will not go knocking on their door,” he said. No pact with JD(S): minister Meanwhile, Chamarajanagar district in-charge minister S T Somashekar said that the saffron party has not forged any alliance with the regional outfit for Council polls to Mysuru-Chamarajanagar local bodies constituency. Addressing a campaign meeting of the party candidate in Chamarajanagar on Wednesday, Somashekar said, “There is no question of alliance with the JD(S) in Mysuru-Chamarajanagar constituency. Party workers are striving for the victory of consensus candidate Raghu Kautilya.” He urged the elected representatives of local bodies to cast their preferential vote to the party candidate. “The party has formed 15 committees in as many Assembly segments in Mysuru-Chamarajanagar (twin seats) constituency. Our workers are reaching out to the electorate. On the other hand, JD(S) leaders are embroiled in blame game while Congress campaign is yet to take off,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/decision-on-truck-with-bjp-after-gowda-s-return-hdk-1056702.html
02-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Kageri defends suspension of ‘unruly’ members in Rajya Sabha||Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, on Thursday, defended the suspension of 12 unruly members by the Rajya Sabha chairman.  Kageri told reporters that there could be differences of opinion on various issues, but they could be discussed on the floor of House. Misbehaviour by MPs was not acceptable, he said. He said the conduct of members in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha had pained him, as presiding officer of the Assembly. The Speaker said he had written to the President, prime minister, Lok Sabha speaker and Rajya Sabha chairman in this regard during the previous Parliament session and had held talks with them during a meeting. Kageri said elected representatives need to understand their responsibilities and behave properly in the House. The conduct of the elected representatives in the House should be as per norms and political differences of opinion could be discussed on the floor of the House. There were norms for conduct of members and the House has also given powers to the presiding officers to take tough action for misconduct, he said. The government and Opposition can discuss differences of opinion, but misbehaviour and indiscipline cannot be accepted, Kageri said.   “During the winter session of the legislature to be held at Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi from December 13, we expect the lawmakers to give a good message to the people. The expectations of the people from North Karnataka to discuss issues relating to the region will be placed before the Business Advisory Committee that comprises of ruling and Opposition party members,” Kageri said. Legislative Council chairman Basavaraj Horatti said Opposition members had a right to protest in the House, but sloganeering and dharna were not acceptable. “We shall hold talks with the ruling and Opposition parties for smooth conduct of the House,” Horatti said.  ‘Have taken Belagavi session as challenge’ Kageri said the winter session of the legislature will be held at Suvarna Vidhana Soudha here from December 13 to 24, despite the Covid-19 scare. “We have taken the legislature session as a challenge and shall conduct it smoothly with hopes that the pandemic will remain under control,” the Speaker said. Kageri, along with deputy Speaker Anand Mamani and Horatti, held a meeting with officials and reviewed preparations for the session. The Speaker told reporters after the meeting that talks had been held with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai regarding the session and said he had been informed that the government had taken all precautions to control the spread of Covid-19.    Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/kageri-defends-suspension-of-unruly-members-in-rajya-sabha-1056805.html
02-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||JD(S), BJP grassroots leaders join Karnataka Congress en masse||Hundreds of grassroots JD(S) and BJP leaders joined the DK Shivakumar-led Congress on Wednesday, in what was projected as a major swoop ahead of a slew of elections that are lined up. JD(S) MLC CR Manohar, who has resigned from his post, and JD(S) OBC cell president KP Amarnath joined the Congress. Also, former MLA Malur Nagaraj and HM Gopikrishna from the BJP came on board along with their supporters. This is seen as an extension of Shivakumar’s plan to poach grassroots leaders to decimate political competition, especially JD(S), which is the Congress’ arch-rival in the Vokkaliga belt of Old Mysuru region. “The wind is blowing towards the Congress in a big way,” Shivakumar said. “Across the state, in several districts, members of gram panchayats, municipalities and local leaders are joining the Congress,” he said. Shivakumar added that the JD(S) and BJP leaders joined the Congress without any conditions. According to sources, Manohar has been promised a ticket for the Kolar constituency in the 2023 Assembly election. His term as MLC representing the Kolar local authorities' seat is due to end in January. “Malur Nagaraj was earlier elected as a Congress MLA thrice. He joined the BJP later. He has come back with the belief that only Congress can do justice to all sections of society,” Shivakumar said. “Gopikrishna is the defeated candidate from Tarikere. I was trying to poach him for quite some time. He’s also a tall Madiwala leader,” he added. The recruits are expected to bring benefits to the Congress ahead of the taluk/zilla panchayat elections. The Congress and the JD(S) are bitter rivals in the Old Mysuru region that covers Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan, Ramanagara, Chamarajanagar, Chikballapur and so on. The belt comprises some 60-odd assembly constituencies. The Congress is pursuing some JD(S) legislators. GT Deve Gowda (Chamundeshwari) and K Srinivas Gowda (Kolar) are on their way out to join the Congress and a few others are also lined up. “From December 11, we’re starting a booth-level membership drive. We should get ourselves enrolled in the booths,” Shivakumar said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-bjp-grassroots-leaders-join-karnataka-congress-en-masse-1056924.html
02-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa, Kumaraswamy to take final call on alliance for legislative council polls, says Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said there are "different views" on forging a pre-poll alliance between the BJP and JD(S) for legislative council polls, but a final call will be taken by top leaders of both the parties. The CM, who was in Delhi to meet Union ministers and attend a conclave organised by a media house, told reporters that "there are different opinions on this issue in several districts in Karnataka. Senior BJP leader BS Yediyurappa and JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy were in touch. After discussion with the central leadership, Yediyurappa will take a final decision." Janata Dal (S) supremo HD Deve Gowda met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on November 30 and discussed the poll issue. Gowda had told Modi that state leaders have to make a decision on the alliance. Yediyurappa had recently sought the support of JD(S) in seats where it is not contesting. The election to 25 MLC seats, the terms of which end on January 5, 2022, will be held on December 10 and the results will be declared on December 14. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-kumaraswamy-to-take-final-call-on-alliance-for-legislative-council-polls-says-bommai-1056949.html
02-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Vijayendra slams Shivakumar for allegations against Vishwanath||BJP state vice-president B Y Vijayendra criticised Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar for alleging that BJP MLA S R Vishwanath has a connection with rowdy elements. Speaking to reporters, in Mysuru on Thursday, Vijayendra said, Shivakumar has defended the people, who plotted a plan to murder Vishwanath. A video clip said to be of Congress leader Gopalakrishna talking about eliminating S R Vishwanath has gone viral on social media. Vijayendra said, “We did not expect such a cheap politics in our state. This is not good for anyone and it should end here itself.” Commenting on the polls, Vijayendra said, BJP has become stronger in Mysuru region and BJP MLC candidates for Chamarajanagar-Mysuru and Mandya segment will win the polls. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/vijayendra-slams-shivakumar-for-allegations-against-vishwanath-1056981.html
02-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bommai to talk to Yatnal over cabinet reshuffle statement||The CM was reacting to the media about Yatnal's latest statement that there would be major changes in the government after December 10. The Vijayapura MLA also said that many ministers will be dropped during the reshuffle. “Yatnal is my good friend. He keeps giving statements on different issues. He must be knowing something, which I don't know. I will discuss with him in which context he made the statements”, the CM said. When asked whether Yatnal became a political fortune teller, the CM said, "Yatnal has political knowledge." Yatnal also said there were several complaints against many ministers that they were not coming to office and clearing files. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bommai-to-talk-to-yatnal-over-cabinet-reshuffle-statement-1057001.html
02-12-2021||Main Article||From Russia, with Triumf||On December 6, Russian President Vladimir Putin will fly to Delhi for a long-overdue in-person bilateral summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Putin, who was reluctant to travel abroad due to the rising tide of the fourth (or is it the fifth) wave of the coronavirus in Russia and the rest of Europe, is making an exception by visiting New Delhi to not just hand over the hugely capable anti-missile system S-400 Triumf and seal the sale of other military equipment but also to craft a strategy, following the US departure from Afghanistan, to stabilise the turbulent region. A China suspicious of Russia’s policy towards India will be watching Putin’s visit to Delhi closely.  For India, President Putin’s visit is important as it could provide a significant escape route from the diplomatic and strategic logjam it finds itself in after the US left Afghanistan and handed over the reins of power to Taliban. An aggressive China and a Pakistan feeling triumphant after the Taliban marched into Kabul have exacerbated New Delhi’s problems.  So, besides the Uttar Pradesh and Punjab elections being presented as the reason for repealing the farm laws, Putin’s upcoming Delhi visit, too, had a role to play in that decision.  Authoritative sources claim that Putin’s security detail was uncomfortable with the prospect of the farmers’ protests escalating during his visit. The Modi government chose to repeal the farm laws rather than allow a repetition of the violence in Delhi during former US President Donald Trump’s visit to India during the anti-CAA protests or the cancellation of the Japanese PM’s visit to Delhi.  Ignoring the threat of US sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) if it bought the S-400 system (India wants to buy five units of the anti-missile system for Rs 40,000 crore), India is walking an extra mile to assert its strategic autonomy and to make Putin’s visit a success.  When will CAATSA become operational? A US official said: “As soon as you make payment in dollars or Euros to Russia through the SWIFT route, the sanctions will come into force.”  Well, the Indian government paid the first tranche in rupees and has so far avoided sanctions. Indian diplomats gloat over the manner in which they plan to pay the rest of the amount for the purchase of the S-400 Triumf systems, considered the world’s best anti-missile system currently.  Interestingly, India is not the only one that is worried about CAATSA. The US administration, too, fears that these sanctions -- if they are not waived -- would undermine the strategic/diplomatic investment it has made on India. A delegation of concerned US Congressmen was in Delhi to explore ways out of the S-400 imbroglio as sanctions could lead to cancellation of many US deals with India.  Be that as it may, what is apparent is that from a geopolitical standpoint, there are now too many moving pieces after the US left Afghanistan. Contrary to the view that Russia and China are together on Afghanistan, New Delhi has been sensing differences between the two countries. During the regional security conference hosted by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval in November, what was visible was the anxiety amongst participating countries over how the Afghanistan issue will play out under the Taliban.  China and Pakistan’s refusal to accept the invitation for the Delhi conference allowed countries like Tajikistan and Russia to talk candidly about the enormity of the threat the new arrangement meant to the region. And Russians know Afghanistan -- after its precursor state, the Soviet Union, occupied it for 10-odd years. They fought against Afghan extremism and know how the Central Asian countries could get destabilised due to rising religious radicalisation and drug-smuggling.  Contrary to the stated position of China, Secretary of the Security Council of Russia, Nikolai Patrushev, reportedly was quite uneasy about the change in Kabul. While Moscow is happy that the Americans have left the region, it does not want to give the Taliban and Pakistan a free run. In the coming days, the Russians are likely to collaborate with India, Iran and other Central Asian powers to put the Taliban in its place. The big question is, how will Russia align its anti-Taliban/anti-Islamic State campaign with Beijing’s view of the region?  Pakistan had hoped that China would financially bail out Afghanistan after America’s departure, but no such thing has happened. According to Elizabeth  Wishnick, an American scholar writing in the defence and security website ‘War on the Rocks’, “Russian engagement with India in Central Asia and Afghanistan will show which partnership — the Sino-Russian partnership or Russia’s longstanding relationship with India — takes pride of place and how Russia copes with their competing demands.”  The Indian government believes that Putin not just provides an opportunity to fix its Afghanistan and Iran policy, but he could also help in managing the territorial challenge posed by a belligerent China.  There are quiet whispers in Delhi that Putin may play the role of an honest broker to bring Chinese President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Narendra Modi together during the Winter Olympics in Beijing. If indeed that happens, then two things will become clear: One, India would have moved away from the US, and two, it would have drawn closer to the Asia-centric endeavours of Putin and Xi Jinping.  However, much would depend on what the US does about India’s S-400 deal. By the look of it, the US may not allow India to leave its embrace – and New Delhi knows that too well!  (The writer is the Editor of ‘Hardnews’ magazine)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/from-russia-with-triumf-1057013.html
02-12-2021||National||Parliamentary panel asks govt to explore legal provisions to counter challenge of 'fake news'||Expressing concern over mushrooming of fake news, a parliamentary panel has asked the government to explore legal provisions to counter the menace. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Communications and Information Technology, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, suggested the government use the latest technologies such as artificial intelligence to check the “menace” in real-time. Observing that ‘fake news’ has become a “disturbing trend in India,” the panel in its 27th report on ‘Ethical Standards in Media Coverage’ tabled in Lok Sabha on Wednesday, suggested the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) develop some legal provisions to counter it. The report said the committee endorses the views of the CEO of Prasar Bharati that “the regulatory mechanisms should look at embracing latest technologies such as artificial intelligence to check fake news and to be able to intervene in near real-time”. Fact check units The panel appreciated the establishment of fact check units in 17 regional offices of the Press Information Bureau (PIB). The committee also said countries like Australia and Malaysia have anti-fake news laws. The panel report noted that there already exist laws and rules under the Indian Penal Code, the Information Technology Act, 2000, and the Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011, to tackle and penalise persons spreading ‘fake news’. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-asks-govt-to-explore-legal-provisions-to-counter-challenge-of-fake-news-1056695.html
02-12-2021||National||Congress to announce first list of Goa Assembly polls by December 10||The Congress party will announce its first list of candidates for the 2022 Goa Assembly polls by December 10, All India Congress Committee official in charge of Dinesh Gundu Rao said on Wednesday. Speaking at a press conference in Panaji on Wednesday, Rao also said that the party would also offer five key promises to the electorate of Goa in its manifesto which is likely to be released within 15 days. "We will also be announcing our first list by December 10," Rao said. Rao's announcement comes on a day when state Nationalist Congress Party president Jose Phillip D'Souza has urged the Congress party to formalise its alliance and finalise a seat-sharing arrangement soon so that official alliance candidates can begin their rounds of campaigning for the polls, which are scheduled to be held in February. Rao also said that Congress was still consulting with younger voters over the formation of the party's manifesto, which the AICC official said would offer five key guarantees to the people of Goa. "Our manifesto will be released within 15 days. It will contain five main promises to the people of Goa. Our manifesto promises are guarantees which we will deliver when we come to power," Rao said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-to-announce-first-list-of-goa-assembly-polls-by-december-10-1056704.html
02-12-2021||National||NCMC reviews preparation for impending cyclone in Bay of Bengal that may affect AP, Odisha, WB||The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC), headed by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, met on Wednesday to review the preparedness for the impending cyclone in the Bay of Bengal region that is likely to affect Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal. The top bureaucrat of the country directed various Central and state agencies to "avoid any loss of life and minimise damage to property, infrastructure and crops". "The Cabinet secretary also emphasised that state governments should make all efforts to ensure that fishermen and all vessels at sea are called back immediately and people in areas likely to be affected by the cyclonic storm are evacuated at the earliest," a statement by the Union Home Ministry said. The director general of India Meteorological Department (IMD) briefed the NCMC about the current status of a low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal, which is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by December 3. "It is expected to cross the coasts of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha by the morning of December 4 with wind speeds ranging from 90 kmph-100 kmph, accompanied by heavy rainfall and tidal waves." "The cyclonic storm is likely to affect Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram in Andhra Pradesh and coastal districts of Odisha. It is also likely to bring heavy to very heavy rainfall in the coastal areas and Gangetic parts of West Bengal," the statement said. The meeting was informed that the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed 32 teams in these states with additional teams are being kept in readiness. Rescue teams of the Army and Navy along with ships and aircraft are ready for deployment if required. Chief secretaries and senior officers from Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands apprised the committee about "the preparatory measures being undertaken to protect the population in the expected path of the cyclonic storm as also measures being taken to ensure that there is minimal damage to infrastructure in the aftermath of the storm." Gauba "assured the state governments that all central agencies are ready and will be available for assistance". Officials from the ministries of home, ports, shipping and waterways, power, oil, department of fisheries, telecommunications, the NDRF, IMD, chief of integrated defence staff and the National Disaster Management Authority attended the meeting. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncmc-reviews-preparation-for-impending-cyclone-in-bay-of-bengal-that-may-affect-ap-odisha-wb-1056721.html
02-12-2021||National||DH Toon | Modi govt has 'no clue' what's happening||The Government has no record of the deaths of protesting farmers during the agitation against the controversial farm laws, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed the Lok Sabha, even as the lower house of Parliament on Wednesday witnessed uproar over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-modi-govt-has-no-clue-whats-happening-1056724.html
02-12-2021||National||Govt prepares for evacuation as cyclone is likely to reach Odisha coast on Dec 4||With the IMD forecast of a cyclonic storm reaching Odisha's coast on December 4, the state government on Wednesday asked collectors of 13 districts to prepare for evacuation of the people and has chalked out a disaster management strategy by requisitioning NDRF, ODRAF and fire department personnel for rescue and relief operation. The forecast said that the low pressure area in south Andaman Sea will intensify into a depression and move towards the coast as a cyclonic storm on December 4 and the Coast Guard has initiated extensive pre-emptive measures in the eastern coast keeping it in view. The Coast Guard Disaster Relief Teams (DRTs) with inflatable boats, lifebuoys and life jackets are on standby for disaster response operation, a Twitter post by the Defence public relations officer in Chennai said. Medical teams and ambulances have been kept ready for swift mobilisation, it said. The district authorities in some places are asking farmers over the public address system to harvest their ripe paddy crops, the state chief secretary said. Fishermen have been advised to not venture into the southeast and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal on December 2 and 3, into west-central and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal and along and off North Andhra Pradesh – Odisha – West Bengal coasts from December 3 to 5, state relief commissioner P K Jena said. The sea condition is likely to be very rough with the squally wind speed reaching 45 to 55 kmph, gusting to 65 kmph on December 3. The wind speed is likely to reach 80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph on December 4 morning, an advisory issued by him said. No immediate warning has been issued to the ports so far. The IMD said that the low pressure area brewing over the south Andaman Sea and adjoining area will intensify into a depression and take the shape of a cyclonic storm around December 3. The system will move northwestwards and reach north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coast around December 4 morning. “Though it is clear that the cyclonic storm will approach the Odisha coast, it is too immature to say where it will make land fall and other details. However, under its impact several coastal districts of Odisha will experience light to moderate rainfall from December 3. South Odisha districts may also experience heavy rainfall on December 3,” India Meteorological Department director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra said. He said that there is also a possibility that the cyclonic storm may change its path after reaching near the coast. It is likely to move in north-north east direction and may not cross the coast. "Or, it may cross the Odisha coast and later move towards West Bengal." However, in both cases Odisha will experience rainfall activities, he said. “Only after the depression is formed will we be in a position to predict the path and location of the cyclone crossing the coast and its intensity.” Mohapatra said. The weather office said that the intensity of rainfall in Odisha will increase from December 4, especially in the coastal districts and interior districts will experience heavy to very heavy rainfall. Some parts of coastal Odisha will experience extremely heavy rainfall (20 cms or above) during the period, said H R Biswas, the diretor of Regional Meteorological Centre here. The IMD has issued red warning (heavy to very heavy rainfall) in Gajapati, Ganjam, Puri and Jagatsinghpur districts. Orange warning, which indicates less intensity than the red warning, has been issued in Kendrapara, Cuttack, Khurda, Nayagarh, Kandhamal, Rayagada and Koraput districts for December 4 after the cyclonic storm reaches near the coast. It also issued yellow warning indicating heavy rainfall in Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur and Malkangiri districts on the same day. The weather office also issued rainfall warning on December 5 and said several parts of Odisha will experience maximum wind speed of 90 kmph from December 4 morning for 12 hours and rainfall. Odisha chief secretary S C Mohapatra reviewed the preparedness for the possible cyclone and asked the district collectors to be ready to evacuate the people living in low laying areas and kuchha houses in the coastal region. During evacuation, priority will be given to pregnant women, children and elderly persons, he said. The district collectors were also asked to keep the multi-purpose shelters ready for housing the evacuated people. They have been asked told to involve members of the panchayati raj institutions (PRI), ASHA and Anganwadi workers in mobilising people to get prepared for the calamity. The NDRF and ODRAF as well as fire fighting teams have been asked to remain on alert. Apart from coastal districts, the collectors of Mayurbhanj and Nayagarh have also been asked to stay alert and nearly 200 fire fighting teams and 108 ODRAF and NDRF teams have been kept ready, Jena said. The SRC has also asked district authorities to continuously monitor the situation inlow-lying areas and carry out dewatering activities wherever necessary on an urgent basis. The control room should function round-the-clock, he said in an advisory. “The fishermen advisory needs to be strictly implemented in coastal districts and the situation and rainfall reports should be updated with the State Emergency Operations Centre regularly,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-prepares-for-evacuation-as-cyclone-is-likely-to-reach-odisha-coast-on-dec-4-1056728.html
02-12-2021||National||India reports 9,765 fresh Covid-19 cases, 477 deaths||With 9,765 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,46,06,541, while the active cases increased to 99,763, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,69,724 with 477 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise  in new coronavirus infections has been less than 50,000 for 158 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.29  per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.35 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 740 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-9765-fresh-covid-19-cases-477-deaths-1056756.html
02-12-2021||National||'Why are schools open?': Supreme Court pulls up Delhi government on rising pollution||The Supreme Court on Thursday pulled up the Delhi government for opening the schools amid the rising air pollution levels in the city. "We are serious about industrial and vehicular pollution. You cannot fire bullets from our shoulders, you have to take steps. Why are schools open?" Supreme Court asked the Delhi government.  The apex court asked the Delhi government that when the government implemented work from home for adults then why children are being forced to go to school.  "We feel there is nothing happening in spite of air pollution levels rising," the Supreme Court observed.  The Supreme Court has given 24 hours deadline to the Centre and the Delhi government to come up with a serious plan for implementation of air pollution control measures. The court added that if they fail to do take measures to control pollution, then it will pass an order. The court will hear the matter tomorrow at 10 am.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-are-schools-open-supreme-court-pulls-up-delhi-government-on-rising-pollution-1056779.html
02-12-2021||National||Opposition protest continues but without disrupting Rajya Sabha||Rajya Sabha on Thursday witnessed protest and subsequent adjournments in the morning session while the Upper House discussed a bill on dam management in the later part of the day, as the Opposition fine-tuned its strategy on raising the demand for revocation of suspension of 12 MPs. While the morning session saw an adjournment and walk out, the Opposition participated in the discussion on the Dam Safety Bill in the afternoon session. In the morning session, the Zero Hour was washed out after Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu's remarks about the stalemate in the House, saying "disapproval of undemocratic conduct in House can't be decried as undemocratic" and his refusal to give the floor to Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge. Naidu first adjourned the House till 12 noon and when the House re-assembled with Deputy Chairman Harivansh on the chair, senior Congress MP KC Venugopal demanded that inflation need to be discussed immediately. Kharge also sought to raise the raise but Harivansh refused permission and went ahead with Question Hour, prompting Congress members to rise in protest and some rushing to the Well of the House shouting slogans. As the Deputy Chairman did not heed, Kharge announced the walk-out with RJD, NCP and Muslim League joining them. At the same time, Trinamool Congress MPs raised farmers' issues and wanted the government to discuss legal backing for Minimum Support Price (MSP) and compensation for farmers who were killed during protests against the now-repealed farm laws. They walked out soon after. TRS MPs also raised the issue of compensation for farmers and walked out separately while John Brittas led the CPI(M) MPs in walking out after he refused to raise a Point of Order on the suspension of party floor leader Elamaram Kareem without being named by the Chair. DMK MPs also walked out later after raising a question on the Koodankulam nuclear plant. Sources said the Opposition has decided not to disrupt the House entirely during a meeting floor leaders had with Kharge on Wednesday evening. Leaders were of the view that it was counter-productive to allow the government to pass bills without presenting their points. While they decided that the suspended lawmakers will continue their protest at Gandhi Statue, other MPs would raise it inside but would not completely disrupt the proceedings Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-protest-continues-but-without-disrupting-rajya-sabha-1056786.html
02-12-2021||National||Omicron scare: 4 more international flyers from 'at-risk' countries test positive for Covid in India||Four more travellers from “at-risk” countries tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival at the Indira Gandhi International Airport here on Thursday, officials said. Three out of the 243 people on the Air France flight that landed at the airport around 12 midnight tested positive for Covid, an official said. One more person travelling with 195 others on a flight from London was found to be infected with coronavirus, the official said. Their samples have been sent to the National Centre for Disease Control for genome sequencing to ascertain if they have the new variant, Omicron, which has been classified as ‘variant of concern’ by the World Health Organization. A total of eight people from “at-risk” countries have tested positive for Covid-19 since stricter norms for international passengers came into effect on Tuesday midnight. The eight Covid positive travellers and two other passengers who showed “Covid-like symptoms” have been admitted to the Lok Nayak Hospital, where a dedicated ward has been set up for isolating and treating such patients. According to the Centre, the countries designated as "at-risk" are European countries, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come. Also, five per cent of the passengers arriving in flights from other countries will be subject to the test randomly.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-scare-4-more-international-flyers-from-at-risk-countries-test-positive-for-covid-in-india-1056791.html
02-12-2021||National||India hits out at OHCHR for comments on J&K||India on Thursday hit out at the UN human rights body OHCHR for its adverse comments on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, saying it "betrays" a complete lack of understanding of the security challenges in the region due to cross-border terrorism. Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said authorities in India act against violations of law and not against legitimate exercise of rights. Bagchi's comments came in response to a statement made by the spokesperson of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) on specific incidents in Jammu and Kashmir. He said "baseless and unfounded" allegations were made against law enforcement authorities and security forces of India in the statement. "It also betrays a complete lack of understanding on the part of the OHCHR of the security challenges faced by India from cross-border terrorism and its impact on the most fundamental human right, 'the right to life' of our citizens, including in Jammu and Kashmir," he said. "Referring to proscribed terrorist organisations as 'armed groups' demonstrates a clear bias on the part of OHCHR," the MEA spokesperson said. He said as a democratic country with an abiding commitment to promote and protect the human rights of its citizens, India takes all necessary steps to counter cross-border terrorism. Bagchi said national security legislations like the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (UAPA) were enacted by Parliament to protect the sovereignty of India and ensure the security of its citizens. "The arrest and subsequent detention of the individual referred to in the statement was done entirely as per the provisions of law," he said. "Authorities in India act against violations of law and not against legitimate exercise of rights. All such actions are strictly in accordance with the law," the MEA spokesperson added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hits-out-at-ohchr-for-comments-on-jk-1056801.html
02-12-2021||National||'Har Ghar Dastak' campaign increased second dose vaccinations by 11.7% in November: Health secretary||The 'Har Ghar Dastak' nationwide Covid-19 vaccination campaign resulted in a significant hike, of 11.7 per cent, in the second dose coverage till November 30, the Union Health Ministry said Thursday. The campaign has resulted in a 5.9 per cent hike in the first dose of vaccination across the nation, said Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, while reviewing the status and progress under the campaign with the health secretaries and National Health Mission (NHM) MDs of states and UTs on Thursday. Bhushan appreciated the performance and achievement of the states and UTs during the campaign, adding that although the campaign has increased the pace of vaccination, it is important to note that around 12 crore beneficiaries are still due to take their second dose nationally. The states were advised in the meeting to vaccinate all eligible beneficiaries with the first dose and to devise targeted plans in the context of doses given in August and September 2021 to ensure coverage of all the beneficiaries due for the second dose by "exponentially increasing the pace of vaccination". The states were directed to ensure timely use of vaccines and minimise wastage of doses in government as well as private facilities. The Union health secretary urged the states to optimally utilise local influencers and community leaders to enhance the awareness among communities for the vaccine doses, especially those who are overdue for the second dose. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 125 crore on Thursday. Of this, 79.13 crore (84.3 per cent) beneficiaries have been vaccinated for the first dose and 45.82 crore (49 per cent) received the second dose of vaccine as per the provisional report. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/har-ghar-dastak-campaign-increased-second-dose-vaccinations-by-117-in-november-health-secretary-1056841.html
02-12-2021||National||India sends air bubble proposals to Saudi Arabia, nine others||India has sent a proposal to Saudi Arabia and nine other countries for operating flights under air bubble agreements, the government told Lok Sabha on Thursday. Currently, international passenger flights are being operated under bilateral air bubble arrangements with various countries in a restricted manner. As of November 24, India had formalised air bubble arrangements with 31 countries. "We have 10 proposals pending for air bubble agreement. We have forwarded the proposals to these countries. Saudi Arabia is one of them. We are waiting to hear from them," Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia told Lok Sabha, in reply to a question posed by IUML's ET Mohammed Basheer. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sends-air-bubble-proposals-to-saudi-arabia-nine-others-1056848.html
02-12-2021||National||TRS members continue protests in Lok Sabha; no adjournments during Question Hour||Telangana Rashtra Samithi members on Thursday shouted slogans, displayed placards and later tore them and threw the pieces in the Well of the Lok Sabha before walking out of the House while protesting over farmers' issues. While the members continued with their protests for the fourth straight day, the Question Hour was not adjourned. This is also the first time since the Winter session began on Monday that the Question Hour was completed. Within minutes of the commencement of the Question Hour, TRS members trooped into the Well displaying placards and later began shouting slogans. They wanted to raise issues related to farmers, including compensation for the families of those who lost their lives during the protest against three farm laws. The farm laws have now been repealed. They were also demanding a bill on the minimum support price. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury asked why the government was not listening to the TRS members. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar was present in the House. TRS leader Nama Nageswara Rao said Telangana is one of the biggest producers of paddy in the country but the Centre was not procuring paddy from the state. Soon after, the party members, standing in the Well, walked out of the House. While walking out, they tore the placards and threw the pieces in the Well. Later, the House staff cleared the Well by removing the torn pieces of placards. During the Question Hour, there were also protests by DMK members when Union minister Hardeep Puri was responding to a question on smart cities. The Winter session is scheduled to conclude on December 23. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trs-members-continue-protests-in-lok-sabha-no-adjournments-during-question-hour-1056850.html
02-12-2021||National||India's first two cases of Omicron found in Karnataka||India on Thursday reported its first two cases of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 from Karnataka including what could well be the first case of local transmission of Omicron in India, officials in the Union Health Ministry and state administration said on Thursday, adding that both were males of age 66 years and 46 years. One of them came from South Africa – the first country to report Omicron last month – whereas the second individual is a Bengaluru doctor without any travel history, whose Omicron-positive status raises the possibility of local transmission of the new variant that has been described as a “variant of concern” by the World Health Organisation. Both were fully vaccinated. “Two cases of Omicron have been detected in Karnataka so far. We need not panic, but awareness is absolutely essential and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is required,” said Balram Bhargava, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research. The 66-year-old South African national reached Bengaluru on November 20 and tested positive. The 46-year-old doctor tested positive on November 22. Both gave their samples for testing before the WHO described Omicron as a “variant of concern” on November 26. While the South African traveller left the country after two Covid-negative test reports and a week-long stay, it is the second case of the 46-year-old government hospital anaesthesiologist that has perplexed doctors and civic body officials as he had no travel history. Since he did not have any known contact with any international passenger or their contacts, his source of infection is yet to be ascertained. As per BBMP records, the doctor developed fever and body ache on November 21 and underwent an RT-PCR test a day later at a city hospital in the morning. He was declared Covid positive in the afternoon on the same day. Since his test report indicated high viral load (CT value of 13), his sample was sent for genome sequencing. He stayed under home isolation for two days and was admitted to a south Bengaluru private hospital, which discharged him on November 25. The doctor has 13 primary contacts including his 38-year-old wife and 205 secondary contacts. Between November 22 and 25, three primary contacts and two secondary contacts tested positive. All have been isolated. The doctor and his wife are now at the state-run Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital. The South African generated 24 primary contacts and 240 secondary contacts, though was in self-isolation in a hotel. All the 24 primary contacts have been tested negative. “The confirmation of Omicron by India, the first two cases in WHO South-East Asia Region, was not unexpected in view of the interconnected world that we live in. This emphasises on the need for all countries to step up surveillance, to be on alert and rapidly detect any importation and take measures to curtail further spread of the virus,” said Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region. The South African traveller was screened and tested at the Kempegowda International Airport on his arrival and was found positive. He checked into a star hotel in Vasanthnagar, where a government doctor visited him and found asymptomatic. On November 22, his test samples were collected and sent for genomic sequencing by the BBMP. “Omicron variant has a large number of mutations, some of which are concerning. Researchers around the world are conducting studies to better understand transmissibility, severity and immune escape capabilities of Omicron. The WHO commends countries which have been able to quickly detect and report cases of the new variant of concern,” Singh said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-first-two-cases-of-omicron-found-in-karnataka-1056858.html
02-12-2021||National||Bihar, UP among seven states to be administered ZyCoV-D vaccine first||Bihar and Uttar Pradesh are among seven states where the three dose ZyCoV-D vaccine will be administered initially. A total of seven States - Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and, West Bengal - have been identified by the Union Health Ministry where ZyCoV-D vaccine will be used initially. The health ministry has directed these states to identify districts with high number of first dose left out for introduction of the vaccine. The ministry has directed the states to plan sessions based on pharmajet injector and identify vaccinators to be trained for using it for vaccination. The national training for ZyCoV-D has been completed, said the ministry. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, while reviewing the status and progress under 'Har Ghar Dastak' campaign with Health Secretaries and NHM MDs of states and UTs virtually advised the states to saturate all eligible beneficiaries with first dose and to devise targeted plans in context of doses given in August and September '21 to ensure coverage of all beneficiaries due for second dose by exponentially increasing the pace of vaccination. Pharma major company Cadila Healthcare will supply 1 crore doses of ZyCoV-D to the Centre by this month. The Centre has already placed an initial order for one crore doses of the vaccine. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has approved ZyCoV-D for restricted use in emergency situation in the age group 12 years and above. ZyCoV-D is the first DNA plasmid vaccine developed indigenously by the company against the Covid-19 virus. It is also the first vaccine that is needle-free and administered using PharmaJet, a needle-free applicator to ensure painless intradermal vaccine. As per the ministry, India has administered 125 crore vaccine doses so far. Of the lot, 79.13 crore (84.3 per cent) beneficiaries have been vaccinated for first dose while 45.82 crore (49 per cent) received their second dose, as per the provisional report. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-up-among-seven-states-to-be-administered-zycov-d-vaccine-first-1056861.html
02-12-2021||National||BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra made ITDC Chairperson||BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra has been appointed part-time Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC), a listed company, after splitting the post of Chairman and Managing Director (CMD). With this, the existing CMD Ganji Kamala V Rao, a 1990-batch Kerala cadre officer, will only be the Managing Director. The appointment was approved by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on a proposal forwarded by the Ministry of Tourism. Home Minister Amit Shah is the only member of the committee. According to the order, the post of CMD has been split into Chairman, ITDC and Managing Director, ITDC. It said Patra has been appointed as part-time Non-Executive Director and Chairman of ITDC for a period of three years from the date of assumption of charge or until further orders. Patra, a vocal BJP spokesperson regular on news channels, was made an independent Director of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation in 2017. He had also unsuccessfully contested in the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Puri against the winning BJD candidate Pinaki Mishra. Patra's appointment comes days after a Delhi court directed police to register an FIR against him for allegedly posting a doctored video of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal supporting the farm laws, saying it may have resulted in rioting-like situation across the nation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-spokesperson-sambit-patra-made-itdc-chairperson-1056865.html
02-12-2021||National||IIT-M researchers enhancing wearable devices to assist differently-abled||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) are enhancing already-developed wearable devices that come with the latest technologies to assist people with hearing impairment and motor disabilities to communicate independently. These wearable sensors will include the latest sensor technologies used in the Internet of Things and the devices are being developed by the Centre for Rehabilitation Engineering and Assistive Technology (CREATE), which is spearheading two projects ‘Vibe’ and iGest. Funded by Sony Pictures Networks India through its CSR initiative, ‘Vibe’ will generate vibration and LED light inputs for pre-identified sounds like doorbells while ‘iGest’ will recognise gestures and provide audio output through a smartphone, helping people with cerebral palsy to communicate. In a statement on the eve of the International Day of Disabled Persons on Friday, the prestigious IIT-M said Vibe is a wearable device that will vibrate for acoustic sounds around a person with hearing impairment and features a multitude of sound patterns that are recognised using a microphone and voice recognition modules. iGest, which recognises the gestures of those with limited motor skills and convert them into audio output through a smartphone, aims to address issues of speech impairment and motor impairments faced by persons with cerebral palsy. As per the last census, 20% of the Indian population suffered from a motor disability. Such individuals will frequently go in for occupational therapy. “Due to the non-availability of affordable and sustainable assistive devices and systems, the hearing-impaired are excluded from the mainstream and inclusive education. Also, the imported devices cannot be afforded by most people,” Prof. Anil Prabhakar, Head, CREATE-IIT Madras, and Faculty, Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Madras, said. He added that the cost of the product is kept low and to be less than Rs 5,000 so that it emerges as an affordable device for its basic functionality. “Inclusivity is an essential aspect of the culture at Sony Pictures Networks India (SPNI). We are proud to extend our support to IIT- Madras for this project, which is an effort to ensure that the needs of differently-abled communities are addressed in the most convenient, affordable and accessible manner,” Rajkumar Bidawatka, Company Secretary, Compliance Officer and Head CSR, Sony Pictures Networks India, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-m-researchers-enhancing-wearable-devices-to-assist-differently-abled-1056902.html
02-12-2021||National||Deadline for Smart Cities Mission extended to June 2023 due to Covid-19 delays||The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry has extended the timeline for the implementation of Smart Cities Mission to June 2023 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a senior official said on Thursday. According to an earlier deadline, the cities were expected to complete their projects within five years of being selected under the Smart Cities Mission. The official said all the 100 smart cities selected under the mission will now have to complete their projects by June 2023. Hundred smart cities had been selected through four rounds of competition from January 2016 to June 2018. The ministry had launched the Smart Cities Mission on 25 June, 2015. "The timeline for the implementation of Smart Cities Mission has been extended to June 2023 due to Covid-19 pandemic and other reasons. Cities that have been selected in 2016 or 2018 will have to complete their projects under the mission by June 2023," the official told PTI. In the past, the government has come under criticism from the Opposition over the implementation of the Smart Cities Mission, one of the flagship programmes of the BJP government. According to the ministry, the objective of the Smart Cities Mission is to promote cities that provide core infrastructure and give a decent quality of life to their citizens, and a clean and sustainable environment through the application of smart solutions. Recently, the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry had said that as of November 12, 2021, these Smart Cities have tendered out 6,452 projects worth Rs 1,84,998 crore. Of these, work orders have been issued in 5,809 projects, worth Rs 1,56,571 crore, and 3,131 of those projects worth Rs 53,175 crore have been completed. Over the same period, the Central government has released Rs 27,235 crore to states and Union Territories for their smart cities. In a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha on Thursday, Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs Kaushal Kishore said the period of implementation of the Smart Cities Mission has been extended up to June 2023. Asked whether more cities are being considered under the mission in Gujarat, the minister said that presently, there is no such proposal under consideration of the Central government. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deadline-for-smart-cities-mission-extended-to-june-2023-due-to-covid-19-delays-1056918.html
02-12-2021||National||SC grants bail to ex-BBMP corporator in murder of RTI activist||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted bail to Gowramma, a former BBMP corporator, who has been sentenced to life imprisonment in the murder case of RTI activist Lingaraju in 2012. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari allowed her plea against the Karnataka High Court's order of June 9, 2021, declining her relief. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, along with advocate Sanjay M Nuli, appearing for her, submitted that the woman petitioner has been suffering from Diabetes Mellitus and Hypothyroidism, which required bed rest up to six months and a good nutritious diet which would only be available at home. The counsel also submitted that her son was a psychiatric patient who needed parental care. In her plea, among other grounds, Gowramma contended that the High Court had failed to appreciate that all material witnesses had turned hostile in the case and she was convicted solely based on circumstantial evidence. She was accused of pledging her jewellery to pay off the hired killers, a charge, which was not even proved, the plea claimed. The plea also said she is the ex-corporator of BBMP ward number 141 Azad Nagar, Bengaluru and hailed from a respectable family and would never involve herself in such incidents. Gowramma, along with 11 others, were sentenced to life term after having been convicted of murdering RTI activist Lingaraju on November 20, 2012. The prosecution claimed the deceased was hacked to death as he filed a complaint with Lokayukta alleging amassing of disproportionate assets against the petitioner, leading to a raid at her premises.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-bail-to-ex-bbmp-corporator-in-murder-of-rti-activist-1056929.html
02-12-2021||National||Gautam Adani meets Mamata, discusses investment scenario in West Bengal||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday held a meeting with Gautam Adani, the chairman and founder of Adani Group, at state secretariat 'Nabanna'. Adani later tweeted "Delighted to meet @MamataOfficial,Hon'ble Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. "Discussed different investment scenarios and the tremendous potential of West Bengal. I look forward to attending the Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS) in April 2022." Nabanna sources said the meeting continued for one-and-half hours. Banerjee visited Nabanna shortly after returning from Mumbai earlier in the day. TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee was also present at the meeting, the sources added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gautam-adani-meets-mamata-discusses-investment-scenario-in-west-bengal-1056932.html
02-12-2021||National||Omicron variant may be less lethal in India, says epidemiologist||By Bibhudatta Pradhan The newly-emerged Omicron variant is likely to be less lethal in India than the delta-led virus wave that overwhelmed hospitals and crematoriums earlier this year, according to a prominent epidemiologist. Given the widespread exposure of Indians to Covid-19 virus and a reasonably-high vaccination rate, India will likely be less affected by the new strain, Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy said in an interview with Bloomberg Television on Thursday. That may change if Omicron is effective at getting past all immune defenses, he said. What We Know About Omicron, the New Virus Variant: QuickTake As Omicron -- first detected in South Africa late last month -- appears to cause mild infections, “the damage in terms of hospitalisation and stress on the health system will be less than what we have seen in the second wave,” Laxminarayan said. Australia’s Chief Medical Officer Paul Kelly has also said that there is no indication that the Omicron is deadlier than other strains. India saw the world’s fastest-surging Covid outbreak in early May with daily new infections exceeding 400,000 when the highly-infectious delta variant was ripping through the crowded nation of 1.4 billion people. The deadly virus wave invigorated the country’s vaccination campaign -- more than a billion shots have been administered already -- and created high levels of natural immunity in the population. More than two-thirds of India’s population had antibodies against Covid-19, a national serological survey found in a study in June and July. About 48.5 per cent of India’s adult population is fully vaccinated with two doses, according to the Health Ministry data. So far, India has not detected a case with the Omicron variant. But it is “just a matter of time” before it’s spotted in India, Laxminarayan said. The newest strain has rapidly spread to two dozen countries since being detected on November 24.  At least six passengers traveling from “at-risk” countries tested positive and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing, the government said. India has bolstered its genome sequencing efforts and tightened travel rules. India to Scale Up Omicron Scrutiny After Second Wave Horrors The emergence and rapid spread of the new variant in other countries may bolster India’s inoculation program, according to Laxminarayan. It may prod some reluctant people to get vaccinated and others to return for their second dose. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-variant-may-be-less-lethal-in-india-says-epidemiologist-1056933.html
02-12-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee's efforts to be united Opposition face not going to fructify, says CPI(M)||Mamata Banerjee's efforts to become the leader of an united Opposition will not be successful and it will end up the way Congress' desire came to naught, the CPI(M) has said as it did not find the idea of an "omnibus unity" at the national level "with a leader" feasible. The remarks came in the editorial of the latest issue of party mouth 'Peoples Democracy', which also said the farmers' struggle has shown what a sustained united struggle can achieve and the Opposition parties should draw the appropriate lesson.   The editorial referred to the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament and said it "revealed a great deal of what the Modi government’s attitude to Parliament is -- outright contempt for Parliament and its democratic functioning". It said the ruling BJP refused to allow any discussion on the repeal of the three farm laws and attendant issues though Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised that the government was willing to discuss any issue and reply to any question raised by the opposition. It also referred to the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs, including CPI(M)'s Elamaram Kareem who was not named for unruly behaviour, as well as the Opposition united fight against the action. The editorial said that these parties are "unitedly protesting this assault on the rights of MPs and the opposition" and this "unity in action on issues which come up within Parliament is how a united resistance can be built.   "But outside Parliament, the efforts of Mamata Banerjee and the TMC to exercise leadership of a united opposition is not going to fructify, just as the desire of the Congress to play that leading role came to naught," it said. "The farmers’ struggle has shown what a sustained united struggle can achieve. The opposition parties should draw the appropriate lesson. No omnibus unity at the all-India level with a 'leader' is going to work. The broadest unity can be forged through the united actions of different sections of the working people. This should be accompanied by the projection of alternative policies and politics to the Hindutva authoritarian regime, around which all democratic and secular forces can rally around," it said. On the developments in Parliament, the editorial said the Rajya Sabha is witnessing the "worst display of authoritarianism" where the BJP alliance is "unsure of getting a majority on all legislations". "So the approach is to muzzle the opposition – refusal to refer any important legislation to a joint select committee, refusal to have a comprehensive discussion on bills, and most objectionably, not allowing a member’s right to call for division and voting," it said adding the suspension was a "premeditated provocation" to get the opposition to react and create a situation whereby the government could get all its bills passed without opposition. The editorial also recalled that the "alleged incident of unruly behavior" of the MPs was occasioned by the fact that the bill to privatise General Insurance was pushed through without taking up a motion to refer it to a select committee and also the denial of a vote on the matter. It said the government had run through the three farm laws in September 2020 without any proper discussion and scrutiny by the relevant parliamentary committee, so also now the government pushed through the repeal bill within minutes, refusing to allow any discussion. The presiding officers showed scant regard for parliamentary properties, it alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjees-efforts-to-be-united-opposition-face-not-going-to-fructify-says-cpim-1056941.html
02-12-2021||National||Dam Safety Bill gets Rajya Sabha nod||Rajya Sabha on Thursday passed Dam Safety Bill, which aims to set up an institutional mechanism for safety of specified dams in India amid Opposition parties' demand to send the proposed legislation to a select committee for scrutiny. Opposition parties, including the Congress, the TMC and the DMK, demanded the government to send the Bill to a parliamentary select committee, saying it needs scrutiny as it is "unconstitutional and encroaches upon the states' rights" The Bill, which was passed by the Lok Sabha in 2019, seeks to provide for surveillance, inspection, operation and maintenance of specified dams for the prevention of dam failure-related disasters and an institutional mechanism to ensure their safe functioning, and related matters. Though earlier many governments made an attempt to bring legislation aimed at the safety of reservoirs, they failed due to opposition from states. The several states apprehended that through this legislation, the Centre may try to encroach their rights on water supply. Though the Bill was introduced first time in 2010 in Lok Sabha, it was withdrawn due to changes recommended by the Parliamentary Standing Committee. According to the National Register of Large Dams, there are 5,745 large dams in India, of which 293 are over 100 years old, while 1,041 dams are between 50 and 100 years old. After Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat moved the Bill for the consideration of the House, DMK leader Tiruchi Siva moved an amendment to the Bill to send it to a select committee. Moving the amendment, Siva said, "India is a union of states. The unique feature of our democracy and the Constitution is that it works on federalism. The states have their own rights. Entry 17 of the states' list provides for the states to make laws with regard to water supply, drainage, embankment etc." Opposition Congress, TMC, CPI (M), AIADMK and DMK said the Bill does not give guarantee to states whether their rights will be protected.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dam-safety-bill-gets-rajya-sabha-nod-1056942.html
02-12-2021||National||Two Omicron cases in India: One is South African, second a Karnataka doctor with no travel history||Out of two cases of the new Omicron variant of coronavirus that have been detected in the State, one is a South African national who has left the country after testing negative, while the other is a local person, a doctor with no travel history, the Karnataka government said on Thursday. Five contacts of the doctor have also tested positive and their samples have been sent for genomic sequencing. According to officials, both the persons who have tested positive for Omicron in Bengaluru city were vaccinated with two doses of Covid vaccine. "We were waiting for the report for the last two-three days. Today the Centre has officially said that the samples we had sent for genomic sequencing are confirmed for the new variant. So two cases of Omicron in the country have been detected in Karnataka. This proves that our aggressive testing has helped in faster identification," Health Minister K Sudhakar said. Speaking to reporters, he said there is no need to worry, and appealed to people to compulsorily wear masks, get two doses of vaccines at the earliest, and avoid attending big events especially indoors, unnecessarily. "How it (Omicron) spreads, we can't say as of now, but there is no need to worry as all the six cases identified so far don't have any major health issues. We have seen the Delta variant, it had intensity, more issues like breathing, such things have not been noticed so far. Symptoms here are mild," he added. Earlier, sharing details of the Omicron variant cases, BBMP (city corporation) Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said, the first is a 66-year-old male, who is a South African national. "He had come here (Bengaluru) on November 20, his samples were collected at the airport and subsequently he tested positive. His samples were sent for genome sequencing the reports of which have come today confirming he was infected by Omicron," he said. Further noting that the person was isolated in a hotel, and he subsequently underwent test separately (self-investigation) at another laboratory (private lab on Nov 23), during which his reports came negative, the Commissioner said he then left the country for Dubai on November 27. All his 24 primary contacts and 240 secondary contacts have tested negative, he said. "But they are still kept under watch." The second person is a 46-year-old male doctor working at a government hospital. On developing tiredness, weakness and fever he got tested on November 22, following which he tested positive. As his sample had low cycle threshold (Ct) value it was sent to NCBS lab, and the report has come today as positive, Gupta said. "He was initially kept under home isolation and was subsequently shifted to hospital. He is a local person without any travel history." His 13 primary contacts and 205 secondary contacts have been tested, he said. "Three primary and two secondary contacts have tested positive. They have been kept under isolation and samples have been sent for sequencing." The Health Minister said the doctor and his five contacts have been isolated and admitted to a government hospital in Bengaluru and are being monitored. "There are no major issues, they have mild symptoms, which is a matter of comfort." Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is in Delhi today, is likely to chair a high-level meeting on Friday to decide on the next course of action and precautionary measures that need to be taken. "The Chief Minister will chair a meeting with senior ministers, officials and experts, the government is seized of the matter and is on top of the measures that need to be taken, no need to worry or have unnecessary confusions or speculations," the Minister said. Testing and tracing have to be increased, he said. "I have spoken to the Chief Minister, who is in Delhi, in this regard. There is a need to intensify screening at airports." Responding to a question, the BBMP commissioner said that samples of all international travellers who have tested positive, and positive cases with low Ct value are being sent for genome sequencing and their results would be known about a week's time. City's Bowring Hospital has been identified for treating Omicron cases, he said. "Very less is known about this virus, according to South African doctors, it is easily transmissible, but may be milder...Please note that the second person who tested positive has no travel history, so there may be chances of more people having the infection. There is a need to be vigilant." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-omicron-cases-in-india-one-is-south-african-second-a-karnataka-doctor-with-no-travel-history-1056946.html
02-12-2021||National||21,200 in domestic aviation lost jobs during pandemic: V K Singh||At least 21,200 people engaged by domestic airlines and ground-handling agencies in airports lost jobs due to Covid-19 induced disruptions, the government informed Lok Sabha on Thursday. While domestic airlines and ground handling firms saw a decline, there was a marginal increase of 380 employees — from 9,550 in March 31, 2020 to 9,930 as on 31 March 31, 2021 in the cargo business in the aviation sector. In a written reply to BJD MP Bhartruhari Mahtab's question, Minister of State for Civil Aviation Gen V K Singh (retd) said the total number of employees of domestic carriers has declined from around 74,800 to around 66,900 in the one year from March 31 last year. The ground-handling sector saw a decline from 38,330 to 25,040 during this period, Singh said. The civil aviation sector was badly hit by the lockdown, as all flight operations were suspended for several months from March 23 last year. The international services which were to resume on December 15 this year has been deferred following the spread of the new Covid-19 variant Omicron. Singh said some of the airlines had rationalised payment of allowances in the wake of the pandemic. He said Air India Ltd did not impose any salary cut for employees with a salary less than Rs 25,000. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/21200-in-domestic-aviation-lost-jobs-during-pandemic-v-k-singh-1056979.html
02-12-2021||National||Confirmation of Omicron cases in India not unexpected, says WHO||The detection of two cases of Omicron, the latest variant of Covid-19, in Karnataka was not unexpected in view of the interconnected world that people live in, Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia, said on Thursday. "This emphasised the need for all countries to step up surveillance, to be on alert, and rapidly detect any importance and take measures to curtail further spread of the virus," she said. The Union Health ministry on Thursday said that two cases of Omicron have been detected in Karnataka. "Both persons had travelled from South Africa. Their contacts have been identified and are under monitoring," said Balram Bhargava, Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research (IMRC). "All Omicron related cases have been found to have mild symptoms so far. No severe symptoms have been noticed in Omicron infection in all such cases, both in the country and abroad," the Health Ministry said. "WHO commends the countries which have been able to quickly detect and report cases of the new variant of concern," Singh said in a tweet. She also made it clear that the response measures for all variants of concern, including Omicron, are the same as those for SARS-CoV-2. Comprehensive and tailored public health and social measures by the government, and strict adherence to the preventive and precautionary measures by individuals is a must for all, she added. According to the World Health Organisation, the overall global risk related to the new Covid variant has been assessed to be very high. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/confirmation-of-omicron-cases-in-india-not-unexpected-says-who-1056988.html
02-12-2021||National||India achieves target of 40% power generation capacity from non-fossil fuel sources||India has achieved the target of 40 per cent of its installed electricity generation capacity being from non-fossil energy sources, an official statement said on Thursday. "At COP 21, as part of its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs), India had committed to achieving 40 per cent of its installed electricity capacity from non-fossil energy sources by 2030. "The country has achieved this target in November 2021 itself," the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy said. According to the statement, the country's installed renewable energy (RE) capacity stands at 150.05 GW, while its nuclear energy-based installed electricity capacity is 6.78 GW. This brings the total non-fossil fuels based installed energy capacity to 156.83 GW — which is 40.1 per cent of the total installed electricity capacity of 390.8 GW, in line with the Prime Minister's announcement at the recently concluded COP26 climate change conference. The government is committed to achieving 500 GW of installed electricity capacity from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030, the statement added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-achieves-target-of-40-power-generation-capacity-from-non-fossil-fuel-sources-1056997.html
02-12-2021||National||India accuses UN of bias over Khurram Parvez's arrest||India has accused the United Nations Human Rights office of bias after it issued a statement expressing concern over the arrest of activist Khurram Parvez and the death of two civilians in a recent encounter in Jammu and Kashmir. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said that the statement issued by the Office of the High Commission for Human Rights (OHCHR) made baseless and unfounded allegations against law enforcement authorities and security forces of India. “It also betrays a complete lack of understanding on the part of the OHCHR of the security challenges faced by India from cross-border terrorism and its impact on the most fundamental human right ‘the Right to Life’ of our citizens including in Jammu and Kashmir,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the MEA, said. The OHCHR expressed concern over the arrest of human rights activist Khurram Parvez under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) of India. “We call on the Indian authorities to fully safeguard his right to freedom of expression, association and personal liberty and to take the precautionary step of releasing him,” said UN Human Rights Office spokesperson Rupert Colville. The OHCHR called on security forces and armed groups to exercise restraint, and to ensure that the rise in tensions in Jammu and Kashmir in recent weeks does not lead to further violence against the civilian population. “Referring to proscribed terrorist organisations as ‘armed groups’ demonstrates a clear bias on the part of OHCHR,” the MEA spokesperson said, reacting to the OHCHR's statement. The OHCHR also reiterated its calls for the UAPA to be amended to bring it into line with international human rights law and standards and urged the authorities, pending the amendment of the law, to refrain from using it or other laws unduly restricting freedom of expression in cases involving civil society, media, and human rights defenders. New Delhi responded to the OHCHR's statement, underlining that the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (UAPA) were enacted by the Parliament of India to protect the sovereignty of the nation and ensure the security of its citizens. “The arrest and subsequent detention of the individual (Khurram Parvez) referred to in the statement was done entirely as per provisions of law,” said Bagchi, adding: “Authorities in India act against violations of law and not against legitimate exercise of rights. All such actions are strictly in accordance with the law.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-accuses-un-of-bias-over-khurram-parvezs-arrest-1057002.html
02-12-2021||National||Oppn seeks clarity on booster dose as Lok Sabha debates Covid pandemic||The Opposition on Thursday hit out at the government over Covid-19 management, accusing it of mishandling the second wave and struck a word of caution on the spread of Omicron strain of the virus besides seeking clarity on booster doses of vaccines. In a discussion in Lok Sabha on the Covid pandemic, members called for ban on international flights in view of the outbreak of the Omicron strain and demanded that the government "accept responsibility" for deaths of lakhs of people during the outbreak. Launching a strong defence of the government, BJP members credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his leadership throughout the pandemic, for strengthening health infrastructure and making the country self-reliant in healthcare supplies such as vaccines, face-masks, PPE kits. "Be it availability of medicines, stepping up oxygen production, ensuring vaccines for everyone or distributing free food grains for the poor, the prime minister cared for everyone," BJP member Rita Bahuguna Joshi said. The discussion on the issue continued late Thursday night and Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya is expected to reply to the debate on Friday. Initiating the debate, Shiv Sena leader Vinayak Raut lamented that Parliament was discussing the issue 21 months after the outbreak of the disease and at a time when cases were on the decline. On Covid-19 vaccination, Raut accused the Centre of allocating vaccine doses to BJP-ruled states in excess and at the cost of non-BJP ruled states. "The prime minister's responsibility is for the entire 130 crore population. It should not be so that you look at Maharashtra with a sly glance, help Gujarat in good measure and make maximum allocations to Uttar Pradesh because it is going to polls. Allocations should be made on the basis of the population," the Sena leader said. Trinamool member Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar questioned the government on administration of the second dose of Covid-19 vaccines in the country. “Why can we not complete the second dose which we were supposed to complete by December or January? Why have we not done it yet,” she asked. Members also flagged views on booster doses of vaccines for the elderly and those with co-morbidities and demanded that the government spell out its policy on the issue. YSR Congress member Kumari Godetti Madhavi suggested utilising the unused stock of five to 10 million vaccine doses with the private sector for administering the booster doses to healthcare and frontline workers. BJP's Jagdambika Pal dismissed Opposition criticism that BJP-ruled states were favoured in battling Covid and said there was no discrimination in fighting the pandemic. Hitting out at the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samajwadi Party, Pal said when the leaders of these parties were "locked" in their homes, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath was going to every district saving lives and had himself contracted Covid. Gaurav Gogoi of the Congress charged the government with ignoring various warnings leading to shortage of bed, oxygen and ventilators during the second wave. The second wave has resulted in the hardship for poor as many of them have lost jobs, he said. Instead of supporting them, he said, the government robbed them by increasing prices of LPG cylinder, petrol and diesel. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi accused the Modi government of being unprepared for the second wave of Covid-19. "The second wave would have not come if the Narendra Modi government was on alert," he said. BJP member Nishikant Dubey said that all MPs should come together, leaving aside the politics, for a healthy debate on Covid-19 as the need of the hour is to save the lives of the people from the pandemic. On people losing jobs due to the pandemic, Dubey said that the phenomenon was not only in India but across the world. Participating in the debate, BJP's Ratan Lal Kataria said that as a new variant of the Covid virus has emerged, there is a need to be more cautious and follow all protocol properly. "It is not the time to sit comfortably, we have to be vigilant," he said. They should encourage people engaged in the fight against the pandemic, he said. Samajwadi Party's S T Hasan said the number of people who lost their lives due to Covid-19 should be ascertained and compensation be provided to the kin of the deceased. He also said families of journalists who died due to Covid should also be given compensation. Hasan also congratulated the government for running a "successful" vaccination programme and stressed the importance of administering the second dose of Covid vaccine. Amol Kolhe of the Nationalist Congress Party said international flights should be stopped in view of the new variant of Covid Omicron. Likening the Covid-19 response as a "war against the pandemic", Kolhe hoped that the 'general' will not leave the battle field. "We hope that the prime minister will stay put in the battlefield to take on the virus and not move to election rallies," the doctor-politician said. Kolhe and Raut also favoured reduction in the 86-day gap between two Covishield vaccine doses and demanded that the government spell out status of vaccination for children. Trinamool member Shatabdi Roy wondered why assembly polls were held in eight phases in West Bengal. NCP member Supriya Sule wondered why the vaccination certificates carried photographs of the prime minister when states were equal stakeholders in the inoculation drive.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oppn-seeks-clarity-on-booster-dose-as-lok-sabha-debates-covid-pandemic-1057014.html
02-12-2021||National Politics||No one will be able to destroy Congress, leaders joining TMC 'drama', says Venugopal||The Congress on Wednesday termed the crossing over of some of its leaders to the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC "drama" while asserting the party will not be weakened by such efforts and "no one can destroy it". Attempts to weaken the Congress have been made earlier too but have not succeeded and will never succeed as the party has been raising people's issues and will continue to do so, its general secretary K C Venugopal told reporters. Some Congress leaders have recently joined the Trinamool Congress which is planning to expand its electoral footprint outside West Bengal with a focus on the 2024 general elections. Congress leader and ex-MP Kirti Azad and Ashok Tanwar, who quit the grand old party in 2019, joined the TMC in the presence of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday. Earlier, Congress leader and former chief minister of poll-bound Goa Louzinho Faleiro had joined the TMC. Before that, former MP and Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev had joined the Trinamool Congress. "We are not bothered about all these... If somebody is taking people from our party, it will not matter at all. If somebody is thinking that they can destroy the Congress one day, it will not happen. Many people have tried these kinds of things earlier also," Venugopal told reporters when asked about leaders from the party joining the TMC. "Our motive is very clear and that is to fight against the anti-people, anti-poor government and fight with conviction and sincerity," he said, adding the other opposition parties should also do so if they want to attack the BJP. He also asked what they will gain by weakening other opposition parties. "We are being bothered about these things (leaders quitting Congress) too much. These have only become dramas," Venugopal said. The Congress general secretary, Organisation, said the party is expressing the general sentiments and sorrows of the common people "caused by the bad policies and actions" of the Narendra Modi government. He said the party is in the field and is fighting with the BJP. The main focus is to fight the "anti-people attitude of the BJP" and to give relief to the common people, Venugopal said, adding they believe the Congress is the only national party that is doing this kind of agitation and opposing the BJP all over the country. Asked about the decision to repeal the three farm laws, he said many things need clarification, including the grant of compensation to farmers who died during the year-long agitation. "Farmers are in distress and what is the Government of India doing about it?" Venugopal also sought to know the government's stand on the issue of minimum support price. He also said the government has to come forward to help the people who have suffered due to Covid and grant them compensation of Rs 4 lakh each. "The government is not at all bothered about them. We are emphasising that compensation should be given to them. We are talking to our state governments, and they are ready to give their share of compensation, but the Government of India has to pay Rs 4 lakh compensation," he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-one-will-be-able-to-destroy-congress-leaders-joining-tmc-drama-says-venugopal-1056725.html
02-12-2021||National Politics||Congress gives notice in both Houses to discuss inflation||Congress party has given notices in both Houses of Parliament on the issue of inflation and has demanded discussion on the price rise of essential commodities. In his notice, Congress MP Manish Tewari said, "The high rate of inflation has hurt the economically weaker sections of the country. Prices of Oil, vegetables have skyrocketed and fuel is breaking new price records almost everyday with petrol going way beyond the 100-rupee mark and LPG cylinders having more than doubled in price since 2014, now cost more than Rs 900. "According to data released by RBI, the CPI (combined) inflation rate in Oils and fats for October, 2021 on a YoY basis stands at 33.50 per cent while the same numbers for fuel and transport & communication are 14.19 and 10.90 respectively." He said, "This high rate of inflation not only breaks the back of the low-income group of the country but also aggravates the already increasing inequality in income distribution. Thus, I want to raise this urgent issue of Inflation in the house." Congress MP K.C. Venugopal has given similar notice in the Rajya Sabha for Suspension of Business under rule 267 to discuss "the rising prices of essential commodities" Congress has been questioning the government on high rates of inflation and has conducted two-week nationwide protests. The party will also hold a rally in Jaipur on December 12. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-gives-notice-in-both-houses-to-discuss-inflation-1056768.html
02-12-2021||National Politics||'Not divine right of individual': Prashant Kishor takes a dig at Rahul Gandhi||A day after Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee declared that “there is no UPA”, political strategist Prashant Kishor stated that while the “idea” and “space” the Congress party puts forward is important for a strong opposition (to the ruling BJP), the party’s leadership is not the “divine right” for leading Opposition’s leadership. Kishor said that the Congress has diminished over the last decade, having lost over 90 per cent of elections, and consequently, the leadership to represent the Opposition should evolve democratically. In a tweet on Thursday, Kishor stated, “The IDEA and SPACE that Congress represents is vital for a strong opposition. But Congress’ leadership is not the DIVINE RIGHT of an individual especially, when the party has lost more than 90% elections in last 10 years. Let opposition leadership be decided Democratically.” Let opposition leadership be decided Democratically. Mamata, during her Mumbai visit, met veteran politician and NCP chief Sharad Pawar. She was also called on by Shiv Sena leaders Aaditya Thackeray and Sanjay Raut. On Wednesday, on being asked if Pawar was to lead the UPA, the United Progressive Alliance, she said that the UPA no longer exists. Mamata stressed on the importance of the regional parties in the formation of strong Opposition. The Trinamool’s expansion plan, analysts perceive, is more about getting into a leadership role in the Opposition space, and consequently, to occupy a stronger presence in national politics.  The Trinamool is now aggressively indulging in states where it seeks to occupy the space that Congress has held. After Tripura, it is Meghalaya and Goa, where the Trinamool is attempting to make inroads. Kishor who is also a political strategist for the Trinamool, in his tweet, highlighted that the Congress can no longer acquire a lead opposition role, naturally. This indicates Trinamool’s ambition of playing the leading role in the Opposition, in a way by overtaking the Congress. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-divine-right-of-individual-prashant-kishor-takes-a-dig-at-rahul-gandhi-1056797.html
02-12-2021||National Politics||Let Opposition be decided democratically, says Prashant Kishor||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor Thursday hit out at Congress over the issue of opposition leadership and said it is not the "divine right of an individual" when the party has lost most of the elections it contested in the last decade, he said. The opposition leadership should be decided democratically, he said. "The IDEA and SPACE that #Congress represents is vital for a strong opposition. But Congress’ leadership is not the DIVINE RIGHT of an individual especially, when the party has lost more than 90% elections in the last 10 years. Let opposition leadership be decided Democratically." Kishor tweeted. Let opposition leadership be decided Democratically. His comments come a day after Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee said the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) no longer exists. Kishor had taken potshots at the Congress two months ago and said that those looking for a quick revival of the opposition led by the grand old party following the Lakhimpur Kheri incident are in for a big disappointment as there are no quick-fix solutions to its "deep-rooted problems". Kishor and his I-PAC team has been working for Trinamool Congress since the assembly poll in West Bengal and is presently working on devising strategies in expanding the party nationally. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/let-opposition-be-decided-democratically-says-prashant-kishor-1056825.html
02-12-2021||National Politics||Mumbai BJP leaders seek FIR against Mamata for 'insulting' national anthem||The political-cum-official trip of West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee has run into a controversy with two BJP functionaries filing a complaint against her for allegedly insulting the national anthem. “I have seen the video…what has happened is wrong. Mamata ji is a very senior leader and such a thing is not expected,” leader of Opposition in Assembly and former two-time Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said.  Leader of Opposition in Council Pravin Darekar demanded that an FIR be lodged against her. Two BJP functionaries, Vivekanand Gupta and Mohit Bharatiya, filed a complaint against her.  Gupta, an advocate by profession, wrote to Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking an FIR against her. “There should be an FIR against her showing utter disrespect to the national anthem. It's an offence under the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971 and Home Ministry order of 2015,” he said.  Bharatiya too filed a complaint with the Santa Cruz police station in Mumbai.  BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya wrote on Twitter: "Our national anthem is one of the most powerful manifestations of our national identity. The least people holding public office can do is not demean it. Here is a mutilated version of our national anthem sung by Bengal CM. Is India’s opposition so bereft of pride and patriotism?" Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mumbai-bjp-leaders-seek-fir-against-mamata-for-insulting-national-anthem-1056830.html
02-12-2021||National Politics||My complexion turned black roaming in the sun, don't use helicopter like 'Channi sahab', Kejriwal retorts||In a reply to Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's remarks of "black Englishman", Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said, "My complexion is black. My complexion has turned black after roaming in the sun from village to village. I don't travel in a helicopter like Channi sahab flies in the air but my intention is not false." He said that "all mothers of Punjab adore their black son (Kejriwal), and sisters like their black brother". In a controversial statement, Channi had termed Kejriwal as "kale angrej" (black Englishman). In his reply, Kejriwal said Channi has resorted to abusing him since the time he announced Rs 1,000 per month to the women of Punjab. "He is referring to me as the person who wears cheap clothes and of black complexion," the AAP supremo said. Addressing media persons, Kejriwal said, "This time our (AAP) government will be formed in Punjab and this black person (Kejriwal) will fulfil all his promises." "I do not make false declarations, because my intentions are clear, not false. Everyone knows whose intentions are false," Kejriwal said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/my-complexion-turned-black-roaming-in-the-sun-dont-use-helicopter-like-channi-sahab-kejriwal-retorts-1056904.html
02-12-2021||National Politics||Congress accuses Mamata Banerjee of helping 'fascist' forces, political opportunism||Mamata Banerjee is strengthening the "fascist" forces by "sheer political opportunism", Congress said on Thursday, a day after the West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress supremo said that there is "no UPA". Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that Mamata was doing the same as Prime Minister Narendra Modi is doing -- buying legislators and breaking parties. "You cannot by sheer political opportunism proceed to strengthen the very fascist forces, represented by the RSS and the BJP, that you are pretending to fight...Political opportunism may be good for some people or parties, but for us Indianness and our country, democracy and brotherhood, and our compassion and article of faith are the ones on which the Congress has never compromised," Surjewala told reporters. He accused Mamata of speaking different languages at different times, and recalled that she had sided with both the NDA and UPA by switching sides several times. "For her it can be political expediency, but for us fighting the BJP and the RSS is close to us," he said even as he recalled her statement during an all-party meeting by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on August 20 that all political forces have to come together to save democracy in the country. Sources said Mamata told NCP chief Sharad Pawar, whom she met in Mumbai on Wednesday, that there was a need to think beyond Congress, as it has "considerably weakened". She was of the view that the action-plan or coming together of parties should be planned well in advance and not wait till the Lok Sabha poll is announced, sources said. Mamata wants the narrative to be set in and sees herself as the face of this group, sources said adding that with age not on side, Pawar would opt out as the face but Mamata wants him to be the patriarchal face of the grouping. Trinamool Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O'Brien defended his party chief saying "there has been no UPA for the past 10 years". "It is totally factual, we are not here to defend that. She made a statement," he said. He said the UPA was formed for governance, there was a "clear purpose" to set up the UPA post elections and that was for better governance, which continued till 2014. "In fact, not only in the last one year, for the last 10 years there has been no UPA. The governance has been done by some other political party. That is the meaning of what was said yesterday," he said. "The Congress had nearly 150 MPs back then, now they have 50. The Left Front had 62 seats back then and now they have six. The RJD had 25 seats, now they have zero -- the dynamics have changed. The AITC (All India Trinamool Congress) has only one focus, which is to uproot the BJP from the states and the Centre," he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-accuses-mamata-banerjee-of-helping-fascist-forces-political-opportunism-1056920.html
02-12-2021||National Politics||Wanted to give expensive gift to girlfriend, says i-Phone thief||The Delhi thief who robbed a man of his i-Phone at knife-point confessed that he committed the crime as he planned to give an expensive gift to his girlfriend, police said on Thursday. According to the official, the accused has now been arrested. Furnishing details about the robbery, a police official said that the incident took place on November 23 when the accused, along with another man, robbed an Apple iPhone after putting a knife on the victim's neck when he was crossing a park in western Delhi. Police registered a case against the accused duo under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and began a probe. On Wednesday, a tip-off was received that two robbers, involved in the aforesaid robbery, are roaming in Dwarka Sector 14 area to commit another robbery. Subsequently, the police laid a trap and apprehended both the accused. The robbed mobile was also recovered from their possession. During interrogation, the accused disclosed that they were planning to commit another robbery so that they can have some money to visit some hill station with one of the thief's girlfriend. "They wanted to gift the phone to her as a surprise," the official added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/wanted-to-give-expensive-gift-to-girlfriend-says-i-phone-thief-1056948.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||BSF fires on drone coming from Pakistan side in Amritsar sector||The Border Security Force Wednesday said its troops fired on a drone along the India-Pakistan border in the Amritsar sector, forcing it to return. In an official statement, the BSF said its personnel opened fire after they heard the humming sound of the drone coming from the Pakistan side and entering into the Indian territory on the intervening night of November 30 and December 1. "Suspecting the modus operandi of ANEs (anti-national elements) of smuggling through a drone, troops retaliated with fire in the direction of a humming drone to thwart their attempt. "Further, troops heard the returning sound of the suspected drone to Pak territory after 10 seconds," it said. "Immediately, the depth area was cordoned, Police was informed and all escape routes were chocked. During extensive search of the area, 01 black colour bag with a ring attached with thread sling to hold the bag was found in a farming field on own side of fence. "Four packets of contraband suspected to be heroin (weight appx. - 3.660 Kg) were recovered from the bag," it said. Officials said drones have become one of the biggest challenges for security agencies as the anti-national elements have been using them for smuggling and other illegal purposes. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-fires-on-drone-coming-from-pakistan-side-in-amritsar-sector-1056720.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 situation likely to be discussed in Lok Sabha today||The government on Thursday will table 'The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill 2021' in the Lok Sabha. A discussion on Covid-19 pandemic and its various related aspects is also likely to take place in the lower House. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya will move the 'The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill' in the Lok Sabha to amend the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research Act, 1998. Under rule 193, a discussion on Covid-19 pandemic and various aspects related to it will likely take place. According to sources, the members may also raise their concern and ask for the government's preparedness for the new Omicron variant. Under Rule 193, members can seek details about the new Covid variant. "Short duration discussion is likely to be held in the Lok Sabha on the Covid and its various aspects, including new Omicron variant," sources said. Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Prahlad Singh Patel, General VK Singh, Krishan Pal, Bhanu Pratap Verma, Rameshwar Teli and Kaushal Kishore will lay papers on the table. Reports and action reports of different standing committees will also be laid in the day. The Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Amendment) Bill 2021 (ART) by voice vote as the amendments moved by the DMK MP NK Prem Chandran, Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy and Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Raut were negated. The ART Bill seeks to regulate fertility clinics. All such clinics will have to be registered under the National Registry of Banks and Clinics of India. The opposition is likely to continue to raise its voices on price rise, unemployment and extended jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in some states. The opposition parties are also demanding a law guaranteeing the minimum support price (MSP). Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-situation-likely-to-be-discussed-in-lok-sabha-today-1056757.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi air quality slips to 'severe' category, minimum temperature rises||The air quality of the national capital deteriorated on Thursday and settled in the “severe” category with the AQI clocking at 419 at 8 am, even as the minimum temperature settled four notches above the season’s average at 13.4 degrees Celsius. According to Ministry of Earth Science's air quality monitor ‘SAFAR’, the air quality is likely to improve from Friday onwards due to better wind speed. “From December 3 onwards, winds are expected to increase dispersing pollutants but the AQI is likely to remain in the 'very poor' category. Low mixing layer height is preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants,” SAFAR said in its advisory. On Wednesday the city's 24-hour average Air Quality Index (AQI) read 370. It was 328 on Tuesday. Neighbouring NCR towns Faridabad (441) and Noida (404) also witnessed severe air quality on Thursday morning. However, the AQI in Ghaziabad (359), Greater Noida (381), Gurugram (361) was in the “very poor” category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Meanwhile, the weather office has forecast light rain on Thursday. “There will partly cloudy sky with light rain or drizzle in the city on Thursday,” the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The weather office said maximum temperature is likely to hover around 22 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity at 8.30 am was 81 per cent, it said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-air-quality-slips-to-severe-category-minimum-temperature-rises-1056783.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Talk it out: Naidu to Centre, Opposition on suspension of 12 MPs||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday objected to the "sacrilege" of Parliament and Opposition's defence of the suspension of 12 MPs saying it is setting "new norms of democracy" even as he asked the government and it's opponents to "talk it out" and allow the House "to do its mandated job". Naidu made the remarks at the beginning of the proceedings of the day citing he has no other forum to share his "anguish and thoughts" even as Opposition MPs rose in protest for not allowing Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge to speak, leading to adjournment.  Rajya Sabha could not transact any meaningful business, except for passing The Farm Laws Repeal Bill without debate, as Opposition continued demanding the revocation of suspension of the MPs for the entire Winter Session. "Some of the respected leaders and members of this august House, in their wisdom, chose to describe the suspension of 12 members as ‘undemocratic’. I have struggled to understand if there was any justification in that kind of a narrative being propagated but could not," he said as suspended MPs continued their protest at the Gandhi Statue in Parliament House.  Stating that this was not the first time that something like this was happening, he said that starting from 1962, it happened on 11 occasions till 2010 following a motion moved by the governments of the day. "Were all of them undemocratic? If so, why it was resorted to so many times?" he asked, adding that The Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business "clearly provide" for suspension of members for disrupting the proceedings of the House and for misconduct lowering the dignity of the House under Rules 255 and 256. He said he did not want to "recall those forgettable acts of misconduct during the last Monsoon Session" as the reasons for the latest suspensions were in the public domain. "While calling this suspension as undemocratic, both within and outside the House, not even a word is being said about the reasons given for the suspension, the disdainful conduct of some members during the last session, which I have categorically called as ‘acts of sacrilege’ on the last day of last session," he said.  "Unfortunately, a message is sought to be sent out that ‘sacrilege’ of the House is democratic but action against such sacrilege is undemocratic. I am sure people of the country would not buy this new norms of democracy," he said.  Naidu also found fault with the suspended MPs insisting that they would not apologise and pointed out that such suspensions were revoked prematurely after erring lawmakers expressed remorse.  "Then what is the way forward? You don’t want to regret your misconduct but insist on revoking the decision of this House taken as per due process stipulated under the Rules of the House. Does this amount to upholding the principles of democracy?" he asked. Emphasising that it was human to err and it is also human to make amends, he said one cannot refuse to amend and insist on glossing over the wrongdoings. "Suspensions, either in the past or now, are only the expression of disapproval of the acts of misconduct of some members by the House. Disapproval of undemocratic conduct in the House  can’t be decried as undemocratic, for sure," he said.  "It is for this House to take a view on its earlier decision of suspension of members. It is for all the concerned to take it forward. I urge both the sides of this august House to talk it out and let the House do its mandated job," he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/talk-it-out-naidu-to-centre-opposition-on-suspension-of-12-mps-1056788.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Without Congress, UPA will be a body without soul, says Kapil Sibal||A day after TMC chief Mamata Banerjee's "there is no UPA now" jibe, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Thursday said without the Congress, the UPA will be a body without a soul and asserted that it was time to show opposition unity. West Bengal Chief Minister Banerjee on Wednesday met NCP supremo Sharad Pawar in Mumbai and called for fighting the BJP unitedly while taking a veiled swipe at the Congress leadership. When asked if she wanted Pawar to be the chairperson of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA), Banerjee had said, "There is no UPA now." Sibal, who was a Union minister in the UPA government, tweeted, "Without the Congress, UPA will be a body without a soul. Time to show opposition unity." UPA Without the Congress , UPA will be a body without a soul Time to show opposition unity Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/without-congress-upa-will-be-a-body-without-soul-says-kapil-sibal-1056792.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||After Supreme Court rap, Delhi shuts all schools till further orders||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said physical classes in schools in the national capital will be suspended from Friday till further orders in view of an increase in the air pollution levels. “We had reopened schools considering the forecast that air quality would improve. However, the air pollution levels have increased again and we have decided to shut schools from Friday till further orders,” Rai said. After remaining shut since November 13, physical classes in schools, colleges and other educational institutions had resumed from Monday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-supreme-court-rap-delhi-shuts-all-schools-till-further-orders-1056795.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||'Nothing but a popular slogan': Supreme Court raps Delhi government over 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign||The Supreme Court on Thursday came down hard on the Delhi government over its 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign to curb vehicular pollution, saying it was nothing but a popular slogan. A special bench headed by Chief Justice NV Ramana said the Aam Aadmi Party government had made various assurances such as work from home, lockdown, and closure of schools and colleges in the previous hearings. However, despite these assurances, the children were are going to school while elders are working from home. "Poor young boys standing in the middle of the road with banners, who is taking care of their health? Again, we've to say, other than the popularity slogan, what else is it?" the bench also comprising Justices DY Chandrachud and Surya Kant said. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for the Delhi government, referred to the affidavit and said the government had taken various measures. " This is another cause of pollution, so many affidavits daily," the bench then remarked. "Is it disclosed in the affidavit how many of these young boys are on the road? For publicity? A young boy standing in the middle of the road with a banner in hand. What is this? Someone has to take care of their health," the bench quipped. In response, Singhvi said the "boys" were civil volunteers. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had initiated the 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign from October 21 to November 15, saying that even if 10 lakh vehicles in the city joined the campaign, the PM10 levels would fall by 1.5 tonnes and PM2.5 by 0.4 tonnes in a year. Under the initiative, government officials from the transport department, volunteers and traffic police urge commuters to switch off their vehicles while waiting for the traffic light to turn green. The government then extended the campaign till November 30. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nothing-but-a-popular-slogan-supreme-court-raps-delhi-government-over-red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign-1056796.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi Court seeks police reply on suspended CISF officer's plea alleging custodial torture||A Delhi court has sought an action taken report (ATR) from the police on a plea filed by a suspended CISF commandant seeking registration of an FIR against two inspectors and an IAS officer for his alleged custodial torture in 2019.  Metropolitan Magistrate Siddhant Sihag passed the order on the plea made by Ranjan Pratap Singh, who claimed that despite his complaint to the Delhi Police on October 20, 2021, no action has been taken so far. The judge, in an order dated December 1, directed the Delhi Police to file its response and kept the matter for December 15.  In the plea, Singh alleged that he was subjected to third-degree custodial torture at Lodhi Colony Police Station for three days in October 2019. He was arrested for allegedly planting drugs in the car of an IAS officer's husband and falsely implicating him.  He claimed that the IAS officer, who was known to him, deceitfully induced him to go to the police station past midnight with an intent to get him wrongfully confined and tortured in police custody for obtaining a desired confession and using it to save her husband.  In the police custody, Singh alleged that few police personnel used “well-known third-degree beastly police methods” and hit him hard repeatedly with hands, "lathi" [stick] as well as with “pata” [belt] on instructions of two inspectors. The suspended officer further claimed that when he almost lost his senses, the two inspectors also coerced him to sign on blank sheets as well as a few papers without letting him have a look at its content.   “Complainant was brutally tortured in the Lodhi Colony Police Station, not only that night but for next two days and nights also, and the same stands clearly proved by the Medico Legal Case (MLC) reports of AIIMS clearly mentioning – 'external injury found',” he stated in the plea. Singh claimed that he obtained non-certified copies of the MLC reports with great difficulty after applications filed under the RTI Act 2005 with AIIMS, Delhi, as well as the Delhi Police, went in vain.  Singh, in the plea filed through advocate Kushal Kumar, Akashdeep Gupta, and Akansha Gulati, also claimed that the police also tried to hide the MLC reports from the Special Judge (NDPS).  He has sought direction from the court to the SHO of the Lodhi Colony Police Station to register FIR against the two inspectors and the IAS officer, who is currently posted in Rajasthan. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-seeks-police-reply-on-suspended-cisf-officers-plea-alleging-custodial-torture-1056800.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||UGC extends deadline for submission of MPhil, PhD thesis till June 2022||The University Grants Commission has granted extension to MPhil and PhD scholars for submission of thesis till June 30 next year, according to officials. "Keeping in view the larger interest of the research scholars, a further extension of six months beyond 31 December till June 30, 2022 for submission of thesis by MPhil and PhD students may be granted by the universities. It is also notified that the extension for submission of thesis till June, shall be applicable to all such students whose due date of submission of thesis is on or before June 30," UGC Secretary Rajnish Jain said. "Extension of six months, as mentioned above, may also be granted for submitting evidence of publication and presentation in two conferences. However, tenure of fellowship will remain up to five years only," he added. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ugc-extends-deadline-for-submission-of-mphil-phd-thesis-till-june-2022-1056806.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Congress, other Opposition members walk out of Rajya Sabha||The Congress and other Opposition parties on Thursday walked out from the Rajya Sabha over the issues of inflation, price rise and farmers. The Congress was the first to walk out after Deputy Chairman Harivansh rejected their demand for a discussion on inflation. Leaders of other parties like the Left and some smaller parties also joined them soon. The TMC, TRS and DMK and some other parties also walked out of the House while raising the issues of farmers. Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge sought to raise the issue of inflation and price rise and demanded a discussion on it. The deputy chairman said it cannot be entertained as the Question Hour was on. Soon other parties also walked out as they wanted to raise the issues of farmers and MSP. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-other-opposition-members-walk-out-of-rajya-sabha-1056814.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Heeding SAFAR's pollution advisories can save Delhi residents over Rs 7,000 crore: Study||People suffering from air pollution-related ailments in Delhi can save up to Rs 7,694 crore on health expenditure annually if they follow the advisories of government air quality forecast agency SAFAR, according to a new study. Similarly, people afflicted by air pollution in Pune, which sees relatively better air quality, can save up to Rs 948 crore on medical expenditure. Even if five per cent of the total population suffering from air pollution-related ailments in Delhi follow the advisories of government air quality forecast agency SAFAR, it can translate into an annual saving of Rs 1,096 crore on health expenditure, the research stated. Launched in 2010, the Ministry of Earth Sciences' System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) provides location-specific information on air quality in near real time and forecasts one to three days in advance in four major Indian cities, Delhi, Mumbai, Pune and Ahmedabad. The SAFAR team, comprising Suvarna Tikle, Ishika Ilme, and Professor Gufran Beig authored the research paper titled 'Impact of SAFAR Air Quality Forecasting Framework and Advisory Services in Reducing the Economic Health Burden of India' in the international journal Regional Economic Development Research. "Our findings support the idea that public knowledge and early warnings remain critical components of health and economic growth.  SAFAR is credited with saving 11-14 per cent of total money spent by residents afflicted by air pollution, according to this research,” said Professor Beig. The cost savings in pulmonary (asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder - COPD, and other associated diseases) diseases linked to air pollution have been considered in this study. The annual average cost of all air pollution-related ailments in Delhi and Pune is Rs 7,694 crore and Rs 948 crore, respectively, the study report said.   Allergic rhinitis' OPD treatment costs the highest (Rs 1,449 crore), followed by asthma (Rs 1,001 crore), and COPD (Rs 514 crore) in Delhi, all of which have grown significantly over time, it said. “If we can raise awareness among 5 to 10 per cent of the population and get more people to take measures based on SAFAR's three-day early warning system on bad air quality days, the benefit would increase to Rs 2,192 crore in Delhi and Rs 200 crore in Pune in a year,” said Beig. The study gains importance as economic implications are crucial for the societal acceptance of mitigation action and designing and enforcing abatement policy measures, the authors said. As air pollution also affects many other sectors like agriculture, aviation, infrastructure, tourism, etc., there is a need to understand the benefits associated with these sectors in the future, they said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heeding-safars-pollution-advisories-can-save-delhi-residents-over-rs-7000-crore-study-1056819.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Over 15 lakh vaccinated in Madhya Pradesh mega drive||Over 15.79 lakh people were vaccinated against Covid-19 during a mega campaign organised by the Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday, an official said Thursday. A total of 15,79,432 people took the jab at 12,160 vaccination centres across the state till 8 pm on Wednesday, the official said. The state government has set a target of vaccinating the entire eligible population above the age of 18 with both the doses of the vaccine by December-end, the official said. According to the data provided by the state health department, at least 8,80,61,615 doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state so far. As many as 5,12,16,211 people have received the first dose, while 3,68,45,404 have taken both jabs of the vaccine, it was stated. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh rose to 7,93,187 after 17 fresh cases were detected on Wednesday, a health official said. The toll stands at 10,528, while the count of recoveries has reached 7,82,535, leaving the central state with 124 active cases, the official said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-over-15-lakh-vaccinated-in-madhya-pradesh-mega-drive-1056829.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Andhra Pradesh, Odisha brace for cyclonic storm Jawad; PM Modi chairs meeting||The Andhra Pradesh government is bracing for another round of nature’s fury, this time likely to hit the northern coast. A well-marked low-pressure area lying over the southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining the Andaman Sea is likely to intensify into cyclonic storm Jawad and reach the west-central Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh–south Odisha coasts around December 4 morning, with the wind speed ranging up to 100 kilometres per hour, and then re-curve in the north-northeastward direction towards the West Bengal coast. The cyclone is likely to cause heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal.  Fishermen are advised not to venture along and off the Andhra Pradesh coast on Saturday and Sunday and those who are in the sea have been advised to return to the coast at the earliest. The East Coast Railways has cancelled 95 trains operating in its jurisdiction for three days and has also geared up its disaster management tools for the possible cyclone, an official said. The Indian Coast Guard has started pre-emptive actions for the safety of life and property at sea, tasking its ships and aircraft to relay weather warnings to mariners, a defence official said. On Thursday, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy held a review meeting with collectors of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts in north coastal AP regarding the precautionary measures to be taken as the cyclonic storm closes in on. The Odisha government has also geared up its preparedness by keeping adequate men, machinery and logistics ready to meet the challenge. Modi reviews preparedness Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the preparedness to deal with the situation arising out of the likely formation of Cyclone Jawad and directed officials to take every measure to ensure that people are safely evacuated. He directed officials to take every possible measure to ensure that people are safely evacuated and the maintenance of all essential services such as power, telecommunications, health, drinking water etc., and that they are restored immediately in the event of any disruption. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/andhra-pradesh-odisha-brace-for-cyclonic-storm-jawad-pm-modi-chairs-meeting-1056832.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC declines early hearing of PIL on election of Deputy Speaker of Lok Sabha||The Delhi High Court Thursday declined to grant an early hearing of a PIL alleging inaction by Constitutional functionaries in not holding election to the post of Deputy Speaker of Lok Sabha. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said it will hear the matter on the date already fixed -- February 28 next year. “Looking into the facts and circumstances of the case, we see no reason to entertain the application,” the bench said. The petitioner, Pawan Reley, said the post of Deputy Speaker has been vacant for more than two years in violation under Article 93 of the Constitution and urged the court to advance the date of hearing as the case involves substantial interpretation of law. The plea has also sought a direction to the Speaker, Lok Sabha to “fix any short date” to hold an election to the post. “It has been 830 days that Deputy Speaker has not been elected. This is very serious,” the plea contended. It said no discretion has been conferred on any authority for not electing a Deputy Speaker and Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha casts a primary duty on the Speaker to fix the date for holding the election to the post. “The expression ‘as soon as may be’ under Article 93 cannot, at any stretch of imagination, be extended by the respondents to the substantial period 2 years and more... any further delay in electing Constitutional office of the Deputy Speaker will breach the collective trust in the Lok Sabha which is founded on the bedrock of the Constitutional trust,” the petition said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-declines-early-hearing-of-pil-on-election-of-deputy-speaker-of-lok-sabha-1056835.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||SP stopped SC/ST scholarships for political purposes: CM Yogi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday accused the previous Samajwadi Party government of discriminating against students from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and stopping their scholarships due to political vendetta. In his address after virtually transferring scholarships worth Rs 458.66 crore to meritorious students, the chief minister alleged that the earlier government had stopped scholarships to SC/ST students in 2016-17 and that he was shocked to realise this after he assumed power in March 2017. "The lives of children were played with due to political vendetta and rivalry. It was a conspiracy by them (SP government) to obstruct public welfare schemes," Adityanath said, adding his government transferred the scholarship amount to the bank accounts of those students soon after.    "Previous governments in the state used to decide on scholarships keeping in mind their political gains and losses. But the BJP government has been giving all students equal opportunities and an environment to grow," he said. Adityanath said his government has been imparting free coaching not only to students from SC/ST and minority communities, but also to those from the general category under 'Abhyudaya Yojana'. He directed the Social Welfare Department to extend this scheme, currently being run in 18 districts, to all 75 districts.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sp-stopped-sc/st-scholarships-for-political-purposes-cm-yogi-1056842.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah lays foundation stone for university in Saharanpur||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday laid the foundation stone for Maa Shakumbhari Devi University in Saharanpur’s Behat Assembly constituency. Shah laid the foundation stone in the presence of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, just months ahead of the state Assembly elections. The university will be constructed at a cost of Rs 92 crore over 50.43 acres and is named after Shakumbari Devi, a deity whose temple is in Behat, revered throughout western UP. Shah's visit to the region came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's decision to repeal the Centre’s farm laws, against which protests were being held in western UP. Of the seven Assembly seats falling in Saharanpur district, the BJP currently holds four. Two are held by the Congress and one is with the Samajwadi Party. Of 80 Assembly seats in region, the BJP currently holds 60.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-lays-foundation-stone-for-university-in-saharanpur-1056853.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Only bullets can't solve Naxalism, need 360-degree strategy, says Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||Asserting that unemployment gave rise to Naxalism in Chhattisgarh's worst-affected Bastar region, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday said only guns and bullets cannot solve this decades-old problem and development is the only way out. He said the government has reopened many schools, including some english-medium schools, for children in areas affected by left-wing extremism. "I think the root cause of the problem (Naxalism) has been either misunderstood or ignored earlier. After we took over, we realised that only guns and bullets cannot solve the problem. "We need to have a 360-degree strategy to solve this decades-old problem. I am happy to tell you that we are slowly succeeding in our endeavour," Baghel told PTI in an interview. He said the government has started working closely with the people of Bastar. "We started consultations with the local communities and asked them what is their prescription for the problem and what they need to make life better. Then we started addressing the problems they face in their day-to-day life," the chief minister said. Baghel said unemployment has been a reason behind the rise of Naxal problems in Bastar. "We have taken many steps to address this problem. Efforts are being made to provide jobs to locals. We are making sure that youths get jobs in their own district or in the region," he said. The chief minister said police personnel were being given high-level training and special task force hubs have been set up for effective action. "Our police and para-military forces are combative as never before. We have also asked the Centre to assist in development here and have also given suggestions, which if implemented, will aid in the elimination of Naxalism from this hotbed of red terror within the next few years," the senior Congress leader said. Baghel accused the opposition parties of creating misunderstandings among the forest dwellers about the coal mining projects. The misunderstandings have been cleared now, he said. "We always stand with the forest dwellers for all the difficulties they face due to the wrong policies of the Central government. When the tribals were on a foot march to Raipur for handing over a memorandum to the governor and me about their demands from the Central government, our government took care of them too," Baghel said. A large number of tribals and forest-dwellers had in October reached Raipur, walking 300 km as part of an agitation demanding immediate cancellation of coal mining projects in the Hasdeo Aranya region of north Chhattisgarh and to protect the forests. "We have cleared all the groundless apprehensions about the coal mining projects. Our government has neither violated the rules and procedures in the past nor will do so in the future. We are committed to protecting every right of the forest dwellers and tribals," the chief minister said. Baghel said that his government has started framing rules under the Provisions of the Panchayats (Extension of the Scheduled Areas) Act and they will be implemented soon. "My party strongly believes in democracy and decentralisation of power. We brought the Panchayati Raj and implemented it. We made the PESA act and we are committed to implementing it," he said. "Don't you find it surprising that the question of PESA implementation had never been asked in the years when the BJP was in power? People believe that only the Congress government can implement it and we will do it soon," the chief minister said. Baghel also accused the Centre of being anti-farmer and highlighted schemes being run by the Chhattisgarh government for their welfare. "It is not just about these three controversial (farm) laws. It seems that the BJP govt at the centre is against farmers in any way. Take the example of Chhattisgarh where the Centre is unnecessarily creating hindrances in the paddy procurement process this time as well," he alleged. Baghel said his government started the 'Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana', which aims to benefit over 21 lakh farmers of the state. During the Covid pandemic, Chhattisgarh became the first state to transfer financial aid directly in the account of farmers, he said. "Under this scheme, input assistance of Rs 5,702 crore is being given in four instalments to about 21 lakh farmers in Kharif marketing year 2020-21." Rs 1,548 crore has been paid in three instalments as of November 1 this year, Baghel said, adding that the fourth and final instalment will be transferred in their accounts by March next year. "Our government has started the first-of-its-kind Godhan Nyay Yojana under which farmers are being directly benefited through cow dung procurement at the rate of Rs 2 per kg. The scheme is yielding extraordinary results in the state," he said. "A majority of the states, including the BJP-ruled ones, are studying our schemes and implementing them in one way or the other," Baghel claimed, adding the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Agricultural Affairs has recommended the implementation of the Godhan Nyay Yojana in the entire country. "We are fulfilling our promises and making our farmers happy, he said. In an apparent dig at the BJP, Baghel said, "It is high time that questions should be asked to those who have promised to double farmers' income by 2022."  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/only-bullets-cant-solve-naxalism-need-360-degree-strategy-says-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-1056855.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||TMC condemns restriction on media access to Parliament proceedings||The TMC on Thursday expressed solidarity with the journalist fraternity on the issue of restricted access to Parliament and called for immediate restoration of all facilities to the media to cover the proceedings. In a statement, the party condemned the move stating that such restriction was against the spirit of democracy.  "The Chief Minister of Bengal and the Chairperson of the All India Trinamool Congress, Ms Mamata Banerjee, along with the entire Trinamool Congress parliamentary party wish to express our complete solidarity with the journalist fraternity on the issue of restricted access to parliament.  "Parliament is the heart of our democracy and reporting on it is a cherished democratic tradition. A free and robust media is the soul of a parliamentary democracy. Right to free speech, freedom of expression and thought are the foundations of a vibrant democracy," it said.  The party called for immediate restoration of all facilities to the journalists to cover Parliament so that the institution is strengthened.  "India ranks 142 in the World Press Freedom Index out of 180 countries. This is going further down. Even a couple of years ago, we were at 136, now at 142.  Targeting victims such as physical abuse against journalists and prejudice is one of the other reasons for the decline in the world ranking index.  Let's work together to ensure that in this the 75th year of our independence, the free spirit of an independent media is not controlled in any manner," the party said in a statement. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tmc-condemns-restriction-on-media-access-to-parliament-proceedings-1056856.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Twin cheers for India as Nizamuddin Basti project wins two UNESCO heritage awards||In double joy for India, a project on holistic urban revitalisation of the historic Nizamuddin Basti community in Delhi, has brought laurels for the country in two categories in this year's UNESCO Asia-Pacific Awards for Cultural Heritage Conservation. The project has won the prestigious Award of Excellence, and another award in the Special Recognition for Sustainable Development category, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) said. Nine projects from six countries – Bangladesh, China, India, Japan, Malaysia, and Thailand – have been honoured by a jury of heritage experts. Jurors met online in November to review a total of 39 entries from 12 countries across the Asia-Pacific, UNESCO Bangkok said in a statement issued on Wednesday. Jingdezhen Pengjia Alley Compound in Jiangxi, China and Kesennuma Historic Citiscape in Miyagi, Japan, have won Award of Distinction; while Award of Merit went to Doleshwar Hanafia Jame Mosque in Dhaka, Bangladesh; Thai Pak Koong (Ng Suk) Temple in Penang, Malaysia; and Baan Khun Phithak Raya in Pattani, Thailand. "The jury applauded the Nizamuddin Basti project for its outstanding achievement in placing heritage at the heart of the sustainable development agenda and noted that through an innovative People-Public-Private Partnership model, the project overcame major socio-economic challenges and improved health, education and well-being, particularly for women and youth," the statement said.   🎊Placing heritage at the heart of sustainable development! The project in south Delhi began in 2007 and a multiple initiatives have been taken under it which have improved the quality of life, livelihood of the people in the centuries-old neighbourhood, said a senior official of Aga Khan Trust for Culture, which executed it in partnership with local civic body, Archaeological Survey of India and a few other agencies. The UNESCO awards jury further commented, “It is notable that the development initiatives preceded the conservation efforts, which encompassed the meticulous restoration of over 20 historic monuments clustered around the 14th-century mausoleum of the revered Sufi saint, Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya". "From conserving monuments to reviving local crafts, to improving the urban environment and creating new jobs, the project has brought about the revitalisation of the living historic urban landscape in its truest sense," it said. "We at the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC) are overwhelmend to receive two of the highest awards from UNESCO this year. This ratification, for over decades of work, will hopefully expedite our projects, being replicated across India. In Nizamuddin, its been a privilege to work alongside the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, residents and the ASI," CEO, AKTC, Ratish Nanda told PTI. Delhi's iconic Sunder Nursery, a 90-acre garden which was transformed into a horticultural paradise after a decade-long conservation work, was among the winners in the UNESCO Asia-Pacific Awards for Cultural Heritage Conservation in 2020. The park, located near UNESCO heritage site of Humayun's Tomb, had won the Award of Excellence. After a decade-long conservation work by AKTC and its partnering agencies, the Sunder Nursery, located in Nizamuddin area, was transformed into a new horticultural delight, and was opened to the public in February 2018. Since 2000, the UNESCO Asia-Pacific Awards for Cultural Heritage Conservation programme has been recognizing the efforts of private individuals and organizations in restoring, conserving, and transforming structures and buildings of distinct heritage value in the region In 2020, UNESCO introduced the Special Recognition for Sustainable Development and an updated set of Awards criteria to highlight the contribution of cultural heritage to sustainable development within the broader framework of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the statement said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/twin-cheers-for-india-as-nizamuddin-basti-project-wins-two-unesco-heritage-awards-1056859.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||UP seer, facing molestation charge, allegedly attempts suicide; bid thwarted||Police on Wednesday foiled an alleged suicide bid by a Vrindavan-based seer and the national president of Sri Krishna Janmabhumi Nirman Nyas, who is facing charges of molestation and extortion, officials said. “Pained by an FIR filed against him barely 24 hours ago for alleged molestation, extortion and use of filthy language among others, Dev Murari Bapu tried to kill himself with a knife at his residence,” Superintendent of Police (city) Martand Prakash Singh said. The police overpowered the seer when he tried to claim his own life in the presence of few journalists, the SP said.  Earlier, the seer told journalists that the allegations against him were false and baseless. On November 30, a woman had lodged a complaint against him at the Vrindavan police station, based on which a case was registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including sections 354 (criminal intimidation) and 506 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty). The SP said the seer was assured of an impartial investigation and that police was also stationed outside his residence as a precautionary measure.  Meanwhile, Murari said his outfit has postponed the proposed padayatra as part of the call earlier given by various right wing organisations to install the idol of Lord Krishna at the Shahi Idgah here, which they claim to be the "actual birthplace" of the deity, due to "Covid-19 and the prevailing situation". Mathura administration, for its part, has beefed up the security in the district and declared the temple complex a Red Zone. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-seer-facing-molestation-charge-allegedly-attempts-suicide-bid-thwarted-1056901.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||SC slams Centre, Delhi government over rising air pollution levels in national capital||An emergency situation needs emergency measures, the Supreme Court said on Thursday while slamming the Centre and state government over rising air pollution in New Delhi. The apex court granted them 24 hours to find a way to deal with the pollution in the national capital. "You have to work with creativity...if things are not working," a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and others. "We have to do something extraordinary...we cannot enforce or induce creativity in your bureaucracy, you have to come up with some steps," the bench added. The court indicated to appoint an independent authority to monitor measures for controlling pollution. The bench, also comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, questioned the utility of having a Commission for Air Quality Management, if it ended up having on board people from different departments and seemed like it has no power to enforce its decisions. As Delhi logged an Air Quality Index of 429 – classified 'severe' – on Thursday, the bench asked, "despite our orders, pollution level is only going up. Where is it coming from?" "What is the use of a 20-30-member committee (air quality commission)? It is nothing but another burden on the exchequer," the bench said. Maintaining that the government was equally concerned about life-threatening pollution levels in Delhi, Mehta sought one day's time to talk to the highest authority and to come out with additional measures to deal with the crisis. "If you do not act, we will step in...we have extraordinary steps in mind," the bench told the counsel, putting the matter for consideration on Friday. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-slams-centre-delhi-government-over-rising-air-pollution-levels-in-national-capital-1056905.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||IIT-Delhi placements: Over 60 offers above Rs 1 crore on Day 1||Around 60 offers made to students at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, on the first day of the placement drive were above Rs 1 crore, according to sources. Over 350 national and international organisations, offering above 750 job profiles across multiple sectors, have already registered for hiring students as of now, they said. According to officials, there has been over a 45 per cent increase in the number of offers received by the campus and over 35 per cent increase in the indicative compensation offered by companies visiting on Thursday in comparison to last year. “IIT Delhi students bagged over 400 placement offers, including pre-placement offers (PPOs), highest in past five years by the end of the first day of the placement season on December 1. Many students have also bagged multiple placement offers," the institute said in a statement. "Around 180 PPOs have been received as of now and 7 students have opted for deferred placements facility of the institute. Deferred placements facility is available for students who wish to set up a start-up post their graduation,” IIT-D said. The students choosing the deferred placement option can avail of placement services once within two years of their graduation. Anishya Obhrai Madan, Head, Office of Career Services, IIT Delhi, said, “We are confident that given the new ways of recruiting and our scheduling paradigm; companies will be able to make good hiring decisions. We look forward to this positive hiring trend continuing for the rest of the season.” Top recruiters on the campus included Bain, Boston Consulting Group, Goldman Sachs, Graviton, Intel, Microsoft, NK Securities and Texas Instruments, among others. “For the first time, few organisations have indicated that their salaries in India may be higher than those paid by organisations recruiting for international profiles,” Obhrai said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iit-delhi-placements-over-60-offers-above-rs-1-crore-on-day-1-1056906.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Those who 'forced' Hindus to migrate from western UP will face same fate: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday sought to assure the Hindus, who were 'forced' to 'migrate' from some western Uttar Pradesh districts, that those who forced them to do so would themselves face the same fate under the BJP rule. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had also made a similar comment a few days ago. He also recalled the closure of slaughterhouses by Adityanath after he assumed charge of the state after the 2017 Assembly polls. "When I had visited this place earlier, the people used to ask me if they would be forced to convert or migrate...I had then told them to change the government, and we will drive out those who force others to migrate from UP," he said.   Shah also praised the UP chief minister, saying that during his regime, mafia elements had either left the state or were sent behind bars. "He has rid the state of the mafia elements...the mafias are now surrendering before the cops," he added. The BJP leader also referred to the Ram Temple in Ayodhya and said till a few years ago, no one believed that the Ram Temple would ever be built or triple talaq would end. "We have made those possible....we scrapped Article 370," he added. A few days ago, Adityanath had also raked up the same issue at a public meeting in Kairana town of Shamli district from where hundreds of Hindu families had allegedly migrated after 'threats' from the Muslims during the previous Samajwadi Party (SP) regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/those-who-forced-hindus-to-migrate-from-western-up-will-face-same-fate-shah-1056909.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Priyanka targets PM, asks people not to forgive him for atrocities on farmers||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday asked the people not to 'forgive' prime minister Narendra Modi for calling the farmers 'anti-nationals' and 'khalistanis' and said that the BJP governments did not bother about development as the saffron party felt that it could win the polls by dividing the people along religious lines. Addressing a public meeting at Moradabad, about 350 kilometres from here, Priyanka also attacked the BSP and Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav for indulging in the politics of caste and religion.  ''Kisano ka roj apman kiya....deshdrohi, andolanjeevi aur khalistani kaha aur ab jab chunav aya to kahte hain ki maaf kar dijiye...kyon maaf kar den...hisab mangiye'' (farmers were humiliated every day...they were called traitors and khalistanis...and now that the polls are approaching he is seeking forgiveness...why should you forgive him...seek accountability), Priyanka said. She also took potshots at Modi for ''posing for photographs'' with the sweepers but doing precious little for them. ''Communal and caste based politics get precedence in UP....the chief minister knows that he does not have to develop the state as he can win the polls using caste and religion... you (people) must change it,'' Priyanka added. ''UP mein andher nagari, chaupat raja chal raha hai'' (there is no rule of law in UP and the ruler is useless), she said. The Congress leader, for the first time, targeted Akhilesh and likened him and the BSP supremo Mayawati to the BJP saying that these leaders spoke the same language. ''Where was Akhilesh when a dalit girl was raped and killed in Hathras?....where was Akhilesh when police shot dead CAA protesters? Did he visit any of the families of the victims? If not then why he is going to the people now?'' she said. Seeking to strike a chord with the people of Moradabad, also known as the 'brass city' owing to the export of brassware from there, Priyanka, whose in-laws hailed from the town, said that the once thriving city had witnessed closure of businesses and joblessness owing to the faulty economic policies and apathetic attitude of the centre and the state government. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-targets-pm-asks-people-not-to-forgive-him-for-atrocities-on-farmers-1056915.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Won't fall for BJP's Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi bait, say Opposition parties||Apparently sensing an ''electoral trap'', the opposition parties reacted guardedly to Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's remarks asking his party supporters to 'prepare' for Mathura (Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi). "Ayodhya, Kashi Bhavya mandir nirman jari hai, Mathura ki tayyari hai" (construction is going on in Ayodhya and Varanasi, Now preparing for Mathura), Maurya had said in a post on his Twitter handle on Wednesday. Maurya, whose remarks generated a lot of political heat in the poll-bound state, upped the ante on Thursday by asking the opposition leaders to 'clear' their stand on the issue. The parties, however, appeared in no mood to take the 'bait'. "BJP has sensed defeat in the forthcoming polls.....it has seen the writing on the wall and therefore has raked up the issue of Mathura as its last weapon...the people of the state are too wise not to see through the game plan of the saffron party," BSP supremo Mayawati said on Thursday. "It appears to be a well thought out strategy of the BJP.....they want to polarise the polls and setting a trap for us but we will not take the bait....the issue has reached the courts and we all should wait for its decision," said a senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader while reacting to Maurya's remarks. Aam Admi Party (AAP) leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said that the BJP, which did not remember Kashi and Mathura during its four-and-half-year rule in the state, was raking up these issues now that elections were around the corner, to divide the people along religious lines. Maurya, however, remained unfazed by the controversy and sought to know from the opposition leaders about their stand on the issue. "Akhilesh Yadav (SP president) keeps saying that he is a disciple of Lord Krishna.....if it is so then he must reveal if he wants a Shrikrishna Temple at Mathura or not," he said.  Maurya also said that Mathura was not an election issue for the BJP. "Ayodhya, Kashi, Mathura are not election issues for us...they are issues of faith for the Hindus," he said. BJP leaders, including chief minister Yogi Adityanath had dropped hints that 'Hindutva' was one of their party's major planks in the forthcoming assembly polls. In his public meetings, Adityanath had sought to paint his rivals as 'pro-Muslim' parties, who during their regime, spent money on renovating graveyards and thwarted attempts to build the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wont-fall-for-bjps-shrikrishna-janmabhoomi-bait-say-opposition-parties-1056919.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Ours is 'changi sarkar', delivered on promises, says Punjab CM Charanjit Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday hit out at his political opponents, saying he is not someone who just makes announcements but the one who earns people’s trust by delivering on promises. "Some say it is 'Channi sarkar', but I am nobody, I say this is 'changi sarkar'," he told reporters at press conference here. Channi also gave details of development works and pro-people initiatives taken by the state government after he assumed the charge of the Punjab CM in September, replacing Amarinder Singh. "I am not 'ailaanjeet' (one who only makes announcements). I am 'vishwasjeet' (one who has won people's trust)," said Charanjit Singh Channi. The Punjab CM's statement has come amid a war of words with Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Kejriwal, whose party he had described as "kale angrej" (black Englishmen). Kejriwal on Thursday slammed Channi, saying he may be "dark complexioned" but his intent is clear and he doesn't make false promises. Channi asserted that in a short span of time, his government has not only made several pro-people announcements but also implemented them. "I am here to give a report card before people, to give full account. We have formed government to serve people. We will work with full honesty and transparency. What I say, I will deliver. I will not break people's trust," he said. "We work for the welfare of all classes. This government is of all, of common people," he added. Targeting AAP, Channi said those who do not know anything about Punjab are questioning them about "aam aadmi". "What I say that becomes law and I say what people, common people need," he added. "We made power cheaper from November 1 by Rs 3 for those having load up to 7 kw. In Punjab, power is the cheapest in the entire India, I am making this claim, let anyone counter me," said Channi, accusing rivals of "misleading" people. "They are misleading the public because the bills recently issued were for October period and the relief will get reflected in coming bills," he said. Hitting out at the Shiromani Akali Dal over farm laws, he said, "The SAD is mother of these farm laws. They passed a law of contract farming first and they showed it to their (erstwhile) ally BJP, which later brought farm laws," he said. The Centre on Wednesday notified a legislation to repeal the three agriculture laws against which thousands of farmers have been protesting for over a year now. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ours-is-changi-sarkar-delivered-on-promises-says-punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-1056930.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi government likely to propose DDMA to make 1st dose of Covid vaccine must for entry to public places||The Delhi government is likely to propose to the DDMA to make the first dose of anti-Covid vaccine mandatory by December 15 for entry to public places and also incentivise people with cash prizes, discounts, and lottery to encourage them in getting inoculated, officials said on Thursday. It may also be proposed that by March 31 next year getting fully vaccinated be made a must for entry to public places like malls and metro stations, they said. They cited examples of European countries that have adopted a vaccine transport system thereby limiting access to public places for the unvaccinated. The officials also said that countries like the US, Philippines, Moscow, and Mexico have incentivised vaccination. In a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority held in September to review Delhi's Covid-19 situation, the city health secretary had suggested many measures, including making vaccination mandatory for entry to malls and metro trains. "It is also the right time to de-incentivize/incentivize remaining beneficiaries for vaccination by making vaccination mandatory for entry into malls Delhi Metro, restaurants and offices," the minutes of the meeting read. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said on Tuesday that 97 per cent of Delhiites have received their first dose of vaccine, and 57 per cent are fully inoculated. "These are good numbers," he had said and urged people to get their second dose soon. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-likely-to-propose-ddma-to-make-1st-dose-of-covid-vaccine-must-for-entry-to-public-places-1056940.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Central Vista Avenue project has achieved 60% physical progress, government tells Lok Sabha||Redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue, stretching from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and has a deadline of December 2021, has achieved 60 per cent of physical progress, the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry told the Lok Sabha on Thursday. The government, however, has planned to hold the 2022 Republic Day parade on the newly-developed Rajpath that comes under the Central Vista Avenue Redevelopment Project. In a written reply to a question by Congress MP Manish Tewari, Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs Kaushal Kishore said the new Parliament building project, which is scheduled to be completed by October 2022, has achieved 35 per cent of physical progress. At the inaugural ceremony of two office complexes for the employees of the Defence Ministry and the armed forces here on September 16, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said the Winter Session of Parliament next year would take place in the new Parliament building. Addressing Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the event, he had said, "I would like to assure you that the redevelopment work of Central Vista Avenue will be completed in two-and-a-half months, where the Republic Day parade will be held." The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the three-kilometre-long Rajpath from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, a new prime minister's residence and prime minister's office, and a new Vice President's enclave. In his written reply to Tewari, Kishore said Rs 1,289 crore has been allocated for the development/redevelopment works of Central Vista in the ongoing financial year. The minister said these works have provided direct livelihood opportunities to more than 10,000 skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers on site and off site and generated more than 24.12 lakh man days of employment. In addition, substantial employment in manufacturing and transportation of cement, steel and other building materials have been provided, Kishore said, adding these works will also contribute to the economy and help realize our resolve for "Aatmanirbhar Bharat". He also said that there is no link between works pertaining to Central Vista and Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS). "Separately, the Union cabinet, in its meeting on November 10, has restored MPLADS for the remaining part of the Financial Year 2021-22 and its continuation from FY 2022-23 to FY 2025-26 with an outlay of Rs 17,417 crore," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-vista-avenue-project-has-achieved-60-physical-progress-government-tells-lok-sabha-1056943.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Ratan Tata to get Assam's highest civilian award||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday said the state government will confer its highest civilian award ‘Assam Baibhav’ on Tata Trusts' chairman Ratan Tata for his contribution towards building cancer treatment facilities in the state. The Assam government and Tata Trust are collaborating for setting up 19 Cancer Care Units in the state. The foundation stone for the project was laid in June 2018 in presence of Ratan Tata. Tata Trusts had signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Assam government during the Advantage Assam - Global Investment Summit 2018, held in February that year, giving a formal shape to the project. “Delighted to announce that the Government of Assam has decided to confer its highest civilian award, Assam Baibhav, to @RNTata2000 Chairman, @tatatrusts for his exceptional contribution towards furthering cancer care in Assam,” Sarma Tweeted.   The highest civilian award was announced on the occasion of Asom Divas, celebrated on December 2 every year to commemorate the rule of Swargadeo Chaolung Sukapha, who founded the Ahom dynasty in Assam that ruled the state for 600 years. Earlier known as ‘Assam Ratna’, the award was renamed as ‘Assam Baibhav’ by the Sarma-led government in September this year. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ratan-tata-to-get-assams-highest-civilian-award-1056947.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Get choice of Parliamentary Affairs Minister vetted by Opposition to avoid trouble, says RJD MP Manoj K Jha||At a time the government and the Opposition are on a face-off over the suspension of 12 MPs, senior RJD MP Manoj K Jha on Thursday made a veiled attack on the crisis management of the ruling side couched in a curious suggestion  -- before choosing a Parliamentary Affairs Minister, get them vetted by the Opposition. He made the suggestion at the beginning of his intervention during the debate on The Dam Safety Bill, as the Opposition demand for revocation of MPs' suspension was not accted by the government, which is insisting on expression of regret. "The Cabinet formation is the prerogative of the Prime Minister. We don't wish or want to interfere in that process. But I have a suggestion. For the selection of Parliamentary Affairs Minister, there should be vetting by the opposition. If the Opposition has a role, then blockade and disruptions can be solved with a smile. There are many that side who do it with a smile," Jha said. Opposition leaders have been complaining that the government floor managers, including Parliamentary Affairs Minister who acts as a bridge between the government and Opposition, are not being accommodative. Pralhad Joshi is currently the Parliamentary Affairs Minister and he is assissted by Ministers of State Arjun Ram Meghwal in Lok Sabha and V Muralidharan in Rajya Sabha. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, while he was a Minister, had also handled the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs. "On the last day (August 11) in which a large number of marshals, including the blue-suited 'dabangs', were called, I went to the Deputy Chairman (Harivansh) and said the insurance bill has been passed in din and now withdraw the security personnel. The Deputy Chairman was willing but Pralhad Joshi said, we won't do it. The Deputy Chairman called the Rajya Sabha Secretariat. I am telling you this on record. The Secretary General was there. He said we can now withdraw the marshals but Joshi said no. These are people who you cannot do business with. They are insincere. They say one thing but do something else," Ramesh had said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/get-choice-of-parliamentary-affairs-minister-vetted-by-opposition-to-avoid-trouble-says-rjd-mp-manoj-k-jha-1056951.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||BJP-ruled states favoured in Covid-19 management, says Shiv Sena in Lok Sabha||The Opposition on Thursday hit out at the government over Covid-19 management, accusing it of mishandling the second wave and favouring BJP-ruled states in allocation of vaccines. It also dubbed the celebrations over the 100-crore vaccination mark as premature. Initiating a debate in Lok Sabha on the Covid-19 pandemic, Shiv Sena leader Vinayak Raut lamented that Parliament was discussing the issue 21 months after the outbreak of the disease and at a time when cases were on the decline. Referring to the Omicron variant of the virus, he demanded close co-ordination among state governments and the Centre. "There should be clarity in the Centre's directives on Omicron," the Lok Sabha member from Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg in Maharashtra said. On Covid-19 vaccination, Raut accused the Centre of allocating vaccine doses to BJP-ruled states in excess and at the cost of non-BJP ruled states. "The prime minister's responsibility is for the entire 130 crore population. It should not be so that you look at Maharashtra with a sly glance, help Gujarat in good measure and make maximum allocations to Uttar Pradesh because it is going to polls. Allocations should be made on the basis of the population," the Sena leader said. He also described as "premature" the celebrations in India over crossing the 100 crore milestone in Covid-19 vaccinations. "Till date, only 38 per cent of the population has received both doses of vaccines. Should we be satisfied with this? We cannot launch premature celebrations for 100 crore doses," Raut said. On utilisation of PM-CARES fund, he refrained from making a direct attack on the Centre and instead targeted contractors tasked with supplying ventilators to hospitals and establishing PSA oxygen plants. "The Centre or the prime minister is not to be blamed. It is the suppliers who provided sub-standard ventilators which could not be used for the welfare of the people," Raut said. He said the prime minister had made an announcement of setting up more than 1500 PSA oxygen plants at hospitals across the country, but in reality, only 316 plants were functional. "But for the rest, only foundation stones were laid and the plants were not operational. Contractors have betrayed the Centre and strict action should be taken against such people," Raut said. The Sena leader also raised the issue of private hospitals overcharging Covid-19 patients, particularly during the second wave of the pandemic. Gaurav Gogoi (Congress) charged the government with ignoring various warnings leading to a shortage of bed, oxygen, and ventilators in the second wave. The second wave has resulted in the hardship for poor as many of them have lost jobs, he said. Instead of supporting them, he said, the government robbed them by increasing the prices of LPG cylinders, petrol, and diesel. They should have rather increased corporate tax if the government was falling short of funds, Gogoi said, adding, the government has money to spend on the Central Vista project but no money to support the poor. According to the National Disaster Management Act, he said, the government should have given compensation of Rs 4 lakh crore to the family members of those who succumbed to Covid-19 but they are facing difficulty in paying even Rs 50,000. Gogoi demanded the government should inform the house about the roadmap for vaccination and booster dose and should also clarify how many actual death have taken place due to Covid-19. Expressing concerns over the economy, he said, the informal sector has been hit very badly and government needs to support them. He also said that the Indian economy is witnessing a phenomenon where the rich are becoming richer while the poor are getting poorer leading to deeper inequality. There is an immediate need to bring down prices of LPG, Kerosene, diesel, and petrol to protect the poor hit hard from Covid-19. DNV Senthilkumar S (DMK) said that the Standing Committee on Health had warned the government about the threat of second wave and shortage of oxygen, ventilators and other medical equipment but the government ignored those suggestions. He also demanded the government to provide compensation to 700 farmers who have lost their lives in the protest. Participating in the debate, BJP's Ratan Lal Kataria said that as a new variant of the Covid virus has emerged, there is a need to be more cautious and follow all protocols properly. "It is not the time to sit comfortably, we have to be vigilant," he said. According to medical specialists, so far there are no cases of this new variant in the country, Kataria said. He said the opposition has a role in democracy and they should play that role, but asked it not to politicise things when it comes to serving humanity. They should encourage people to engage in the fight against the pandemic, he said. Enlisting various relief activities undertaken by the BJP during the pandemic, he said party workers distributed 22 crore food packets and rations to 5.36 crore people besides face masks to seven crore people. On the charge that the Centre was only favouring BJP rules states in supply of vaccines and ignoring those ruled by the opposition, Kataria said several oppositions ruled states approached other nations for vaccines. However, they were told that those countries would only deal with the central government, he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-ruled-states-favoured-in-covid-19-management-says-shiv-sena-in-lok-sabha-1056969.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal telling lies, trying to mislead people: Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday hit out at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over his poll promises, accusing him of telling lies and trying to mislead people of the state. He targeted Kejriwal on a day when the AAP convener was on a one-day visit to Pathankot in Punjab, which will go to polls early next year. Referring to the AAP's promise of giving Rs 1,000 per month to women above 18 if it comes to power in Punjab, Sidhu asked whether he considered “daughters, sisters and mothers as beggars" and questioned whether he gave the amount to women in Delhi. He again asked the Delhi CM if there is any woman in his cabinet. Addressing a rally at Qadian in Gurdaspur district, the adjoining district of Pathankot where Kejriwal held a "Tiranga Yatra", he said giving Rs 1,000 to women and free power of up to 2 kW load requires Rs 12,000 crore and Rs 3,600 crore, respectively. It works out at over Rs 1 lakh crore, he said while pointing towards Punjab's total budget of Rs 72,000 crore and of which, Rs 70,000 crore goes into paying salaries and repaying debt. "From where will you get funds? You tell a lie and try to mislead people," he said. Targeting the AAP government over poor air quality in Delhi, he said in the national capital, the number of CNG buses dropped to 3,000 now from 6,000 at the time of Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit. The bus passengers also dropped to 25 lakh from 45 lakh, he claimed. The green cover which stood at 22 per cent at the time of the Dikshit government could not be further enhanced by even one per cent Kejriwal, he said. Sidhu asked the AAP leader whether he came to Punjab in the past four-and-a-half years. Sidhu said Kejriwal had promised 26 lakh jobs. "If 26 lakh jobs were to be given, it would require Rs 93,000 crore," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-telling-lies-trying-to-mislead-people-sidhu-1056994.html
02-12-2021||North and Central||State of relationship will reflect state of border: EAM on ties with China||The state of the relationship between India and China will reflect the state of the border, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday, referring to the lingering standoff in eastern Ladakh. He said it is not a realistic expectation to carry on with the relationship when there is a tense border and asserted that questions like why it happened and what does it reflect are completely legitimate. "And as we have made clear -- the state of the relationship, at the end of the day, will reflect the state of the border. You can't have a tense, high-friction border and have great relations in all other parts of life. It does not work that way," Jaishankar said. He was speaking at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit. "It is inevitable that this will sort of spillover, it has already spilt over into other domains, and the expectation that somehow we will contain it in a narrow sense and carry on with the rest of life, I think, is not a realistic one," the external affairs minister said. "We do have a significant issue there for us and also for them because I frankly don't think it is in the interest of either country that our relationship goes off in this direction," he added. Referring to China bringing in forces to the border that triggered the row, Jaishankar said the neighbouring country violated commitments. "In terms of bringing forces to the border, it is not an impression that we had or we thought we had an understanding. We had it in cold print in two agreements. So there is no ambiguity on that score," he said. "There were very, very clear-cut commitments not to mass forces on the border and those commitments stand violated as of 2020 spring," the minister said. Asked about the situation in Afghanistan, he said the United Nations Security Council Resolution 2593 is an expression of widespread concern in the world on a set of issues. He said the most prominent of those is would the Afghan soil be used by terrorists and foreign fighters to target other countries. Also, the nature of the regime in Afghanistan, would it be inclusive, and the nature of governance, treatment of women, children, and minorities, freedom of movement for Afghans, Jaishankar added. "I would say a lot of those concerns...remain live concerns," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/state-of-relationship-will-reflect-state-of-border-eam-on-ties-with-china-1057000.html
02-12-2021||Oasis||To each her own||How many times have we not wondered if there has been a mix up in our destinies? How is it that the one thing that we deeply desire is bestowed on someone who hardly cares for it? What is wrong in giving away what we have been gifted because we know that the other person needs it more than us? A story in the Bhagavatha Purana answers these questions that often pop into our minds. There once lived a king called Gadhiraja who ruled over Kanyakubja. He had a daughter called Sathyavathi. When she attained the age of marriage, she married sage Richika. The newly wedded couple longed to have a perfect son and performed a penance. Sage Bhrigu gave them a handful of sanctified rice known as Charu to be consumed by the potential mother. Sathyavathi accepted the Charu and said that her parents too longed to have a son. Rishi Bhrigu gave her another handful of sanctified Charu for her mother after duly chanting the requisite mantras. The mother and daughter were overwhelmed by their good fortune. When it was time to partake the Charu, the queen wondered if Sathyavathi’s Charu was more powerful than that of hers. After all, the princess had performed the austerities. She thought that if she had a perfect son, the boy would give his parents immense joy. On the other hand if her mother had such a son, Kanyakubja would benefit. The need of her mother appeared to be more potent. So the two mothers-to-be exchanged their Charu. Sathyavathi was proud that she had done her mother a good turn and had rendered her motherland a great service. She told her husband so. Sage Richika was taken aback by this news. He was aware of the act that sage Bhrigu had customised the Charu. The handful that was given to his wife Sathyavathi would help them beget a son with Brahmatejas. The queen’s Charu would ensure that her son would be attributed by Kshatratejas. Overenthusiasm and unnecessary speculation had led the women to discount the power of their Guru Bhrigu. In due course of time Sathyavathi gave birth to sage Jamadagni with martial traits and her mother bore Vishwamitra who went on to become a Brahmarishi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/to-each-her-own-1057010.html
02-12-2021||Opinion||Mamata's method: To scuttle Rahul's 'innate' right to be PM||Just after her historic victory in West Bengal elections, Mamata Banerjee vowed to be the prime mover of the united opposition in the country and met Congress chief Sonia Gandhi in Delhi. It galvanised the entire anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) populace seeking to defeat Narendra Modi and his party. But then something inexplicable happened, and the Trinamool Congress started preying upon leaders of the parties from the opposition itself. Though the Congress emerged as Mamata Banerjee's prime target, the Trinamool Congress did not spare other opposition parties. The poaching started with Sushmita Dev of Assam/Tripura. Luizinho Faleiro of Goa was added, and now Mukul Sangma of Meghalaya has been roped in along with his 11 legislators, replacing the Congress with the TMC as the main opposition party in the state. Next, it was Janata Dal (United) that saw Pawan Verma walking away to the TMC. The waiting list, it can be safely assumed, will have more exciting names. Meanwhile, in Tripura, the CPI(M) has suffered in the recent municipal polls that saw the TMC finishing number three, snapping at the heels of the party that once prided on being the largest Communist party of the free world. It still has that status but is losing out everywhere except in Kerala. Interestingly, both the JD(U) and CPI(M) have better relations with the Congress than the TMC. The political paradigm has shifted. Earlier the TMC used to target discontented former, or lapsed, BJP leaders for poaching, and the best example of this was Yashwant Sinha of Jharkhand. Now, except in Bengal, the Congress and CPI(M) have alleged the TMC is doing it at the behest of the BJP to save Abhishek Banerjee from the CBI's clutches. It is not rocket science to understand that an anti-BJP front cannot shape up as a meaningful entity without the Congress. In several states like Rajasthan, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Chhatisgarh and Gujarat, the Congress is the sole force against the BJP. In several other states like Punjab, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Assam or Goa, it is the leading force against the BJP. In states like Jharkhand, it is a significant junior partner of the anti-BJP camp. The Congress is a significant player in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana as an opposition party against regional forces, including the CPI(M). So, altogether, it still has a strong presence in about 200 of 543 seats of the Lok Sabha and has about 20 per cent vote share, which is far above any other opposition party. That makes the grand old party a natural leader of the opposition forces. The Trinamool agenda So what is it that the TMC is trying to achieve? Why are some people entertaining such a tricky effort? On Tuesday, Mamata Banerjee landed in Mumbai and met with Shiv Sena's Aditya Thackeray (since his father, Maharashtra Chief Minister, Uddhav Thackeray, was indisposed). She met Sharad Pawar on Wednesday. Some others like Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal and Samajwadi Party's Akhilesh Yadav have a good equation with Bengal's Didi. The only plausible explanation of the TMC's recent activities can be its attempt to forge a regional front that will combine all the anti-BJP regional parties. Indeed such a front can never displace the BJP from New Delhi if it does not have the support of the Congress. But the obverse is true as well. It appears the TMC, and many other regional leaders, are not prepared to surrender the prime minister's seat to the Congress in perpetuity. The main driving force here is, of course, personal ambition, but it is not all. Most of these leaders are not keen to elevate Rahul Gandhi to the topmost seat. As both points merge perfectly with the mindset of quite a few ambitious leaders of the regional parties, Didi's game is gaining ground. All these leaders feel Rahul Gandhi is arrogant, uncompromising and incompetent. And he is young, just 51 years old. So, once he establishes his right over Delhi's seat, perhaps it will stay with him for at least a few decades. So TMC's game plan is to establish the regional front's (Mamata Banerjee once proposed "Federal Front" as its name) equal right over the seat of the Union government. At present, she has stature and age (66 years). If Rahul Gandhi gives up, Mamata Banerjee will be the natural choice for the face against Narendra Modi in 2024, as other stalwarts like Sharad Pawar will not have age on their side. The second most ambitious leader in the opposition fold is Arvind Kejriwal, who is 53-years-old and in the near future, the AAP could emerge much more significant than it is now. And he will be on board with Didi, for if a strong Federal Front emerges, probably he will be its natural leader in the next decade. The same is true for a lot of sons and daughters of various regional family-based parties. It makes Mamata Banerjee's game plan alluring. But it is risky, too, as it may portray the opposition as an unstable house and work favouring the BJP. (The writer is a journalist and author based in Kolkata) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/mamatas-method-to-scuttle-rahuls-innate-right-to-be-pm-1056809.html
02-12-2021||Opinion||Assembly polls: BSF as an instrument for politicising demographics||It is not the remit of the Border Security Force (BSF) to pronounce that "the demographic balance has been upset in border states like West Bengal and Assam over a period of time" and then taper off to explain that "it has changed for whatever reasons." The science of demographics does not allow such vague explanations as a reason for what is indisputably a pernicious political decision, to extend the jurisdiction and consequently unilaterally redefine the area within India that is borderland with Bangladesh on the east and Pakistan on the west in specific states – Assam, West Bengal and Punjab and for a different reason in Rajasthan. The BSF's concern, as voiced by its Director General, Pankaj Kumar Singh, on November 30, is odder still, as Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Nityanand Rai on the same day tabled a written reply in Parliament to a question from Congress member Hibi Eden on when the headcount of legitimate citizens through the controversial National Register of Citizens (NRC) would be done. The reply stated that the Narendra Modi government had not decided yet on preparing a pan-India NRC. The Union Home Ministry and Amit Shah are the boss of the BSF DG and junior minister Rai. The BSF officially announced the "definite demographic change" on the day the government retreated from committing to a headcount, which could have confirmed the DG's claim that a BSF conducted survey had established "the voter pattern has changed in certain districts neighbouring border". It is a slick trick to keep the infiltrator-Muslims outnumbering the Hindus pot simmering ahead of the Assembly polls to five states, including Uttar Pradesh. The BSF, an institution accountable to the government, is being used to stoke the BJP's permanent agenda of hyper-nationalism even as the Modi regime slyly distances itself from making an official announcement, the politics of the borderlands have been incorporated into the campaign as a live issue of serious concern. The DG's clearance to say what he did came from the Ministry of Home Affairs. It is a piquant problem. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is wary of pressing the usual buttons to trigger majoritarian anxiety and garner support, and it needs a go-between – the BSF – to do so. The BSF is not mandated to conduct surveys on the changing demographics in Indian states nor deliver authoritative statements on such matters, but that has not registered with the Modi government. The BSF DG said the survey was carried out in districts along the border, which revealed the changes in "voter patterns." It is a dead giveaway of why he was primed to say what he did. This is unacceptable because the Modi government has turned the BSF into an instrument in its political fight to win in UP and salvage its popularity in Uttarakhand. The Modi government cannot use the BSF to fight Punjab and West Bengal governments over jurisdiction along the international borders. The decision to extend the BSF's area of operations to 50-kilometres from five kilometres in West Bengal, Punjab and Assam and reduce the operational area in Rajasthan to 50 km from 80 km has been questioned by the Congress and Trinamool Congress. Infiltration, export of terrorism by anti-India regimes and "evil-minded" Islamist groups are part of the repertoire of the BJP's communally divisive, fear-inducing right-wing hyper-nationalist politics that is an enduring feature of its politics. The rhetoric invariably acquires an edge and shrillness whenever elections are scheduled. Across UP and Punjab, and even Uttarakhand, the Sangh Parivar is uneasy about using its old routines of fuelling communal hostility in the context of the soon to be held elections. The old and invincible BJP would not have needed to use the BSF as its vanguard in a campaign that must deploy nationalism to sell Hindutva politics to voters to win on the one hand and keep the majority faithful to the saffron side.  However, in too many constituencies in UP, the communal card would not work in the new solidarity forged by farmers through the farm movement. The BJP's precisely calculated appeal to caste groups is unlikely to work as effectively as it did in the past. Farmers have forged a new loyalty to their identity as annadata and patriots, who feed the nation and die while defending the international borders. The consolidation of farmers into a distinct and different secular identity has weakened the BJP's old playbook with its usual discourse of nationalism and minority bashing. The year-long movement that has entered into its second year of resistance against the Modi government is a formidable opposition without a political label that the BJP can attack with its usual arsenal. Turning the BSF, with its reputation pockmarked by years of complaints and investigations of corruption and connivance in turning a blind eye to illegal crossings along the borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh, into a knight defending the nation is just one of the ways in which the BJP, its popular prime minister, and its strategy mastermind Shah are paying the price for bad governance. Voter disappointment with the Modi government and discontent with the Yogi Adityanath government in UP is not limited to the farmers' movement. Bad governance, economic crisis and the health crisis during the second wave of the pandemic that swept through India affecting every family, topped up by the farm agitation and the brutal conditions farmers endured to secure one part of their demand, the repeal of the three farm laws, has contributed to the BJP's crisis of confidence. Dressing up infiltration as an attack on the nation by changing the demographics, as set out by the BSF, is a spin that reveals the urgency of the search for a new packaging by Modi and the BJP for its old majoritarian politics of communally divisive messaging. The headcount of citizens – the NRC – has also been put on hold because the BJP cannot afford to disturb the voters it needs to not only retain power in the states in which it heads the government, it requires the voters to stay on its side up to the 2024 general elections. (The writer is a journalist based in Kolkata) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/assembly-polls-bsf-as-an-instrument-for-politicising-demographics-1056863.html
02-12-2021||Panorama||Flu season is here. Are we ready?||With temperatures dipping in various parts of the country and heavy rainfall occurring in a few regions, we might witness the onset of increased common cold and flu. Weather experts say this year, La Nina (cooling phase of the El Nino Southern Oscillation (ENSO) phenomenon) will bring colder, wetter winter months. This reason is why people may get down with the seasonal Flu more often in 2021. How is Covid-19 affecting flu? The symptoms of Covid-19 and common cold/flu overlap, with similar ones being – fever, body ache, chills, sore throat, fatigue, etc. Covid-19 has an array of distinguishing signs like loss of smell and taste, among others. Last year barely saw an uptick or rise in the number of flu cases. This can be attributed to the following: Physical distancingWearing masksMaintaining hand hygieneIncreased emphasis on hygiene and cleanliness in public/shared spacesLess travelling, avoiding crowds Data suggests that 2020 had only about 2,752 seasonal influenza (H1N1) cases in the country. However, 2019, the year before the pandemic, had as many as 28,798 such cases. India is not the only country with such fewer numbers of flu in these pandemic years. Multiple medical journals and scientists have stated that many countries did not see the seasonal flu epidemic. While it may seem like a good mark, epidemiologists are divided over whether we should be happy about it. Limited or no testing for influenza can be one reason for the vast difference in numbers. Thus, we cannot really be sure of the actual statistics, unless people get tested more often. Moreover, reduced absence of circulation of and exposure to pathogens such as the influenza virus and the respiratory syncytial virus (which causes severe pneumonia) can decrease herd immunity. This adverse effect, in turn, may stimulate more severe, virulent epidemics. However, the relaxation of Covid-19 norms, resumption of physical settings like schools and offices, and reduced cases of coronavirus infection may further stem influenza or flu this year. In addition, due to low numbers from last year, scientists cannot really predict which flu strains will be primarily dominant this season. Hence, it is essential we stay alert and take the necessary precautions against the disease. Tips for protection against flu: Get vaccinated annually. The flu vaccine is equally important as the Covid-19 vaccine. It is crucial that adults, children, the elderly — everyone get their flu jabs. Pregnant women and children are highly vulnerable to influenza and pneumonia. We must prioritise their vaccination. The common side-effects from the vaccine may consist of pain at the injection site, fever, chills, etc. Both intramuscular injections and intranasal sprays for Flu are available for use. Avoid touching your face. Don’t rub your eyes, nose, or mouth, so that germs are prevented from entering your body. Stay away from sick people as much as possible, as flu is contagious, and stay home in case you’re feeling sick. Maintain the streak of washing your hands and sanitising regularly. Boost your immune system. Run or do other physical activities for 30 minutes a day, consume vitamins, antioxidants, and a nutrient-rich diet. Lastly, sleep for 7 hours at least. (The writer is Chief Intensivist at a hospital in Mumbai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/flu-season-is-here-are-we-ready-1057006.html
02-12-2021||Panorama||Virtual courts, an opportunity to overhaul the system||The Covid-19 pandemic threw unprecedented challenges at the courts as they sought to remain functional for litigants. The courts adopted virtual hearings to cope with the situation, in view of the need to maintain social distancing and contain the spread of the virus. However, after the easing of restrictions, there are still demands from a section of lawyers as well as litigants to maintain the option of hybrid hearings even as Bar leaders have called for fully functional physical courts.  When the lockdown was announced in March 2020, the Supreme Court, being the guarantor of the fundamental rights of citizens against State actions, took a suo motu decision and announced virtual hearings in its court. Some days earlier, it had restricted the entry of lawyers and decided to take up urgent matters only. Subsequently, the top court also asked the High Courts across the country to follow suit and ensure similar arrangements in subordinate courts. On April 6, 2020, it passed the judicial orders under Article 142 of the Constitution. A standard operating procedure was issued for the purpose. Some of the High Courts, such as Kerala and Gujarat, went a step ahead by opening the virtual hearings to the common people. The live-streaming in the Supreme Court, on the other hand, has remained accessible only to a limited number of people, including journalists. More than a year later, the Supreme Court has resumed physical courts on a limited scale. At the same time, it has given the option to lawyers to select hybrid hearings, amid repeated demands by Bar leaders to allow full physical functioning of courts. Even before the pandemic, there were sporadic voices asking the courts to let people across the country to watch their proceedings online, if not in all cases then at least in matters of national importance. It was a law student, Swapnil Tripathi, and others, including eminent senior advocate Indira Jaising who first broached the idea of live-streaming of court proceedings. Acting on their petitions, the Supreme Court had in 2018, much before the pandemic, ruled that initially a pilot project may be started by live-streaming cases that are of constitutional and national importance, and excluding those involving juveniles, marital and sexual assault cases to protect identities. However, thereafter, the clamour to live-stream cases did not elicit any positive response. The onset of the Covid-19 pandemic heralded a new era with the courts adopting technology to let counsels argue their cases remotely. This can certainly be seen as a baby step towards implementation of the 2018 judgement. The pandemic situation showed that if the courts want, live-streaming of cases is very much possible. During this period, no doubt, initially, only urgent matters were taken up, leading to a concerning rise in overall pendency. According to the latest data, as on November 8, 2021, the Supreme Court had the highest-ever pending cases -- 70,038. Of these, 14,368 matters are not ready for hearing. Such a huge backlog can only be ascribed to the pandemic-related lockdowns. A Parliamentary panel last year strongly favoured virtual courts. It noted that ‘digital justice’ is cheaper and faster. Besides, such courts address locational and economic handicaps, ensure safety of vulnerable witnesses providing testimony, expedite processes and procedures, and are an improvement over traditional courts as they are most affordable, citizen-friendly and offer greater access to justice.  However, the shortcomings of virtual courts in the form of limitations of access, connectivity, digital divide and skills posed a serious challenge. The panel also found that over 50% of advocates, mostly at the district and lower courts, either do not have a computer or lack the skills required for virtual proceedings. The committee thus asked the government to enable the necessary infrastructure for integrating such courts into the country's legal ecosystem.  Experts feel that virtual hearings, though thrust upon the country by the pandemic, should be institutionalised. They can continue even under normal circumstances. Technology, having emerged as a game-changer, advocates would be required to use technological skills along with their specialised legal knowledge to keep pace with the changing times. Access to justice has definitely acquired a new dimension. People, particularly litigants, are able to access the highest court from the remote corners of the country. Once institutionalised, it is expected to reduce the cost of litigation and enhance the reach of the court. It can also be seen as the best opportunity to overhaul the system. A paradigm shift for the future -- and not only during an emergency -- would require doing away with the requirement of physical presence unless absolutely necessary and with petitions running into hundreds and thousands of pages. A substantial number of cases can be resolved through mediation and videoconferencing. Rules can be amended for the courts to allow the accused to appear and at least for the formal witnesses to be examined through video conferencing, saving a lot of time and wasteful expenditure. Bulky documents can be uploaded for the perusal of judges. Lawyers will have to adapt to the new regime. To ensure secure, standard and functional virtual courts at all levels is a complex task, yet it must be accomplished in view of the times we live in, experts feel. Speaking at the valedictory of the two-day Constitution Day function, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said, “Necessity is the mother of all inventions. The pandemic demanded us to transform the way we approach various issues. It has forced us to develop certain good practices which will support us in the days to come, although at a terrible cost." "Whatever criticism or obstacle that we may encounter, our mission to render justice cannot stop," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/virtual-courts-an-opportunity-to-overhaul-the-system-1057011.html
02-12-2021||Right in the Middle||Collage of faux pas||Towards the end of the last century, I was a young lecturer and my college had the tradition of the general assembly at the quadrangle of all the courses, once a week on Monday. The college also housed the girls’ hostel inside the campus on the second floor, which overlooked the weekly meeting venue. One day, a few girls from the hostel had not yet come down for the meeting. The chairperson sent a few girl students standing in the assembly line to bring down the hostel girls. A few minutes passed, a voice boomed over the speaker: “Call girls, come down!” This was meant to tell the girls who had gone to fetch the hostel girls to come down. The 600-plus students and teachers burst out laughing at the gathering. It was a sunny afternoon in school and since it was too hot to play outside, the physical education teacher was engaging us indoors, when he remarked: "Open the window, let the air force come in." Our annual practical exam was in progress, our teacher was engaged in an animated conversation with the external examiner in our lab, I overheard him say: "I have two daughters, both are girls." At a saloon, the board declared: Fachial, Messes and Childrun cutting don here. Tailor’s board was very confident: Speclist in Alteration of Ladies and Gents. Our neighbourhood momos shop had this signboard: Veg Moms & Cheken Moms. The laundry shop had this board: Cloth Dricline at Resnable Rate. Near the courthouse the small shops’ board read: Votar Card & Marig Satifiket done here. This signage had some genuineness in it: Genuine Fake Watches. On an epic board on the highway, a dog breeder had put up an innocent signage: "We sell dog children, both boys and girls." Well, this board at least did not have any spelling error. These just don’t happen to common people, but also to large corporations. A large company which has the word “Protein” was putting up their massive neon name board next to our home. Looking at the board, I knew something was not right, as I was trying to figure it out, my mom, a teacher for four decades pointed out the word was misspelt as “Protien”. The supervisor thanked us for pointing out the same. They worked overnight to change it, before its inauguration the next day. The last one is the icing on the cake. In my various travels across India, I saw this big bold board in a liquor shop, next to a bottle of beer: “Child Bear”. Seriously?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/collage-of-faux-pas-1057012.html
02-12-2021||Second Edit||Investment up, consumption lags, job growth tepid||The GDP estimates released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) for the second quarter of the 2021-22 fiscal (July-September) have seen a growth of 8.4% over the corresponding period last year. It is higher than the estimates made by the RBI and other agencies. But a comparison with the same period last year may be misleading because the economy then was down in the dumps, opening up slowly after the national lockdown. In absolute terms, the output at Rs 35.73 lakh crore is slightly higher than the Rs 35.62 lakh crore reported in the second quarter of 2019-20. So, the best that can be said is that the GDP is at pre-pandemic levels for the quarter, but its direction is still not very clear. There are some good signals. After a long time, the economy has seen good growth in investments. It is the best in many quarters and that may be a sign of optimism about future growth.  But there are areas of concern. Private consumption expenditure is still 3.5% lower than in the equivalent quarter of 2019-20. Private consumption accounts for 54.5% of the GDP and its sluggishness shows that the growth impulses are still weak. Investment growth cannot sustain without growth in private consumption. It is unlikely that government expenditure will aid growth substantially. The government has not shown much inclination for this. While tax revenues have improved, the expected income from disinvestment has not happened. Government investment in the second quarter rose only by over 8% and in absolute terms, it was the lowest in the past five years. The government needs to increase public expenditure to aid the nascent recovery. Growth in some sectors like agriculture, manufacturing and power was fairly good during the quarter. Growth in five out of eight sectors has improved, and some of them have touched their pre-pandemic levels. Construction, hospitality and trade are struggling. In fact, most of the contact-intensive and informal sectors are still suffering from the impact of the pandemic, and they account for a large part of the economy.  The growth numbers for the current quarter, when they are available, will give an indication of the trend in the economy. There are some key factors that need to be watched. Employment has not picked up well and wage growth is low. If inflation gains ground, that will make it difficult to encourage growth through monetary policies. The international environment is not very benign, with most countries facing growth problems. Commodity prices have been rising and trade has failed to regain momentum. Most importantly, the pandemic has not yet gone away and the impact of the new variant Omicron on society and the economy is not yet known.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/investment-up-consumption-lags-job-growth-tepid-1057008.html
02-12-2021||South||Irrespective of vaccine status, Tamil Nadu to test passengers arriving from at-risk countries||In view of the Omicron threat, the Tamil Nadu Directorate of Public health and Preventive medicine has written to the Airport Authority of India (AAI) that passengers arriving at the four international airports in the state follow the guidelines on vaccines provided by the department. Irrespective of the status of vaccine taken, Tamil Nadu has made it compulsory for passengers arriving from at-risk countries -- South Africa, Botswana, China, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Mauritius, Bangladesh, Brazil, Singapore, Israel, and European Union countries, including the UK. At Chennai airport, T4 terminal is converted into an exclusive area for testing of passengers arriving from these at-risk countries. The passengers will have to stay back at the airport till the results of the tests come out. According to sources in the Airport Authority of India (AAI), 450 passengers could be accommodated in this enclosure for testing. The Tamil Nadu Public Health Department in a letter issued to the directors of Chennai, Tiruchi, Coimbatore, and Madurai Airports has directed that if any passengers are found symptomatic they should be isolated and taken to a medical facility in coordination with the local medical authorities to have a record on the person who has tested symptomatic. The passengers, who arrive from the above-mentioned countries and who test negative, will have to remain in home quarantine for a week and after the eight-days they will have to undergo a retest. The Directorate of Public Health in the letter also mentioned that the passengers who arrive from countries other than at-risk countries will be allowed to leave the airport and will have to self-monitor their health for 14 days. However, a section of the people arriving from all countries will be subjected to random checking to find out whether there are any traces of the new variant. The AAI will be making the necessary arrangements at the airports for the passengers who have undergone testing. Tamil Nadu Health Minister Ma Subramanian while speaking to IANS said, "The Directorate of Public Health has already written to the directors of all the four international airports in the state regarding testing of passengers from at-risk countries and it has commenced. "We have to be extra cautious regarding the spread of the new variant and hence the precautions. Door-to-door vaccination is being carried out effectively in the state and we are expecting to inoculate the whole population with the first dose of the jab in a short time.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/irrespective-of-vaccine-status-tamil-nadu-to-test-passengers-arriving-from-at-risk-countries-1056771.html
02-12-2021||South||Kerala cries foul as Tamil Nadu opens Mullaperiyar dam shutters without notice||Locals led by the Congress blocked the traffic on the Kottayam-Kumali national highway on Thursday in protest against the hardships faced after Tamil Nadu government opened spillway shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam without any notice. They later marched to the Vandiperiyar police station with a complaint. "We have lost patience as this is creating untold miseries to us as it was around 3 a.m. that we realised water had entered our homes. There was no prior notice regarding it. Many of us have suffered a lot of damage and hence we have decided to protest," the agitators said. The rising water was noticed by a few people taking bath at the Periyar river. They realised that there was a sudden increase of the water by around seven feet and raised an alarm. On Wednesday, State Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine had expressed his deep displeasure over the matter. Consequent to the sudden opening of ten shutters out of the 13, by 60cms each, water gushed into the homes of numerous families living in the downstream of Periyar. Since it happened in the middle of the night, people were caught unawares. "This is not expected of a government. I have already raised the issue with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan who assured to take it up with the Tamil Nadu government. We will also approach the Supreme Court on this 'irresponsible behaviour," said Augustine. The British-era masonry gravity dam is managed by the Tamil Nadu government although it is geographically situated in Kerala. The dam is at the centre of a row between the states, with Kerala keen on constructing a new dam while Tamil Nadu opposing the proposal. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cries-foul-as-tamil-nadu-opens-mullaperiyar-dam-shutters-without-notice-1056803.html
02-12-2021||South||Cyclone alert in north coastal Andhra region||The Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday sounded an alert in view of the cyclone threat to north coastal Andhra region. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the cyclonic storm is likely to form over central Bay of Bengal on December 3. According to IMD, the cyclonic storm likely to move northwestwards, intensify further and reach near north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts around December 4 morning. It has forecast light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy rainfall at isolated places over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and south coastal Odisha from evening of December 4. Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places and extremely heavy falls at isolated places very likely over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and coastal Odisha, it said. Gale winds speed reaching 65-75 kmph gusting up to 85 kmph likely to prevail over central Bay of Bengal from the early morning of December 3 and gradually increase becoming 90-100 kmph gusting to 110 kmph over northwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal from the morning of December 4 for the subsequent 24 hours. Squally wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph gusting up to 65 kmph likely to commence along and off north Andhra Pradesh - Odisha coasts from the midnight of December 3 and increase gradually becoming 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph from December morning for the subsequent 12 hours. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Thursday held a meeting with district collectors of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam to review the situation. The chief minister discussed with the collectors the precautionary measures to be taken. During the review meeting, he directed the district collectors and officials to set up relief camps at required locations. He instructed the officials to be alert in low lying areas and take all necessary measures. The State Government has appointed three officers for Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts each. H Arun Kumar has been appointed as special officer for Srikakulam, Kanthilal Dande for Vizianagaram and Syamala Rao for Visakhapatnam district, to monitor relief measures. The chief minister directed the special officers to depart to their assigned districts and coordinate and monitor relief works. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cyclone-alert-in-north-coastal-andhra-region-1056815.html
02-12-2021||South||Kerala SC/ST students to get scholarship to learn to fly||The Kerala government will now bear the entire expense of students who pass the entrance examination to the state-run Rajiv Gandhi Aviation Academy, which gives training for Commercial Pilot License (CPL). Consequent to this, new directive the state government will fund the entire fees which come to around Rs 2.5 million for each student. State Minister for SC/ST K Radhakrishnan said this after meeting two girls and three boys from the Scheduled Caste community who got admission to the academy, this year. From now on, each and every student from the SC/ST community who gets admission will be able to study for free, as earlier it was limited. "This is going to benefit the new generation of a community who not long ago could not even utter the word of education even," said the Minister and advised the five successful students to become the role model for their community. In the past, the scholarship was limited to one or two cadets and from now on this would be given to all from the SC/ST community. The five students who got admission include Sharnya from Wayanad, Sankeerthana from Kannur, Adithyan from Alappuzha, Vishnu Prasad form Kozhikode and Rahul form Thiruvananthapuram. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-sc/st-students-to-get-scholarship-to-learn-to-fly-1056826.html
02-12-2021||South||Former CPM MLA arraigned in Kasargod murder case||A former CPM MLA from Kasargod was named an accused in the murder of two Youth Congress workers in Kasargod of Kerala. KV Kunhiraman, a former MLA of Uduma and senior party leader of the district, was arraigned as the 20th accused in the case. The CBI, which recently took over the investigation into the 2019 incident on the basis of a court order, decided to arraign Kunhiraman, besides nine others, including local leaders of the party. The CPM district leadership reiterated its earlier stand that the party has no connection with the killings. The Left-front government in Kerala had vehemently opposed the plea for a CBI probe into the murder. Sources said that Kunhiraman was allegedly found to have helped those who carried out the killings. On Thursday, five persons, including the former MLA, were also arraigned in the case. Some of the accused were earlier made prosecution witnesses by the Kerala Police team that probed the case. The CBI on Wednesday arrested five persons, including a party branch secretary of the locality, identified as Rajesh. Youth Congress workers Kripesh and Sarathlal were killed by a gang on February 17, 2019. The Kerala Police that probed concluded that personal rivalry led to the murder and filed a charge sheet against 14 persons, including local CPM activists. However, the parents of the deceased approached court seeking a CBI probe alleging that the police investigation was not fair. The Left-front government spent around Rs 85 lakh from the state exchequer for hiring senior lawyers for fighting against the plea of the parents of the deceased for a CBI probe in the case.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-cpm-mla-arraigned-in-kasargod-murder-case-1056833.html
02-12-2021||South||Wary of Sasikala, AIADMK goes for internal polls||In another step to prevent an attempt by ousted general secretary VK Sasikala to take over the party, the AIADMK on Thursday announced the election schedule for the posts of coordinator and joint coordinator next week.  O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami are likely to be elected unopposed as coordinator and joint coordinator, respectively, of the AIADMK, as both the leaders realise that “staying united despite differences” was the only way to stave off any potential challenge from Sasikala, political observers said.  The significant move came a day after the party’s executive council approved an amendment to the AIADMK Constitution, allowing primary members to elect the coordinator and joint coordinator through a single-vote system. The party by-laws had in 2017 vested the powers of electing the leadership with the general council.  Announcing the schedule for organisational elections, C Ponnaiyan, and Pollachi V Jayaraman said the nominations for the polls to elect the coordinator and joint coordinator will open on Friday, while the election will be held on December 7 if there is more than one nomination.  The decision to hold the internal polls immediately after amending the by-laws is a serious setback to Sasikala’s efforts to take over the AIADMK leadership. According to the AIADMK, Sasikala is not even a primary member of the party after she failed to renew her membership in 2017 after the by-laws were amended to accommodate Panneerselvam as coordinator and Palaniswami as joint coordinator.  Stung by the sudden move, Sasikala put up a brave face by asking “genuine cadres” not to lose heart and that a new dawn was in the offing. “Several people in the party are waiting for the AIADMK to get back to its past glory. Your expectations will not go in vain. Don’t lose and be brave. With help from everyone, let us reclaim the AIADMK from those who are running the party according to their whims and fancies,” Sasikala said in a statement. By getting the amendment approved and holding the elections, the AIADMK has, albeit, for now, ended all speculation over reverting to singular leadership practised by MG Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa. The move also allows Palaniswami to continue to wield influence over the party, given his status as the leader of Opposition, and support base among the legislators, while sidelining Panneerselvam further although he will be placed a notch above him on paper.  “The move signifies the consolidation of anti-Sasikala forces within the AIADMK. This also amounts to Panneerselvam throwing up his hands. It looks like the door is closed, rather hard, at least for now, for Sasikala,” senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh told DH. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/wary-of-sasikala-aiadmk-goes-for-internal-polls-1056834.html
02-12-2021||South||Chennai rains: 2021 saw wettest November since 2015||The month gone by is the wettest November since 2015 in Chennai, which experienced rains for 22 of 30 days. The observatory in Nungambakkam recorded 1044.3mm of rainfall in November 2021 — just 4.5 mm short of the 1049mm rainfall recorded in November 2015 — that caused unprecedented floods and inundated Chennai.  This is the third time that Chennai’s rainfall crossed the 1,000-mm mark in the month of November. The highest November rainfall so far is 1088mm, recorded in 1918, followed by 1049mm in 2015. In October 2005, Chennai received 1078mm rainfall as the northeast monsoon picked up momentum immediately after its onset.  This year, not just in the month of November, has been bountiful for Chennai with rains lashing the city every month, barring March, and sparing a water crisis. The city achieved the monthly average for November during the northeast monsoon (NEM) in the first eight days of the month. While the average rainfall for November is 37.4cm, the city received 41.5cm rainfall from November 1 to 8, according to IMD data.  The IMD data also showed that while Nungambakkam recorded rains for 22 days, the observatory in Meenambakkam, located on the outskirts, reported rains for 23 days of November. The most significant spell was of 20cm rainfall — in a few hours between November 6 and 7 — flooded several upscale areas and low-lying localities. The city also recorded incessant rains for a few days in the second and third weeks of November, forcing the closure of schools and colleges for most of the month. Weather bloggers attributed “dryline thunderstorms” and “weak systems” in the Bay of Bengal as reasons for the city receiving heavy rainfall since October-end.  K Srikanth, a weather blogger, told Deccan Herald that the pattern of the monsoon is changing as the number of rainy days could be fewer but with heavier spells.  “I think we are going to see heavier spells in the future over fewer days. Though the number of rainy days could be fewer, the rainfall average will be the same. Oceans are getting warmer and there is more moisture. When the moisture is high, we get more rains,” he said. Srikanth said 2021 has been a “very good year” for Chennai when it comes to rains. The reservoirs that supply drinking water to the city are full, in what is good news for its residents.  The city did not experience any drought or water shortage in 2021 partly due to lessons learnt in 2019 when the water crisis hit Chennai and the continued rains since January.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-rains-2021-saw-wettest-november-since-2015-1056886.html
02-12-2021||South||Kerala Waqf board row: Muslim outfits call off protests||Muslim outfits in Kerala decided against staging protests in mosques on Friday, against the state government's decision to hand over the Kerala State Waqf Board recruitments to the Kerala Public Service Commission, following resentment from within the community. On Thursday, the Samastha Kerala Jem'iyyathul Ulema, a supreme body of Islamic scholars of Kerala, flayed the move to hold protests in mosques. Samastha president Sayyid Muhammad Jifri Muthukkoya Thangal said that mosques are holy places that should not be used for staging protests. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and various Muslim outfits were planning to stage a protest in mosques. This had raised eyebrows and the ruling CPM even alleged attempts to trigger religious sentiments against the government for political motives. The IUML later decided to keep off from protesting in mosques on Friday. Meanwhile, the Samastha leader said that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had assured to hold discussions on the decision to hand over recruitments to the Waqf Board to the Public Service Commission. Based on the outcome of the discussion, further steps on protests would be decided, he said. The state government's decision to entrust the recruitment to around 110 posts in the Kerala State Waqf Board to the Public Service Commission did not go down well among Muslim outfits, over fears that it may lead to members of other communities getting the posts. IUML and other Muslim forums were of the view that religious beliefs and knowledge were required for the office-bearers. They also pointed out that only Hindus are posted at the Devaswom Boards in the state. The IUML-backed Muslim Coordination Committee had made the call for protest in mosques. IUML leaders had initially justified the move to hold protests in mosques by pointing out the socio-political issues being discussed in churches. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-waqf-board-row-muslim-outfits-call-off-protests-1056908.html
02-12-2021||South||Vijayan writes to Stalin over water release from Mullaperiyar Dam||Kerala government has raised concerns over Tamil Nadu releasing water from the Mullaperiyar Dam without sufficient warning, with Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sending a letter to his Tamil Nadu counterpart MK Stalin in this regard on Thursday. In the early hours of Thursday, Tamil Nadu released 6,413 to 8,017 cusecs of water without sufficient warning, triggering panic as the water levels in nearby water bodies of Kerala rose.  Sources said that since there were similar instances in the past as well, the chief minister decided to take up the issue. Vijayan said in the letter to Stalin that direction needs to be given to the officials to open the shutters during the daytime, after giving adequate warnings. The dam situated in the Idukki district of Kerala is managed by Tamil Nadu. The water level of the dam is now being maintained at its maximum, 142 feet. Kerala is concerned over the safety of the 126-years-old dam and is hence, pressing for a new one after decommissioning it. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vijayan-writes-to-stalin-over-water-release-from-mullaperiyar-dam-1056928.html
02-12-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh braces for cyclonic storm on December 4||The Andhra Pradesh government is bracing for another round of nature's fury, this time likely to hit its northern coast, with IMD predicting a cyclonic storm on the morning of December 4. A well-marked low-pressure area lying over the southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining Andaman Sea is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm and reach the west-central Bay of Bengal off the north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts. The IMD has predicted light to moderate rainfall at many places and heavy to very heavy rainfalls at isolated places over north coastal Andhra Pradesh on Friday and Saturday. Fishermen were advised not to venture along and off the Andhra Pradesh coast on Saturday and Sunday and those who are in the sea were advised to return to the coast at the earliest. South Andhra Pradesh, mainly Nellore and Rayalaseema regions, was battered by heavy rains and flooding last month. On Thursday, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy held a review meeting with collectors of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts in north coastal AP regarding the precautionary measures to be taken as the cyclonic storm closes in. While directing the officials to set up relief camps at the required locations, the Reddy government also appointed three senior officials as nodal officers for Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam to monitor relief measures. The chief minister directed the special officers to move to their assigned districts immediately. Jagan visits flood-affected areas Chief Minister Reddy interacted with farmers and other flood-affected people in Kadapa district on Thursday. Reddy said that 293 houses were damaged in Pulapatturu village alone and that “the state government would build houses in five cents each for the victims.” "We would also provide compensation to every farmer who lost their crop and Rs 12,000 would be given to them in addition to clear the sand accumulated in their farm," Reddy said. Nellore, Chittoor, Kadapa and Anantapuram districts were severely affected by the heavy rains and floods, on an unprecedented scale in some parts, in the third week of November. Reddy said that the Pincha and Annamayya projects would be redesigned to handle more flood inflows, while the retaining walls would be reconstructed. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-braces-for-cyclonic-storm-on-december-4-1056974.html
02-12-2021||South||CM to hold all-party meet on illegal flag masts issue: Kerala government to High Court||An all party-meet would be called for by Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to evolve a solution to illegal erection of flag masts across the State by political and religious organisations and unions, the Left government told the Kerala High Court on Thursday. Appreciating the step being taken by the government, Justice Devan Ramachandran said what was required was to implement the Land Conservancy Act, which can be done by the District Collectors, and there was actually no need for the Chief Minister to look into the matter and take a policy decision. "Illegality cannot be perpetuated even by a political party. The government has to act as per the law and for that, I do not think a policy decision is required. I am unable to fathom why this stoic silence by the District Collectors (DCs)? This would amount to abdication of their duty as provided under the law and can invite stringent orders from the court," Justice Ramachandran said. The court said the stage has been set for the DCs to take action under the Land Conservancy Act which would include imposition of heavy penalties and initiation of prosecution where required. It said the court can wait for a few weeks for that and directed the DCs to file affidavits on the steps taken by them under the Land Conservancy Act against the illegal flag masts in their respective areas. The court directed the State to also inform it by the next date about any policy decision taken by it in the matter and listed it for hearing on December 20. The government, during the hearing, sought three months' time to take a policy decision to deal with the issue. However, the court said the timeframe was unfair and disproportionately excessive as the State on several dates of hearing in the past has been saying it has resolved to deal with the matter. The court was hearing a plea by a cooperative society alleging that a particular political party was illegally putting up flags and banners on its land. During the hearing, the court said that despite its orders of November 1, 15, and 25 barring putting up of illegal flag masts, such poles were continuing to be erected. "Democracy does not mean you can do something illegally," it said. On November 15, the court gave 10 days' time for people to remove the illegal flag poles. On November 25, it directed the government to invoke provisions of the Land Conservancy Act against all flag masts numbering 42,337 in the State. The court had said that if any new flag masts are erected illegally and not removed by the competent authorities, the latter would have to face the consequences mandated under the law. On November 15, the court was alarmed and amazed by the mind-boggling figure of 42,337 flag poles and told the Left government to take action under every applicable law against the perpetrators, irrespective of political affiliations. "No more illegal flag poles," the High Court had added. On November 1, the court passed an interim order directing that no illegal flag poles or masts be put up while the issue was being examined by it. "Lawlessness" is how the court had earlier termed the installation of illegal flag masts by political parties, their affiliates, and trade unions. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-to-hold-all-party-meet-on-illegal-flag-masts-issue-kerala-government-to-high-court-1056976.html
02-12-2021||South||CPM worker murdered in Kerala||A CPM worker was murdered at Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta district of Kerala on Thursday night. P B Sandeep Kumar, a local committee secretary of Peringara near Thiruvalla was stabbed to death by a three member gang on motocycles, as per reports. CPM alleged that it was a politically motivated murder carried out by the RSS. The incident occurred on the day CBI arraigned CPM local leaders, including a former MLA, in the murder of two Youth Congress workers at Kasargod in 2019. The ruling CPM was in the defensive over the issue. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpm-worker-murdered-in-kerala-1056998.html
02-12-2021||South||Telangana ups Covid-19 vigil amid Omicron scare||Telangana health authorities have decided to enforce mask rules strictly even as the Omicron variant of Covid-19 made entry into the country. Two Omicron cases were reported from Karnataka on Thursday while in Hyderabad, the samples of a 35-year-old woman were sent for whole genome sequencing to confirm the coronavirus strain. The woman had arrived in Hyderabad recently on a British Airways flight and has tested positive for Covid-19. She has reportedly been kept under isolation in the government-run Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences at Gachibowli. Meanwhile, officials said that a fine of Rs 1,000 would be imposed on people found not complying with the mask rule. “We request the people to carry their Covid-19 vaccine certificates when they are heading out. Health teams would be visiting public places and could randomly ask people for the certificate. We are doing this as a cautionary measure and also to expand public awareness about vaccination benefits (in avoiding another Covid-19 wave). The Omicron variant spread is six times faster than Delta,” said Srinivasa Rao, director, public health, Telangana. “So far, Omicron variant is not detected in Telangana,” the senior health official clarified even as messages on WhatsApp claimed otherwise. A cabinet sub-committee was formed in Telangana earlier this week to devise a plan of action to tackle the threat of Omicron variant, while speeding up the vaccination coverage in the state. At present, Telangana has 3,680 active cases officially, with 189 new Covid-19 cases reported on Thursday. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-ups-covid-19-vigil-amid-omicron-scare-1057004.html
02-12-2021||State||Karnataka administers 9.5 lakh vaccine doses in a single day||Karnataka, on Wednesday, logged 322 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,96,470 and death toll to 38,213. The day also saw 162 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,51,654. Of the new cases, 165 were from Bengaluru Urban. The city saw 72 discharges and one death. The total number of active cases in the state is 6,574. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.31%, case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.62%.  Belagavi too recorded one death. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 165, Mysuru 47, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan and Shivamogga 13, Dharwad and Udupi 10, followed by others. A total of 5,33,91,586 samples have been tested, of which 1,01,778 were tested on Wednesday alone.  Karnataka administered 9,56,885 Covid vaccine doses on Wednesday, the second highest in the country, according to Health Minister K Sudhakar, taking the total vaccination doses given so far to 7,54,29,741.   Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-administers-95-lakh-vaccine-doses-in-a-single-day-1056681.html
02-12-2021||State||Civil society beats elected reps in mobilising people for Covid vaccination||The Union government has asked states to identify local heroes, influential figures within districts and villages who can motivate people to receive Covid vaccination and assign referral codes on CoWIN for such ambassadors. Each individual they get vaccinated should be added to their tally at Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) through CoWIN. Thereafter, districts should ensure recognition at local level where certificates are provided for these ambassadors who ensure full coverage and their felicitation at special gram sabhas/panchayat meetings is done. This needs to be done as part of the 'Har Ghar Dastak' (door-to-door) campaign that was started on November 3 and will continue till November 30. When asked about trusted individuals and community leaders identified and appointed as ambassadors district-wise, officials told DH, civil society far exceeds elected representatives like MLAs. Health officials across districts said those truly deserving such recognition are women's self-help groups, fishermen communities, NGOs like Rotary, Azim Premji Foundation, among others. A Gadag district health official requesting anonymity, said, "Our health workers are rightful candidates for any such local recognition and felicitation. MLAs do camps only for publicity. They say they will mobilise 2,000 and finally some 300 turn up. Our ASHAs would have already enlisted them. They deserve the credit and any certificate of appreciation." Dr M G Rama, Udupi District Immunisation Officer, said, "It is difficult to give recognition to individuals as it is the NGO groups that are working in the field on a war footing along side the health department in the district. Stree Shakthi groups, Rotary, Dr Giridhar Prabhu from an NGO, youth clubs, scouts and guides from schools, and fishermen associations, have been drawing up plans and mobilising people to go to CVCs." Dr Basavaraj Hubbali, Bagalkot District Immunisation Officer, said, "The Azim Premji Foundation team have been mobilising public to go to CVCs. They have deployed volunteers even at the sub centre level who are overlooked by community health workers. We have 269 sub centres and the Foundation has selected population groups that are resistant and have deployed one volunteer per sub centre." Dr P C Kumaraswamy, District Immunisation Officer, Chitradurga, also said any local recognition due was to be given to the district's ASHA workers and primary health centre officers. "We had maximum resistance in Molkalmuru taluk with two lakh population. It is one of the most backward taluks of the district with highest interior areas. Earlier, we had 38 teams but we deployed another 30 members to this taluk to go house to house as a result of which coverage improved by 10%. Out of a target of 1.18 lakh we have covered 50% now," he said. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/civil-society-beats-elected-reps-in-mobilising-people-for-covid-vaccination-1056684.html
02-12-2021||State||Karnataka's Quarantine Watch app may be back to monitor international travellers||The Quarantine Watch app of the Karnataka government may make a comeback as the state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee has recommended that all home quarantine measures that were in place before have to make a come back in view of the Omicron variant, to monitor international travellers from affected countries. More than three crore people have been traced on the app throughout the pandemic to enforce home quarantine. More than 1.5 crore primary and secondary contacts were also traced using the app. Henceforth, all international travellers irrespective of which country they arrive from, have to be in home quarantine for seven days if they test Covid negative. Munish Moudgil who headed the state Covid-19 war room during both the Covid waves was one of the key figures in developing the app. There were at least 40,000 personnel involved in home quarantine teams that went to door-to-door to check compliance. In March 2020, when the app was launched, all international travellers who landed in the Kempegowda International Airport, were required to download the app along with the Arogya Setu app. "There is just no other way to enforce home quarantine. There were a lot of personnel going house-to-house clicking pictures if someone breaches quarantine," he said.  Initially, FIRs were registered against those who breached the quarantine. "In the beginning, those in home quarantine were supposed to send a selfie every hour, failing which they would be shifted to institutional quarantine. Around 60% of the people complied. Thereafter, we changed the policy where our staff would visit homes thrice a week and click pictures," Moudgil said. Every day 5,000 to 10,000 violations were found but no action was taken against any of them. "No case was booked against them. The home quarantine checks continued right up to the tail end of the second Covid wave. Now the practice has been abandoned as the teams have been disbanded. If an order is passed, the protocols can be reinforced. Everybody will be called back from their regular duties as and when the quarantines are ordered," he added. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-quarantine-watch-app-may-be-back-to-monitor-international-travellers-1056686.html
02-12-2021||State||Prof M R Doreswamy welcomes Vidyanjali programme||Prof M R Doreswamy (MRD), former advisor to the Government of Karnataka (Education Reforms) has welcomed the launch of the Vidyanjali programme by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  In a communication issued to the media, Prof Doreswamy said, "I humbly but proudly state that adoption of government schools for development was my first recommendation to the Government of Karnataka. It was implemented as a government programme in the budget 2020-21, well before the National Education Policy was notified." "I earnestly appeal to our Prime Minister to involve all the elected representatives across the country to adopt government schools under Vidyanjali programme to take the initiative to the next level and make it a truly historic and social movement," he mentioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/prof-m-r-doreswamy-welcomes-vidyanjali-programme-1056693.html
02-12-2021||State||Get ready for Omicron, H K Patil tells CM Bommai||Urging the Karnataka government not to underplay the threat of Omicron variant of Covid-19, senior Congress leader H K Patil has asked Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to immediately take regulatory measures and put in place stringent norms to curb cases. The state government underplayed the cases even at the beginning of the second wave which led to lakhs of people losing their lives, Patil, also a former minister, said in a letter to Bommai. Patil urged the government to open genomic sequencing laboratories in each district and to make sure that those travelling from Omicron affected countries are shifted to a containment zone at the airport itself. “It has not been possible for the government to completely stop travellers across the state border on previous occasions. The government should start registering criminal cases against people violating norms,” he demanded. The government must immediately equip all hospitals with adequate infrastructure, without underplaying the threat posed by Omicron, he urged.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/get-ready-for-omicron-h-k-patil-tells-cm-bommai-1056697.html
02-12-2021||State||Diary found in I-T search: Karnataka HC quashes FIR on MLC's plaint||The High Court of Karnataka has quashed the FIR registered by the Indiranagar police based on the complaint by Member of Legislative Council (MLC) K Govindaraj and the subsequent notice issued to Income Tax (I-T) officials to hand over the diary seized during a search in 2016. Observing that both the complainant (Govindaraj) and the Indiranagar police want to secure only the diary, Justice M Nagaprasanna said the FIR is unsustainable in view of section 293 of the Income Tax Act.    The I-T officials had conducted a search on the premises of Govindaraj on March 15, 2016, and seized several incriminating documents, including a diary. According to the I-T officials, the diary was found in the bedroom and contained recordings of various transactions with abbreviations and amounts against each of the abbreviations. Meanwhile, on February 28, 2017, Govindaraj filed a complaint with the Indiranagar police alleging that there was gross violation of the procedure during the search and regarding documents that were seized, particularly the diary. Though the FIR was registered against unknown persons, a police notice under Section 91 of CrPC was issued to the I-T officials on April 13, 2017, directing them to hand over the diary. The I-T officials, challenging the FIR and subsequent notice, contended that the FIR should not have been registered as they were performing official duty in terms of the provisions of the Income Tax Act. They also claimed that the provisions of CrPC cannot override the provisions of the Income Tax Act. The court noted that a conjoint reading of Sections 132 and 138 (2) of the I-T Act, would lead to a conclusion that once seizure proceedings are undertaken, the officials are not obliged to furnish the document to any public servant. “It is rather shocking that what the complainant wants in the complaint is, the diary and what the Police want to secure from the petitioners is the diary and no other document is required by the Police for investigation of the allegations of offences, which run into 15 in number, but only the diary. It cannot but be held that the 3rd respondent (police) was acting at the behest of the complainant to secure the diary by invoking Section 91 of the CrPC, thereby summoning the diary,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/diary-found-in-i-t-search-karnataka-hc-quashes-fir-on-mlcs-plaint-1056698.html
02-12-2021||State||Legislators, supporters lock horns at Karnataka BJP meeting||A verbal duel ensued between Ranebennur MLA Arunkumar and MLC R Shankar, and their supporters at the BJP leaders’ meeting held at a hotel in Hubballi on Wednesday. BJP leaders of Dharwad, Haveri and Gadag districts participated in the meeting called to discuss the Legislative Council elections from Dharwad Local Authorities’ Constituency. Chaos prevailed for some time, as a war of words erupted between two legislators and their supporters. The issue of appointing in-charge leaders for the elections was said to be the reason. Irate supporters came out of the meeting hall blaming each other, and former chief minister Jagadish Shettar pacified them. R Shankar said that there was no such spat in the meeting. However, Jagadish Shettar stated that both the leaders discussed some problems in Ranebennur constituency, but there was no clash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/legislators-supporters-lock-horns-at-karnataka-bjp-meeting-1056700.html
02-12-2021||State||Housing under PMAY: Karnataka govt asks banks to speed up loans||Raising concerns over the inordinate delay on the part of banks to sanction loans to beneficiaries under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), the Karnataka government has urged lenders to speed up the process. According to officials, of the 18,000 applications submitted by the government in the last six months, only 3,500 beneficiaries have been sanctioned loans by the banks. This delay is holding up the implementation of the government’s flagship programme of housing for the urban poor.  Speaking to DH, Additional Chief Secretary and Development Commissioner Vandita Sharma said it is an ongoing process. While there was progress in the project, the government was pushing for a faster pace on the part of the banks and the departments concerned. “While some banks are clearing them early, others are taking time. If an application is complete in all respects, it should not take more than 15 days for sanctioning the loan,” she said.  While the government is pushing banks to speed up the process, it is equally egging on agencies such as the Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Limited (RGHCL) and the Karnataka Slum Development Board to send in their applications fast, the official added.  The government wants to ensure that the applications are complete with all details, without the beneficiaries having to make multiple visits to government offices. Several beneficiaries may not be able to afford to forego their daily wages to spend time in these offices.  A recent state level bankers’ committee (SLBC) meeting noted that the government aimed to build 3.41 lakh houses, of which 2.07 are under construction, while the rest are yet to take off. In RGHCL alone, of the 5,644 applications received, only 1,450 have been sanctioned. Also, of this, finally only 73 loans have been disbursed to beneficiaries. The SLBC, too, has urged banks to speed up the process. The process had already been simplified with fewer documents for processing the application, an SLBC report in this regard noted. Under PMAY, the cost of houses range from Rs 4.5 lakh to Rs 10.6 lakh. While the Centre provides Rs 2.7 lakh, the state will pitch in with Rs 3.5 lakh. The rest of it is the beneficiaries’ share.  Of this, Rs 10,000 is collected from their savings, while banks loan the rest of the amount.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/housing-under-pmay-karnataka-govt-asks-banks-to-speed-up-loans-1056703.html
02-12-2021||State||Fee at Karnataka govt engineering colleges increased by Rs 10,000||The state government has increased the fee at the state-run engineering colleges by Rs 10,000 for those who are getting admissions this academic year through the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET). This came as a shocker for students when they went to pay the fee after the allocation of seats in the first round. Now, the fee at government engineering colleges has been increased from the existing Rs 23,000 to Rs 33,810. The students and parents are upset though the department of higher education is defending this increase by saying it would help to build the infrastructure and also to increase the demand for government colleges.  “The Covid-19 has caused financial issues and now this came as a shocker,” said one of the parents. “When we are struggling to pay even Rs 25,000, how can the government increase the fee,” questioned another parent. As per the communication from the department of higher education issued to Karnataka Examinations Authority, this Rs 33,810 includes even the university fees and it is an additional fee collected and has to be deposited to colleges to utilise for infrastructure development.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fee-at-karnataka-govt-engineering-colleges-increased-by-rs-10000-1056705.html
02-12-2021||State||Hubballi-Ankola rail line: Karnataka HC tells National Wildlife Board to assess impact||The high court on Wednesday directed the National Wildlife Board to independently assess the impact on the wildlife by the proposed broad-gauge railway line between Hubballi and Ankola. A division bench, comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, passed this order while hearing a batch of PILs challenging the wildlife clearance for the project. One of the petitions contended that the State Wildlife Board, in its 14th meeting, recommended the construction of a new 168-km broadgauge line. The petitioners said the project would lead to the diversion of 595.64 hectares of forest land and an estimated 2.2 lakh trees would have to be cut for the project. On June 18, 2021, the court had passed an interim order halting the diversion of forest land in Karwar, Yellapur and Dharwad for the construction of the railway line. “We understand that development work has to be carried out. However, we have to assess the impact on the wildlife and the endeavour should be to protect the wildlife. In order to find out the impact of this development project on wildlife, we direct the National Board for Wildlife to carry out a survey over the area involved in the project and make an assessment of the effect of laying down of the Hubballi-Ankola broad-gauge rail line in the forest area involved over the wildlife,” the bench said. The court has directed the National Wildlife Board to make an independent assessment and said it may involve experts in making the assessment. According to the petitioner, the project area falls within the Kali tiger reserve or Anshi-Dandeli tiger reserve, an eco-sensitive zone in the Western Ghats. The petitioners said that, in the 13th meeting, the state board had resolved to reject the proposal. However, in the next meeting, held 11 days later on March 20, 2020, it was resolved to recommend the project and submit it to the national board. Meanwhile, Railway Seva Samithi, Uttara Kannada, an intervener in the PILs, supported the project. Quoting a statement by the then minister of state for railways in August 2017, the counsel for the intervener said the project area does not fall within the protected area such as national park, wildlife sanctuary or tiger reserve.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-ankola-rail-line-karnataka-hc-tells-national-wildlife-board-to-assess-impact-1056706.html
02-12-2021||State||Karnataka Congress protests shifting Gaganyaan to Gujarat||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar joined the party affiliated National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) for a protest in front of the ISRO office on Wednesday following reports that Gaganyaan, the Indian Human Spaceflight programme, will move to Gujarat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state.  Speaking to reporters, Shivakumar stressed that Gaganyaan should not be shifted out of Bengaluru and Karnataka.  “It’s a matter of Karnataka’s pride. The Centre is planning to shift the programme out of Bengaluru. It shouldn’t happen,” he said. “Let them start a new project in Gujarat, but it is not right to shift the programme that began and is running here,” he said. Shivakumar had recently shot off letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai opposing any such move. NSUI members raised slogans, holding placards and posters. Shivakumar pointed out that the Centre had also planned to shift Aero India out of Bengaluru. “They withdrew only after Kannadigas protested,” he said, adding that the plan to shift the Human Spaceflight programme was “purely political to please Gujarati bosses.”  Initiated in 2007, ISRO’s Gaganyaan is aimed at launching a manned mission in the Lower Earth Orbit. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-congress-protests-shifting-gaganyaan-to-gujarat-1056707.html
02-12-2021||State||CBSE regrets 'inappropriate' question on Godhra riots||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday said that it will take strict action against those responsible, for including an ‘inappropriate’ question in the sociology paper of Class 12 first-term examination. According to sources, the examiners had asked a question pertaining to the 2002 Godhra riots.  A screenshot of the paper showed the disputed question: The unprecedented scale and spread of anti-Muslim violence in Gujarat in 2002 took place under which government? The students were given four options - Congress, BJP, Democratic, Republican. Realising the ‘error’ later in the day, CBSE tweeted in the evening, claiming that the question was ‘inappropriate' and in violation of the CBSE guidelines for external subject experts for setting question papers. The tweet further said, “CBSE acknowledges the error made and will take strict action against the responsible persons.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cbse-regrets-inappropriate-question-on-godhra-riots-1056708.html
02-12-2021||State||Karnataka, Bavarian universities to cooperate for higher studies||The Karnataka Department of Higher Education and Bavarian Universities of Germany Thursday decided to join hands under National Education Policy (NEP-2020) and charted out a schedule of proposed activities. A meeting was held at Vidhana Soudha on Thursday between Minister for Higher Education CN Ashwath Narayan, representatives of the German Consulate and Bavarian-Indian Centre for Business, wherein it was decided to initiate the activities of co-operation from next February. During the meeting, Narayan pointed out that the Karnataka government is keen to internationalise higher education and is willing to collaborate with Bavarian Universities towards achieving its objective of providing quality education, a release from his office said. As per the schedule, an online seminar for Bavarian Universities on NEP will be held in February, wherein representatives of Karnataka and the German Consulate will participate. This will also cover topics on the structure of new degree programmes, multiple entry-exit, applied learning-teaching, industry relation and internationalisation of higher education. During the second phase, in April, an online seminar for Karnataka Universities will be conducted on ‘experimental learning’, including topics of university-industry cooperation, best practice report and industry-oriented teaching, the minister noted. In the final stage, between July 22 and September 22, seminars on ‘opportunities for internationalization under NEP’ will be organised, which comprises topics on exchange on how to set up an international office, joint dual degree/twinning programme, he said, adding that a joint framework will be set ready to implement new initiatives of faculty exchange, student exchange and research, and joint PhD. The Bavarian-Indian Centre for Business and University Cooperation (BayIND) has been entrusted to take up technical aspects of organising the activities, the release said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bavarian-universities-to-cooperate-for-higher-studies-1056860.html
02-12-2021||State||All India Institute of Speech and Hearing phone-in programme on December 3||All India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH) is organising a Facebook live phone-in programme on ‘Welfare Measures for Persons with Disabilities', on December 3, the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. The phone-in programme will cover the basic welfare services provided by the government to persons with communication disorders. R Prashanth, Medical Social Worker, department of clinical services is the resource person to the programme to be held from 11 am to 11.30 am. Tele-mode AIISH is also organising another phone-in programme on the topic ‘Accessibility to persons with communication disabilities through tele-mode’ on December 3 from 11.30 am to 12 noon, as part of International day of persons with disabilities. The phone-in programme will focus on tele services available at AIISH for persons with communication disabilities. Dr R Yashaswini, Clinical supervisor, Tele centre for persons with communication disorders will be the resource person.   AIISH caters to persons with speech, language, hearing related problems and swallowing disorders. Assessment and rehabilitation services are provided to paediatric, adult and geriatric groups for any type of communication difficulties, in person or through tele/virtual modes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/all-india-institute-of-speech-and-hearing-phone-in-programme-on-december-3-1056982.html
02-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Omicron scare lengthens queues for second dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Karnataka||News of the Omicron variant has been creating long lines of people queuing up to get the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine. Among those turning up for vaccinations are scores of ordinary people asking about booster shots, officials said, adding, however, that data also shows that those who had never taken vaccine are also coming forward for the shot. Before November 26 about 25 per cent of people getting a vaccine were people who wanted a first dose. Now, that percentage has shot up to 31 per cent. “People are coming forward in large numbers,” said Dr Arundhathi Chandrashekar, Director, National Health Mission. “It is a trend that we saw even during the second wave, when the infections prompted massive numbers of people to come forward for vaccinations, which at the time, even triggered a shortfall in supplies.”  She added that just a week ago, the state’s daily dosage amounts were just about 1.5 lakh per day, but now the daily numbers are about 5 lakh doses per day. “Even on Sunday, September 28, we did over 2.58 lakh doses, which is unprecedented. We have never crossed two lakh doses on a Sunday since September 19,” she said. The state is said to have 85 lakh doses in storage at present and is are getting about two lakh doses every two or three days. But the situation in Bengaluru is a bit more ambiguous according to Dr Balasundar A S, Chief Health Officer (CHO), Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). According to Co-WIN, the daily dosage figures have been steadily climbing ever since news of the Omicron variant started to make headlines worldwide. On November 22, for example, 35,315 doses were administered. However, on Tuesday, over 69,000 doses were administered. “Nevertheless, much of the increase is because of our efforts to enlist vaccine-takers in public spaces, malls….etc,” Dr Balasundar said. “There is fear of the Omicron but not to the level where people are coming to us in droves to get the second dose.” The Chief Health Officer (CHO) added people also seem not to have understood the value of vaccinations from a preventative point of view. “We are still finding large amounts of complacency in the population about the second dose. But the facts speak for themselves when it comes to hospitalizations. Out of 100 cases of vaccinated people with Covid-19, nearly 98 per cent can do home isolation, however, out of 100 cases of unvaccinated, 15 per cent end up in hospital and not just any bed, but ICU beds,” he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/omicron-scare-lengthens-queues-for-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-karnataka-1056753.html
02-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||In U-turn, Karnataka mandates testing only for arrivals from Omicron-hit countries||A day after Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar announced mandatory testing of all international passengers arriving in Karnataka, an official order by Principal Secretary, Health, TK Anil Kumar on Wednesday, mandated RTPCR testing for only those arriving from the Omicron-affected countries.  In a way, the Principal Secretary's fresh guidelines reiterated what the Centre had issued on November 30.  The revised circular by the Principal Secretary had no mention of the minister's instructions to test all international passengers.  Sources at the health department revealed that the move was close on the heels of what the Centre had done to the Maharashtra government.  "Maharashtra had ordered RTPCR testing of all international travellers at the Mumbai airport irrespective of country of origin (just like the Karnataka Health Minister has announced). As the orders were in contrast with the Centre's guidelines, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had sent a missive to Maharashtra asking the state government to align with the Centre's order," the official pointed.  DH tried to reach out to both the Health minister Dr K Sudhakar and Principal Secretary, Health, asking whether the state government has made a U-turn on its announcement that was made at the behest of CM Basavaraj Bommai. Neither the minister nor the Principal Secretary responded to the calls. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-u-turn-karnataka-mandates-testing-only-for-arrivals-from-omicron-hit-countries-1056758.html
02-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Chief Minister Bommai leaves for Delhi, likely to meet top leaders||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday left for New Delhi ahead of the Winter Legislative Session scheduled to be held from December 13. Chief Minister Bommai's scheduled programme earlier showed that he was taking up a two-day trip. However, while talking to reporters before leaving to the airport, he stated that he would return by Thursday evening. His repeated trips to New Delhi have also become a topic of discussion in the state political circles. Bommai is likely to meet top leaders and seek their guidance on tackling the opposition during the session on the Bitcoin scandal, corruption charges by contractors and shifting of ISRO programme from Bengaluru to Gujarat. The Congress camp is upbeat and looking ahead to the session to dent the image of the ruling party by raising these issues and gaining momentum for the upcoming elections of 2023 in the state. Ruling BJP camp is divided, and Chief Minister Bommai had earlier complained against a few top leaders to the party high command for providing documents to the Congress leaders against the government to put him in a fix. He is likely to ask the top leadership to tame the activities of the BJP leaders, sources said. He is scheduled to attend a private television channel programme and the rest of the itinerary is reserved. He is likely to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah. He will also discuss booster dose to frontline workers with Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. Bommai is also planning to meet Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat to discuss the inter-state water disputes, including Krishna river water sharing and Mekedatu project. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-chief-minister-bommai-leaves-for-delhi-likely-to-meet-top-leaders-1056770.html
02-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Congress leader, nine others served notice for conspiring to kill BDA chief SR Vishwanath||The Karnataka Police have served notice to 10 persons, including Congress leader Gopalakrishna, in connection with a case of conspiring to kill three-time BJP MLA SR Vishwanath on Thursday. Vishwanath is said to be close to former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai reacted on the issue before flying off to New Delhi and said that the "matter is seized with the police now and after the investigation, a call will be taken to whether the case should be handed over to higher investigative agencies". A three-minute video clip containing a conversation between Congress leader Gopalakrishna and his associates about 'killing MLA Vishwanath when he goes to farm house', has gone viral. Based on this, Vishwanath gave a complaint to the Rajanukunte police. Gopalakrishna had lost the Assembly elections to Vishwanath in the Yelahanka constituency. Preliminary inquiries have suggested that the video was made six months ago. One Kulla Devaraj, an associate of Gopalakrishna is said to have recorded the video and handed it over to Vishwanath. The police are also questioning him. The police have issued a notice to MLA Vishwanath to provide them with evidence in connection with the case. Vishwanath has mentioned that Gopalakrishna, who suffered defeat against him twice and came third in the last elections, wanted to eliminate him. Gopalakrishna has maintained that it is a conspiracy by his former associate Kulla Devaraj to fix him. He also maintained that the video is fake and he would lodge a police complaint in this regard. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-congress-leader-nine-others-served-notice-for-conspiring-to-kill-bda-chief-sr-vishwanath-1056885.html
02-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Pollution Board tells PWD to mandatorily use plastic waste in road construction||The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) has made it mandatory for road construction agencies in Karnataka to use the plastic waste in bituminous constructions. In a direction issued on Thursday, KSPCB chairman Shanta Thimmaiah told the Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project (KSHIP), Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development LImited (KRIDL) and the state Public Works Department (PWD) to "mandatorily use waste plastics" as per the Indian Road Congress guidelines. The KPSCB said "studies" have revealed that waste plastics have great potential for use in the bituminous construction as its addition in small doses of "about 5-10 per cent, by weight of bitumen" helps in improving the stability and strength of the bituminous mix, leading to improved longevity. The order also cited pollution and consequent effect on human and animal health caused by the dumping of waste plastic.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-pollution-board-tells-pwd-to-mandatorily-use-plastic-waste-in-road-construction-1056907.html
02-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre to decide on booster doses after expert panel report: CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had promised him that the Centre would take a decision on giving booster Covid-19 vaccines to health workers after the expert panel submits its report. The CM, who met Mandaviya here, told reporters that the health minister said that an expert panel was holding discussions on giving booster vaccine doses to health workers. Based on the panel’s recommendation, the ministry will make a decision and communicate to the state, the CM said. Bommai has requested the Union minister to supply vaccines to the state so that frontline health workers can be given booster doses. On shortage of fertilizers in Karnataka, the CM said Mandaviya, who also holds the fertilizers portfolio, had promised to supply them to the state as per the earlier decided quota. Bommai flagged the issue of the short supply of DAP (di-ammonium phosphate) to the state for the past two months and requested Mandaviya to increase the supply. During his meeting with Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, the CM requested the latter to ensure that the Upper Bhadra project gets national status, during the high-level committee of the Jal Shakti ministry next week. He requested the minister not to approve the detailed project report (DPR) of the Cauvery-Krishna-Godavari-Mahanadi river-linking project, without consulting Karnataka. Bommai urged Shekhawat not to approve the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar link project proposed by Tamil Nadu, without giving approval to Karnataka’s Mekedatu project. On shortage of vaccines for the foot-and-mouth disease among cattle, the CM said he was aware of the issue and had already directed the animal husbandry department to increase the supply of vaccines.   The CM also called on Union Law and Justice Minister Kiren Rijiju and sought support for the development of court and law infrastructure in Karnataka. Talks on Omicron Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai also held discussions on the Omicron virus with Mandaviya. The CM said that the health minister told him that the Centre was watching the developments related to the new variant of the virus. “I discussed two issues. One was about controlling the spread of Covid-19 and the other was about the new variant,” he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-to-decide-on-booster-doses-after-expert-panel-report-cm-bommai-1056913.html
02-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||We will trap those who slaughter cows & crucify them, says BJP's Eshwarappa||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa has allegedly said that those who slaughter cows will be "trapped and crucified" on Wednesday night when he was interacting with reporters after visiting gaurakshaks (cow vigilantes) of the Bajrang Dal at a hospital. Eshwarappa stated, "We have brought legislation to instil fear among killers of cows. The legislation is more than enough to deal with the issue. But, the police department has to take strict action in this regard." "We will encourage and empower police to take action against illegal cow slaughtering. If there is any drawback in the legislation, we will make it more powerful. BJP workers worship cows," he added. "I am paying a visit to the hospital amid a tight schedule. Two accused have been arrested for attacking gaurakshaks. Nineteen cows have been rescued in the operation. If illegal transportation, slaughtering of cows continue, we will crucify them," he warned. Congress on Thursday denounced Eshwarappa's statement. U T Khader, former minister, and Congress MLA told IANS that no one is against taking action on illegal transportation of cattle. "We are also against it. But, such crimes cannot take place without the support of the ruling government. These incidents are witnessing a rise after the BJP came to power. In spite of the law, the government is not able to control it." "Why is Eshwarappa blaming police officers and issuing emotional statements? The BJP is ruling at the Centre as well as the state. There are 16 beef export companies operating in the north Karnataka region. If he is so concerned, let him cancel their licenses," Khader challenged. Lavanya Ballal, AICC spokesperson and social media coordinator, accused Eshwarappa of issuing "cheap and provoking" statements. In Karnataka, there is an Animal Slaughter Bill and amendments have been made. Besides, there is a provision for sending aged cows to slaughterhouses, she said. "We have to ask Eshwarappa whether he is targeting non-vegetarians. He is an elected representative and he can't issue anti-constitutional statements. What he has to say about animal sacrifices at Shakti Peethas (religious centres)," she asked. At his visit to the hospital, Eshwarappa said, "I am unhappy with the police for not initiating stern action in this regard. They fear for their family's safety. Illegal cow slaughtering has not stopped despite the BJP ruling the state. I am upset. We will ensure an end to cow slaughter completely in the state. We will trap those who slaughter cows and crucify them." "The doctors have stated that all the injured are out of danger. Our organisation (RSS) and the government will come to their aid. We will ensure that the injured's families do not spend a penny on their treatment," he said.  The cows were undergoing treatment for injuries suffered while trying to prevent cows from being illegally transported. The incident took place in Thirthahalli in the Shivamogga district on November 30. Two brothers, Kiran (23) and Charan (24) working as labourers and Bajrang Dal activists spotted a truck transporting cows illegally and followed it. In a bid to escape, the truck driver tried to run them over and in the process, dragged the two for a long-distance injuring them badly. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/we-will-trap-those-who-slaughter-cows-crucify-them-says-bjps-eshwarappa-1056922.html
02-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka seeks Rs 1,281 crore as rain damage compensation from Centre; revises toll from 26 to 42||Karnataka on Thursday submitted a memorandum to the Centre seeking Rs 1,281 crore as relief for the damages sustained in the heavy rainfall that smashed the state in October and November. The government’s latest assessment, which has been sent to the Centre, shows a huge rise in human deaths, crop losses and other damages from what was initially recorded. At least 42 people died in floods and rain, according to the updated figures. This is up from 26 deaths that were reported initially. Crop losses have almost doubled: from 5.81 lakh hectares to 9.90 lakh hectares now. The government said most of the rabi crops such as Bengal gram, cotton, jowar, maize and chilli were destroyed. “Long duration cloudy situation led to pest and disease to plantation crops like grapes, coffee, arecanut, pepper etc causing immense misery to farmers,” the government told the Centre in its memorandum, adding that crop loss due to flood is estimated at Rs 8,962.02 crore. “The overall estimated damage of Rs 11,916.30 crore and as per SDRF norms stands at Rs 1281.92 crore,” the government said. A whopping 19,366 km of public roads have taken a hit in the rain, according to government data. This includes state highways and major district roads (7,757 km), rural roads (9,820 km) and other urban roads (1,789 km). Some 20,083 houses are damaged and this, along with crop losses, will form the bulk of the government’s post-flood relief expenditure. According to the memorandum, Karnataka received 307 mm rainfall as against a normal 166mm between October 1 and November 30, which is 85 per cent excess. Out of 31 districts, 23 recorded “excess to large excess rainfall.” There were two extreme events in October (one during October 6-13 and another October 21-25) that led to excess rainfall in the range of 110-123 per cent. Then in November, two successive depressions over the Bay of Bengal and a trough in the Arabian Sea caused unprecedented rainfall. “The state received widespread heavy rainfall and recorded 592 per cent more than normal, which is the second-highest in the last 60 years,” the government said. The government is now waiting for an Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) to visit the state to take stock of the damages. “We’ve asked all deputy commissioners to collect photo evidence and drone videos. We’re also collecting data on rainfall surges and satellite maps,” Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority commissioner Manoj Rajan said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-seeks-rs-1281-crore-as-rain-damage-compensation-from-centre-revises-toll-from-26-to-42-1056939.html
02-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Elderly man arrested for raping girl||The police on Thursday arrested a 70-year-old elderly man on charges of raping a 13-year-old girl in a village of the taluk. The arrested has been identified as Channabasayya Zalaki. The parents of the rape survivor, in a police compliant, stated that the accused took the girl who is his neighbour, to the nearby agriculture field by promising her some snacks but instead forced himself on her. Though the incident took place November 29, it came to light four days late after the girl informed the parents about pain in her private parts. The rape was confirmed by the doctor when she was taken for examination. The police subjected the arrested elderly man to the health check up. Ravoor police registered a case. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/elderly-man-arrested-for-raping-girl-1056944.html
02-12-2021||West||Mumbai Police use Ranveer Singh's '83' dialogue for Covid protocols||The official Instagram handle of the Mumbai Police has shared a Bollywood reference yet again to create awareness about Covid protocols. After using references from Stree and Main Hoon Na, the Mumbai Police account used a scene from the upcoming Kabir Khan directorial to talk about the importance of wearing masks at all times. The Mumbai Police handle took a dialogue from Ranveer's upcoming movie 83. The movie, based on the life and world cup journey of former India captain Kapil Dev. The department used one of the lines from the trailer to send out a message to people who ignore Covid-19 safety protocols. The dialogue was: "He doesn't know defence", the police wrote in their post: "When you don't wear your mask in spite of '83' million reminders." The post currently has 11,000 likes on the photo-sharing website. The Mumbai Police Twitter handle is known for their funny and quirky references on social matters. 83 is slated to release on December 24. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-use-ranveer-singhs-83-dialogue-for-covid-protocols-1056776.html
02-12-2021||West||HIV still threatens us: AIDS Society chief||Four decades ago the first AIDS case was reported in the world, and 35 years since first case was reported in India, HIV still threatens us, days Dr Dr Ishwar Gilada, President, AIDS Society of India (ASI) and Governing Council member, International AIDS Society (IAS). “Today, the world is off track from delivering on the shared commitment to end AIDS by 2030 not because of a lack of knowledge or tools to beat AIDS, but because of structural inequalities that obstruct proven solutions to HIV prevention and treatment,” Dr Gilada said coinciding with the 34th World AIDS Day observed globally on December 1. According to him, 109 months left to end AIDS by 2030 and deliver on all Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “Economic, social, cultural and legal inequalities must be ended as a matter of urgency if we are to end AIDS by 2030. But ending inequalities requires transformative change. Political, economic and social policies need to protect the rights of everyone and pay attention to the needs of disadvantaged and marginalised communities,” he said. According to Dr Gilada, India has made commendable progress since April 7, 2004, when it began the roll out of lifesaving antiretroviral therapy (ART) for people living with HIV, but formidable challenges remain. India along with other nations worldwide missed meeting the target of zero discrimination by 2020. Zero discrimination milestone now has been shifted to 2030, albeit with a correction, “less than 10 per cent discrimination by 2030”. Dr Gilada said grappling with Covid-19 pandemic for almost two years, the other crucial health issues like HIV, Tuberculosis, other infectious diseases similarly other non-infectious health emergencies and exigencies got neglected in India and elsewhere. That resulted in non-achievement of WHO target 90-90-90 by 2020; which was set for 90 per cent of people with HIV should know their status, 90 per cent of HIV infected people who know their status should be put on Antiretroviral Treatment (ART) and 90 per cent of those on ART should have their HIV-Viral loads suppressed. According to Dr Gilada, India has a golden opportunity to end HIV-related discrimination by fully implementing the HIV/AIDS (prevention and control) Act 2017. “ASI worked hard to call for the law for ending all forms of HIV related stigma and discrimination. Now ASI is calling for ensuring that all social security measures which are part of our legal framework must be guaranteed to every person living with HIV so that progress towards HIV care and support be fully galvanised, to prevent the act being termed as a ‘toothless act’,” he said. Even four years after the HIV/AIDS Act 2017, is in place, there are no appointments of state Ombudsman, which is a mandatory provision in the act. “We yet to see a single prosecution under the provisions of this act and it in no way connotes that these violations have not happened. In fact, there is an urgent need to create awareness about the existence of the acts and its provisions.” “PLHIV are denied mediclaim policies, and they still mention HIV in exclusion criteria. Life Insurances still have provision to not allow PLHIV to take policies for insured sum more than 10 lakh,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hiv-still-threatens-us-aids-society-chief-1057137.html
02-12-2021||West||Cheating case: Palghar police take custody of NCB's cruise drugs case witness Gosavi||The Palghar police on Thursday took the custody of NCB witness Kiran Gosavi in a cheating case registered here in Maharashtra, an official said. Gosavi was arrested by the Pune police in October this year in a cheating case following which the Palghar police had also sought his custody in another case of cheating. After due formalities, the Palghar police placed him under arrest around 1 am on Thursday, police spokesperson Sachin Navadkar said. Gosavi was one of the nine independent witnesses of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the case related to the alleged recovery of drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast in October. Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is among the accused in the case. Before being arrested by the Pune police, Gosavi was on the run after his selfie with Aryan Khan had gone viral. A case was earlier registered at Kelwa police station here against Gosavi of cheating under the pretext of offering jobs in Malaysia following a complaint lodged by one Adarsh Kini. The complainant had stated that he saw a Facebook post on April 3, 2018, with an offer to get an overseas job. Kini and his friend Utkarsha Tare contacted the phone number and were assured by the accused (Gosavi) that he will get them jobs abroad and also the passport and visa. The accused took a sum of Rs 1,65,000 from Kini and his friend promising them job overseas, the police earlier said. As per the instructions of the accused, Kini and his friend travelled to Cochin from Panvel by train. When they showed the air ticket given to them at the Cochin airport, it turned out to be fake, as a result of which they could not take off, the police said. When they sought refund of the money paid to Gosavi, he evaded them. Realising that they were cheated, they approached the police. The case against Gosavi was registered under Indian Penal Code Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc) and 471 (using a forged document as genuine), the police said. Kelwa's assistant police inspector Bhimsen Gaikwad said Gosavi will be interrogated in connection with the cheating case.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cheating-case-palghar-police-take-custody-of-ncbs-cruise-drugs-case-witness-gosavi-1056799.html
02-12-2021||West||Amid unseasonal rains, Aaditya Thackeray says threat of climate change is real||Amid unseasonal rains in Mumbai and elsewhere in Maharashtra, state’s environment, tourism and protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray drove home the point that the threat of climate change is real and we all are witnessing it.   “…it is important to understand that while one could enjoy a cold rainy morning in the city, it was also crucial to realise that on stepping out of city life, was it good for the farmers, is it good for the food we get, is it sustainable as a lifestyle for the people, from planning city infrastructure,” Thackeray said. “All of this happens according to the seasons. Most of our agrarian produce, most of our GDP is dependent on the monsoons. But when monsoons start becoming erratic how does one depend on it? Because if it is raining in December and January, will it be back again in June? Have the agricultural and sowing seasons changed? So, all of this is really in climate change,” the Minister said, setting out the tone during deliberations as part of  “Colaba Conversation 2021” organised by ORF. Thackeray said that climate change was real and that it was important for us to look around and understand that this would not be sustainable for long. Thackeray said that the government was focussed on developing Mumbai as a financial lead city, one which was on its way to gradually become central to India’s rise in the Indian Ocean and beyond. “Development and environment can go hand in hand provided it is sustainable development,” he said. The Minister added that India too needs its own Blue Imperative for coastal cities, marine resources, blue economy, one that puts coastal cities as the primary stakeholder in regional geopolitics and geoeconomics. On a question about EV charging station infrastructure being developed, Thackeray reiterated that 30% of vehicles in Maharashtra will be EVs by 2025. “People of Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane will see charging infrastructure come up on a large scale over the next 15-20 months. Range anxiety and charging time have already gone down considerably, while charging is being standardised globally. The Kala Ghoda, Bombay HC area will have five charging stations,” he said responding to questions on the issue. Thackeray also informed that the government had placed orders for 2,100 electric buses for Mumbai, while the public transport bus fleet of Pune, Nagpur, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Nasik will also be fully electric. Maharashtra will have a 50% electric bus fleet by 2025 and this will be 100% by 2027. From April 2022 onwards every new government vehicle to be purchased or rented will be electric. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-unseasonal-rains-aaditya-thackeray-says-threat-of-climate-change-is-real-1056808.html
02-12-2021||West||8 fishermen missing off Gir Somnath coast in Gujarat||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) on Thursday received information about an incident of drowning of fishing boats and missing fishermen off Gir-Somnath coast of Saurashtra region of Gujarat owing to unfavourable strong winds and turbulent seas. At least 8 to 10 fishermen are believed to be missing. The Coast Guard immediately launched a search and rescue operation in the area. The Indian Coast Guard on Thursday received info of sunk fishing boats at Navadra, Una Harbour-mouth due to bad weather. According to defence sources, the ICG immediately launched a search & rescue operation in the area sending IBs & Helicopters. Other ICG assets are also being mobilized, informed the ICG. The boats involved are Gauri Nandan, Dhanvantari, Shiv Priya, Hari Prasad and Al Faizan. An aircraft of the Indian Navy is also active. The India Meteorology Department (IMD) on Thursday issued a bulletin warning the fishermen against venturing into the sea. The warning has been issued for the next four days. In association with the trough at mean sea level which runs from the cyclonic circulation over south east &amp; adjoining east central Arabian Sea to Kutch across north east Arabian sea extending up to 1.5 km above mean sea level, squally weather very likely to prevail along and off South Gujarat coast. Fishermen warning for South Gujarat coast (MulDwarka, Veraval, Diu, Jafrabad, Pipavav, Victor, Bhavnagar, Alang, Bharuch, Dahej, Magdalla, Daman) - Squally weather with wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph gusting up to 65 kmph very likely to prevail along and off south Gujarat coast and adjoining north east Arabian Sea on December 1, 2021. High waves in the range of 1.5 - 3.2 meters are forecast up to December 3 along the coast of Gujarat from Diu to Okha and from Mandvi to Jakhau. Surface Current speeds vary between 40 and 95 cm/sec. Through unconfirmed sources, it is learnt that five fishermen swam to save their lives. They were rescued and taken to Nava Bandar coast. They were taken to medical care facility as they had suffered injuries. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/8-fishermen-missing-off-gir-somnath-coast-in-gujarat-1056810.html
02-12-2021||West||Jaslok Hospital launches heart transplant programme in Mumbai||The Jaslok Hospital & Research Centre, one of the leading hospitals in Mumbai, has launched a heart transplant programme -- after pioneering kidney and liver transplant in Western India. The programme will be helmed by cardiac surgeon Dr K R Balakrishnan who is well known in the space of heart transplants in the country. Jaslok Hospital will be partnering with Chennai-based MGM Hospital to bring this programme live. In the last five years, the city has seen a record 163 heart transplants, according to public records. Jaslok Hospital CEO Jitendra Haryan said: “We are thrilled to be expanding our transplant services and offerings to include heart transplants as well. Dr K R Balakrishnan is a well-known cardiac surgeon in the country, and we are happy to bring his services and expertise to our patients in Mumbai and the larger western region. It is heartening to see the increase in the number of organ donations that happen in the city giving a new lease of life to many.” While the programme will be led by Dr Balakrishnan, he will be supported by the cardiac surgeons and cardiologists’ team at Jaslok Hospital. The programme will provide outstanding quality and outcome, comprehensive support services, easily accessible care, team consisting of transplant surgeons, critical care experts, infectious diseases consultants, specially trained support nursing and other paramedical staff for ICU and wards, liaison officers, transplant coordinators, dedicated beds in ICU, cardiac rehab, and specialised post op care. MGM Healthcare CEO Harish Manian said: “The association with Jaslok is strategic in nature, which will help knowledge sharing and on-site transplant support from the team of experts from MGM Healthcare Chennai. Dr K R Balakrishnan and team will be having a dedicated Heart Failure Clinic to evaluate the patients. This association also strengthens our relationship with Jaslok Hospital and enhances our commitment to get closer to our patients in Western India.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jaslok-hospital-launches-heart-transplant-programme-in-mumbai-1056816.html
02-12-2021||West||Post-surgery, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray discharged from hospital after 22 days||After undergoing spinal surgery 20 days ago, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was discharged from the Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital, on Thursday, officials said. The CM's condition is described as fit and fine, but he has been advised to continue working from home for a few days. Thackeray was admitted to the HNRFH on November 10 and was successfully operated upon on November 12 for solving problems pertaining to the cervical spine, besides a minor procedure for removing a blood clot later. Thereafter, he was assigned physiotherapy sessions which are expected to continue for some more weeks and he may not attend office till then. However, the CM has been attending to important files, holding online meetings with cabinet colleagues or officials and chairing a couple of cabinet meetings, including those pertaining to the Covid-19 variant Omicron threats, during his hospitalisation. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/post-surgery-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-discharged-from-hospital-after-22-days-1056817.html
02-12-2021||West||Omicron scare: Maharashtra considering revision of air travel guidelines||Maharashtra Chief Secretary Debashish Chakravarty on Thursday said the state government was considering a revision of its air travel guidelines, a day after the Centre wrote to the state saying its order was in divergence with the Covid-19 SoPs and guidelines issued by the Union government. In view of global concerns over the Omicron variant, Maharashtra has mandated seven-day institutional quarantine for travellers arriving in the state from 'at-risk' countries, under the guidelines issued by the State Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday night. Such passengers will also undergo RT-PCR tests on the second, fourth and seventh day of arrival. If found to be Covid-19 positive, the passenger will be shifted to a hospital. In case the test is negative, the passenger will still have to undergo seven-day home quarantine. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Wednesday, in a letter addressed to Maharashtra Health and Family Welfare Department's Additional Chief Secretary Pradeep Kumar Vyas, asked the state to align its order with the SOPs issued by the Centre. When contacted, state Chief Secretary Chakravarty said, "The revision of guidelines is being considered and the picture will be clear by this evening." Under the new guidelines issued by the Union Health Ministry on November 28, passengers originating or transiting from at-risk countries will have to undergo RT-PCR testing post-arrival and will be required to wait for the results at the airport before leaving or taking a connecting flight. Travellers from countries excluding those countries at risk will be allowed to leave the airport and shall self-monitor their health for 14 days post-arrival but five percent of the total flight passengers shall undergo post-arrival testing at random at the airport on arrival. However, according to the Maharashtra government guidelines, passengers from other than 'at-risk' countries will have to undergo a compulsory RT-PCR test at the airport. Even if found negative, they will have to undergo 14-day home quarantine. On Wednesday, the Mumbai civic body mandated all domestic passengers landing at the city airport to carry a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours. In a circular, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) asked the Mumbai airport operator to communicate this new rule to all the domestic airlines. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/omicron-scare-maharashtra-considering-revision-of-air-travel-guidelines-1056822.html
02-12-2021||West||Maharashtra issues new Covid-19 guidelines for air travel in wake of Omicron||Ending two days of confusion, the Maharashtra government on Thursday evening issued fresh guidelines on air travel for domestic and international flyers amid the threat of an outbreak of Omicron, the new variant of Covid-19.  Earlier the Central government had taken objections over Maharashtra’s stringent guidelines, however, now it has been modified in accordance with the SOPs of the Union Health Ministry.  In the case of domestic air travel, passengers will either have to be fully vaccinated or compulsorily carry an RT-PCR Test certificate showing negative result within 72 hours before boarding. For international arrivals, the state categorised three countries -  South Africa, Botswana and Zimbabwe - as 'High-Risk countries'. However, the categorisation as 'High-Risk countries' is a dynamic exercise based on the evolving situation of the Omicron variant of the Covid-19 and hence, will be updated as required by the Government of Maharashtra, the order added. It stated  that 'High-Risk' air passengers may be deplaned on priority and separate counters will be arranged by respective airport management authorities at all international airports of Maharashtra for their screening and verification. It also mandated seven-day institutional quarantine for passengers arriving in Maharashtra from the 'High-Risk countries'. “Such all High-Risk air passengers shall have to undergo RT-PCR Test immediately on arrival at respective international airport and shall undergo mandatory 7-day institutional quarantine with second RT-PCR test to be carried out on 7th day. If any of the RT-PCR test is found to be positive, then such High-Risk air passengers shall be shifted to a hospital with Covid treatment facilities. In case result of RT-PCR test of 7th day comes negative, such High-Risk air passenger will have to undergo a further 7 days of home quarantine,” the order stated. Meanwhile, the testing facilities in Mumbai and other big cities and business hubs like Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Amravati are being ramped up.   Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-issues-new-covid-19-guidelines-for-air-travel-in-wake-of-omicron-1056894.html
02-12-2021||West||Maharashtra government suspends Param Bir Singh||In a significant development, the Maharashtra government has placed senior and controversial IPS officer Param Bir Singh under suspension.  Singh is an officer of 1988-batch of the Indian Police Service (IPS). Singh is a former Commissioner of Police of Mumbai and his last posting was Commandant General of Home Guards. In the past, he had served as Commissioner of Police in Thane, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) and Special Inspector General of Police in the Anti-Terrorism Squad. Earlier this year, Singh had shot off a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that the then Home Minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh was indulged in corruption and had fixed Rs 100 crore for now-dismissed Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze to collect per month from various business establishments. After Singh was shunted out of the Mumbai Police, he took charge of his new posting and went on leave for over 200 days without informing the government.  Meanwhile, Vaze had been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the twin cases of  planting of a gelatine sticks-laden Scorpio near Antilia, the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiren.  Deshmukh is under the arrest of Enforcement Directorate (ED) while he is also being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).  However, he returned to Mumbai last week and appeared before the police in Mumbai and Thane, and also the Pune-headquartered Crime Investigation Department (CID) - after which the warrants were cancelled.  Singh is also facing a Maharashtra government-appointed Commission of Inquiry headed by Justice (Retd) Kailash Uttamchand Chandiwal, which is probing the allegations against Deshmukh. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-suspends-param-bir-singh-1056897.html
02-12-2021||West||Goa BJP chief dares Congress counterpart to name cabinet minister involved in a 'sex scandal'||Days after Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar claimed that a Goa Cabinet minister was involved in a sex scandal and was harassing the woman involved, state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Thursday dared the top state Congress official to name the minister by December 6. The accusation against the yet unnamed cabinet minister comes at a time when the state is headed for Assembly polls in 2022. "I dare you (Girish) to declare the name in 24 hours. By December 5... before December 6, he should name the person and the victim should file a complaint. He knows, until the person files a complaint, he cannot name the (accused). Or he will be in trouble," the state BJP president said. "He should have proof or guts to name the person. Only then you (Girish) talk. After that (naming the minister and filing of complaint) if you ask why the CM has not taken action, I will respond to it at that point in time," he said. In a press conference on November 30, Chodankar claimed that a cabinet minister in the BJP-led coalition government had sexually exploited a woman and further said that Chief Minister Pramod Sawant was using the Goa Police to destroy evidence connected to the case. Chodankar had claimed that he had taken stock videos, audios and WhatsApp messages that suggested sexual exploitation of a woman by the minister. Tanavade claimed that in absence of a name, the accusations made by Chodankar are questionable.  "The person who has made the allegation should name the person. There should be no scope for a question mark. The person who is the victim should also come forward and say I have suffered this. Both these elements are missing in this case. There are 12 ministers and there is a possibility of a sense of doubt developing," Tanavade said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-bjp-chief-dares-congress-counterpart-to-name-cabinet-minister-involved-in-a-sex-scandal-1056938.html
02-12-2021||West||Omicron scare: Night curfew in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu till December 31||A night curfew has been imposed in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of coronavirus in view of the concerns over the new Omicron variant of the virus, an official said on Thursday. Starting Thursday, the night curfew will be force between 11 pm and 6 am till December 31, said the order issued by the Health and Family Welfare department of the Union Territory administration. Moreover, the previous guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the Centre and the UT administration to contain the spread of coronavirus will remain in effect till December 31 or till further orders, it said. Earlier, a night curfew was imposed in the union territory in April following a sudden rise in the new coronavirus infections. However, the restrictions on the movement were lifted gradually after the situation came under control a few months back. The order cited the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare's recent advisory to all the states and UTs "for rigorous screening and testing of all international arrivals" in view of the "emergence of highly mutant Covid-19 variant B.1.1529 cases in few countries of Africa". It further said that the "administration shall take intensive surveillance measures in accordance with the advisory and guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare". At present, there are zero active cases of Covid-19 in the entire union territory. Of the total 10,655 persons infected so far, 10,651 recovered, while four died. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/omicron-scare-night-curfew-in-dadra-and-nagar-haveli-daman-and-diu-till-december-31-1056991.html
02-12-2021||West||Wearing khaki does not mean you can speak against court, says Kerala High Court||Outraged by Kerala Police filing an application to close a pending petition against self-styled antiques dealer Monson Mavunkal and the "accusations" against the judge hearing the matter contained in the affidavit accompanying the plea, the High Court here said wearing the khaki does not mean one can say anything against the judiciary. The high court said the contents of the affidavit were "extremely disconcerting" and "an attempt to browbeat" the court into backing off. Justice Devan Ramachandran dismissed the application and also considered imposing costs on the police officer who had filed the affidavit containing accusations against him and the court but refrained from doing so on the request by the Director General of Prosecution. "Suffice to say the interim application (IA) of this nature -- which in my view is intended to browbeat the court and force a particular result -- should not have been advised or attempted and more so never pressed with the vehemence as exhibited today at the bar with the Director General of Prosecution praying that the writ petition is closed today," the judge said. The application was filed in a plea by Mavunkal's former driver-cum-mechanic -- Ajith E V -- alleging harassment by his former employer and some police officers close to him. Ajith, represented by advocates Philip T Varghese and Thomas T Varghese, had alleged that the harassment started after he made certain disclosures to police in connection with a cheating case against the self-styled antique dealer. The court said that till now it had thought the investigation was going well and therefore, was going to close the petition after taking on record the reply filed by the Enforcement Directorate, but the affidavit "changes everything". "I was going to close the matter today, but now I think there is something more than what meets the eye," the judge said. The court expressed its displeasure after perusing the affidavit filed by the head of the Crime Branch, which is investigating the cases against Mavunkal, in support of the application, "ascribing motives" to the judge of surprising the police with material from the public domain. Justice Ramachandran said the affidavit accused him of forcing the police to produce documents and "breaching confidentiality". "If you wear khaki, it does not mean you can speak anything against the court. "They (police) should know where they stand in the protocol," the judge added. The court noted that the tenor of the averments in the affidavit by a senior police officer was "overbearing and recriminatory", adopting an "unmistakable condescending tone" with regard to judicial orders, and observations was "disturbing" and contained "misdirecting asseverations". "In your (police) affidavit you have ascribed motives to me. You are accusing me of everything. It is a great strategy to accuse a judge. You are accusing me of surprising you with things in the public domain. Where have I done that? I mentioned things in the public domain which you admitted in your statement. If a police officer can accuse the court and get away with it, it is a dark time for us. Where have I forced you to produce documents or breached confidentiality? How can you accuse me of this? This affidavit is intended to provoke and browbeat me. Do you think I will be scared and will back off? This is extremely disconcerting," Justice Ramachandran said. The judge further said, "How dare a police officer come here and make accusations against the court in a veiled manner to close the case? He has the temerity to say I breached confidentiality. Basically, you are asking me to close my eyes, shut my ears, and shut my mouth. How can he dictate to me to close the petition?" "You are trying to win by accusing the court. There is a charge against the institution of justice. Do not accuse the court, you will not get anywhere," he added. During the more than an hour-long hearing, the judge said that in his over a 31-year long career as a lawyer and then a judge he has never seen an application being moved by a respondent, here the police, to close a petition when even the pleadings were not complete in it. The court was also displeased with the averments in the affidavit against the central government counsel appearing for the ED for the lawyer's suggestion that CBI may have to step in to probe the other allegations or offences against Mavunkal. "They were scared that I would order a CBI probe. They think they know my mind? How dare they think that? Why is the state treating it as a Centre-state fight or state-court fight? Why should he (officer) be so febrile that he should file such an affidavit? I don't think a police officer should feel he is above lawyers. The police officer should not make such averments against the lawyers of this court. I will not allow anyone to attack lawyers like this. If he (officer) thinks he can get away with it, he has to be shown his place," the judge said. The court also noted that the averments in the affidavit were "sarcastic" and asked, "is he (officer) trying to make fun of the court?" The state government had recently filed a statement saying that bringing an outside agency to probe the various complaints against Mavunkal, as suggested by ED, when Kerala Police was conducting an investigation from all angles, amounts to interfering with the federal system of the Constitution. Cherthala native Mavunkal, who claims to be in possession of rare and historic antiques, was arrested by the district Crime Branch which has been investigating a cheating case of Rs 10 crore from different people. Mavunkal had apparently borrowed the amount from various people saying he was in need of funds to "clear procedures to obtain Rs 2,65,000 crore, a massive amount from his account in a foreign bank." Many photos of the accused with KPCC chief Sudhakaran, senior IPS officials, senior bureaucrats and many others were telecast in the mainstream media. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wearing-khaki-does-not-mean-you-can-speak-against-court-says-kerala-high-court-1057003.html
