03-12-2021||First Edit||A kinder, gentler Bengaluru, please||For about a quarter century now, one Karnataka Chief Minister after another has been promising Bengalureans the moon – or rather promising to turn it into a Singapore, a Dubai, a ‘Smart City’, or other dreamscapes. In reality, though, Bengaluru has remained closer to a cratered moon and every aspect of the city and life in it has deteriorated over the years. We are rapidly hurtling toward a point of no-return. Recently, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who attended a meeting with prominent entrepreneurs, announced that his government would evolve a new ‘Bengaluru Agenda’. In fact, Bommai has only followed the template set by his predecessors—meet the captains of industry, pose for a photo-op, make tall promises, and quickly forget them. We have seen this with the Bangalore Agenda Task Force (BATF) of S M Krishna’s time and the Agenda for Bangalore Infrastructure and Development (ABIDe) of B S Yediyurappa’s time. The city’s common populace did not benefit from their work. Grassroots citizen welfare groups, NGOs and urban think-tanks have all along complained that the city’s development got skewed towards an unsustainable path. Bengaluru is a failed city in nearly every sense of the term. Not even a single stretch of road is free of potholes, walkable footpaths are non-existent in most areas, building violations and illegal constructions are the order of the day, waste management is a disaster, lakes are fast disappearing or are utterly polluted, the stormwater drain system has been destroyed by the builder-official nexus and the city gets flooded with every downpour, and potable water is still a pipe dream for many. Even Namma Metro continues to progress at a snail’s pace and will not have the extensive presence it must have to relieve the city of its traffic mess until well after 2030. Civic bodies and utility agencies remain rampantly corrupt and inefficient and promises to reform them remain unfulfilled. Instead of falling into the usual trap of setting up an elite group to dictate the city’s future direction, Bommai should involve citizens’ groups, grassroots NGOs and urban planning experts to make Bengaluru a city where everybody from the street-vendor to the billionaire can live and thrive; a city that is climate change-aware, taking action to reverse it as well as to become resilient to it; a city that ensures health, education and mobility to vulnerable sections; and a city whose diverse population lives in harmony, and where we can all joke about each other and laugh at our own follies and foibles. In short, if Bengaluru can once again become the gentler Bangalore of the earlier decades, that should be enough. Don’t promise to make this a Singapore or a Dubai, please.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-kinder-gentler-bengaluru-please-1057334.html
03-12-2021||In Perspective||Protect the healers who protect our health||“I swear before my gods, my ancestors, my teachers, my fellow healers and by all the arts and knowledge I was privileged to learn, that I will soothe the pain of anyone who needs my art. Never will I betray them or risk their wellbeing to satisfy my vanity…” This is the sacred pledge repeated by generations of aspiring doctors as they begin their gallant profession of healing. The Hippocratic oath which has been handed down the centuries is a promise that binds the medical fraternity to a code of conduct that cannot be betrayed. This code binds every physician and surgeon to perform his/her professional duties with sincerity and honesty. It has survived for centuries and places an enormous responsibility on doctors to put the patient above their own ego while fulfilling their obligations. I am sure we have all come across such professionals in the course of a lifetime. Doctors who sacrificed their own needs to be at the bedside of a dying patient. Or subdued their own ego by confessing it is beyond their skill to treat such and such a disease. The latter is much more difficult and requires courage to admit. Yet, there have been such amazing doctors whose skill, honesty and integrity were the hallmark of their careers, whether they worked in hospitals or private clinics. In 2019, their final test arrived when the pandemic struck.    Suddenly, hospitals turned into battlegrounds and witnessed gruesome scenes of doctors being attacked viciously when patients succumbed to the deadly virus. Many doctors and hospitals even sought police protection. The reason may not be far to seek. Public perception of a medical practitioner is blindly exaggerated. A doctor must be efficient and accommodating. He must be accessible to all patients at all times. He must be available at all hours of day and night. He must be patient. He must be kind. He must be a fount of knowledge in every specialty. And also play God in a critical case to save the patient at all costs. A tall order that would scare the most eminent of doctors. At the same time, doctors need to understand that a sick person looks forward to a kind word, a gentle touch rather than a cold examination or a recommendation for various tests. Since time means money to every professional, the medical fraternity is no exception to this dependence on tests by machines rather than a conversation with a patient that can reveal much more than an oximeter or an ECG. Covid-19 has caused additional obstacles to a warm relationship between doctor and patient with both wearing masks, PPEs and maintaining distance, with little or no physical contact. Covid-19 was also cruel and unforgiving to its victims. Separated from their families and caregivers, its victims were segregated even in hospitals, where they were enclosed in separate wards or quarantined in separate rooms with little or no human contact. The result was that both patients and their families who were not allowed to see them became frantic with worry and apprehension. In these unfriendly conditions, the caregivers comprising doctors and nurses became soft targets for public wrath. Medical associations are now demanding greater security for their members through legislative measures. In stressful times like an epidemic or pandemic, doctors and nurses are the frontline workers. They need to be given protection against public outrage or assault. At the same time, doctors too need to realise that theirs is a profession unlike anything else as it concerns the very existence of another human being. One cannot deny that medical negligence and errors in diagnosis have plagued patients, not only in government hospitals but in the best of private nursing homes. One can forgive a doctor for making a mistake in diagnosis and seek a second opinion. Doctors, too, are human and prone to errors in judgement. This is more so in government hospitals and primary health care clinics where the workload is heavy in brutal conditions. That is the reason why a diagnosis is whetted by a second doctor before the treatment begins, especially if surgery is involved. But, medical negligence on the part of a doctor is unpardonable, especially if it results in the loss of limbs or other faculties. Sadly, the patient has no recourse to remedies or legal action, both of which are long-drawn battles with no promise of relief at the end of it all. If the pandemic has come to stay, the government needs to protect the medical fraternity against the risk of infection, too. Their working conditions have to be improved in state hospitals. Their security must be guarded, their health needs provided. They must also be equipped with at least basic amenities to be able to fulfil their responsibilities in remote areas and unfriendly living conditions. If a country’s health has to be preserved, the welfare of its healthcare providers has to be protected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/protect-the-healers-who-protect-our-health-1057332.html
03-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Villagers face power cut for refusing to take vaccine in Davangere||Over ten families including gram panchayat vice-president faced power cuts at Hosahalli village in Honnali taluk of the district after they refused to take Covid vaccines. The Gram panchayat vice-president's family has six members and all of them refused to take the vaccine despite the request of the officials. The husband of gram panchayat vice-president also refused to take it. So, a team of officials led by deputy tahasildar visited the village and disconnected electricity supply of ten houses including gram panchayat vice-president. Later, Deputy Tahasildar S Paramesh Naik succeeded in convincing them to take vaccine. At last, power supply was restored in their houses. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/villagers-face-power-cut-for-refusing-to-take-vaccine-in-davangere-1057147.html
03-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bridge at Shivani inundated due to heavy rains||Heavy rain in Shivani and surrounding areas in Ajjampura taluk of Chikkamagaluru disrupted movement of vehicles on a bridge with water flowing on the bridge on Friday. Following rain, water from Shivani lake started flowing over the bridge, thus disrupting movement of vehicles. Water from the lake had inundated acres of farmland. As a result, ragi, maize and other crops have been damaged, a villager, Sadashiva, told DH. Kadur, Birur in the district also received heavy showers in the morning. Rain water had entered several houses in Chowlahiriyur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bridge-at-shivani-inundated-due-to-heavy-rains-1057155.html
03-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru cops arrest 9 over scuffle among students||The Mangaluru South Police have arrested nine students of a private degree college, in two separate cases of assault and scuffle over a personal issue. City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar said that when the police rushed to a hostel where the students were staying at Gujjarakere on Thursday late night, they were prevented from discharging their duties by pelting chairs, stones and other items at them. In the melee, five police personnel suffered minor injuries in addition to injuries to seven students. The arrested are Adithya, Ken Johnson, Mohammed, Abdul Shahid, Vimal, Fahad, Abu Tahar, Mohammed Nasip and Adarsh. Cases have been filed against 16 students. Giving details of the incident, the Commissioner said when Adarsh Premkumar, a third-year hospitality science student of a private college visited his friend in an apartment in the city, Sinan and eight others had assaulted him with interlock and stones. When Premkumar’s friends Shenin and Shravan tried to prevent them from assaulting further, a threat was issued to them, said the complaint filed by Adarsha Premkumar who has suffered injuries in the assault.   Adarsh, in his complaint, had also sought protection for his friends Shenin and Shravan, who were staying in a hostel at Gujjarakere. When the police visited the hostel, the inmates of the hostel pelted interlock, stones and chairs at the police. As many as 10 students have suffered injuries. The police have booked two separate cases of rioting. The situation is under control, the Police Commissioner said. Further investigation is in progress, he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-cops-arrest-9-over-scuffle-among-students-1057168.html
03-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||9 students test positive for Covid in Madikeri||A total of nine students of class 8 studying in Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan school in Madikeri have tested positive for Covid-19.  District Health Officer Dr Venkatesh said two students contracted the virus two days ago. Later, swabs of all 51 students from the class were tested an a total of nine have tested positive, he added.  As many as 658 students are studying in the school. All the students from classes 7 to 10 were screened for Covid-19. Deputy Commissioner Dr B C Sateesha has held talks with school management to take precautionary measures to control the spread of the disease.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/9-students-test-positive-for-covid-in-madikeri-1057377.html
03-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Lovers jump into KRS dam, end lives||A married woman and her lover ended their lives by jumping into Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in the taluk.  Hemanth (20), son of Srinivas of Metagalli in Mysuru and his cousin Nisarga (19) jumped into the backwaters of the dam. Their bodies were retrieved on Thursday evening.  According to a source, they had come to the backwaters on Wednesday evening and jumped into the dam. Fishermen noticed Hemanth's body floating in the dam on Thursday evening. Nisarga's body was also found within a few hours.  Nisarga was married to Kantharaju of Thimmarajipura village in Chamarajanagar district nine days ago. She had not opposed the marriage, it is said. According to the family members, they were not aware of the love affair. The KRS police have registered a case. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lovers-jump-into-krs-dam-end-lives-1057384.html
03-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man ties knot to lady love after 35 years||It is said that all is well that ends well. And so is this love story.  It all began 35 years ago when Chikkanna fell in love with his relative Jayamma. Chikkanna was a labourer then. He even offered to marry Jayamma, only to be rejected by her parents. Jayamma was married off subsequently. However, Chikkanna remained unmarried. Over the course of time, Jayamma’s husband deserted her. Both met recently and decided to tie the knot. Sixty-five-year-old bridegroom Chikkanna and 55-year-old Jayamma entered wedlock at a simple ceremony in Melkote.  “We have decided to spend twilight years of life together,” the couple said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-ties-knot-to-lady-love-after-35-years-1057385.html
03-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP taunts Congress over MLC polls candidate for Chitradurga||Urban Development Minister B A Basavaraja on Friday criticised the Congress for fielding a business tycoon from Bengaluru as its nominee for the legislative council polls from Chitradurga-Davangere local authorities constituency. Speaking to media persons, here, he said the Congress has fielded B Somashekhar from Bengaluru as its nominee from Chitradurga. "I wonder why it did not find a local man for the polls." Replying to a query, he said Congress party did not have the strength to field an able candidate from Chitradurga or Davangere for the legislative council polls. "So, it has fielded business tycoon from Bengaluru who has assets worth crores of rupees." He asked members of gram panchayats and local authorities not to sell their self-respect for money. He exuded confidence that they would back BJP nominee N S Naveen who is loyal to the party. He said he has appealed to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to provide additional grants to gram panchayats in the district. The honorarium of gram panchayat members has been hiked from Rs 250 to Rs 1,000. "Gram panchayat members have asked us to increase it to Rs 3,000. I will hold talks with the chief minister in this regard." MP G M Siddeshwara said, BJP has eight legislators now and most members in local authorities are from BJP. "There is sympathy factor that Naveen had lost the polls in the past twice. So, BJP candidate Naveen would emerge victorious by 3, 500 voters this time," he claimed. "Our party workers will not seek money to cast vote in the polls. They are loyal to the party," he stated. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-taunts-congress-over-mlc-polls-candidate-for-chitradurga-1057162.html
03-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will retire from politics if charges proved, says Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah dared that he would retire from politics if there is any iota of truth in allegations that he collected money while issuing no-objection certificates to various departments during his tenure as chief minister.  He was speaking at a legislative council election campaign at Sarji convention hall in the city on Friday evening. He said he had not charged that the Bommai-led government would release money for implementing development works provided 40% commission is given to it. State contractors association President Kempanna has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard. Contractors have to give 40% commission to the officials in minor irrigation, water resources, rural development & panchayat raj, public works departments to get payment for executing development works, he claimed. "So, how can people expect quality works?" he questioned and said he had not seen such an administration in his political career. "I served as finance minister for 12 years. But I did not take any money from anyone," he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-retire-from-politics-if-charges-proved-says-siddaramaiah-1057405.html
03-12-2021||National||UIDAI working with World Bank, UN to take Aadhaar tech overseas||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) is working with the World Bank and United Nations to replicate the Aadhaar architecture in other countries, a senior official said on Thursday. UIDAI CEO Saurabh Garg also said the authority is forming an advisory board for different sectors for enrolments, authentication, customer relationship management, among others. "We are working with international organisations like the World Bank and the UN system to see how we can help them, number one, a kind of digital international standard keeping in view the experience of Aadhaar. "More importantly, how the digital architecture, the Aadhaar architecture can be replicated in other countries," Garg said. He was speaking at a virtual event organised by the Payments Council of India.   Garg further said UIDAI is looking forward to having more partners from India who can help it in taking the Aadhaar technology overseas. "In the Aadhaar ecosystem we realised we need to partner with others outside the UIDAI internal system. In the past we had people from the industry. We are forming an advisory board for different sectors for enrolments, updates authentication, customer relationship management, website design...," Garg said. Besides, the UIDAI is working on alternative biometrics apart from fingerprint and iris. "Apart from the finger, we already have iris but iris is more cumbersome to use and it requires special devices. That's why we are looking at facial authentication with due precaution," he said. Garg said UIDAI is doing face recognition through registered devices but exploring if users can do it from their own mobile devices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uidai-working-with-world-bank-un-to-take-aadhaar-tech-overseas-1057062.html
03-12-2021||National||Our policy on Taiwan clear, consistent: India||India on Thursday said its policy on Taiwan is clear and consistent and it is focused on promoting interactions in areas of trade, investment and tourism among others. India's position on Taiwan was articulated by Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan while replying to a question in Rajya Sabha. "Government of India's policy on Taiwan is clear and consistent," he said in a written reply. "Government facilitates and promotes interactions in areas of trade, investment, tourism, culture, education and other such people-to-people exchanges," the minister added. He was asked whether the government is looking forward to augmenting its diplomatic, economic, trade and bilateral relationship with Taiwan to a strategic level. India doesn't have formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan, but both sides have trade and people-to-people ties. China claims Taiwan as part of its territory. To a separate question, he said the Ministry of External Affairs has taken up with foreign governments the need for easing travel restrictions on Indian students enrolled in foreign universities. "Consequently, travel restrictions have been eased for Indian students to travel to many countries including USA, UK, Canada, Australia, Ireland, Germany, Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg etc," Muraleedharan said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/our-policy-on-taiwan-clear-consistent-india-1057064.html
03-12-2021||National||Cyclonic storm likely to reach Odisha-Andhra Pradesh coast on December 4||The well-marked low pressure area over southeast Bay of Bengal has intensified into a depression and is likely to take the form of a cyclonic storm in the next 24 hours and reach Odisha-Andhra Pradesh coast on December 4, the IMD has said in its bulletin on Thursday. In view of the possible cyclone, the Odisha government has geared up its preparedness by keeping adequate men, machinery and logistics ready to meet the challenge. Based on the IMD's suggestions the state government has ensured that all fishermen returned to the shore by Thursday evening, special relief commissioner P K Jena said. According to the IMD bulletin issued on Thursday evening the system has moved west-northwestwards and has concentrated into a depression. At 5.30 pm it lay centred over southeast Bay of Bengal, about 960 km south-southeast of Vishakhapatnam (Andhra Pradesh), 1020 km south-southeast of Gopalpur (Odisha) and 1060 km south-southeast of Paradip (Odisha). Though the meteorological department forecast extreme rainfall activities from Friday and wind speed reaching 100 kmph when the cyclone reaches close to Odisha coast on Saturday, it is yet to give details about the possible place of the land fall and also the exact wind speed to be faced by the people. The bulletin said that most of the models are indicating that the current depression will intensify into a cyclonic storm on Friday. However, there is some divergence among them. These indicate that the system will move west-northwestwards initially and there will be gradual changes in movement to northeast/northnorthwest till December 4 evening, it said. The system will then re-curve north-northeastwards and some models indicate that the system will cross north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coast in the late night hours of December 4. Odisha special relief commissioner (SRC) P K Jena said the state government has kept 249 teams comprising 17 of NDRF, 60 of ODRAF and 172 teams of fire service personnel ready and has deputed them to the districts for deployment. "As soon as we get detailed information they will be deployed,” he said. The district collectors of some vulnerable districts have been asked to evacuate people from low lying areas and those living in kutcha houses as there was fear of tidal surge during the possible cyclone, Jena said. The Indian Coast Guard has already deployed over 10 ships for issuing weather advisory at sea regarding the impending cyclone. “… A total of 220 boats have been shepherded back safely to harbours. 20 Disaster Relief Teams are ready for the assistance,” the Defence PRO, Chennai tweeted. The SRC said that if any fisherman is in the sea, he will certainly return to the shore by Friday morning. Besides, the state government through a notification has totally prohibited fishing activities in the Bay of Bengal and Chilika lake for three days from December 3, Jena said. Besides all coastal districts have been directed to remain alert and farmers have been asked to harvest their paddy crops. The state government has already kept ready the multi-purpose cyclone shelters and the authorities have been asked to strictly maintain Covid-19 norms in the, Jena said. In some coastal districts, the authorities have cancelled holidays and leaves of the government employees in view of the possible cyclone, officials said. The East Coast Railways has cancelled 95 trains operating in its jurisdiction for three days and has also geared up its disaster management tools for the possible cyclone, an official said. The IMD said the maximum intensity (wind speed) will be around 90 kmph gusting up to 100 kmph. Odisha coast will experience 40 to 50 kmph wind from December 3 and the intensity will increase to 70 to 80 kmph, gusting to 90 kmph on December 4. Squally wind speed reaching 50-60 kmph and gusting to 70 kmph will be experienced over southeast and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal from December 2 evening. Under its influence, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely at one or two places in Ganjam, Gajapati with heavy rainfall at one or two places in Koraput, Rayagada, Puri Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapada on December 3. The IMD has issued red warning of heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy falls has been issued for the districts of Ganjam, Gajapati, Puri and Jagatsinghpur on December 4. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely at one or two places in Kendrapada, Cuttack, Khordha, Nayagarh, Kandhamal, Rayagada and Koraput while Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur and Malkangiri are likely to experience heavy rainfall the same day. In Kolkata, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee held a high-level meeting at state secretariat and took stock of the cyclone preparedness after heading straight there on her return from Mumbai. The government later issued a notice asking fishermen not to venture into the sea due to the formation of a low pressure area in west-central Bay of Bengal. "Those fishermen who have already gone to deep sea are being urged to return at the earliest," the notice said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclonic-storm-likely-to-reach-odisha-andhra-pradesh-coast-on-december-4-1057072.html
03-12-2021||National||India reports 9,216 fresh Covid-19 cases, 391 deaths||With 9,216 coronavirus infections being reported in a day, the country's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,46,15,757, while the active cases increased to 99,976, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,70,115  with 391 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise  in new coronavirus infections has been less than 50,000 for 159 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.29  per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.35 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of  213 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-9216-fresh-covid-19-cases-391-deaths-1057103.html
03-12-2021||National||Vigilance, genome sequencing, border surveillance and vaccination key things against Omicron: Expert||A member of the Maharashtra government's Covid-19 task force has said that vigilance, genome sequencing, improving border surveillance and vaccination are some of the things that are necessary to tackle the new Omicron variant of coronavirus. The task force member, Dr Vasant Nagvekar, who is a consultant on infectious diseases at a city-based hospital, said in a statement on Thursday that although there was no need to panic, the Omicron variant is definitely a cause of concern. "What we need is vigilance. This variant has accumulated 50 mutations and has caused a lot of concern. It could be more transmissible, and it could also be immune-evasive. But so far, there is no proof that it produces more severe infections. The early data from South Africa shows most patients are younger and the variant produces milder infections," he said. Dr Nagvekar said that for now the variant appears to be stable, with high transmissibility, but low virulence, which perhaps explains the lack of surge in hospitalisations and deaths where it was earlier reported. "We need vigilance, improvement in border surveillance, genomic sequencing and vaccination cover," he said, urging people to keep wearing masks. "Scientific data has proven that masks can reduce Covid-19 transmission by 53 per cent...A booster dose of vaccine, even if it works, is just a temporary fix. We can't keep on taking boosters every six months and for every variant of concern that emerges. Masking is the need of the hour and there is no Alternative for vaccination," he said. Apart from the restrictions, strict contact tracing, isolation and quarantine of close contacts are some very important things, he said. The Omicron strain, first detected in South Africa, has been classified as a 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organization (WHO).  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vigilance-genome-sequencing-border-surveillance-and-vaccination-key-things-against-omicron-expert-1057105.html
03-12-2021||National||INSACOG recommends Covid-19 booster shot for those above 40 amid Omicron concerns||Is there a difference within the central government on the booster dose of Covid-19 vaccine? While the union government’s Covid genome research body INSACOG has suggested such a dose for those 40 years of age and over, first targeting the most high-risk / high-exposure groups, NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul, one of the government’s advisors on Covid-19, said “scientific reasoning” for a booster dose was “under examination.” “Vaccination of all remaining unvaccinated at-risk people and a booster dose for those 40 years of age and over, first targeting the most high-risk / high-exposure may be considered, since low levels of neutralising antibodies from current vaccines are unlikely to be sufficient to neutralise Omicron, although risk of severe disease is still likely to be reduced,” the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genome Sequencing Consortium (INSACOG) said in its latest weekly bulletin that came out on November 29 – three days after the WHO described Omicron as a “variant on concern.” But when asked if the Centre would consider a booster dose at least for the healthcare workers who received their vaccine nearly ten months ago, Paul on Thursday said, “scientific reasoning to provide a booster dose and at what time and with what vaccine are under examination.” The government’s priority, he said, would be to complete the two-dose vaccination for all the 94.47 crore adults. Currently 49% of the adult population is fully vaccinated whereas more than 84% received a single dose. During a debate in the Lok Sabha, several Parliamentarians had flagged the issue of booster doses of Covid-19 vaccines and expressed concern over the Omicron variant, two cases of which were detected in Karnataka. But Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said a decision on booster dose and Covid jabs for children would be taken on the basis of scientific guidance from experts. But senior scientist Anurag Agrawal, director, CSIR Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology favoured a booster dose since Omicron has all the attributes to create a third wave because of its powerful immune escape mechanism. "We must give healthcare workers an appropriate way of protecting themselves with a booster shot of vaccine," he said. A randomised, phase 2 trial of Covid-19 booster vaccines conducted in the UK finds seven such vaccines increase immunity when given 10-12 weeks after two doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca, and six increase immunity following two doses of Pfizer-BioNTech. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/insacog-recommends-covid-19-booster-shot-for-those-above-40-amid-omicron-concerns-1057109.html
03-12-2021||National||Centre to introduce Uniform Civil Code in India Bill, 2020 in Rajya Sabha||In the Rajya Sabha on Friday, BJP MP Kirodi Lal Meena will introduce 'The Uniform Civil Code in India Bill, 2020', seeking constitution of the National Inspection and Investigation Committee for preparation of 'Uniform Civil Code' and its implementation throughout India. BJP MP Harnath Singh Yadav will introduce the Population Control Bill and NCP MP Fauzia Khan will be introducing the 'Universal Health Care Bill in the Upper House. Friday is dedicated for members to move the Private Bills. YSR Congress Party MP Vijayasai Reddy V. will move three Bills -- The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (Amendment) Bill, 2020 to further to amend the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009; The Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 2020 (insertion of new Article 21B); and The Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Another MP Y.S. Chowdhury will move The Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 2020 (insertion of new Articles 12A and 12B). The other work in the Upper House includes the presentation of reports of the Department-related to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health and Family Welfare. The Committee in its 130th report on action taken by the government on the recommendations/ observations contained in its 123rd Report on "Outbreak of Pandemic Covid-19 and its Management"; Report of the Committee on Empowerment of Women (2019-20) on action taken by the government on the recommendations contained in the 14th report (16th Lok Sabha) of the Committee (2018-19) on 'Yoga And Sports Facilities for Women' will also be presented. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-introduce-uniform-civil-code-in-india-bill-2020-in-rajya-sabha-1057110.html
03-12-2021||National||Two international travellers including a child Covid positive||Two international air travellers, including a child, who had arrived in Tamil Nadu from Singapore and the United Kingdom have tested positive for Covid-19 and the government ruled out social media reports claiming they were cases of Omicron but said tests only would conclude if they are infected with the latest variant of the coronavirus. Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Ma Subramanian, told reporters here a man who arrived from Singapore to Tiruchirappally in the wee hours and the child who had come along with its family here from the UK have tested positive for Covid and regretted that there were claims in social media that both were infected with the Omicron variant. Both the UK and Singapore are high risk countries. "The passenger from Singapore arrived at Tiruchirappally at 3.30 AM (on Friday). He tested positive and has been shifted to the local medical college where he has been quarantined. His sample will undergo genome sequencing and we have a facility here for this purpose. However, it will also be sent to a lab in Bengaluru and only after that result would we come to know if he is infected with Omicron," he said. "He is only Covid positive as of now," the minister added. Without divulging much details about the second case, he said the child along with its family have been admitted to the King's Institute here where the relevant tests are being conducted. Refuting social media claims that both the cases were Omicron variants, Subramanian said "we will be transparent in announcing the results" as it would only help in creating more public awareness against the pandemic and urged social media users to be careful about opining on the "sensitive issue." The co-passengers seated in the front and rear rows of the flights in which these two travelled and the flight crew have also been tested, he said. India's first Covid Omicron cases were detected on Thursday, when two fliers from South Africa to Bengaluru tested positive for the new variant. Various restrictions and measures at the airports, including here such as stringent surveillance and testing measures have been put in place by various state governments.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-international-travellers-including-a-child-covid-positive-1057115.html
03-12-2021||National||Gita Gopinath's journey from average 7th grader to IMF top brass||The International Monetary Fund's first female chief economist has now been promoted to IMF’s First Deputy Managing Director, the organisation revealed on Thursday. The Indian-American has a humble past, laced with much academic success over the years. Gopinath took up science at Mahajana PU college in Mysuru and also studied commerce at Delhi University's Lady Shri Ram College For her PhD, she picked economics at Princeton University in 2001. The IMF top boss has other talents too. Outside of academics, she has dabbled with the guitar and tried walking the ramp. She had a stint with the University of Chicago as an assistant professor, following which she joined Harvard University. During her historic time at Harvard, she became the first female tenured professor in the economics department in 2010 - also the first Indian to assume the role after Nobel laureate Amartya Sen. Gopinath has also worked with the government in India. During her tenure between 2016 and 2018, she was an economic adviser to the CM of Kerala. Her decorated career at the IMF includes major milestones including but not limited to the Pandemic Paper which she co-authored. The Pandemic Paper helped set global standards with respect to vaccination rates. She had announced that she was parting ways with the fund earlier this year but is now set to replace Geoffrey Okamoto to assume the role of First Deputy Managing Director. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gita-gopinaths-journey-from-average-7th-grader-to-imf-top-brass-1057122.html
03-12-2021||National||Covid-19 booster shot likely to protect against Omicron, says virologist||In an interview with DH's Anupama Ramakrishnan, Professor Lawrence Young, virologist and Professor of Molecular Oncology, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick explained the risks posed by Omicron and measures that need to be taken to limit its spread. Here are the edited excerpts of the interview: Q. How do you look at India in light of the new variant? Has the time for booster doses arrived? A. It is very likely that the Omicron variant is already in India. It is important to do everything to slow and limit the introduction and spread of this variant. That means restricting travel from countries where this variant is prevalent and operating a robust test-and-trace regime to identify infected individuals and their contacts and ensuring that they are isloated. It is very likely that full vaccination and booster jabs with current vaccines will be able to protect from disease caused by the Omicron variant as they do for all the other variants. Q. Your thoughts on the transmissibility and the risks of the Omicron variant... A. It’s not surprising that we are seeing increasing numbers of cases infected with the Omicron variant all over the world. Once a variant is identified, particularly one that is likely to be more infectious, it will have spread far beyond the few original cases and countries. That’s the nature of infectious disease in a world where international travel is so common. The Omicron variant is spreading rapidly in South Africa but whether this means that it is more transmissible than the Delta variant remains to be seen. Early and anecdotal reports from South Africa suggest that Omicron is more infectious than the Delta variant and causes only mild disease, particularly in those who are re-infected after being vaccinated. Q. Do you think the new variant could escape vaccine protection? A. Hospitals in South Africa are seeing a rise in young people being admitted with moderate to severe disease, many of whom are either unvaccinated or have received only one dose. This might suggest that vaccination is able to protect from disease caused by the Omicron variant as it does for all the other variants. But these are anecdotal reports and we need to wait for a couple of weeks to see what happens with the spread of Omicron infection, its impact on hospitalisations and deaths, and whether vaccination is protective. It will also take a few weeks for laboratory studies to analyse whether the antibodies induced by current vaccines are able to block infection with this variant.  Q. What needs to be done to control the spread of the new variant across the world?   A. Increasing the uptake of vaccines including booster jabs, encouraging more widespread use of face coverings and restricting large gatherings in poorly ventilated spaces are important approaches to protect the population and ensure that the health system is not overwhelmed. Variants will continue to be generated as long as the virus is allowed to spread particularly in countries like South Africa where vaccination rates are low. This emphasises the need to control the pandemic at the global level as well as locally and that it is in all our interests to support the rollout of vaccines across the world. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-booster-shot-likely-to-protect-against-omicron-says-virologist-1057133.html
03-12-2021||National||Omicron: What we know from the 2 cases in Karnataka||The emergence of India's first two cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19 in Karnataka has renewed fears of another variant-driven surge in the country, as was the case with Delta during this year's summer. However, Omicron cases in the country do not show any major health issues and the symptoms here are mild, according to state Health Minister K Sudhakar. One of the cases is of a South African national who arrived in Bengaluru, tested positive and was asymptomatic on November 20. He checked into a hotel and was asked to self-isolate. All his primary and secondary contacts turned negative for Covid-19. His samples were sent for genome sequencing and he left from KIA on November 27, according to BBMP. The other is of a Bengaluru doctor, who has no travel history but undertook a Covid-19 test after developing symptoms of fever and body ache. He tested positive. Due to the high viral load, the sample was sent for genome sequencing. Three of his primary contacts and two of secondary contacts were also found to be positive for the virus. Whether they are infected with Omicron is yet to be confirmed. "We have not treated any patients from Omicron-hit nations. If mutations occur in a certain country, the same can occur in other countries as well. They need not always be imported,” he said. The official also said waning antibodies from the vaccine could be the reason behind the infection since health workers were the first in line for the vaccination. Comparing Omicron against Delta Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-what-we-know-from-the-2-cases-in-karnataka-1057141.html
03-12-2021||National||Centre seeks Parliament nod for Rs 3.73 lakh crore additional spending this fiscal||The government on Friday sought Parliament's nod for gross additional spending of over Rs 3.73 lakh crore in the current financial year. As per the second batch of supplementary demands for grants tabled in Lok Sabha by Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary, the net cash outgo would be over Rs 2.99 lakh crore and Rs 74,517 crore extra expenditure would be matched by savings by different ministries. The amount includes extra spending of Rs 58,430 crore towards fertiliser subsidy, over Rs 2,000 crore towards various schemes of Department of Commerce and over Rs 53,000 crore by Department of Expenditure under various export promotion schemes.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-seeks-parliament-nod-for-rs-373-lakh-crore-additional-spending-this-fiscal-1057143.html
03-12-2021||National||Only Punjab reported 4 deaths due to oxygen shortage: Mandaviya||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday informed the Lok Sabha that Punjab had reported four deaths due to shortage of oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Replying to a question during the 'Question Hour in the Lower House, he said that the Centre has written to 19 states thrice seeking the data of the deaths caused due to the shortage of oxygen but only the Punjab has reported. The Minister also said that there had been a lot of politics on 'shortage of oxygen'. Explaining the issue, he further mentioned that there was an average requirement of oxygen use to 1400 MT in the country but during the second wave of coronavirus, the demand surged to 9000 MT, which was an extraordinary situation. But when the situation arose, the government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi made all the possible measures to supply oxygen to the nook and corner of the country, Mandaviya said. He added that big empty containers were brought from abroad by the Indian Air Force and filled oxygen container by the Indian Navy ships were pressed into the service to bring oxygen to the country and we made adequate supply to all hospitals. The Minister also said the states should not refrain from providing proper data on Covid-19 deaths. "We have repeatedly appealed to the states to provide data, and 19 states responded that there was no death reported due to shortage of oxygen. States respond to their respective HCs that there are no deaths, but they questioned the central government on the number of deaths in the country, the Minister further said. "We have also asked the states to be prepared for further Covid-19 waves and assured that there is no oxygen shortage this time, all oxygen plants are operating at full capacity," Mandaviya said. The health minister also informed the House that the Centre has allocated additional funds to each district hospital to prepare themselves for the next wave of this pandemic. He also informed that the PSA plants set up under the PM CARES funds have been working in full capacity. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-punjab-reported-4-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-mandaviya-1057149.html
03-12-2021||National||PMC Bank fraud case: SC refuses to entertain bail plea of Rakesh Wadhawan||The Supreme Court Friday refused to entertain the bail plea filed on health grounds by jailed businessman Rakesh Wadhawan, accused of money laundering in the multi-crore rupees Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank fraud case, saying that he has been in hospital more than the jail. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli permitted senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Wadhawan, to withdraw the bail plea to approach the high court. Rohatgi referred to the medical condition of the accused and said that he has been in jail for quite some time. “I see, he has been in hospital more than in jail. Go to the high court,” the bench said prompting Rohatgi to say that it was the high court which refused the bail. “File after some time. Not now. Alright permitted to withdraw to approach the high court,” the bench said. The Bombay High Court on October 14 had refused to grant bail to Wadhawan. Wadhawan, founder of Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL), was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in 2019 in the case. The high court had said that Wadhawan's submission that he was immediately required to be released on temporary bail on medical grounds, was "not justified". It had said that denial of medical bail was in no way a breach of Wadhawan's fundamental right to life since he had been provided adequate medical treatment by the state prison authorities whenever required. Wadhawan, who had undergone a surgery for pacemaker implantation, had sought that he be released on bail so that he can seek discharge from the civic-run KEM Hospital in the city, where he is recuperating while in judicial custody, and shift to a private hospital while out on bail. He had said in his plea that he suffered from severe comorbidities, that his immune system had been compromised after having contracted COVID-19 recently, and that he was susceptible to contracting infections and ailments while at the civic hospital due to the heavy footfall the hospital received. He had also said that the KEM Hospital did not have an ICU facility specifically meant for those suffering from cardiac issues. The fraud at PMC Bank came to light in September 2019 after the Reserve Bank of India discovered that the bank had allegedly created fictitious accounts to hide over Rs 4,355 crore of loans extended to almost-bankrupt Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL). According to RBI, the PMC bank masked 44 problematic loan accounts, including those of HDIL, by tampering with its core banking system, and the accounts were accessible only to limited staff members. Mumbai Police's Economic Offences Wing and the ED had registered offences against senior bank officials and HDIL promoters. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pmc-bank-fraud-case-sc-refuses-to-entertain-bail-plea-of-rakesh-wadhawan-1057159.html
03-12-2021||National||Motherhood Hospitals launches 2nd comprehensive women and children's branch in Pune||Motherhood Hospitals has inaugurated its second hospital in Lullanagar in Pune. The Bengaluru-based healthcare chain is part of Asia Healthcare Holdings, the only single speciality healthcare platform company in India. Through a dedicated team of well-experienced gynaecologists, neonatologists, and paediatricians, the hospital provides a comprehensive range of services for women and children. The first Motherhood Hospital in Kharadi launched three years back, has made a significant difference to women and children's health by offering comprehensive and compassionate care under one roof.  Vijayarathna V, the CEO, Motherhood Hospitals, said, "At Motherhood Hospitals, we adopt a compassionate, multi-disciplinary and holistic care approach towards every woman and child. We are thrilled to launch our second hospital in the city of Pune and firmly believe the new hospital will further support our efforts in providing quality treatment and care that is specialised in women's health, maternal, neonatal and paediatrics. It is our continuous endeavour to raise the bar of quality and accessible care and provide a seamless experience to our patients.” The comprehensive women and children's hospital in Pune is equipped with 24 operational beds with nine beds of Level 3 Neonatal Intensive Care Unit. The key specialities include gynaecology, pregnancy care, neonatology, paediatrics, advanced laparoscopy surgery, fetal medicine, and radiology. The hospital has two state-of-the-art operative theatres and medical intensive care units. The hospital will provide 24/7 service by a team of full-time doctors that includes paediatricians, gynaecologists, a trained and experienced team of nurses and nutritionists and physiotherapists, lactation consultants as part of the larger team. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/motherhood-hospitals-launches-2nd-comprehensive-women-and-childrens-branch-in-pune-1057164.html
03-12-2021||National||Stop politics on oxygen shortage, take note of efforts to hike production: Mandaviya to Opposition||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday asked the Opposition parties to stop playing politics over oxygen shortage during the second wave of Covid-19 and take note of the Centre's efforts to ramp production of the life-saving gas to meet the surge in demand. Addressing the Lok Sabha during the Question Hour, he said the Union government made "all possible efforts" to ensure the availability of oxygen and increased its production following a rise in demand during the second wave of the pandemic. "Sadly, even in such a situation, many people did not refrain from playing politics... I appeal, take note of our honest efforts. This is not a subject of politics," he said in reply to a question on the issue raised by Congress MP Suresh Dhanorkar. Mandaviya also hit out at the Opposition over claims about deaths due to oxygen shortage during that period, saying the Centre sought from states data on the matter and only the Punjab government replied that there were four suspected cases of such deaths and a probe into them was underway. "I want to say that Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) had said at the chief ministers' meeting that there was no need to hide the number of deaths due to shortage of oxygen shortage. It (numbers) should be reported," the Union Health Minister said. The Centre wrote to states thrice, requesting them to provide data on the number of people who died due to shortage of oxygen, Mandaviya said. "A total of 19 states responded and it's only Punjab which stated in writing that four suspected deaths were there (in the state) and that too being investigated. We made it public. Still, politics is happening," he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stop-politics-on-oxygen-shortage-take-note-of-efforts-to-hike-production-mandaviya-to-opposition-1057175.html
03-12-2021||National||Bills for 5 year tenures for CBI, ED chiefs introduced in Lok Sabha||Two bills were introduced in the Lok Sabha on Friday to extend the tenures of Directors of the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate up to a maximum of five years from the present two years amid strong protests from opposition members. The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill and the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill were introduced in the Lok Sabha by Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh to limit the tenures of Directors of the CBI and ED to maximum five years respectively. The two bills seek to replace Ordinances issued during the intersession period. Opposing the introduction of the two bills, Congress member Shashi Tharoor said the move to extend the tenures of the directors of central investigative agencies were in “flagrant disregard” of the Supreme Court observations. Tharoor said the Supreme Court had observed that extension of tenure granted to officers who have attained the age of superannuation should be done only in rare and exceptional cases and the government move was “malafide”. Trinamool member Saugata Roy opposed the move contending that both the ED and CBI were two arms of the government used to harass opposition leaders. Congress members K Suresh, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and RSP member N K Premachandran also opposed the introduction of the bill. The members said piecemeal extensions would lead to officers’ loyalty to the government. Seeking to allay the apprehensions of the opposition members, Jitendra Singh said the earlier laws only fixed minimum limit on the tenures of Directors of CBI and ED. “The earlier laws never put any limit on the tenures, we are limiting it to five years,” Singh said. The minister said the Ordinances were necessitated as Parliament remained disrupted. “Should the government stop working if the House doesn’t work,” Singh asked. The Directors of CBI and ED enjoy a fixed tenure of two years from the date of their appointment in the wake of the directives of the Supreme Court in the famous Vineet Narain case. The ED Director is appointed by the central government on the recommendation of a committee chaired by the Central Vigilance Commissioner and members comprising of Vigilance Commissioners, Home Secretary, Secretary DOPT and Revenue Secretary. The Director CBI is selected on the basis of the recommendation of a committee consisting of the Prime Minister, the Chief of Justice of India and the Leader of Opposition. The fixed term of two years was aimed at ensuring the chiefs of CBI and ED work free from government interference without worrying about any adverse action for the probes carried out by them. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bills-for-5-year-tenures-for-cbi-ed-chiefs-introduced-in-lok-sabha-1057176.html
03-12-2021||National||Need collective global action for effective regulation of technology: FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday called for a "collective global action" for effective regulation of ever-changing technology and tech-driven payment systems. So far, regulators are only "catching-up" in regulating ever-evolving technology and hence there is no one point formula with which it can be regulated, she said. Her comments also come against the backdrop of the government preparing to come out with legislation to regulate cryptocurrencies. "Even as we are thinking about at a national level, there should simultaneously be a global mechanism through which we are constantly monitoring the movement of technology, so that whether it is your cryptocurrency, whether it is tech-driven payment system, data privacy, whether it is ensuring that data is used ethically... "When you are looking at data as one of the revenue generating options, to regulate it will have to be a collective effort," Sitharaman said. Speaking at the InFinity Forum 2021, she said technology respects no physical borders and has the power to sweep through borders. "... It means that global action is the only way with which you can regulate effectively." India is working on a new Bill on cryptocurrency which will take into account the rapidly changing dimensions in virtual currency space and will be brought in Parliament during the ongoing session, which will end on December 23. The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021, seeks to "create a facilitative framework for creation of the official digital currency to be issued by the Reserve Bank of India. The Bill also seeks to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India, however, it allows for certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology of cryptocurrency and its uses". Replying to a question on how regulation keeps pace with technology amid discussion on cryptocurrency in India, she said since these are evolving areas, there is no clear pointed answer. "Regulation, both legislative and executive, ... at least till now have only been catching up with technology and rapid movement of technology. So as long the executive and legislature are only catching up, you will never be on top of it. And with technology, I am not sure they (regulators) can ever be on top of this kind of situation, because it is ever changing and ever evolving," Sitharaman said. She said India has seen digital revolution for the past years and financial inclusion has achieved the social norms of empowering the poor. "We don't require brick and mortar bank branches to service clients, as smart phones in hands of people is providing a technological platform to be able to do banking service without any hitch," she said. India has 1.29 billion biometric Aadhaar identity, 1 billion wireless internet users, 700 million people who are using the internet on phones and 600 million smartphones, the minister added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-collective-global-action-for-effective-regulation-of-technology-fm-1057177.html
03-12-2021||National||UIDAI plans to go global; 99.5% in India have Aadhaar||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) is looking to collaborate with foreign countries and international organisations to build digital identity systems across the world, a top official said on Friday. UIDAI CEO Saurabh Garg during a panel discussion with Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma at the Infinity Forum said the authority is also exploring emerging technology to enhance security and increase the number of transactions that can be done by using Aadhaar. "We think going forward we will be happy to collaborate with other nations...We would like to collaborate with international organisations also in building international institutions for standards for national identity. We look forward to future years to collaborate with different nations and see that digital identity, which becomes a means of empowerment, is available across the world," Garg said. He said 99.5 per cent of the population in India now has Aadhaar and 50 million authentication is done on a daily basis for verifying various transactions. Garg in a different event on Thursday had said UIDAI is working with the World Bank and the United Nations to replicate the Aadhaar architecture in other countries. When asked about technology work at UIDAI, Garg in the Infinity Forum event said, "We want to look at quantum computing on how to strengthen security, blockchain and we are also looking at artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning(ML)." He said UIDAI wants to use AI and ML in the verification of documents and the ultimate goal of the organisation is to enable people to carry out a larger number of transactions using the Aadhaar platform. Sharma acknowledged that Paytm and Paytm Bank have been one of the biggest beneficiaries of Aadhaar technology in customer boarding. "Overall, fintech industry of India is sort of based on the Aadhaar ecosystem that the UIDAI team has built up. I want to share the technology scale that is typically not seen with government organisations. I want to acknowledge that these are the best APIs (application programming interface) that we have in this country for throughput and scale," Sharma said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uidai-plans-to-go-global-995-in-india-have-aadhaar-1057182.html
03-12-2021||National||VP Naidu rejects notices to discuss MSP law in Rajya Sabha||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday rejected notices under Rule 267 by some Opposition leaders seeking a discussion on municipal polls and legislation on the minimum support price (MSP). After papers were laid in the House, the Chair mentioned the notices. Some members including Jairam Ramesh (Cong) and Manoj Kumar Jha (RJD) had given a suspension of business notice under Rule 267 on the demand to discuss municipal elections, he said. Deepender Singh Hooda (Cong) and V Sivadasan (CPI-M) had also given notices under Rule 267 to discuss a legislation on MSP. Rejecting these notices, the Chairman said, "I have not admitted (the notices) as there are other avenues to raise this matter in the House and some matters are local." He said it was not possible to discuss municipal polls of one or the other state in the Upper House. "Should we go on discussing local bodies here," he asked. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-naidu-rejects-notices-to-discuss-msp-law-in-rajya-sabha-1057184.html
03-12-2021||National||28 women officers deployed on 15 warships: Navy chief||Indian Navy has posted 28 women officers in 15 warships including its lone aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya and destroyer INS Kolkata, which were earlier a no-go area for women officers in the maritime force. “Women officers have been appointed on-board almost all major warships. The first woman Provost (Indian Navy’s policing branch, which also till recently was reserved for men) officer joined the specialization in March this year and induction of women officers into the Information Technology branch will commence from June next year,” new Navy Chief Admiral R Hari Kumar said here on Friday ahead of the Navy Day. Navy sources said that the warships having women officers on-board include INS Vikramaditya, INS Kolkata and fleet tanker INS Shakti among others. Till a few years ago, the Indian Navy – as well as the Indian Army and Indian Air Force - didn’t consider women in combat roles, as a result of which women officers were never posted on front line combat platforms like destroyers and aircraft carriers. Following multiple nudges from the Supreme Court, the perception had gradually changed with all the three services now accommodating women officers in combat and combat-support branches. The Defence Ministry is set to open up the doors of the National Defence Academy to women next year. “Modalities for downstream training of women as cadet entry at NDA are being worked out. The Navy is fully prepared in all respects to induct and absorb women across a wide spectrum of roles and responsibilities,” said Admiral Kumar. Asked about the proposed maritime theatre command, he said the details of the theatre command, which would integrate the maritime assets of the three services as well as that of the Indian Coast Guard would be finalised by the middle of 2022. Once operational, the theatre command is likely to be headquartered at Karwar in north Karnataka. Creating a handful of theatre commands integrating the 17 operational commands of the army, air force and navy is the principal task of the Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, who also heads the Department of Military Affairs. Before becoming the Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Kumar worked at the DMA. On the Chinese threat, the Navy Chief said the PLA Navy constructed 138 warships in the last ten years. “The Chinese navy has been present in the Indian Ocean Region since 2008 and they have seven to eight warships here. There is constant surveillance by our aircraft and ships and their activities are kept under close watch,” he added. Indian Navy has posted 28 women officers in 15 warships including its lone aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya and destroyer INS Kolkata, which were earlier a no-go area for women officers in the maritime force. “Women officers have been appointed on-board almost all major warships. The first woman Provost (Indian Navy’s policing branch, which also till recently was reserved for men) officer joined the specialization in March this year and induction of women officers into the Information Technology branch will commence from June next year,” new Navy Chief Admiral R Hari Kumar said here on Friday ahead of the Navy Day. Navy sources said the warships having women officers on-board include INS Vikramaditya, INS Kolkata and fleet tanker INS Shakti among others. Till a few years ago, the Indian Navy – as well as the Indian Army and Indian Air Force - didn’t consider women in combat roles, as a result of which women officers were never posted on front line combat platforms like destroyers and aircraft carriers. Following multiple nudges from the Supreme Court, the perception had gradually changed with all the three services now accommodating women officers in combat and combat-support branches. The Defence Ministry is set to open up the doors of the National Defence Academy to women next year. “Modalities for downstream training of women as cadet entry at NDA are being worked out. The Navy is fully prepared in all respects to induct and absorb women across a wide spectrum of roles and responsibilities,” said Admiral Kumar. Asked about the proposed maritime theatre command, he said the details of the theatre command, which would integrate the maritime assets of the three services as well as that of the Indian Coast Guard would be finalised by the middle of 2022. Once operational, the theatre command is likely to be headquartered at Karwar in north Karnataka. Creating a handful of theatre commands integrating the 17 operational commands of the army, air force and navy is the principal task of the Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, who also heads the Department of Military Affairs. Before becoming the Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Kumar worked at the DMA. On the Chinese threat, the Navy Chief said the PLA Navy constructed 138 warships in the last ten years. “The Chinese navy has been present in the Indian Ocean Region since 2008 and they have seven to eight warships here. There is constant surveillance by our aircraft and ships and their activities are kept under close watch,” he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/28-women-officers-deployed-on-15-warships-navy-chief-1057192.html
03-12-2021||National||Don't allow same sex marriages under Hindu Marriage Act, plea seeks in Delhi HC||A plea came up before the Delhi High Court on Friday seeking that same sex marriage not be permitted under the Hindu Marriage Act as in Hinduism tying of nuptial knot is allowed only between a man and woman since times immemorial. The plea argued that any changes such as inclusion of same sex marriage in the Customary Law are much easier, convenient and practical in marriages which are a type of contract between the partners as they are very remotely based on religion and more generic in nature. “Marriages in societies like Hindu are very much part of their religion and derived and associated with their divine entities as well as religious texts and thereby hold significant sentimental values,” it said. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh listed the application by Sewa Nyaya Utthan Foundation seeking to be impleaded and heard in the main petition for recognition of same sex marriages here for February 3, when all the batch matters will be heard. The application said the petition seeking same sex marriage under the Hindu Marriage Act is not only against the religious system of Hindu Marriage but is also an act to bring changes abruptly without any reason and this change will impact other aspects like inheritance, adoptance and religious ecosystem of the Hindu society that are critically hinged on the religious ‘sanskar of vivah’. The organisation, through Sanjeev Newar and Swati Goel Sharma, said such marriages should either be registered under secular law like Special Marriage Act or must be allowed under all religious laws such as Muslim Marriage Law and Sikhs’ Anand Marriage Act and that it must be made religion-neutral. “As per vedas (the sourcebook of Hinduism), marriage happens only between a male and a female to fulfil certain worldly and religious duties. In fact, most veda mantras recited during Hindu vivah or describing the ritual of marriage refer to a biological male and a biological female. This has been the practice since times immemorial across almost all Hindu sampradayas without any variation in essence,” said the application, filed through advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha. The application was filed in the pending petition of Abhijit Iyer Mitra who has contended that marriages between same sex couples are not possible despite the Supreme Court decriminalising consensual homosexual acts and sought a declaration to recognise same sex marriages under the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA) and Special Marriage Act (SMA). The application said that as per Hinduism, marriage is not a contract but a religious activity and any attempt to tinker with the HMA in a way that it affects the age-old harmless beliefs of Hindus will be a direct intrusion by secular state into religious rights of Hindus that is guaranteed by the Constitution. It said any approval regarding same sex marriage under HMA and not in other Personal Laws existing in India will not only discriminate people from LGBT community on the basis of religion but will also be against the Principle of Secularism mentioned in the Preamble of Indian Constitution. “The HMA applies to everyone who belongs to any of the forms or developments of Hindu including Virashaiva, Lingayat, Brahmo, Prarthana, Arya Samaj, Buddhist, Jain and Sikhs,” it said. It contended that the petition for same sex marriage under the HMA is not reasonable at the time when the same is not permitted in the comparatively new religions under their Personal Laws including Indian Christian Marriage Act, The Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, Muslim Personal Law (Shariat Application Act) and Anand Marriage Act. In the main petition, the central government has opposed same-sex marriage on the ground that marriage in India is not just a union of two individuals but an institution between biological man and woman. It has also said that judicial interference will cause "complete havoc with the delicate balance of personal laws". Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, had earlier argued that a ‘spouse’ means either husband or wife and ‘marriage’ is a term associated with heterosexual couples and there was no need to file a specific reply regarding the Citizenship Act. He had said there was some misconception of petitioners regarding the Supreme Court’s verdict decriminalising consensual homosexual act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-allow-same-sex-marriages-under-hindu-marriage-act-plea-seeks-in-delhi-hc-1057197.html
03-12-2021||National||As CAATSA threat looms large, India justifies 'sovereign decision' to buy Russian S-400||India on Friday justified its “sovereign decision” to buy S-400 Triumf air defence systems from Russia, stating that it was part of its endeavour to keep its armed forces in a state of readiness to deal with security challenges. The S-400 Triumfs will significantly enhance the air defence capability of India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government informed the Lok Sabha, even as New Delhi’s decision to buy the missile system from Russia turned into an irritant in its relations with the United States. Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt justified India’s decision to buy the S-400 systems from Russia. “The S-400 Missile is a potent system in terms of its operational capability to provide a continuous and effective air defence system to a very large area. With the induction of this system, air defence capability of the nation will be significantly enhanced,” he informed the Lok Sabha in response to a question from Asaduddin Owaisi of the AIMIM. India on October 5, 2018 signed a deal to procure five S-400 missiles from the JSC Concern VKO Almaz-Antey of Russia at an estimated cost of about Rs 39,000 crore. The deal put India at risk of being subjected to US sanctions under Section 231 of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), which former President Donald Trump had signed into law in August 2017. “(The) government is aware of all developments that may impact procurement of defence equipment. (The) government takes sovereign decisions based on threat perception, operational and technological aspects to keep the armed forces in a state of readiness to meet the entire spectrum of security challenges,” Bhatt informed the Lok Sabha. He also informed that Russia would deliver the S-400 systems to India “as per contractual timelines”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Russian President Vladimir Putin will hold a bilateral summit in New Delhi on December 6 and they are expected to formally announce commencement of the delivery of the S-400 systems to India. But with President Joe Biden’s administration still non-committal on granting India a waiver from the US CAATSA sanctions, New Delhi’s move to start taking delivery of the S-400s emerged as an irritant in its relations with Washington. The Section 231 of the CAATSA mandates secondary sanctions to any nation entering into high-value deals to procure military hardware from Russia. The US already placed entities in China and Turkey under the CAATSA sanctions for procuring S-400 missile defence systems from Russia. India has been asking the US to grant it a waiver from the CAATSA sanctions, arguing that it could not abruptly lessen its dependence on military hardware from Russia, given the decades-old defence ties between the two nations. It also pointed out that it needed the S-400 missile defence systems from Russia, in view of escalating tension along the India-China disputed boundary. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-caatsa-threat-looms-large-india-justifies-sovereign-decision-to-buy-russian-s-400-1057198.html
03-12-2021||National||Uttar Pradesh question paper leak case raised in Rajya Sabha, AAP MP seeks SIT probe||A demand was made in the Rajya Sabha on Friday to set up a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the Uttar Pradesh Teachers Eligibility Test question paper leak case.      During the Zero Hour, Aam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh said that many such exam papers have been leaked in the past. The latest leak that happened on November 18 came to the knowledge of students after they reached the exam hall. About 36 people have been arrested in the question paper leak case, which has affected the lives of lakhs of students. This need to be probed by a SIT, he added. A demand was also made in the House to fill up vacant posts in various departments under the Ministry of Culture. Sonal Mansingh (BJP) said some departments under the Ministry of Culture have been headless and all posts should be filled as soon as possible. Vishambar Prasad Nishad (SP) demanded restoration of the student's union in the Allahabad University, while K Vanlalvena (MNF) demanded central assistance to farmers who lost their livestock due to swine flu in Mizoram. Kanakamedala Ravindra Kumar (TDP), who tried to raise the issue regarding Andhra Pradesh's capital city Amaravati, was stopped in between by the Chair as he took more than the allotted time. Vaiko (MDMK) said the Central government was "imposing" use of Hindi language in its official communication with non-Hindi speaking MPs and state governments and even central programmes are named in Hindi without English translation. The Chair stopped him in between, and said, "All languages should be respected and promoted. No imposition or opposition." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-question-paper-leak-case-raised-in-rajya-sabha-aap-mp-seeks-sit-probe-1057199.html
03-12-2021||National||Nothing to suggest existing Covid-19 vaccines don't work against Omicron, says Centre's FAQs on variant||The Union Health Ministry on Friday said while there is no evidence to suggest that existing vaccines do not work on the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, some of the mutations reported may decrease the efficacy of the jabs. It however underscored that definitive evidence for new variant's increased remission and immune evasion is awaited. The ministry has issued a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs) about the Omicron variant of coronavirus which has been designated by WHO as a 'variant of concern' (VoC). Two cases of the new variant were reported in Karnataka on Thursday. From the list of FAQs, the ministry, answering to whether the existing vaccines work against the Omicron variant, said, "While, there is no evidence to suggest that existing vaccines do not work on Omicron, some of the mutations reported on spike gene may decrease the efficacy of existing vaccines." However, vaccine protection is also by antibodies as well as by cellular immunity, which is expected to be relatively better preserved. Hence, vaccines are expected to still offer protection against severe disease and vaccination is crucial. If eligible one should get vaccinated, it said. On the possibility of a third wave of Covid infection, the ministry said Omicron cases are increasingly being reported from countries outside of South Africa and given its characteristics, it is likely to spread to more countries, including India.  However, the scale and magnitude of the rise in cases and the severity of the disease are still not clear, it said. "Further, given the fast pace of vaccination in India and high exposure to delta variant as evidenced by high seropositivity, the severity of the disease is anticipated to be low. However, scientific evidence is still evolving," the Health Ministry said. To a question on can the currently used diagnostics methods detect Omicron, it said that the most accepted and commonly used method of diagnostic for SARS-CoV2 is the RT-PCR method. "This method detects specific genes in the virus, such as Spike (S), Enveloped (E) and Nucleocapsid (N) etc to confirm the presence of the virus. However, in the case of Omicron, as the S gene is heavily mutated, some of the primers may lead to results indicating the absence of the S gene (called S gene drop out). "This particular S gene drop out along with the detection of other viral genes could be used as a diagnostic feature of Omicron. However, for final confirmation of the omicron variant genomic sequencing is required," the ministry explained. It further said WHO declares a variant as VoC after assessment when there is an increase in transmissibility or detrimental change in Covid-19 epidemiology or increase in virulence or change in clinical disease presentation or decrease in the effectiveness of public health and social measures or available diagnostics, vaccines, therapeutics. "Omicron has been declared VoC based on the observed mutations, their predicted features of increased transmission and immune evasion and preliminary evidence of detrimental change in Covid-19 epidemiology such as increased reinfections. The definitive evidence for increased remission and immune evasion is awaited," the ministry said. It stressed that the precautions and steps to be taken remain the same as before. "It's essential to mask yourself properly, take both doses of vaccines (if not yet vaccinated), maintain social distancing and maintain good ventilation to the maximum possible." The Indian government is monitoring the situation closely and is issuing suitable guidelines from time to time. The scientific and medical community is geared up for developing and deploying diagnostics, carrying out genomic surveillance, generating evidence about viral and epidemiologic characteristics, and development of therapeutics, it said. The ministry said that variants are a normal part of evolution and as long as the virus can infect, replicate and transmit, they will continue to evolve. "Further, not all variants are dangerous and most often than not, we don't notice them. Only when they are more infectious or can reinfect people they gain prominence. The most important step to avoid the generation of variants is to reduce the number of infections."     The new variant reported from South Africa on November 24 was called B.1.1.529 or Omicron based on Greek alphabets. It has shown a very large number of mutations, especially more than 30 on the viral spike protein which is the key target of an immune response, the ministry said. Given the collection of mutations in Omicron, which earlier individually have been associated with increased infectivity and/or immune evasion, and the sudden rise in the number of positive cases in South Africa, World Health Organization has declared Omicron a 'variant of concern', it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nothing-to-suggest-existing-covid-19-vaccines-dont-work-against-omicron-says-centres-faqs-on-variant-1057202.html
03-12-2021||National||How do previous infections, vaccines fare against Omicron||With India reporting two cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, a burning question has emerged among the public and experts: Will immunity gained by vaccines or previous infections be enough to evade the new variant that has forced some countries to shut borders? Besides the two infections, many cases across the country have been suspected to be infected with Omicron. Among the first two cases, reported from Karnataka, one is a South African arrival but the second is a doctor in Bengaluru with no history of travel. This has sparked speculations among the authorities who are keen to identify the source of the fully-vaccinated doctor's infection.  Karnataka government and some experts have said that there was no need to panic and that symptoms from Omicron are mild. However, what remains to be seen is whether vaccines and previous infections are enough to wade off the new variant.  While there is little certainty over the matter, data from South Africa, where the variant was first reported, shows that Omicron appears able to get around some immunity but vaccines should still offer protection against severe disease, Reuters reported. The verdict on whether previous infections help in evading Omicron is yet to be out.   As for vaccines administered in India, neither Covishield nor Covaxin makers have come forward about their vaccines' efficacy against Omicron.  The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) has recommended providing a Covid-19 booster dose for people aged over 40 years and those under 'at risk' categories in the wake of concerns around the Omicron variant. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-do-previous-infections-vaccines-fare-against-omicron-1057204.html
03-12-2021||National||Centre must regulate online gaming industry: RS member Sushil Kumar Modi||Voicing concern over children getting addicted to mobile games, Rajya Sabha member and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi on Friday demanded that the government should regulate the online gaming industry and impose a uniform tax on it. Raising the issue during the Zero Hour, he said these online games have now given way to gambling and betting. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu asked Ashwini Vaishnaw, who is Minister of Communications, Electronics & Information Technology, to take note of this issue. "Consult the Law Ministry and do the needful. It's a big menace," Naidu remarked. Modi said the booming online gaming industry has become a big problem for the youngsters in this country. "Online gaming is becoming a big addiction. I would like to highlight that this sector, like the crypto industry, certainly has a regulatory lacunae. So, I would urge the government to bring a uniform tax on online gaming. I urge the government to make a comprehensive framework of regulation for online gaming," he said. If there are no regulations, Modi said it will be difficult to stop children from getting addicted. "Crores and crores of youngsters have become addictive to online gaming. As it is online, it is very difficult to prevent kids from getting addicted. And now this online gaming has been converted into gambling or betting. And now there is a controversy whether it is a game of skill or it is a game of chance," the BJP leader said. During the pre-Covid period, the BJP leader said, the weekly time spent on mobile gaming was 2.5 hours, while 11 per cent of total smart phone time was spent on gaming. However, during lockdown, the gaming time has increased to four hours. The BJP member said more than 43 crore people are into online gaming currently, and the number is projected to increase to 65.7 crore by 2025. The revenue earned by online gaming was Rs 13,600 crore and this is likely to increase to 29,000 crore in the year 2025. The number of mobile downloads have also increased, he added. Modi noted that many states like Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala had banned online gaming but it was struck down by high courts. He added that crores of people are playing games like Ludo Kings, Rummy, Poker, Dream 11.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-must-regulate-online-gaming-industry-rs-member-sushil-kumar-modi-1057206.html
03-12-2021||National||Mirage Fighter jet's tyre stolen from moving truck in Uttar Pradesh: Report||A tyre of Mirage 2000 fighter jet was stolen from a moving truck in Lucknow while being transported to Jodhpur airbase in Rajasthan, according to multiple media reports.  Am FIR has been registered by the Ashiana police and the drive is being interrogated by the cops as well as a  security agency of  the Air Force .  The police and a security team of the Air Force  are examining the CCTV footage of Shaheed Path. According to the report, unknown assailants in a black Scorpio stole the tyres from the truck by cutting the rope that was attached to the tyre when the vehicle was stuck in a jam on Shaheed Path.  The driver of the truck, Hem  Singh Rawat,  informed about the theft to the police control room. He also   alleged that he could not catch the thieves due to traffic.      Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mirage-fighter-jets-tyre-stolen-from-moving-truck-in-uttar-pradesh-report-1057217.html
03-12-2021||National||18 out of 16,000 flyers from at-risk nations Covid-positive; genome sequencing for Omicron under way: Mandaviya||More than 16,000 passengers from “at-risk” countries were screened at Indian airports so far, of which 18 were found Covid-19 positive, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Friday, noting that positive samples were sent for genome sequencing. Responding to an 11-hour long debate on the Covid-19 situation in the Lok Sabha, the minister said swab samples of those passengers had been sent for genome sequencing to screen for the omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to all the states reminding them to enhance testing, complete the vaccination and keep a close eye on the disease clusters up to the district level. “Since enhanced testing is the only strategy for detection of the virus, focused and strategic testing must be taken up in the states especially in and around new clusters of infection,” Bhushan wrote. He also advised the states to increase vaccination as fully vaccinated individuals are better protected. The states have also been told to trace, quarantine and test all contacts of a positive person within 72 hours. The Air-Suvidha portal is to be checked daily to know the number of individuals coming from the “at-risk” countries. The minister’s response in the Lok Sabha came on a day when a House panel came down heavily on the ministry for inadequate action to contain the spread of the epidemic. “In view of the loss of life during the second wave of the pandemic, the committee believes that the measures taken by the Ministry to contain/prevent spread of SARS-COV-2 proved to be squarely inadequate,” Parliament Standing Committee on Health and Family Welfare said in its report tabled in both Houses on Friday. Referring to the omicron cases, the panel asked the Union Health Ministry to adopt zero-tolerance Covid-19 policy and closely track Covid cases across the country as it apprehended that a rise in mutations in the virus might lead to reporting of more virulent and transmissible strains of Covid virus in the country. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/18-out-of-16000-flyers-from-at-risk-nations-covid-positive-genome-sequencing-for-omicron-under-way-mandaviya-1057220.html
03-12-2021||National||Covid-19: Kerala to release lists of unvaccinated teachers||Kerala Education Minister V Sivankutty on Friday said that district-wise lists of teachers who have not got themselves jabbed against Covid-19 will be released, and they will have to give an explanation for that. "We will very soon release the 14 district-wise lists of these teachers who have not taken the vaccine dose, as we feel the public should know about this, and they will be served notice," Sivankutty said. On November 28, the Minister said more than 5,000 teachers of the state have not inoculated themselves against the infection. After a gap of 20 months, on November 1, the schools in the state had opened and the students and teachers returned to the campuses. In the last meeting to discuss the latest Covid situation in the state, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said that from now onwards, those who are not inoculated will not get free Covid-19 treatment at state government hospitals. The meeting also decided that those who have a medical reason for not taking the vaccines should get that endorsed by a government medical officer and those who work in government offices and have not taken vaccine have to undergo a weekly RT-PCR test. Security of children is of prime importance to the government, Sivankutty said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-kerala-to-release-lists-of-unvaccinated-teachers-1057221.html
03-12-2021||National||Govt considering scientific evidences on vaccination of kids in 12 to 17 years group: MoS Health||The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 and the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation are deliberating and considering scientific evidences related to vaccination of children between the age group 12 to 17 years, the Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar, in a written reply, said at present, no proposal is pending related to import of Covid vaccine for use among children and adolescents. The National Expert Group on vaccine administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) and the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) are mandated to take decisions related to offshore Covid-19 vaccine, she said. Asked if the government has laid a roadmap to administer the Covid vaccines in children between the age group 12 to 18, the minister said, "The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 and National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization are deliberating and considering scientific evidences related to vaccination of children between the age group 12 to 17 years." On whether any Covid-19 vaccine for children is likely to be developed indigenously, Pawar said as of now, ZyCoV-D vaccine manufactured by Cadila Healthcare has received the approval for restricted use in emergency setting by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for the age group of 12 years and above based on the interim clinical data of phase 3 clinical trial conducted in the country. She further said Bharat Biotech is conducting phase 2/3 clinical trial of Covaxin on healthy volunteers aged 2 to 18 years and the firm has submitted interim safety and immunogenicity data to the national regulator DCGI. Serum institute of India (SII) is also conducting phase 2/3 clinical trial of Nanoparticle Vaccine (liquid) (Covovax) in 920 subjects in more than 2 to 17 years age group, she said. The MoS added that Biological E Ltd is conducting phase 2/3 clinical trial of RBD of SARS-CoV-2 gene in 624 subjects aged 5 and above to less than 18 years age group. Besides Johnson and Johnson Pvt Ltd is conducting phase 2/3 clinical trial of Ad.26COV.2S vaccine in the age group of 12-17 years -- global clinical trial wherein India is one of the clinical trial sites, she said. "The approval of aforementioned Covid-19 vaccines will be dependent on the successful completion of clinical trials and submission of requisite data as per the requirements of the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019 under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940," Pawar added in the written reply. According to the Registrar General of India (RGI) estimates, there are 14,52,14,000 children in the 12-17 years age group in India. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-considering-scientific-evidences-on-vaccination-of-kids-in-12-to-17-years-group-mos-health-1057222.html
03-12-2021||National||How strong is Cyclone Jawad? 'Gulab se jyada, Titli se kam'||The Cyclone Jawad, which is headed to India's eastern coast on Saturday and Sunday, will witness wind speeds of 90-100 kmph with 90 kmph when it touches the coast near north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha on Sunday. 'Jawad' is a name given by Saudi Arabia and means generous, magnanimous. "Gulab se zyada, Titli se kam (More than Gulab and less than Titli)," is how the Director-General Mrutyunjay Mahapatra described the intensity of Cyclone Jawad (pronounced as Jowad) on Friday. The Cyclone Gulab, which came knocking in September this year had maximum wind speeds of 85 kmph while Cyclone Titli of October 2018 had a maximum of 140 kmph wind speeds. "Jawad is little more intense than Gulab and is definitely less than Titli," Mahapatra said at a media conference. In West Bengal, Cyclone Bulbul two years ago had a wind speed of 120 kmph. Cyclone Jawad, when it reaches the West Bengal coast, will be weakened and the wind speed would be 60-70 kmph. Jawad is not an extremely severe cyclone like Phani, Hudhud, or Phylin. "As of now, it is a severe cyclonic storm and we are expecting 90-100 kmph wind speed near the coast," he added. Not all cyclones develop the 'eye' of the cyclone, he said, adding, "Usually, severe to very severe cyclones develop the 'eye'. But we are determining the 'centre' with the help of satellite images; we have a lot of buoy observations, coastal observations, strainmeters, sea surface winds we are observing. Also, all the Doppler Radars along the coast are actively monitoring the Cyclone Jawad." As designated by the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO), IMD is one of the five Regional Specialised Meteorological Centres (RSMCs) for Tropical Cyclones set up across the globe. Each of these is given the task of issuing advisories for the geographical areas assigned by the WMO. IMD issues advisories for tropical cyclones to 13 member nations along with the entire Indian Ocean rim countries - India, of course, Bangladesh, Iran, Maldives, Myanmar, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Thailand, the UAE and Yemen. In turn, these get to name the cyclones as per a protocol that evolved more than a decade ago. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-strong-is-cyclone-jawad-gulab-se-jyada-titli-se-kam-1057229.html
03-12-2021||National||Singapore fits into India's development journey: India’s Principal Economic Advisor Sanyal||Singapore fits very much into what India will do in the next 30 years as part of the ongoing reform process and building on the past three decades of liberalisation, acclaimed economist and Principal Economic Advisor to the Indian government Sanjeev Sanyal has said. Speaking at an event organised by a Singapore-based think tank on Thursday, Sanyal said India and its States have a lot to learn from Singapore's development programmes, especially in infrastructure, municipal management, waste and water management, as well as energy conservation. "All of these are issues which India, at different scales of urban systems, requires to do," he said at the Seventh Lecture on 'After The Pandemic: India's Reforms and Renewal' organised by the Institute of South Asian Studies (ISAS) and the Indian High Commission here. The event was held virtually on Thursday. Responding to a question on Singapore's relevance to reforms and redevelopment in India, Sanyal said: "It fits very much into what we are going to be doing for the next 30 years of reforms", particularly in the delivery of services. "This is a journey (of India) in which Singapore has a lot to do," he said, pointing out the expected developments and implementations of projects by India over the next 30 years as part of the ongoing reform process and building on the past three decades of liberalisation that was started in 1991. Describing Singapore as an excellent example of development, he said, "We have a lot to learn from Singapore." Separately, the ISAS, a think tank of the National University of Singapore, is partnering with the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) here in a project to guide investors and potential partners in Singapore on how best they can join the redevelopment programme of India, said Vinod Rai, the former Comptroller and Auditor General of India. Rai, the lecture chairperson and a Distinguished Visiting Research Fellow at ISAS, chaired the lecture. "ISAS is working with MTI to study India's recent economic policies and their investment prospects and potentials. Apart from the central government's policies, ISAS is also focusing on state-level policies, with the aim of informing businesses and investors in Singapore of the economic possibilities in the country," ISAS said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/singapore-fits-into-indias-development-journey-india-s-principal-economic-advisor-sanyal-1057231.html
03-12-2021||National||SC overturns HC order against BSF head constable||The Supreme Court on Friday said that the existence of transformative legislation to prevent sexual harassment at the workplace may not come to the aid of aggrieved persons if the appellate mechanisms turn the process into a punishment.  "It is important that courts uphold the spirit of the right against sexual harassment, which is vested in all persons as a part of their right to life and right to dignity under Article 21 of the Constitution. It is also important to be mindful of the power dynamics that are mired in sexual harassment at the workplace," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and A S Bopanna said. The top court highlighted a rising trend of invalidation of proceedings inquiring into sexual misconduct, on hyper-technical interpretations of the applicable service rules. There are several considerations and deterrents that a subordinate aggrieved of sexual harassment has to face when they consider reporting sexual misconduct of their superior, it pointed out.  The court allowed a petition by the Union government against Calcutta High Court's division and single-judge bench orders which had overturned BSF Director General's decision to hold a head constable guilty of sexual misconduct against a constable. The head constable was handed down punishment of severe reprimand and forfeiture of five years service for promotion and seven years service for pension. Without commenting on the merits of the case, the bench said, it is evident that the discrepancy regarding the date of occurrence was of a minor nature since the event occurred soon after midnight and on the next day. However, deeming such a trivial aspect to be of monumental relevance, while invalidating the entirety of the disciplinary proceedings against the accused and reinstating him to his position rendered the complainant‘s remedy at nought, the court added. The history of legal proceedings such as these is a major factor that contributes to the deterrence that civil and criminal mechanisms pose to persons aggrieved of sexual harassment, the court further said, adding, the High Court, here, was not only incorrect in its interpretation of the jurisdiction of the Commandant but also demonstrated a callous attitude to the gravamen of the proceedings.  "We implore courts to interpret service rules and statutory regulations governing the prevention of sexual harassment at the workplace in a manner that metes out procedural and substantive justice to all the parties," the bench said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-overturns-hc-order-against-bsf-head-constable-1057232.html
03-12-2021||National||51,775 cases of mucormycosis reported in India: Mansukh Mandaviya||A total of 51,775 cases of mucormycosis have been reported till November 29, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed the Lok Sabha on Friday. On the steps taken by the government to tackle such cases, Mandaviya in written reply to a question said health is a state subject and the Union Ministry of Health has proactively supported states to tackle the challenge posed by cases of mucormycosis during the second surge of Covid-19. The ministry had asked all states to make mucormycosis a notifiable disease so as to get details of its prevalence in the country. A unified portal was created by the ministry for states to enter surveillance data of mucormycosis cases. The Ministry of Health has issued national comprehensive guidelines for the management of post-Covid-19 sequelae, including mucormycosis, he said in the written reply. The clinical management guidelines for Covid-19 cases by the Ministry of Health advocates rational use of steroids for managing moderate to severe cases of Covid-19 under strict medical supervision, the minister said. Further noting the relationship between use of steroids and other immune-suppressive drugs, the advisory for rational use of steroids and Tocilizumab in the treatment of Covid-19 patients was issued by the Directorate General of Health Services. Since early May 2021, the details of production, stock, supplies made and purchase orders were obtained from the manufacturers and their cooperation was sought to overcome the gap between supply and demand, he said. The Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP), Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) and National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) have been jointly monitoring the production and availability of critical Covid-19 drugs, including Amphotericin-B injections. The central government has placed Amphotericin-B under restricted category for export through a notification on June 1 for ensuring continuous availability of medicines for treatment of mucormycosis cases domestically. The central government has undertaken steps to procure Amphotericin-B from various available sources around the globe and made efforts to increase the production of existing manufacturers/importers drug in the country. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has given permission to 11 new manufacturers of Liposomal Amphotericin-B, Mandaviya informed. On preventive measures initiated by the government in controlling and treating the increasing number of dengue cases in the country, Mandaviya said during 2021 (as on November 21), a total of 1,64,103 dengue cases were reported as against 2,05,243 cases in 2019. Through the efforts of the Government of India and states, the case fatality rate (deaths per 100 cases) has been sustained at less than 1 per cent since 2008. The case fatality rate has remained at extremely low level of 0.1 per cent since 2019. Listing the steps taken by the Health Ministry to tackle rise in dengue cases in the country, Mandaviya said that in 2021, multidisciplinary central teams were deputed to 15 states and union territories -- Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir -- from August 28 to November 19. The Government of India has shared with states the national guidelines on dengue case management during the Covid-19 pandemic, developed in consultation with experts. The Government of India has also taken several measures for prevention and control of dengue in the country, which include providing technical guidelines for prevention and control, case management and effective community participation to the states for implementation. Also, 15 advisories were issued from time to time to states and union territories for prevention and control of dengue in 2021. Free diagnostic facilities through 713 sentinel surveillance hospitals and 17 apex referral laboratories identified across the country are fully functional and 7.26 lakh IgM tests have been provided by the central government. Additional fund has been provided to states for procurement of NS1 kits for early diagnosis of dengue, he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/51775-cases-of-mucormycosis-reported-in-india-mansukh-mandaviya-1057233.html
03-12-2021||National||Government proposes to have national retail trade policy, says Som Parkash||The government proposes to have a national retail trade policy for creating a conducive environment to streamline the growth of all formats of such trade, and stakeholder consultations are being held for that, Parliament was informed on Friday. Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash in a written reply to a query in the Rajya Sabha said a conducive environment can be created by simplifying rules and regulations. "The government proposes to have a national retail trade policy for creating a conducive environment for streamlining growth of all formats of retail trade, including by simplifying rules and regulations. Stakeholder consultations are being held," he said. Replying to a separate question, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said that the Centre has approved the inclusion of the Hyderabad Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (HBIC) under the Industrial Corridor Programme in response to a request from Andhra Pradesh. "The Government of India has also approved the development of Orvakal node under the Hyderabad-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor. "Consultant has been appointed for project development activity including preparation of detailed master plan and preliminary engineering of Orvakal node," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-proposes-to-have-national-retail-trade-policy-says-som-parkash-1057234.html
03-12-2021||National||Opposition MPs stall Bill to amend Constitution's Preamble in Rajya Sabha||BJP MP K J Alphons' private members' Bill to remove the word 'socialist' from the Preamble of the Constitution and replace it with 'equitable' among others ran into a rough feather in Rajya Sabha on Friday with Opposition MPs objecting to it and the Chair finally deciding to reserve a decision on its introduction. Another confrontation was avoided as BJP MP Kirodi Lal Meena was absent to introduce the Uniform Civil Code Bill, 2020 after the CPI(M) MPs once again wrote to Rajya Sabha Secretariat against its introduction. This was the fifth time since February 2020 that the Bill was listed but not introduced following objections raised by Opposition MPs. Alphons, a former Left-back independent MLA in Kerala who joined BJP later, was introducing The Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 2021 to replace the word 'socialist' from the Preamble, arguing that it has "political connotations and carries a historical baggage which is not acceptable to a large section of India" in the Upper House when it was opposed. He also wanted the descriptions for equality and fraternity amended by enlarging its ambit and introducing "Happiness, assuring a high gross domestic happiness" in the Preamble. As Deputy Chairman Harivansh allowed the introduction after a voice vote, Opposition MPs said that the Chair had ignored the 'No-es', which were "prominent" than the 'Aiyes'. RJD's Manoj K Jha was the first to object against allowing the introduction and said that it was an amendment to the Preamble, which was part of the basic structure of the Constitution. Jha said that it was "an attack on the very edifice" of the Constitution and that "are we allowing this House to ransack everything?" He got support from Opposition MPs like Jairam Ramesh (Congress), Tiruchi Siva (DMK), Vaiko (MDMK) and V Sivadasan (CPI-M) among others. Harivansh said that it was the House, which has to decide, and not him, as the Bill was the property of the House.  Jha then said that private members' Bills need the prior sanction of the President but Harivansh said this Bill does not come under the category in which such a sanction is needed. "What are we left with?... This should not become the norm. Avoid these kinds of temptations," Jha said as Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan suggested to the Chair to "reserve this and give a ruling on a later date", which the Opposition accepted. In the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Bill, Alphons said, "its ideological moorings in certain historic movements makes it very difficult for a large portion of people to accept 'Socialism' as a legitimate objective of the Constitution of the country in the modern era. Hence, it ought to be replaced with the word 'Equitable' which has no political connotations and does not carry historical baggage." He also said, "even though the Constitution envisions lofty ideals, equality of opportunity has not been available to a large segment of society since what was meant by 'equality' of opportunity in the Preamble was not well defined by makers. That is why it is time to define more clearly the meaning of equal opportunity." Citing instances of rising inequality due to Information Technology especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, the BJP MP also argues that the Constitution needs to "cope with the new realities" to ensure that access to information technology and its applications, which have massive implications for growth, dignity and employment is available to the last man out there". The Preamble of the Constitution reads, "We, the People of India, having solemnly resolved to constitute India into a Sovereign, Socialist, Secular, Democratic Republic and to secure to all its citizens: Justice, social, economic and political; Liberty of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship; Equality of status and of opportunity; and to promote among them all; Fraternity assuring the dignity of the individual and the unity and integrity of the Nation; We do hereby give to ourselves this Constitution."  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-mps-stall-bill-to-amend-constitutions-preamble-in-rajya-sabha-1057236.html
03-12-2021||National||Global Hunger Index doesn't reflect India's true picture, says Centre||The Global Hunger Index (GHI) does not reflect India's true picture as it is a flawed measure of hunger, the government said on Friday. In a written reply in the Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for Food and Consumer Affairs Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti said the India's ranking is 101st in the Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2021 brought out by Concern Worldwide and Welthungerhilfe. Nepal and Bangladesh are ranked 76 and Pakistan is at the 92nd place, she said. As per the GHI report, the composite GHI scores of India have improved from 38.8 in 2000 to 27.5 in 2021. Thus, the country has shown consistent improvement over the years. "The calculation of GHI is based on four indicators - Undernourishment, Child Stunting, Child Wasting and Child Mortality. Global Hunger Index (GHI) does not reflect India's true picture as it is a flawed measure of 'Hunger'," Jyoti said. Only one indicator, which is undernourishment, is directly related to hunger, she added. "The two indicators i.e. stunting and wasting are outcomes of complex interactions of various other factors like sanitation, genetics, environment. and utilisation of food intake apart from hunger which is taken as the causative/outcome factor for stunting and wasting in the GHI. "Also, there is hardly any evidence that the fourth indicator i.e. child mortality is an outcome of hunger," the minister said. Sadhvi highlighted that the government has enacted the National Food Security Act (NFSA), 2013 which provides for coverage of up to 75 per cent of the rural population and up to 50 per cent of the urban population, thus addressing the hunger alleviation of the bottom 67 per cent of the population, which at Census 2011 is at a maximum of 81.35 crore persons. Identification of beneficiaries under the Act is under two categories -- households covered under Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority Households. The Priority Households are entitled to receive 5 kg foodgrains per person per month and AAY households are entitled to receive 35 kg per household per month at Rs 1-3 per kg for coarse grains/wheat/rice respectively. "The Act is operational in a seamless manner across all States and Union Territories. The coverage under the Act is substantially high to ensure that all the vulnerable and needy sections of the society get its benefit," she said. The Centre has also issued advisories to all states to identify and cover the weakest sections of the society under TPDS (Targeted Public Distribution System) and launch special drives to issue ration cards to them up to the respective NFSA coverage limits, the minister added. Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), scheme under which beneficiaries covered under NFSA are given additional 5 kg of foodgrains per person per month free of cost, has been extended for another four months, that is from December 2021 to March 2022, she highlighted.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/global-hunger-index-doesnt-reflect-indias-true-picture-says-centre-1057242.html
03-12-2021||National||Working to ensure people in rural areas don't have to struggle for 'basic minimum justice,' says Law Minister Rijiju||Law Minister Kiren Rijiju on Friday asserted that steps are being taken to create legal awareness, provide legal aid and ensure that people in rural areas need not have to really struggle to get basic minimum justice. A large number of cases are pending in different courts, and the minister said that more than 90 per cent of the pending cases are at the lower judiciary. Replying to questions in the Lok Sabha, Rijiju said effective steps are being taken for creating legal awareness and providing legal aid and a digital campaign has been conducted by the Department of Justice. "We need to strengthen the mechanisms and facilities across the country to make this campaign very effective." In rural areas, the online campaign is still not that effective as it is in urban areas, Rijiju said, and emphasised that efforts being made to ensure that paralegal volunteers and panel lawyers also get involved in ODR (Online Dispute Resolution) and ADR (Alternative Dispute Resolution) by assisting people who require assistance. With respect to many cases pending at the lower judiciary, the minister said that all the facilities will be provided to address the issue, and steps are being taken on the concept of justice at the doorstep, especially mobile courts or Lok Adalat, and hearing cases on the spot. "I assure that the hearing in rural areas is conducted in a way that the people do not have to really struggle to get the basic minimum justice," he said during the Question Hour. To a query on whether the government plans to mandate pre-litigation online dispute resolution in certain cases in light of burgeoning pending cases, the minister replied in the affirmative. "The proposal for a standalone law on mediation provides for pre-litigation mediation before filing any suit or proceedings of civil or commercial nature by any party in any court. Such pre-litigation mediation can be undertaken online also," Rijiju said. According to the minister, the concept of ODR in India is at a nascent stage. A committee set up by Niti Aayog released a report titled 'Designing the future of dispute resolution: the ODR Policy Plan for India' was released on November 29. The report has recommended mainstreaming of ODR in the country as a cost-effective, convenient and efficient process, which can be customised to the specific needs of the parties, considering the nature of the dispute. To another query, Rijiju said that since there is no legal framework so far, measures to increase awareness regarding ODR do not arise at the level of the government at present. The minister also noted that public utility services do not fall exclusively in the realm of the central government, as these services are provided by state governments also. "Introduction of any policy in this matter requires widespread consultations. Since, at present, the ODR ecosystem is yet to take off formally in the country, no proposal to introduce ODR in public services is presently under consideration of the government," he added. During the Question Hour, senior member and BJD leader B Mahtab appreciated the law minister for bringing changes. Speaker Om Birla told the minister that his efforts have been appreciated by a senior member.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/working-to-ensure-people-in-rural-areas-dont-have-to-struggle-for-basic-minimum-justice-says-law-minister-rijiju-1057247.html
03-12-2021||National||Global tax deal leaves billion-dollar loopholes: Report||Leaders of the world’s largest economies hailed a recent agreement to overhaul global corporate tax rules as key ensuring multinationals paid their fair share of tax. The October deal established a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15 per cent aimed at curtailing profit-shifting to lower-tax jurisdictions such as Ireland, where many large international firms have their European headquarters. “It will eliminate incentives to shift jobs and profits abroad,” US President Joe Biden in early October. But some companies could still use Ireland to reduce their tax bills even after the agreement takes effect, according to tax specialists and a Reuters review of corporate filings. That’s because the new agreement won’t stop companies benefiting from a strategy widely implemented in recent years that reduces taxes over a period of up to a decade or more. Ireland’s relatively generous tax allowances permit multinationals with a presence in the country to sell intellectual property, such as patents and brands, from one subsidiary to another to generate deductions that can be used to shield future profits from tax. Companies that have generated deductions to reduce their taxable income by more than $10 billion each in recent years via this tax-minimizing strategy include US technology companies Adobe Inc and Oracle Corp, corporate filings show. Business-software provider Oracle declined to comment and Adobe, creator of software such as Acrobat pdf-maker, didn’t respond to requests for comment. Both companies have said they conform to relevant tax laws. The agreement, brokered by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), is due to take effect in 2023. It was signed by more than 130 jurisdictions, including Ireland. The Irish finance ministry said Ireland’s tax treatment of intellectual property transactions is in line with other OECD countries. In response to Reuters’ questions, the OECD acknowledged that companies could continue to benefit from profit-shifting strategies already in place but that it expects companies to be unable to build up such tax shields in the future. The approach typically relies on a company also having a subsidiary in a country with a corporate income-tax rate of zero, such as Bermuda, that enables the company to conduct the sale tax free. By phasing out zero-tax jurisdictions for multinationals, the OECD expects the global minimum tax of 15 per cent will make the strategy no longer attractive. “We’re trying to design rules for the future,” said John Peterson, an OECD official. Peterson added that the OECD can’t be certain how each country’s rules would interact with the global minimum tax. But he said the OECD is confident that abuses will be limited by a requirement that countries calculate taxable income in accordance with accounting rules. Tax specialists say the deal’s impact remains unclear because key details are yet to be agreed, including how to calculate the pot of profit that is to be taxed. Countries are currently debating carve-outs for certain tax breaks. In addition, jurisdictions could retain wide latitude in how they allow companies to calculate taxable income, the specialists said. “Where there isn’t accounting consistency, there is scope for gaming,” said Nicholas Gardner, a tax partner at law firm Ashurst in London. The new rules are expected to be finalized next year and require lawmaker approval in some jurisdictions. That includes the United States, where several top Republican politicians have voiced opposition to the deal. Malta is another country that permits multinationals to minimize taxes via intra-company intellectual property sales. Malta’s finance ministry did not respond to requests for comment on its intellectual property-related tax allowances. Tax Shield International pressure forced Ireland in recent years to phase out one of the world’s best-known corporate-tax loopholes, known as the “double Irish.”’ In response, companies have increasingly accumulated tax deductions known as capital allowances via intra-group sales of intellectual property, according to tax advisors, economists and company filings. Since 2015, multinationals have moved hundreds of billions of euros worth of intellectual property into Ireland, economists say. This has led to vast annual tax deductions for foreign companies related to so-called intangible assets – more than 45 billion euros in 2019 up from under 2.7 billion euros in 2014, according to data from Ireland’s tax authority. The data doesn’t break down what portion of those deductions were related to intellectual-property transactions within a corporation. “Virtually every multinational has moved intellectual property,” said Christopher Sibley, a senior statistician at Ireland’s Central Statistics Office. The profits being shielded from tax by US-based companies typically come from sales to Europe, Asia and Africa, according to tax specialists and corporate filings. The US Treasury loses out because the products and services sold are based on research conducted and investment made in the United States, academics say. The US Treasury declined to comment on whether US companies will continue to take advantage of pre-existing tax strategies or benefit from future ones. Adobe books most of its sales to non-US clients through an Irish subsidiary based in a four-storey block in an office park outside Dublin, corporate filings show. In 2020, Adobe Systems Software Ireland Ltd purchased intellectual property from another subsidiary that was both an Irish-registered company and a resident in Bermuda for tax purposes. The set-up meant no tax was due on the $11 billion profit from the sale. Meanwhile, Irish-tax resident Adobe Systems Software Ireland registered an $11 billion expense that could be used to offset taxes on profits over a period of about eight years because it is an asset that depreciates over time, according to the subsidiaries’ accounts. Adobe paid $197 million of tax on $3.1 billion of reported profit in Ireland in 2020 and sales of $5.6 billion, according to accounts for its main Irish unit. This equates to an effective tax rate of about half of Ireland’s current statutory 12.5 per cent corporate income tax rate, thanks to the impact of the capital allowances. Other US companies that have amassed multi-billion-dollar tax deductions from intellectual property sales to affiliates over the last three years include semiconductor maker Analog Devices Inc, medical devices maker Stryker Corp and software group Cadence Design Systems Inc, publicly available accounts for their Irish subsidiaries show. Analog Devices and Stryker said they adhere to tax rules and regulations but declined to answer questions on their specific tax arrangements. Cadence declined to comment. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/global-tax-deal-leaves-billion-dollar-loopholes-report-1057253.html
03-12-2021||National||Clashes with China: Indian warships were deployed at forward positions, says Navy Chief||Indian warships were deployed at forward positions during the border clashes with China at the Line of Actual Control in Eastern Ladakh, said Indian Navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar on Friday, pointing out that the security situation at the northern borders has added to the challenges India faces. Admiral Kumar asserted that the Indian Navy is fully confident of defending India's maritime interests and is carrying out the acquisition of platforms considering the possible security challenges before the country. He said that the Indian Navy has been keeping an eye on the presence of China's People's Liberation Army (Navy) in the Indian Ocean since 2007. Sharing details of the Chinese warships' presence in the Indian Ocean Region, Admiral Kumar said that on an average there are seven Chinese PLA Navy ships. They also send their submarines sometimes. "We are aware about their (Chinese) ships deployment. We also plan our strategy keeping everything in mind," said Admiral Kumar adding, "We have kept Chinese ships under close surveillance, and we continue to do that even now." He was addressing the media ahead of the Indian Navy Day on December 4. Speaking about the Chinese Navy's strength, the Admiral said they have constructed 180 ships in the last 10 years. Talking about the Indian Navy's strength, he said the Indian Navy has evolved from 33 ships to "where we are today. We develop our capability based on our maritime interests not what others are doing." He added that a total of 39 warships and submarines are being constructed and 37 of them are being built in Indian shipyards. Detailing about the ships' induction into the fleet, he said in the last seven years 28 ships were commissioned. Talking about unmanned systems, Admiral Kumar said: "We have a ten-year road map with a plan to have indigenous unmanned airborne, underwater and autonomous systems." He appreciated the government's decision to create a Department of Military Affairs, saying, "The creation of the Department of Military Affairs is the biggest reform in the military since independence along with the creation of the post of CDS. This enables faster decision-making and fewer layers of bureaucracy." India and China are engaged in border disputes for the last 19 months. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/clashes-with-china-indian-warships-were-deployed-at-forward-positions-says-navy-chief-1057258.html
03-12-2021||National||102.38 crore Covid vaccine doses administered free of cost at government centres since May 1: Govt||A total of 102.38 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered free of cost at government vaccination centres, while only 4.08 crore doses were administered at private centres since May 1, the Lok Sabha was told on Friday. The Centre is supplying Covishield and Covaxin manufactured in India under the Covid-19 vaccination programme and sufficient stock is available with states and Union territories, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said in a written reply. "From May 1, 2021 till date, 102.38 crore doses (96 per cent of the total doses) of Covid-19 vaccine have been administered free of cost at government CVCs, while only 4.08 crore doses (4 per cent of the total doses) were administered at private CVCs," Pawar said. The Government of India has not imported any Covid-19 vaccine for free supply to states/UTs under the national Covid-19 vaccination program, she said adding however, permission has been granted for import of Sputnik vaccine and is being administered in private vaccination centres. The national Covid-19 vaccination programme ensures equitable access of vaccination services to all eligible beneficiaries, the minister noted. Since April 1, 2021 to November 30, 2021, a total of 75,20,35,586 (68 per cent) vaccine doses have been administered at CVCs located in rural areas, while 35,29,98,471 (32 per cent) vaccine doses have been administered at CVCs located in urban areas, she said in response to a separate question. India achieved the 100-crore Covid vaccination dose milestone on October 21, 2021. The first 50 crore vaccine doses were administered in 203 days, while the second 50 crore doses were administered in 76 days. "The number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India are amongst the highest in the world," Pawar said. The vaccination programme is progressing at a steady pace and the vaccination coverage has improved significantly from an average of 2.35 lakh doses per day in the month of January 2021 to an average of 78.69 lakh doses per day in the month of September 2021. Adequate doses to vaccinate all eligible first dose and due second dose beneficiaries aged 18 years and above by December 2021 have been made available to states/UTs, she said. As on November 30, a total of 63,39,45,173 (51 per cent) vaccine doses have been administered to male population and 60,09,00,639 (49 per cent) vaccine doses have been administered to females. In the current financial year 2021-22, Rs 35,000 crore has been budgeted for procurement of Covid-19 vaccine. “As on November 27, an expenditure of Rs 19,675.46 crore has been incurred against this allocation which has been utilised for procurement of Covid-19 vaccine for free of cost supply to state/UTs. No separate expenses have been allocated for fuel,” the MoS informed the House. She also said that as on November 29, a total of 4,89,959 vaccine doses have been administered to prisoners across states and UTs. During the initial phase of Covid-19 vaccination, there were challenges of vaccine eagerness as well as vaccine hesitancy which were soon overcome by implementation of a focused communication strategy to sustain vaccine confidence across all states/UTs. The Government of India continues to supply Covid-19 vaccines free of cost to states/UTs since the commencement of the vaccination programme to ensure vaccine coverage of all eligible beneficiaries with both doses. The Government of India launched 'Har Ghar Dastak Abhiyaan' from November 3 wherein missed beneficiaries for first dose and due beneficiaries for second dose are identified and vaccinated through house-to-house activity. The need to administer booster dose is deliberated by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on vaccine administration for Covid (NEGVAC) based on scientific evidence, Pawar added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10238-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-free-of-cost-at-government-centres-since-may-1-govt-1057264.html
03-12-2021||National||CBI still probing information leak case, says Navy chief||Navy chief, Admiral R. Hari Kumar on Friday said that the CBI inquiry in the information leak case is still underway. "The central probe agency, CBI is still looking into the matter. An inquiry by the Navy is also ongoing. It is premature to comment on these matters," he said in a press meet ahead of the Navy Day, observed on December 4. The CBI had recently approached the Centre seeking permission to add charges under the Official Secrets Act into the matter. If this happens the alleged accused - a serving commander rank officer and two former officials - will face the heat. The ball is in the court of Defence and Law Ministries to decide whether to give a nod to the probe agency or not. Six Navy officials have been charge-sheeted by the probe agency on charges under the Prevention of Corruption Act. It has been alleged that accused leaked the classified information about Russian-origin Kilo-class submarine. S.J. Singh, who was formerly in the Directorate of Submarine Acquisition (DSMAQ), allegedly leaked the information to 'middleman' Randeep Singh, who was also demanding more information about Navy operations from him and had offered illegal gratification in this regard. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-still-probing-information-leak-case-says-navy-chief-1057266.html
03-12-2021||National||No acute shortage of essential fertilisers: Centre||Amid complaints from several states about the short supply of fertilisers, the Centre on Friday said there has been no acute shortage of essential fertilisers in the country during the ongoing Rabi season 2021-22. In a written reply to the Lok Sabha, Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said though some states highlighted shortfall of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) fertilisers, particularly in few districts, the government has made sufficient supply to meet the requirement during the ongoing rabi (winter-sown) season. Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday also met the Union fertiliser minister and requested him to increase the supply of the DAP. During the ongoing rabi season 2021-21 (October 1 to November 29), against the DAP requirement (pro-rata) of 34.65 lakh tonnes, the Department of Fertilisers has ensured availability of 36.60 lakh tonnes to the states, the government said. Urea is provided to all the farmers across the country at a statutory notified Maximum Retail Price (MRP). The MRP of 45 kg bag of urea is Rs 242 per bag (exclusive of charges towards neem coating and taxes as applicable) with effect from March 1, 2018. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-acute-shortage-of-essential-fertilisers-centre-1057271.html
03-12-2021||National||Integrated infrastructure, coordinated efforts in line with PM Gati Shakti to augment coal production||The commerce and industry ministry on Friday said integrated infrastructure and coordinated efforts in line with the PM Gati Shakti National Master Plan will help in augmenting coal production in the country. The issue was discussed during a meeting, organised under the chairmanship of NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, to review the mission of Coal India Ltd to produce one billion tonnes of coal by 2025-26. In October, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a Rs 100-lakh crore national master plan (NMP) for multi-modal connectivity that aims to develop infrastructure to reduce logistic costs and boost the economy. Coal remains the primary domestic fuel for India as well as the single largest commodity transported across the country, the ministry said in a statement. "In line with PM Gati Shakti, the development of integrated infrastructure with coordinated efforts by all infrastructure ministries lies at the heart of further augmentation of coal production and evacuation capacity through multi-modal connectivity," it said. As discussed in the meeting, rail remains the dominant evacuation mode for coal with an aim to expand its modal share from 64 per cent to 75 per cent by FY 2030. To cater to the increased coal dispatch in Chhattisgarh and Odisha, 14 railway infrastructure projects are under implementation in line with Gati Shakti principles. It said that the Ministry of Railways has developed the Freight Operations Information System to monitor the movement of freight trains that also calculates freight and other charges. A similar facility called the Port Community System (PCS) has been developed by the Ministry of Ports Shipping and Waterways to provide a platform for secure exchange of information between government agencies, terminal operators and traders. "Further, with the advent of PM Gati Shakti NMP, the status and type of roads (national highways/state highways/ rural roads/PMGSY roads) depicting the first and last mile connectivity of coal mines shall also be accessible to the Ministry of Coal and Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways to take necessary steps of integration and capacity enhancement," it added. The plan, it said, will holistically look at the interventions required to be taken for reduction of logistics cost for coal evacuation and thus lead to efficiency gains in the coal sector. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/integrated-infrastructure-coordinated-efforts-in-line-with-pm-gati-shakti-to-augment-coal-production-1057272.html
03-12-2021||National||Rs 100 crore allotted for chip design activities this fiscal: Vaishnaw||The government on Friday said it is cognizant of the importance of semiconductor design and has a budgetary allocation of Rs 100 crore for chip design-related programmes in the ongoing financial year. Electronics and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw informed the Rajya Sabha in a written reply that semiconductor design is a highly knowledge-intensive field and needs exceptionally skilled manpower and tools. He said India has a huge talent pool for semiconductor design and a high number of design patents and intellectual property rights (IPR) are produced in the country by design engineers. "The total budget allocation for chip design related activities / programmes in the current financial year is Rs 100 crore," Vaishnaw said. He said that the government is focused on broadening and deepening the Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) sector with semiconductor design as one of the focus areas. Currently, semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities for strategic requirements are available at SemiConductor Laboratory (SCL), Mohali; Gallium Arsenide Enabling Technology Centre (GAETEC), Hyderabad and Society for Integrated Circuit Technology and Applied Research (SITAR), Bengaluru, the minister said. To push development of semiconductors, the government has approved 'Establishment of Gallium Nitride (GaN) Ecosystem Enabling Centre and Incubator for High Power and High Frequency Electronics'. The project is being implemented by Society for Innovation and Development (SID) under the auspices of Indian Institute of Science (IISc) at Centre for Nano Science and Engineering (CeNSE), Bengaluru at the total project cost of Rs 298.66 crore. "An application for setting up of Assembly, Testing, Marking and Packaging (ATMP) of NAND Flash memory has been approved under the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme for large scale electronics manufacturing," Vaishnaw said. He said that an application for discrete semiconductor devices, including transistors, diodes, thyristors, etc. and System in Package (SIP) has been approved under the PLI Scheme for large scale electronics manufacturing. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-100-crore-allotted-for-chip-design-activities-this-fiscal-vaishnaw-1057281.html
03-12-2021||National||No foreign delegates to attend Parliament's PAC centenary due to Omicron scare||Pakistan did not respond to an invitation for the two-day centenary celebrations of Parliament's Public Accounts Committee (PAC) while delegates invited from various other countries will not be attending it in the wake of new Covid-19 variant 'Omicron'. The two-day centenary celebrations starting Saturday will be inaugurated by President Ram Nath Kovind in the presence of Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. PAC Chairperson Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury told a press conference that they had "tried to give an invitation" to Prime Minister Narendra Modi also but "there was no confirmation till now (afternoon)" and that they would once again contact him. Chowdhury said delegates from 52 countries were invited for the celebrations but none of them are attending due to the situation arising out of the Omicron variant. Asked whether Pakistan was also invited, he said an invitation was extended as it was a celebration of an institution but Islamabad did not give any response. The Ministry of External Affairs was involved in the process of inviting all foreign countries, he said. The PAC -- one of the three financial standing committees in Indian Parliament -- was established in 1921 under the Indian British government to check revenue and expenditure of the Government of India. Since 1952 after India's independence, Chowdhury said, the PAC has submitted 1,699 reports of which 42 were tabled during his tenure as PAC chairperson since 2019. He also said 70-80% of the recommendations of the PAC were implemented by the government. Asked whether the PAC would be auditing the controversial PM-CARES Fund, he said, "our hands are tied as PM Cares Fund does not come under the ambit of CAG." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-foreign-delegates-to-attend-parliaments-pac-centenary-due-to-omicron-scare-1057286.html
03-12-2021||National||Navy ramps up bed capacity at hospitals, prepares places for quarantine amid Omicron threat||In light of the emergence of Omicron, the new variant of coronavirus, the Indian Navy has issued directions for following Covid-19 protocols, ramped up bed capacity at hospitals and prepared places for quarantine, a senior official said on Friday. The Navy will walk the extra mile to help the Maharashtra government during the pandemic, said Vice-Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, the Commanding-in Chief, Western Naval Command. “We have recently issued a pan-Navy diktat that Omicron is a variant of concern, and have laid down certain provisions that we are going to follow within the Navy, which includes all the parameters of the Covid protocol and compliance of the state government directives, and maintain a clear and distinct Covid-19 hygiene and system,” Singh told reporters. The Navy has ramped up the bed capacity at its hospitals and has also prepared places for quarantine, he said. “We look forward to interacting with the state government. If they need any help, we will be able to provide it and we are more than willing to walk that extra mile,” the Vice-Admiral said. The aim is to save lives irrespective to whom they belong, he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navy-ramps-up-bed-capacity-at-hospitals-prepares-places-for-quarantine-amid-omicron-threat-1057290.html
03-12-2021||National||Kerala CPM rejects Police version on 'political murder'||Five persons were arrested on Friday in connection with the murder of CPM local leader P B Sandeep Kumar, 36, at Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta district in Kerala on Thursday. The police maintained that the personal rivalry of the prime accused RSS worker Jishnu and Sandeep was the reason for the provocation for the murder. This caused embarrassment to the ruling CPM as the party leaders were alleging that it was political murder by the BJP-RSS. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan flayed the police for making such observations at the initial stage of the probe itself. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran said that the CPM leaders should apologise for terming it as political murder and putting the blame on BJP-RSS. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that all those involved in the heinous crime would be brought before the law. Sandeep was stabbed to death by a gang of around five on Thursday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-cpm-rejects-police-version-on-political-murder-1057291.html
03-12-2021||National||No proposal for banning any group named ‘NSO Group’: Chandrasekhar||The Centre on Friday informed Rajya Sabha that it has not proposal to ban any group named 'NSO Group'. Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar in his written answer said that the government does not have any information on whether the US has blacklisted the group for providing Pegasus spyware. Earlier, huge controversy kicked up over alleged Israeli spyware Pegasus allegedly being used for targeted surveillance in India. Even the Supreme Court set up a three-member independent expert panel to probe the allegations. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-proposal-for-banning-any-group-named-nso-group-chandrasekhar-1057292.html
03-12-2021||National||MeitY releases national strategy on blockchain for its adoption in govt systems||The electronics and IT ministry on Friday released a national strategy on blockchain for adopting the technology in government systems especially for e-governance services. The ministry has adopted a multi-institutional approach for the national blockchain framework, which includes C-DAC for research and development of the framework, NIC and NICSI for hosting the national-level blockchain infrastructure and offering blockchain as a service. "The national strategy to evolve a trusted digital platform for providing e-governance services using blockchain lays out overall vision and the development and implementation strategies for a National Blockchain Platform covering the technology stack, legal and regulatory framework, standards development, collaboration, human resource development and potential use cases," the strategy document said. The government expects that the strategy document will provide the necessary guidance and support for realising the vision and creating a nationwide ecosystem for creating the National Blockchain Platform and development of relevant applications using this platform in various domains. "MeitY will work with various government organisations and other stakeholders in implementing this strategy and realising the various advantages of the blockchain technology in terms of enhanced security, trust and its ability to ensure tamper-evident transactions," the document said. Under the framework, the National e-Governance division will handle the implementation of projects undertaken by various ministries and departments at central as well as state levels. The strategy seeks state government to develop state-specific blockchain applications on the shared blockchain infrastructure. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meity-releases-national-strategy-on-blockchain-for-its-adoption-in-govt-systems-1057293.html
03-12-2021||National||NIA moves SC against HC order granting default bail to activist Sudha Bharadwaj||The high court on December 1 had said in its order that Bharadwaj, accused of being part of a conspiracy to overthrow the Union government, was entitled to bail and its denial would be in breach of her fundamental right to life and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The high court had directed that Bharadwaj, lodged in the Byculla women's prison, be produced before the Mumbai special NIA court on December 8, and conditions of her bail and date of release be decided. Bharadwaj is the first among 16 activists and academicians arrested in the case to have been granted default bail. Poet-activist Varavara Rao is currently out on medical bail. Jesuit priest Stan Swamy died in a private hospital here on July 5 this year while waiting for medical bail. The others are all in custody as undertrials.   The high court had rejected the default bail plea filed by eight other co-accused in the case - Sudhir Dhawale, Varavara Rao, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the city's outskirts. The Pune police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The probe in the case was later transferred to the NIA. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-moves-sc-against-hc-order-granting-default-bail-to-activist-sudha-bharadwaj-1057297.html
03-12-2021||National||438 Indians among 565 people evacuated from Afghanistan under 'Operation Devi Shakti': MEA||India evacuated a total of 565 people, including 438 Indians, from Afghanistan under 'Operation Devi Shakti' in the wake of the Taliban takeover, Parliament was informed on Friday. The government also informed Lok Sabha that a few Indians, who had contacted the special Afghanistan cell of the Ministry of External Affairs and desired to be evacuated, still remain stranded. To a question on whether the government has been successful in evacuating all the internally displaced Indian citizens from Afghanistan, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said a total of 565 people, including 438 Indians, were evacuated from Afghanistan by the government of India under 'Operation Devi Shakti'. A few Indians, who had contacted the Special Afghanistan Cell of the Ministry of External Affairs and desired to be evacuated, still remain stranded, the minister said in his written reply. The Special Afghanistan Cell is in touch with the remaining stranded Indians as well as members of the Afghan minority community, he said. Following the rapid decline in the security situation in Afghanistan in mid-August 2021, all India-based personnel from the embassy and other consulates were recalled, Muraleedharan said. To a separate question on whether the government had conducted flights from Afghanistan to India during the period of internal disturbances, Muraleedharan said the government of India operated several special Indian Air Force and Air India flights under 'Operation Devi Shakti' to evacuate stranded Indian and Afghan nationals from Afghanistan, from August 16 to 25, 2021. In view of the rapid deterioration in the security situation in Afghanistan, especially after August 15, a 24x7 Special Afghanistan Cell was set up in the Ministry of External Affairs to facilitate repatriation and other requests from Afghanistan, Muraleedharan said. In August alone, the Special Afghanistan Cell responded to 3,436 telephone calls, 9,581 Whatsapp messages and 4,569 emails, the minister said. To another query on the number of Indian Sikhs who were evacuated from Afghanistan and the facilities or amenities being provided to them after their evacuation, Muraleedharan said 74 members of the minority community from Afghanistan, primarily Afghan Sikhs, were evacuated on board special Indian Air Force and Air India flights arranged by the government of India under 'Operation Devi Shakti'. He said the Indian Embassy and consulates in Afghanistan have always maintained regular contact with the members of Afghan Hindu-Sikh minority community which looked after the various Gurudwaras and Hindu temples in Afghanistan. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/438-indians-among-565-people-evacuated-from-afghanistan-under-operation-devi-shakti-mea-1057302.html
03-12-2021||National||'Impractical' to think Omicron will result in severe disease, death in India: Experts||Although Omicron is predicted to cause more breakthrough infections, it is "impractical and impossible" that it will infect huge numbers in India, and result in severe disease and death, if proper measures are taken, experts said on Friday. The new Omicron variant of Coronavirus is touted to be highly transmissible due to the presence of more than 30 mutations on its spike protein, which the virus uses to enter human cells. "Though Omicron has many more mutations, there are many viral surface particles which are not yet mutated. The people who have some kind of immunity towards the viral surface proteins will have more or less some amount of protection against the new Omicron variant as well," Dipu T.S, Clinical Associate Professor, Division of Infectious Diseases, Amrita Hospital, told IANS. "So, though breakthrough infections are possible, the chances of Omicron infecting huge numbers at a go is impractical and impossible in the best scenario and the curve will have to go up slowly," he added. During the first wave of Covid-19 in India, in April 2020, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had estimated that one Covid-infected person could spread the disease to 406 more people in 30 days, if there is no lockdown. The study, published pre-print on medrxiv, which means not peer-reviewed yet, showed that recent reinfections have occurred in individuals whose primary infections occurred across all three waves, with the most having their primary infection in the Delta wave. Based on this, can we estimate that an Omicron patient can infect even more or up to 1,000-1,200 people, especially when social distancing norms are being flouted in the country? "This is not an estimation of the current scenario. Because we need to understand that the immunity was practically zero in April 2020, when ICMR came with its random number of 400," Dipu said. "But as of today, we are dealing with a completely different scenario, where the vaccination has crossed more than 50 per cent of the population. And we are almost two years into this pandemic," he added. According to Mrinal Sircar, Director and HOD, Pulmonology, Fortis Hospital, Noida, it is possible that "Omicron will have a milder course in India". "The larger difference that we need to see here is that a large set of the Indian population has already received the first dose of the vaccine, which was not the case during the Delta variant outbreak," he told IANS. Besides, there is this natural immunity that comes from being infected with Covid. In October, the ICMR had stated that across India, the seroprevalence is 67 per cent. This means that 67 per cent already had some form of immunity against the Covid-19 virus. Moreover, "when we say the reinfection is three times more likely, we are comparing it to the original strain. So the chance of breakthrough infections, which has been reported to be 10 per cent in a year's span, can be up to 30 per cent, which, though is a worrying number, will happen over a period of time," Dipu said. "As per current preliminary evidence available from African countries, the reinfection rate among previously infected or vaccinated individual with Covid-19 is very very low (below 1 per cent)," Harshal R. Salve, Associate Professor at the Centre for Community Medicine, AIIMS, New Delhi, told IANS. But, "compared to Africa with 5 per cent vaccination coverage, we have much higher coverage and perhaps thanks to the Delta wave have high seropositivity," Sircar said. But again, these are all based on the preliminary data and it is too early to predict the behaviour of this kind of strain. We need to wait till more data comes on these cases, the health experts noted. However, for an infection to transmit, there has to be a high-risk exposure which is "defined as maskless exposure of more than 15 minutes," Dipu said, adding that wearing masks and maintaining social distance will definitely decrease the progression of the disease in the country. "We need to be vigilant, but not panic. We need to strengthen our surveillance system and increase full dose adult vaccination," Salve said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/impractical-to-think-omicron-will-result-in-severe-disease-death-in-india-experts-1057312.html
03-12-2021||National||In last few weeks, India supplied vaccines to several countries: Govt||The government on Friday said that after putting on hold Covid vaccine export to cater to domestic demand, India now has supplied jabs in the last few weeks to several countries, including Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Iran, Paraguay and Indonesia. In a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said that since the start of the Vaccine Maitri Programme in January, India has supplied 723.435 lakh doses to 94 countries and two UN entities in the form of grant, commercial export or through COVAX. "After holding the vaccine export to cater to the domestic demand first, in the last few weeks India has supplied vaccines to several countries including Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Iran, Paraguay and Indonesia," Muraleedharan said. On the number of vaccines which India proposes to distribute globally as part of international vaccine partnerships like COVAX, he said the exact volume of export of vaccines will be determined by domestic production and requirements of the national vaccination programme. The government has taken initiatives to share medicines, vaccines, PPE, test kits and other medical and health products, training programmes, capacity building projects, genomic surveillance, recognition of vaccination certificates etc. as part of the global fight against Covid-19, Muraleedharan said. To another question, he stated that according to details available with Indian missions and posts, the total number of Indian citizens who succumbed to Covid-19 abroad is 4,048. A large number of casualties were reported from Saudi Arabia (1,154) followed by United Arab Emirates (894), Kuwait (668), Oman (551), Bahrain (200) and Qatar (109), according to the data provided by the minister. Muraleedharan said India supplied Covid-19 related medical and other assistance, to over 150 countries since the beginning of the pandemic. In the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic during the second wave, support in the form of Covid-related equipment and medicines were received from 53 countries, he said. These included various items from foreign governments, private companies and Indian associations abroad, Muraleedharan added. Responding to a separate query on whether the government has noticed the "unofficial ban" imposed by China on Indian seafarers and prohibited entry of ships with Indian seafarers, he said the government had taken note of a few media reports which had appeared earlier in the year on the subject and had, therefore, taken up the matter with the Chinese side. The government emphasised to the Chinese side that any restriction selectively targeting sailors from India is unacceptable, he said. The Chinese side had conveyed that it had not imposed any ban and that such reports were not accurate, Muraleedharan said. To a separate question on whether Pakistan has approved India’s proposal for transporting 50,000 metric tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan through the land route, which passes through Pakistan, for humanitarian aid for the people of Afghanistan, Minister of State for External Affairs Meenakshi Lekhi said in view of the humanitarian requirement of the people of Afghanistan, India offered 50,000 metric tonnes of wheat and life-saving drugs as assistance to the people of Afghanistan to be provided urgently through land route through Pakistan. "In this regard, we made a request to the Pakistani side in October 2021, and a conditional response from Pakistan has been received on November 23, 2021," she said in her written response. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-last-few-weeks-india-supplied-vaccines-to-several-countries-govt-1057327.html
03-12-2021||National||On Covid debate day, Lok Sabha productivity increased to 204%||The productivity of Lok Sabha increased to 204 per cent on Thursday as the House sat for extra hours till midnight to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic. According to Lok Sabha officials, the productivity of the Lower House had touched 117 per cent on Wednesday when the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulations) Bill was passed after a four-hour debate. Overall, the productivity during the Winter Session of Parliament, which began on Monday, has been 83 per cent. Of the total allocated time of 1,440 minutes (24 hours), the House has transacted business for 1,205 minutes (20.08 hours), they said. Productivity of the House on the first two days was 6.7 per cent each. A total of 96 members participated in the debate on the Covid pandemic in Lok Sabha that stretched on for 11 hours and three minutes. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-covid-debate-day-lok-sabha-productivity-increased-to-204-1057328.html
03-12-2021||National||12.5 crore beneficiaries due for second dose of Covid-19 vaccine in India: Centre||A total of 12.5 crore people are due for a second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine after completion of the stipulated dosage interval as on November 30, the Lok Sabha was told on Friday. Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar was responding to a question on the number of people who have dropped out of taking the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the country. “As on November 30, a total of 12.5 crore people are due for the second dose of Covid vaccine after completion of stipulated dosage interval,” she noted. Asked if the government has prepared any plan to identify and reach out to such people who did not take the second dose, Pawar said the Centre launched 'Har Ghar Dastak Abhiyaan' from November 3 wherein missed beneficiaries for the first dose and due beneficiaries for the second dose are identified and vaccinated through house-to-house activity. This campaign is undertaken across all districts, including those with first dose coverage of less than 50 per cent. As of November 30, a total of 29 districts have vaccination coverage of less than 50 per cent for the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, she said. The district-wise and CVC-wise plan for Covid-19 vaccination coverage is prepared by district magistrates and district immunisation officers in all districts irrespective of their coverage. On whether there are any repercussions on the health of those who missed their second dose voluntarily, the minister said people who do not complete the Covid-19 vaccination schedule may not receive full protection against the infection. Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of beneficiaries (2,11,29,397) due for the second dose followed by Rajasthan at 1,23,32,133, Maharashtra at 1,00,31,101, Bihar at 93,60,859 and Tamil Nadu at 80,50,574 beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/125-crore-beneficiaries-due-for-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-india-centre-1057331.html
03-12-2021||National||Pak agrees to let India transport life-saving drugs, wheat to Afghanistan||Pakistan on Friday agreed to let India transport 50,000 metric tonnes of wheat and life-saving drugs as humanitarian assistance for the people of Afghanistan on Afghan trucks through the Wagah border crossing, after a row erupted between the two countries over the modalities of transportation. Islamabad conveyed to New Delhi on Friday that the trucks of Afghanistan would be allowed to use the territory of Pakistan to transport wheat and medicines from India to the conflict-ravaged country now ruled by the Taliban. Mansoor Ahmed Khan, Islamabad’s envoy to Kabul, posted on Twitter that Pakistan had decided to allow use of its territory for transportation of wheat and emergency medicines from India on trucks of Afghanistan. A source told DH that New Delhi’s acting envoy to Islamabad, M Suresh Kumar, had a meeting with the senior officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of Pakistan and discussed the modalities for transport of medicines and about 50,000 MT of wheat from India to Afghanistan. Though it has not yet recognised the Taliban’s government in Kabul, India has formally conveyed to the UN Security Council on November 18 its willingness to send humanitarian aid for the people of Afghanistan. New Delhi has been negotiating with Imran Khan's government on use of territory of Pakistan for transport of medicines and food-grains from India to Afghanistan. Islamabad had initially turned down New Delhi’s proposal for trucks from India carrying the banners of the United Nations transporting the humanitarian aid to Afghanistan through the territory of Pakistan. It had insisted that it would only use trucks registered in Pakistan to ply between India and Afghanistan. Even before the Taliban took over Kabul, a humanitarian crisis was already unfolding in Afghanistan, as a result of continued conflict, severe drought, Covid-19 pandemic, failing health system and economic slowdown. It worsened after the Taliban returned to power in Afghanistan. The UN World Food Programme estimated that one in every three Afghans had already been facing severe hunger and now 95 percent of families were not consuming enough food. The conflict-ravaged country is on the brink of economic collapse, with the local currency at an all-time low and food prices on the rise. “Acute malnutrition is above emergency thresholds in 27 out of 34 provinces, and is expected to worsen, with almost half of children under five and a quarter of pregnant and breastfeeding women needing life-saving nutrition support in the next 12 months,” the WFP stated in a global appeal for support for Afghanistan. It estimated that it would urgently need $200 million to help people in need across Afghanistan between now and the end of the year. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pak-agrees-to-let-india-transport-life-saving-drugs-wheat-to-afghanistan-1057343.html
03-12-2021||National||Differently-abled should not be asked to remove prosthetic limbs at airports: SC to DGCA||The Supreme Court has directed the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to ensure that differently-abled persons are not asked to remove prosthetic limbs/calipers to maintain human dignity while ensuring the requirement of security checks. A bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and Justice V Ramasubramanian also said that lifting a person with disability during air travel or security checkup is inhumane, and held that it should not be done without his or her consent. "Another aspect we want to mention is about some of the differently-abled person use prosthetic limbs/calipers. Sometimes, they are directed to remove their prosthetic limbs/calipers as a part of the security check. "In the draft guidelines circulated, it has been mentioned that scanning of prosthetic limbs/calipers though full body scanner but to what extent differently-abled persons with prosthetic limbs/calipers are required to be checked for the purpose of security should be in a manner where, no such person is asked to remove prosthetic limbs/calipers to maintain human dignity while ensuring the requirement of security checks," the bench said. The apex court was hearing a plea filed by Jeeja Ghosh, suffering from cerebral palsy, who was off-loaded by Spicejet while she was on her way from Kolkata to Goa to attend a conference in 2012. The top court was apprised that Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR) guidelines were revised on July 2, 2021 and now the draft guidelines regarding 'Carriage by Air of Persons with Disability and/or Persons with Reduced Mobility' have been put in public domain in the year 2021. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for the petitioner, raised multiple objections to the draft guidelines. The apex court asked the petitioner to submit their objections/suggestions on the draft guidelines to DGCA. "We leave it open to the petitioners to submit objections/suggestions to the draft guidelines with a hope that the DGCA shall consider such suggestions even if the time limit for submission of the suggestions has come to an end. Such suggestions may be submitted within 30 days from today," the bench in its December 1 order said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/differently-abled-should-not-be-asked-to-remove-prosthetic-limbs-at-airports-sc-to-dgca-1057382.html
03-12-2021||National||Next round of India-UAE free-trade pact talks from Dec 6; aim is to conclude negotiations||Senior officials of India and the UAE would meet here next week for the third round of negotiations for the proposed free-trade agreement, where both the sides aim at concluding the talks, the commerce ministry said on Friday. Under a free-trade agreement, two trading partners reduce or eliminate customs duties on the maximum number of goods traded between them. Besides, they liberalise norms to enhance trade in services and boost investments. Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal met the representatives of aluminium, copper, chemicals and petrochemicals sectors as part of the ongoing multi-stakeholder consultations related to the India-UAE Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) negotiations. "The third round of India-UAE CEPA negotiations are scheduled to be held in New Delhi on December 6-10, 2021, wherein both sides aim to conclude the negotiations," it said. Goyal apprised the representatives about the importance of the pact in elevating the overall economic and commercial relations with UAE. Bilateral trade between India and the UAE stood at $43.3 billion in 2020-21. Exports were $16.7 billion and imports aggregated at $26.7 billion in 2020-21. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/next-round-of-india-uae-free-trade-pact-talks-from-dec-6-aim-is-to-conclude-negotiations-1057383.html
03-12-2021||National||Dam Safety Bill passed in Rajya Sabha amid resistence: Key points to know||Two years after the Lok Sabha approved it, the Dam Safety Bill, 2019 was finally passed by the Rajya Sabha on Thursday despite opposition from a handful of MPs. The bill seeks to provide for the surveillance, inspection, operation and maintenance of specified dams for the prevention of dam failure-related disasters and an institutional mechanism to ensure their safe functioning, and related matters. Here's a lowdown on what the Dam Safety Bill mandates and how it was passed in Parliament. What is the Bill all about? The Dam Safety Bill, 2019 calls for the creation of two bodies at the national and state level for assessing dam conditions.  The National Committee on Dam Safety (NCDS) will help in forming policies and recommending regulations regarding dam safety standards while the National Dam Safety Authority (NDSA) will implement the policies and provide technical assistance to state bodies. The State Committee on Dam Safety (SCDS) and the State Dam Safety Organisation (SDSO) will have similar roles to that of national bodies but with jurisdiction restricted to their respective states. About 18 states and several dam-owning organisations already have Dam Safety Organisations (DSOs), like Damodar Valley Corporation and Kerala State Electricity Board. The Bill will apply to all dams that are above 15 metres in height and those between 10 and 15 metres in height that satisfy certain conditions. Why was it necessitated? Data as on June 2019 showed that India has 5,745 large dams (includes dams under construction). Of these, 5,675 large dams are operated by states, 40 by central public sector undertakings and five by private agencies. While 293 dams are more than 100 years old, 1,041 are between 50 to 100 years old. The Bill was also necessary given India's emerging water crisis, growing population and climate change, the report added quoting a CWC note. Is it constitutionally valid? Yes, it is. According to PRS Legislative, "under Article 252, Parliament can legislate on a state subject if two or more states pass a resolution requesting the legislature to make laws". Two states — Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal — had moved a resolution for requiring a law on dam safety back in 2007, the report added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dam-safety-bill-passed-in-rajya-sabha-amid-resistence-key-points-to-know-1057386.html
03-12-2021||National Politics||Prashant Kishor takes aim at Congress leadership with new dig||Opposition unity received another jolt on Thursday after poll strategist Prashant Kishor posted a cryptic tweet, saying the “idea and space” the Congress represents is “vital” for the Opposition but its leadership is not the “divine right of an individual”. The tweet is being seen as an attack on Rahul Gandhi, as Kishor said the Congress had “lost more than 90% elections in the last 10 years”. Rahul has been the de facto leader of the Congress since he was made party vice president in January 2013. The latest barb by Kishor, who has been advising West Bengal CM and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee, will only enlarge the cracks in the relationship between the Congress and the TMC, which has been having a go at the grand old party just about every other day.  In the last few days, the TMC has made it a point to attack Rahul while attacking Congress simultaneously. Even during her meeting with NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Banerjee is learnt to have expressed her views about the leadership issue in the Congress. Many Opposition leaders in private have been batting for a non-Rahul leadership in the Congress to enable leaders from other regional parties to work under a common umbrella.  There have also been murmurs of a renewed bid to bring back big leaders of the Congress, who left the party and are not aligned with the BJP, an idea which also finds favour with a section of the G-23 group.  One such leader Sanjay Jha said the Congress will not win the 2024 Lok Sabha polls if Rahul remained at the helm of the Congress. While G-23 leaders like Kapil Sibal underlined the significance of the Congress in the fight against the BJP, after Mamata said there was no UPA, they have so far been mum on the Mamata-Rahul rivalry so far. “Without the Congress, UPA will be a body without a soul. Time to show opposition unity,” Sibal tweeted. Former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday rubbed it in, saying Banerjee and Pawar were trying to keep the Congress at bay. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prashant-kishor-takes-aim-at-congress-leadership-with-new-dig-1057030.html
03-12-2021||National Politics||India wants to know if Rahul Gandhi has been vaccinated against Covid: Tejasvi Surya in LS||BJP MP Tejasvi Surya on Thursday accused the Congress of creating hesitancy against made in India COVID-19 vaccines and sought to know whether Rahul Gandhi has taken the jab yet. "The nation wants to know if Rahul Gandhi has been vaccinated? If yes, which vaccine has he taken? Why has he not tweeted about vaccination, is he not proud about the fact that India has two made in India vaccines?" Surya said during a discussion on Covid in Lok Sabha. He said while Indians, along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, fought the coronavirus pandemic, Gandhi chose not to fight the pandemic, but fight Narendra Modi. "This shows the pettiness of the Congress’ politics," Surya said. He said that 125 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country to date. Seven BJP-ruled states have given the first dose of vaccine to more than 90 per cent of their population, while eight BJP-ruled states have given two jabs to more than 50 per cent of population, he said. "Not one Congress-ruled state has achieved 90 per cent first dose vaccination, he said. Surya accused Congress of creating vaccine hesitancy against India made vaccines. "I do not know what the Congress party has against Made in India vaccines.... Their hatred towards Made in India vaccines cost the nation very dear," he said. Referring to flyers, Congress' Karti Chidambaram said vaccine certificate should only have the photo of the passenger and not someone else. He said air passengers have to follow a cumbersome procedure at airports. Chidambaram suggested that procedures at airports should be simplified for passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-wants-to-know-if-rahul-gandhi-has-been-vaccinated-against-covid-tejasvi-surya-in-ls-1057071.html
03-12-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Rahul Gandhi 'at work' against Mamata Didi!||Just after her historic victory in West Bengal elections, Mamata Banerjee vowed to be the prime mover of the united opposition in the country and met Congress chief Sonia Gandhi in Delhi. It galvanised the entire anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) populace seeking to defeat Narendra Modi and his party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-rahul-gandhi-at-work-against-mamata-didi-1057074.html
03-12-2021||National Politics||Punjabi singer Moosewala joins Congress||Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala on Friday joined the Congress in the presence of state Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and party state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu here. The Punjab Congress chief described Moosewala as a youth icon and an "international figure". “Sidhu Moosewala is joining our family. I welcome him in the Congress fold,” he told reporters here. While welcoming the singer in the party fold, Channi said Moosewala became a "big artist with his sheer hard work and won hearts millions of people with his songs"'. Moosewala, whose real name is Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu, hails from Moosa village in Mansa district and his mother is a village head. The singer had earlier faced criticism for promoting violence and gun culture in his songs.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjabi-singer-moosewala-joins-congress-1057136.html
03-12-2021||National Politics||How can there be reconciliation when 12 suspended MPs not ready to apologise? asks Piyush Goyal in Rajya Sabha ||Amid a stalemate over the suspension of 12 opposition Rajya Sabha MPs, Leader of the House Piyush Goyal on Friday said how can there be a reconciliation when these members are unwilling to apologise for their unruly behaviour in the previous session. The issue came up in the House when RJD leader Manoj Kumar Jha said in the Rajya Sabha that some BJP members "gatecrashed" the site in Parliament complex where the 12 suspended members were staging an agitation. "Gatecrashing amounts to taking away the democratic values," Jha said. As some Opposition members tried to raise this issue, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said that he wants to clear a misconception that the Leader of Opposition was not allowed to comment on the suspension of members. The Leader of Opposition in the House was given five minutes to speak about it during Zero House on November 30, he said. Naidu further said, "I hope all will work together to resolve this issue. I have suggested both the Leader of the House and the Leader of Opposition to discuss and ensure smooth functioning of the House." At this, Goyal posed how can there be a reconciliation when the suspended members are not ready to tender an apology. "I want to understand from you sir, what does the Opposition expect from us?" he asked. Claiming that some members of the opposition parties had approached him on this issue, Goyal told the House, "I said, I am happy to meet everybody but... a courtesy towards the Chair and nation is an apology. They said we cannot apologise." The Leader of the House further said that he told the opposition members about past instances where he and the Chair had apologised for very minor issues. "They (opposition members) feel what they have done is very legitimate and noble. In these circumstances, what do we talk to the Opposition?" he said. "Some leaders of opposition parties and some suspended MPs have been making provocative" statements in the last few days. They are saying 'maafi kis baati ki' (What's there to apologise?). This shows they are endorsing the attack on marshals and unruly scenes in the House in the last session," he added. The 12 opposition MPs were suspended from the Rajya Sabha on Monday for the entire Winter Session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. The Opposition has termed the suspension as "undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House. The suspended MPs include six from the Congress, two each from the Trinamool Congress and Shiv Sena, and one each from the CPI and CPI(M). They have been holding day-long protests in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue inside the Parliament complex and have decided to continue to do so every day till their suspension is revoked.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/how-can-there-be-reconciliation-when-12-suspended-mps-not-ready-to-apologise-asks-piyush-goyal-in-rajya-sabha-1057145.html
03-12-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi slams 'insensitive' government for 'no record' of farmers' deaths statement||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday sought to take the government for claiming that it does not have records of farmers who died during the protest against the now-repealed farm laws, saying when it "can do anything for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 2-3 industrialist-friends", why can't it pay compensation to the "martyred" farmers. In a tweet with hashtags "Farmers and HumanityFirst", he said, "Modi-Ji only has the numbers of his industrialist friends. We have the names and numbers of the farmers who died during the agitation. If you really want to apologise, then call these families, share their grief and provide compensation. The Congress government in Punjab did this out of humanity, even when it was not at fault." At a press conference, Rahul accused Modi of being "insensitive, arrogant and cowardly" in not paying compensation to families of the farmers and said he would present a list of such farmers in Parliament on Monday. He said that the Congress-led Punjab government, which was "not responsible" for farmers' deaths, has provided Rs five lakh compensation to families of 403 farmers who died and jobs to 152. Congress has also collected a list of 100 from other states while other names are in the public domain and "so, there is a list". "The Prime Minister himself has said that he has made a mistake. He has apologised...Well, as a result of that mistake, 700 people have died. Now, you are lying about their names, why? Why don’t you have the decency to give them what is their due? The government should pay compensation and help these families. You are so insensitive that you don't understand the pain of these families," Rahul said. "You yourself apologised and you are saying nobody died. This is not the way the Prime Minister of India should be behaving. This is a very unpleasant, immoral and cowardly way to behave," he said. He said that the affected families are facing an environment where there is huge joblessness and the government has not let them work for one year and now it is taking away their livelihood. "And now you are saying to them you don't exist," he said. Referring to the Ministry of Agriculture's response that it has no record of the farmers who died and hence the question does not arise about giving compensation, he said the farmers have died as a result of the agitation and his party was not talking about "billions of dollars, thousands of crores of rupees" but "minimum compensation for the sacrifice they have made". "When it comes to 2-3 industrialist-friends of the Prime Minister, the government does everything. But when it comes to farmers and labourers, it says they don't exist," he said. Arguing for giving immediate relief, he said they should be given compensation for humanity's sake, but the government doesn't want to give it. If the Prime Minister thought about those families, about their children, about their education and healthcare, he would have done this in one minute. But the Prime Minister is only thinking about his own image and position, Rahul alleged. On the remaining demands of the farmers like providing legal backing for Minimum Support Price (MSP) and other things, he said he did not think that the government would accept farmers' demands as its intention was not right. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-slams-insensitive-government-for-no-record-of-farmers-deaths-statement-1057227.html
03-12-2021||National Politics||BJP MPs 'gatecrash' Opposition protest in Parliament House; shout slogans at one another||Opposition MPs protesting against suspension of 12 lawmakers and BJP members came face to face at Gandhi Statue in Parliament House when they shouted slogans at each other for a brief period on Friday even as both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha functioned without disruption during the day. Even as the Opposition did not disrupt the proceedings, Leader of Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal responded to Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu's suggestion to resolve the outstanding issues, asking how there could be a reconciliation when the MPs were unwilling to apologise for their unruly behaviour in the Monsoon Session. The suspended Rajya Sabha MPs were on a sit-in protest since Wednesday at Gandhi Statue, refusing to apologise as demanded by the government for revocation of suspension. In the morning before the House assembled, a group of BJP MPs, including Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Shiv Pratap Shukla and MP Rakesh Sinha, came to the venue raising placards and slogans against the Opposition. The Opposition MPs to retorted with slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and after a few minutes of commotion, the BJP MPs left for Ambedkar Statue in Parliament House. "It was to provoke and create a scene. They don't believe in or adhere to Mahatma Gandhi's ideology. Today, there were trying to find a shelter in Gandhi-ji by trying to occupy the space where we were protesting shows their arrogance and disregard for dissent, Congress Rajya Sabha Whip and one of the suspended MPs, Syed Nasir Hussain, told DH. Trinamool Congress' Dola Sen and Shanta Chetri said the BJP MPs came here in the name of 'Save Constitution'. "They tried to ransack the dharna of ours. Shame on them. We have to fight to save our country and our Constitution." BJP's G V L Narasimha Rao said they were protesting against the "unruly behaviour and defence" of the Opposition, which was "denigrating the Parliament and Constitution". The issue also got resonance in the Rajya Sabha when RJD leader Manoj Kumar Jha said that some BJP members "gatecrashed" the Opposition protest site in Parliament House. "Gatecrashing amounts to taking away the democratic values," he said as he received support from other Opposition MPs. Naidu then intervened and said he wants to clear a misconception that Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge was not allowed to speak on the suspension of MPs and that he was giv en five minutes to speak during the Zero House on November 30. "I hope all will work together to resolve this issue. I have suggested to the Leader of the House, the Leader of Opposition and other leaders sit together to discuss and ensure smooth functioning of the House," Naidu said. Goyal then asked how could there be a reconciliation when the suspended members are not ready to tender an apology. "I want to understand from you sir, what does the Opposition expect from us? I was approached by some MPs from the Opposition. I am happy to meet everybody but... at least a courtesy towards the Chair and nation is an apology. They said we cannot apologise," he said. "The Opposition members feel what they have done is very legitimate and noble. In these circumstances, what do we talk to the Opposition? Some leaders of opposition parties and some suspended MPs have been making provocative" statements in the last few days. They are saying 'maafi kis baati ki' (What's there to apologise?). This shows they are endorsing the attack on marshals and unruly scenes in the House in the last session," he added.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mps-gatecrash-opposition-protest-in-parliament-house-shout-slogans-at-one-another-1057241.html
03-12-2021||National Politics||'They would have lynched me', says Kangana Ranaut as protesters stop her car in Punjab||The car of actress Kangana Ranaut was stopped and surrounded by protesting farmers in Punjab's Kiratpur Sahib town on Friday, demanding an apology from her for comments against the women farmers. The incident took place close to Bunga Sahib gurdwara on the Chandigarh-Una highway. She was travelling from Manali to Chandigarh to board a flight to Mumbai. Video footage showed the farmers carrying their organisation flags surrounding the Mercedes car and demanding an apology from her. Police personnel were also seen there, convincing the protesters to clear the road. In the video, the actress said, "I have left from Himachal and arrived in Punjab because my flight was cancelled. My car has been surrounded by a mob who are calling themselves farmers and are attacking me. They are hurling abuses at me and threatening to kill me." "In this country, this kind of mob lynching is happening openly, if I didn't have security then what would have happened? The situation is unbelievable. If the cops wouldn't have been here then they would be lynching openly. Shame on these people!" In another video, Kangana was seen interacting with a woman from the crowd and holding her hand. "I am completely safe and have left from there. Thanks to Punjab police and CRPF," she added. Kangana was disappointed after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the government is scrapping the three controversial farm laws. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/they-would-have-lynched-me-says-kangana-ranaut-as-protesters-stop-her-car-in-punjab-1057244.html
03-12-2021||National Politics||Leaders joining from other parties will benefit us in Punjab polls: BJP||The BJP, which is likely to contest the Punjab assembly polls on its own for the first time after its ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) walked away, will be banking on leaders from the opposition parties and prominent personalities to make its electoral presence felt in the state. In the last assembly polls in 2017, the BJP had won only three out of the 23 seats it contested. In next year's assembly polls, the saffron party is trying to increase its strength in the Punjab assembly by inducting leaders from other political parties and prominent personalities in the state. The saffron party believes that these leaders will help them in winning the assembly polls. "Joining of senior leaders from other parties will definitely benefit the party in the election. Many of them are joining without preconditions or assurance of a ticket. Their ticket will be decided on their winnability. But, there is no doubt that the BJP is emerging stronger with each passing day," a senior party leader said. A party insider pointed out that while prominent personalities help in building a positive perception in favour of the party in the run up to the election, strong or big leaders help in strengthening the organisation at the ground level. A senior BJP leader said that the process of people joining it is on and more people will join in the future from different walks of life, including leaders from other parties. "Joining of senior leaders from rival political parties or prominent personalities shows that the BJP is gaining ground in Punjab and getting stronger day by day. After SAD broke its alliance with us, it was believed that the BJP has no presence in the state but the way more and more people are joining the party shows our strong presence," he said. On Friday, former Punjab DGP Sarbdeep Singh Virk, Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sarabjit Singh Makkar, former chairman of Punjab cooperative bank Avtar Singh Zira, industrialist Harcharan Singh Ranauta and other personalities from Punjab joined the saffron party. On December 1, SAD leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa had joined the BJP. On August 2, five SAD leaders including former national general secretary of Akali Dal's women wing, Amanjot Kaur Ramoowalia, and SAD leaders Gurpreet Singh Shahpur, Chand Singh Chatha, Baljinder Singh Dakoha and Pritam Singh had joined the BJP. In June, six prominent personalities Harinder Singh Kahlon, Jagmohan Singh Saini, Nirmal Singh, Kuldeep Singh Kahlon, Jaswinder Singh Dhillon and Jaibans Singh had joined the saffron party. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/leaders-joining-from-other-parties-will-benefit-us-in-punjab-polls-bjp-1057265.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi air pollution: Flying squads formed to check violations, Centre tells Supreme Court||The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the national capital and adjoining states on Friday told the Supreme Court that it has constituted an enforcement task force to ensure compliance with its directions to curb worsening air quality here. "We constituted an enforcement task force and 17 flying squads have also been constituted to act against violators," the CAQM said. Earlier, inspections were carried out by the Central Pollution Control Board, respective State Government and their State Pollution Control Board/committee.  The development comes a day after the Supreme Court slammed the Centre and the Delhi and other state governments over their failure to control the situation. A special bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant is expected to conduct hearing at 10 am, half an hour before the normal sittings of the top court. It also informed that all schools and colleges in NCR shall remain closed till further orders, allowing only online mode of education except for the purpose of conducting examinations and laboratory practical etc. Further, it said the entry of trucks in Delhi would not be permitted, except for CNG and electric trucks and trucks carrying essential commodities. The enforcement task force would exercise powers of taking punitive and preventive measures against the non compliant/defaulting persons/entities, it said, adding the number of flying squads would be increased to 40 in next 24 hours.  With regard industrial pollution, regarded as one of the major pollutants, the Commission said, it has directed that industrial operations and processes in NCR, where gas is not available and the said industrial unit is not running on PNG or cleaner fuels, would be allowed to operate only upto eight hours a day during weekdays. The operation of thermal power plants within 300-hundred kilometres of radius of Delhi would continue to be regulated, whereby, only five out of eleven thermal power plants, have been permitted to schedule their operations and rest have been directed to remain inoperative till at least December 15, 2021, the CAQM in its affidavit said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-air-pollution-flying-squads-formed-to-check-violations-centre-tells-supreme-court-1057114.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||NEET-PG counselling delay: Resident doctors of Delhi Centre-run hospitals boycott routine services||Intensifying the protest called by the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling, resident doctors of the Centre-run RML, Safdarjung and Lady Hardinge hospitals in Delhi boycotted all routine services on Friday. The Resident Doctors' Association at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital has warned the administration that its members will withdraw from emergency services if no concrete step is taken by the stakeholders to ensure immediate completion of NEET-PG counselling. "Due to insensitive response of governing bodies responsible for the delay in NEET-PG, 2021, counselling, we are compelled to boycott all routine services at RML HOSPITAL (OPDs, special clinics, IPDs, Elective OTS) from December 3 till the time our genuine grievances are not fulfilled," the RDA said. "All emergency services in the hospital will run as usual. However, if no concrete steps are taken by the stakeholders to ensure immediate completion of NEET-PG Counseling, 2021, we will be forced to take the extreme and harsh decision of shutting down the emergency services as well and complete responsibility will be on administration," it said. The RML Resident Doctors' Association said the decision was taken in consensus with the national and state RDAs. An action plan will be decided after meeting with them, it said.  With the possibility of an imminent Covid wave, the counselling process must be started at the earliest to prevent the collapse of the health care system, the RDA said. "We request all stakeholders and administrative authorities to ensure that the process of induction of new doctors is completed at the earliest." Resident doctors of the three Centre-run hospitals in the national capital had withdrawn from rendering OPD services from November 27 to November 29 as a mark of protest against the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling. The Safdarjung Hospital RDA, in an intimation to the medical superintendent, said there have been repeated delays in conducting NEET-PG 2021 counselling despite multiple reminders and communications with the ministry and authorities concerned.  "As the third wave of Covid is imminent, we wish to reiterate that we are grossly understaffed as the PG residents of the 2021 batch have not yet joined," it said. The resident doctors are exhausted and on the verge of a breakdown. Still, they have been patiently waiting and working with resilience for patient's care, the association said. "As the withdrawal of OPD services didn't bring any concrete response from the authorities, we are pained to inform that we shall withdraw all our routine services from December 3 in support of the nationwide protest called by FORDA. "We will continue the emergency services. However, the onus of any unfortunate situation affecting the healthcare will be on the concerned authorities," the RDA said. A similar intimation letter was sent by the RDA at Lady Hardinge Hospital to the facility's director informing withdrawal from all routine services from Friday. "We will continue emergency services. However, the onus of any such unfortunate situation affecting healthcare services will be on the authorities concerned," it said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/neet-pg-counselling-delay-resident-doctors-of-delhi-centre-run-hospitals-boycott-routine-services-1057132.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||BJP, SP, Congress mislead UP people with their poll promises: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Friday accused the BJP, SP and the Congress of misleading the people of Uttar Pradesh with their election promises and forgetting those after coming to power. In a series of tweets in Hindi, she asked the people of the state to beware of these three parties. "Parties in Uttar Pradesh, especially the BJP, SP and the Congress, make a flurry of promises every day before elections to woo and mislead the people. After coming to power, most of these promises are forgotten. This has been their history till now. People beware," Mayawati tweeted. "When the BJP and the SP were in power here why did they not fulfil the promises that they are making now? Why did the Congress party, which is promising to give 40 per cent poll tickets and scooty to women, did not do so in the states they have governments? This is something to think about," she said.  2. अर्थात् भाजपा व सपा जनता को जो वादे कर रही हैं वे काम उन्होंने यहाँ अपनी सरकार के रहते हुए क्यों नहीं किए? कांग्रेस पार्टी भी महिलाओं को 40 % टिकट व स्कूटी आदि देने के जो वादे कर रही है वे काम इन्होंने उन राज्यों में क्यों नही किए जहाँ इनकी सरकारें हैं? यह भी सोचने की बात है।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-sp-congress-mislead-up-people-with-their-poll-promises-mayawati-1057134.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||Implement orders of panel on air quality management to curb pollution, SC tells Centre, NCR states||The Supreme Court on Friday approved the decision by the 'Commission for Air Quality Management in Delhi and Adjoining States' to set up an Enforcement Task Force and flying squads to ensure compliance of its orders to curb air pollution here. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to implement court's directions. The court noted the Commission's submission that a five-member task force has been set up and the number of flying squads would be enhanced from 17 to 40. After going through measures announced by the Commission, including limited running of thermal power plants, the court also asked the Union government to consider shifting of those plants from the National Capital Region in the long run. Uttar Pradesh counsel, senior advocate Ranjit Kumar objected to new directions for allowing industries to run for eight hours a day, saying it would affect sugar mills and boilers. He said the Uttar Pradesh was already on down wind and the air to Delhi came from Pakistan. The court, however, asked him to make a representation to the Commission with his plea. At the outset, the bench objected to media reports for projecting the court as "villains" for closing schools in Delhi. The court said it never asked the Delhi government to shut schools, but rather only asked for reasons behind the change in their stand on reopening schools. "We do not know whether it is intentional or not. Some sections in the media tried to project, we are villains... we want closure of schools," the bench said. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for the Delhi government, also complained that one newspaper suggested "your lordships wanted to take over the administration". To this, the bench said that it never used that expression. Singhvi said we also aggrieved with it. "You've right and freedom to clarify and condemn. We can't do that. Where did we say we were interested in taking over administration," the bench told him. Singhvi, for his part, replied that court reporting is different from political reporting and there should be some responsibility. "After video hearing, there's no control. Who's reporting what, you don't know," the bench said. On Thursday, the top court told the Delhi government, "You have implemented work from home for adults. So, parents work from home and children have to go to school. What's this?" During the hearing, Singhvi said schools in Delhi were closed for 17 months, and those were opened only for 15 to 16 days after taking consent from parents. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/implement-orders-of-panel-on-air-quality-management-to-curb-pollution-sc-tells-centre-ncr-states-1057138.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||'Projected as villains': Supreme Court says never asked Delhi government to shut schools||The Supreme Court on Friday clarified that it never asked the Delhi government to shut schools, during the hearing of a case regarding severe air pollution in the capital, rather only asked for reasons behind the change in their stand on reopening schools. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana and comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant said, "Do not know whether it is intentional or not. Some sections in the media tried to project, we are villains... we want closure of schools." The bench told senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the Delhi government, that the government told the court that it was closing schools and introducing work from home. "And, see today's newspapers," added the bench. Singhvi said one newspaper suggested "your lordships wanted to take over the administration". The bench replied that it never used that expression and the matter was not reported correctly. The Chief Justice told Singhvi, "You've right and freedom to condemn... We can't do that. Where did we say we were interested in taking over administration?" The bench pointed out at the freedom of press. Singhvi replied that court reporting is different from political reporting and there should be some responsibility. The Chief Justice replied: "After video hearing, there's no control. Who's reporting what, you don't know..." On Thursday, the top court told the Delhi government, "You have implemented work from home for adults. So, parents work from home and children have to go to school. What's this?" The Chief Justice said the Delhi government made several claims that they are willing to even impose lockdown and other measures to curb pollution, but all schools are open and three-year-old and four-year-old children are going to school when the air quality index is so poor. The top court was hearing a case by a 17-year-old Delhi student Aditya Dubey raising concerns about severe air pollution in Delhi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/projected-as-villains-supreme-court-says-never-asked-delhi-government-to-shut-schools-1057140.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||10 suspected Omicron cases admitted to Delhi's LNJP Hospital||A total of 10 persons suspected to be infected with Omicron Covid variant have been admitted to Delhi's Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital (LNJP). Talking to IANS, Dr Suresh Kumar, Medical Director, LNJP Hospital, which has been designated for the Omicron infection treatment, said on Friday, "We have admitted a total 10 individuals who are suspected to be of new Covid variant Omicron". However, he underlined that 'none of them have been identified yet ti have been infected with the Omicron variant'. He said that their genome sequencing reports are awaited. Kumar said that samples, which have been identified, will be sent for sequencing on the day itself (Friday). Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain on Thursday had informed that eight samples were sent on Thursday for genome sequencing. However, their reports are also awaited. The Union Health Ministry on Thursday said that two cases of Omicron have been detected in Karnataka. "Both persons had travelled from South Africa. Their contacts have been identified and are under monitoring," said Dr Balram Bhargava, chief of Indian Council of Medical Research. "All Omicron related cases are found to have mild symptoms so far. No severe symptoms have been noticed in Omicron infection in all such cases in the country and abroad," said the Health Ministry. Union Health Ministry has said that Covid appropriate behaviour is the need of the hour. However, he added that no severe symptoms of the Omicron Variant of Covid-19 reported have been so far. He said that around 29 countries have reported 373 cases of Omicron Variant so far. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-suspected-omicron-cases-admitted-to-delhis-lnjp-hospital-1057148.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt to install 1.40 lakh CCTV cameras in second phase, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Delhi government will install 1.40 lakh CCTV cameras in the city in the second phase of the project. He said 2.75 lakh CCTV cameras have been installed in the national capital since the Aam Aadmi Party formed the government. Citing a survey, the chief minister said that Delhi is well ahead of London, New York, Singapore and Paris in terms of CCTV cameras per square mile. "We are going to install 1.40 lakh CCTV cameras in phase two of the project. Public Sector Undertaking Bharat Electronics Limited will install the cameras," he said at a press conference. According to a survey, Delhi ranks number one in 150 cities in the world in terms of CCTV cameras installed per square mile, the chief minister said. "Delhi has 1,826 CCTV cameras per square mile. London, which has bagged the second spot in the survey, has 1,138 cameras. We are well ahead of London, New York, Singapore, Paris. There is no comparison," he said. Delhi has thrice the number of CCTV cameras in Chennai and 11 times the cameras in Mumbai, Kejriwal said. There is an improvement in women security situation since the government installed the cameras. Women feel safe. Police get a lot of help in solving crime cases, he said. Kejriwal also said the Centre had tried to "impede" the project and he and party colleagues had to stage dharna in the LG house. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-install-140-lakh-cctv-cameras-in-second-phase-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal-1057172.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||Air pollution: Haryana orders closure of schools in 4 districts neighbouring Delhi||The Haryana government has ordered closure of all schools in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, and Jhajjar districts adjoining Delhi due to air pollution. The government also ordered a ban on all construction activities in the National Capital Region (NCR), except non-polluting activities such as plumbing, interior decoration, electrical work and carpentry. In view of the “deteriorating air quality” in Delhi-NCR, “all schools in four NCR districts of Haryana adjoining Delhi, that is Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar, shall remain closed till further orders,” said the order issued by the additional chief secretary of the state's Environment and Climate Change Department. The Delhi government had on Thursday announced the closure of all schools in the national capital till further orders because of an increase in the air pollution levels. According to the Haryana government order dated December 2, “There shall also be a complete ban on all construction activities, except the non-polluting activities like plumbing works, interior decoration, electrical work and carpentry and those activities exclusively permitted by Commission of Air Quality Management (CAQM) for NCR and adjoining areas and it shall be strictly implemented in all 14 NCR districts of Haryana till further orders.” Besides, there shall be a complete ban on the operation of all the diesel generator (DG) sets, except for the emergency purposes permitted by CAQM in 14 NCR districts of Haryana, “till the weather condition (air quality) improve”. “The power department shall take all necessary and urgent steps to ensure uninterrupted electricity supply in NCR districts of Haryana to avoid use of DG sets by any consumer, even in case of an emergency,” it said, adding these directions shall be enforced strictly by all departments and agencies concerned. The 14 Haryana districts falling in NCR are Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonipat, Karnal, Rewari, Panipat, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Jind, Mahendergarh, and Nuh. Earlier, authorities had ordered closure of schools in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar from November 14-17 due to poor air quality. The Supreme Court on Friday directed the Centre and the states in NCR to implement the orders of the panel on air quality management to curb air pollution while ruing that some sections of the media have "portrayed" it as a "villain" which wants to close down schools here. On Thursday, the apex court had said that nothing was happening on ground to control the deteriorating air quality in Delhi-NCR, and directed the Centre and Delhi government to come out with suggestions to control air pollution within 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/air-pollution-haryana-orders-closure-of-schools-in-4-districts-neighbouring-delhi-1057193.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi to address rally in Doon on Saturday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is to kickstart the poll campaign for the upcoming Uttarakhand assembly elections by addressing a rally here on Saturday. The Prime Minister will reach Dehradun’s Parade Ground, the rally venue at 12.30 pm, Pradesh BJP general secretary Kuldip Kumar said. Soon after his arrival, he will inaugurate seven developmental projects and lay foundation stones of 11 others, all totalling worth over Rs 18,000 crore after which he will start his address around 1 pm. Major projects to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Modi include the 120-MW Vyasi hydroelectricity project and a 38-km long stretch of all-weather Chardham road project between Devprayag and Shrikot on NH-58. Besides, he will also inaugurate the widened 33-km stretch between Brahmapuri and Kaudiyala on the Rishikesh-Badrinath national highway which is also part of the all-weather road project. The 11 developmental projects whose foundation stones will be laid by PM Modi include the Delhi-Dehradun Expressway which will reduce the distance between the two cities from 248 km at present to 180 km. The PM will also lay foundation stones for other infrastructural projects worth Rs 220 crore for Badrinath. The infrastructural projects to be inaugurated by the Prime Minister will prove to be a milestone in the development of the state, Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said. They will help in the industrialisation of hill areas, rein in migration and strengthen the state’s economy, benefiting the tourism sector immensely, Dhami said. The BJP which expects a turnout of more than one lakh people at the PM's rally has thrown all its might into making it a grand success. Pradesh BJP's general secretary Ajay Kumar held a meeting with presidents of the party's different morchas on Friday to take their feedback on ongoing preparations for the rally and issued necessary directions to them. Chief Minister Dhami, Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, Union Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt and Pradesh BJP president Madan Kaushik visited the rally venue on Friday to take stock of various arrangements there. Dhami himself has been visiting the venue regularly for the past few days to review the progress. The Prime Minister's rally has generated great enthusiasm among party workers as it is going to be a historic rally, Kaushik said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-address-rally-in-doon-on-saturday-1057195.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||BJP has left behind British in terms of atrocities, its policy is 'kill and rule': Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday alleged that the BJP's policy is "kill and rule" and its government has left behind the British in terms of atrocities on people. Yadav, who is on a three-day visit to the Bundelkhand region, said that every section of the society is troubled under the BJP rule. "This government has left behind the British in terms of atrocities. Farmers are crushed to death by vehicles for opposing the government and no concrete action has been taken in the (Lakhimpur Kheri) matter so far. Those who oppose are being put in jail. Their policy is 'maro aur raj karo' (kill and rule)," he told a press conference here. "There has been a rise in fake encounters under this government. For this, the BJP government has got the maximum number of notices from NHRC (National Human Rights Commission). What can be expected from a chief minister who withdraws cases against himself," Yadav said, targeting Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The SP chief is touring Uttar Pradesh with his "Samajwadi Vijay Rath" ahead of the assembly polls early next year. He said the people of Bundelkhand gave their full support to the BJP in the past elections but now they have understood their gimmicks. Now the people of Bundelkhand have made up their minds to send the BJP empty-handed from the region, he added. Yadav said his party's 'Vajay Rath' yatra was getting full support form the people. During the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown, barricades were put up on the state's border to prevent labourers from returning home, he alleged. "That time, the government had left the poor helpless and only samajwadis helped them then," he said. He alleged that the BJP, instead of doing anything concrete on its own, turned to changing names of projects and works done during the previous regime. "After changing the world's best (crime) response system Dial 100 to Dial 112, the BJP ruined it. By increasing electricity bills it has given a shock to the people," he said. "This government has broken all records of corruption and crime.... The main accused in the TET (Teachers Eligibility Test) paper leak case belongs to the chief minister's area and it should be probed," he said. He said that now the people of Uttar Pradesh have made up their minds to remove the BJP and install a Samajwadi Party government. During the press conference, former BJP MLA Satish Jataria and Congress leader Vijay Verma joined the SP. The SP chief later addressed public meetings in Baragaon, Chirgaon and Mauth located on the Jhansi-Kanpur road.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-has-left-behind-british-in-terms-of-atrocities-its-policy-is-kill-and-rule-akhilesh-1057203.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||'You want to ban industries in Pakistan': SC to UP counsel in air pollution matter||Amid severe air pollution in Delhi, the Supreme Court has often witnessed either Centre blaming the Delhi government for not doing enough to curb pollution and vice versa. The Delhi government has also blamed stubble burning carried out by farmers in the neighbouring states. But, on Friday during the hearing, the Uttar Pradesh counsel, while opposing the closure of industries in UP, blamed the winds from Pakistan. Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, representing the Uttar Pradesh government, submitted before a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana and also comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, that if industries were to shut down in UP it would impact sugarcane and milk industries in the state. Kumar also elaborated on various aspects of sugarcane business and vehemently argued that closure will create a major issue. Kumar said: "Closure of industries may affect sugarcane industries. UP is on down wind, air is mostly coming from Pakistan." The Chief Justice replied, "So you want to ban industries in Pakistan?" Kumar said if sugar mills are closed then the farmers will suffer. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the government can approach the commission. The top court allowed the Uttar Pradesh government to raise the grievance before the commission for air quality management. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing the petitioner, suggested that the government should look at a long-term solution to curb air pollution. He added that large tracts of land are available in neighbouring states, where solar panels could be installed for generating electricity. The bench said it already told the Centre to examine the aspect of renewable energy. Singh contended solar panels can replace power plants. Concluding the hearing in the matter, the bench said: "For time being in view of particular measures by the government of India and notification dated December 2, we direct the government of India and GNCTD to implement those Measures. We'll keep the matter pending and list it (the matter) next Friday." The top court was hearing a case by a 17-year-old Delhi student Aditya Dubey raising concerns about severe air pollution in Delhi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/you-want-to-ban-industries-in-pakistan-sc-to-up-counsel-in-air-pollution-matter-1057207.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||Ahead of Punjab polls, ex-DGP Virk, industrialist Harcharan Singh Ranauta and some others join BJP||Ahead of the Punjab assembly polls, several prominent people from the state, including former director general of police (DGP) Sarbdeep Singh Virk, joined the BJP here on Friday. Union minister and the BJP's in-charge for Punjab Gajendra Singh Shekhawat welcomed them into the party and said their induction will further strengthen the organisation in the state. Virk, former chairman of Punjab cooperative bank Avtar Singh Zira, industrialist Harcharan Singh Ranauta and former SAD leader Sarabjit Singh Makkar were among those who joined the BJP. Several noted personalities from Punjab have joined the BJP in the past few days and some more are expected to join it ahead of the assembly polls early next year. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-punjab-polls-ex-dgp-virk-industrialist-harcharan-singh-ranauta-and-some-others-join-bjp-1057209.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||Namaz offered on Gurugram ground despite 'disruptions'||The row over offering Namaz on Friday on open grounds resurfaced again after more than 200-300 people belonging to the Islamic faith performed offered Friday prayers at a ground here in Sector-37 ground here despite disruption attempts by some Hindu groups. The members of Hindu groups staged a protest against the Friday prayers. The Gurugram Police detained around 10 people of Hindu organisations including Dinesh Thakur, the chief of a right-wing group, for trying to disrupt Friday Namaz at Sector-37, an industrial area. The Bharat Mata Vahini group demanded discontinuation of offering prayers in public parks and spaces. In view of the tense situation, several police personnel were also deployed at the spot to avoid untoward incidents. They cordoned off the ground to stop Hindu right-wing members to create any ruckus during Friday Namaz. Many people of the right-wing group had gathered at the ground and raised slogans such as "Jai Shri Ram", "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" and "Vande Mataram". However, during the prayers, no untoward incident happened and the congregation offered prayers and left the ground peacefully, police said. Rajender Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), city who was present at the spot, said the police had detained a few members of a group. "We detained group members who had tried to disrupt Friday Namaz and law and order situation at the spot. They were detained as a precautionary measure and necessary will also be taken against them," he told IANS. Dinesh Thakur had also submitted a memorandum to the deputy commissioner Gurugram on Thursday demanding that religious prayers in public spaces be stopped as they were against the rules. "The district administration has permitted us to offer Friday prayers at the Sector-37 ground. For many years around 2,500 people used to offer Friday Namaz here which has been reduced by 200-300. If any Hindu organisations have any problem they should approach the district administration," Haji Shehzad Khan, chairman, Muslim Ekta Manch, said. "We are also the citizens of India and want harmony in the city. We are regularly in touch with the concerned authority and ensure that there is no trouble in the city. The administration has already reduced our designated sites from 37 to 20 but few members of Hindu outfits are continuously humiliating us. The administration needs to take strict action against such people," Khan said. Last Friday, there was tension at Sector-37 ground after a few Hindu groups opposed the Muslims offering religious prayers. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/namaz-offered-on-gurugram-ground-despite-disruptions-1057224.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||Keeping Jamia Masjid in J&K closed part of 'nefarious plan': Religious body||Anjuman Auqaf Jamia Masjid, the body that looks after the historic Srinagar mosque, on Friday protested against the decision of the Jammu and Kashmir administration to disallow the weekly congregational prayers there. The Anjuman said the authorities were stopping Muslims from performing important religious duty of offering Friday prayers at the largest place of worship in Jammu and Kashmir. "Once again today men, women, and elderly people who came from various parts of the Valley were deprived from offering Friday prayers at the Jamia Masjid Srinagar," the Anjuman said in a statement. It claimed that the mosque was shut down for the weekly Friday prayers for the 43rd time this year. "It is the 17th consecutive Friday since Juma prayers have not been allowed in the Jamia Masjid Srinagar while Muslims have not been allowed to offer congregational Friday prayers. “The pulpit and mihraab of the grand mosque are silent," the Anjuman added. The religious body said it was outraged by the "dictatorial behaviour" of the authorities. "The Jamia Masjid Srinagar is being kept closed for worship under a nefarious plan which was extremely painful for the Kashmiri people and also a sheer interference with religion. "Such measures expose the hollow claims of the proponents of the so-called democracy," it said "We and the people of Jammu and Kashmir are unable to understand that on one hand, all the places of worship of the followers of different religions have been opened for the performance of their religious rites, while on the other hand, the Jamia Masjid Srinagar is being subjected to vengeance, which is extremely regrettable and reprehensible," the body added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/keeping-jamia-masjid-in-jk-closed-part-of-nefarious-plan-religious-body-1057235.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||CAQM orders closure of educational institutes in Delhi, restricts industrial operations||In a new set of directions to prevent further deterioration of air quality in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), the Centre's air quality panel on Friday ordered shutting of educational institutions, allowing only online mode of education. The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) also directed that industrial operations and processes in NCR, not running on Piped Natural Gas or other cleaner fuels, shall be allowed to operate only up to eight hours a day from Monday to Friday and shall not be allowed to run on weekends. “All schools, colleges and educational institutions in the NCR shall remain closed, allowing only online mode of education, except for the purpose of conduct of examinations and laboratory practical,” the commission said. It also said its earlier directions on industries shall continue. According to these directions, all industries in NCR, still using unapproved fuels, shall be closed by the respective governments with immediate effect. Also the NCR states and the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) shall enforce a strict ban on use of diesel generators, except for emergency services. In its new directions, the commission also stopped the entry of trucks in Delhi, except the electric ones and those running on Compressed Natural Gas, besides trucks carrying essential commodities. The commission directed that the chief secretaries of the respective states and the Delhi government shall ensure implementation of these directions. “Strict enforcement of these directions as also the directions/orders issued by the commission from time to time since its inception shall be ensured by the respective agencies and implementation, compliance of the same shall be monitored by the chief secretaries of the respective state/GNCTD,” the commission's order stated. “In view of the compelling need to prevent further deterioration of environment and towards improvement of air quality in Delhi and NCR, the commission, in exercise of its powers conferred upon it (by) the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Act 2021, directs that these measures shall be implemented with strict force with immediate effect, until further orders,” it read. The CAQM, an executive body set up by the Ministry of Environment earlier this year to oversee measures to curb air pollution in the NCR, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, also constituted task forces for each of these states to implement, enforce, monitor and report compliance status of its orders. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/caqm-orders-closure-of-educational-institutes-in-delhi-restricts-industrial-operations-1057252.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||BJP re-draws UP elections strategy in 'Jatland' after farm laws repeal||Apparently realising that the support of the farmers was crucial if it were to nurture hopes of forming the next government in the state, the BJP has decided to redraw its electoral strategy for the 'Jat' dominated western Uttar Pradesh. According to BJP sources here, the party leadership has directed its district office bearers and senior leaders from the region to reach out to the farmer leaders and persuade them to support the saffron party in the forthcoming assembly elections due in March next year. BJP's farmer cell, took out a tractor rally in different parts in the western region a few days back during which the leaders hailed prime minister Narendra Modi for scrapping the three farm laws and listed the initiatives undertaken by the state government for the benefit of farmers. "Repeal of the farm laws will give a big boost to our electoral fortunes in the western UP region.....we have been able to douse the anger and now we are certain that they will come back to our fold," Satyendra Bharala, the regional general secretary of BJP Kisan Morcha, said. Bharala claimed that a large number of farmers had participated in the tractor rally undertaken by the saffron party in western districts of the state. The party may also take comfort from Bharitya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Naresh Tikait's remarks that the main demands of the farmers have been accepted and they might think of calling off their agitation. BJP leaders from the region admitted that they found it difficult to enter the 'Jat' dominated villages in the region while the farmers' protests were going on. In fact, the BJP leaders were chased away by angry farmers at some places when they tried to speak to them. "Now we can go there as the government has scrapped the farm laws," another senior BJP leader from the region said. BJP had swept the western UP region in the 2017 Assembly polls, riding on sharp polarisation prompted by the 2013 Muzaffarnagar communal riots which claimed the lives of 60 people and displaced thousands more. The riots broke the unity between the 'Jats' and Muslims, who earlier used to support the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), a predominantly 'Jat' outfit. RLD, which has tied up with the Samajwadi Party (SP), and other opposition parties had lent support to the protesting farmers and hoped to wean them away from the saffron party. Bharitya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait has publicly stated that he will campaign against the BJP in the forthcoming polls. It remains to be seen if the BJP's new strategy will fetch them the votes of the farmers. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-re-draws-up-elections-strategy-in-jatland-after-farm-laws-repeal-1057255.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||Will aid in defeating BJP: Akhilesh on tie-ups with small outfits for UP Polls||Training guns on the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government on various issues, Samajwadi Party President and former Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav said on Friday that Uttar Pradesh is headed for change and his party's strategy will help in dethroning the BJP in next year's Assembly elections. His arrival to address meetings at various places in Jhansi city and district on the last day of his 'Vijay Yatra' enthused the party cadre, who poured out in large numbers, including one mounted on a horse, while his pictures festooned the streets. Talking to IANS before addressing a public gathering at Moth in the district, Akhilesh Yadav, when asked what benefits he saw by taking smaller parties on board, said: "Samajwadi Party is taking the support of small political outfits, which can help us defeat the BJP. The present dispensation is only misleading the people and has done nothing for them. During the Covid pandemic, it just forced them into lines for everything. Even if a farmer goes to get fertiliser, he has to stand in line. It is just like the conditions after demonetisation." "The people of Uttar Pradesh will now get into line to wipe out the BJP," he added. Asked how he saw the warm welcome in Bundelkhand with people showering flowers on him, Akhilesh Yadav said: "The people of Bundelkhand have now closed their dooors on the BJP. The people have supported the Samjwadi Party's rally. This time the BJP will not get a single seat in Bundelkhand. "The people had given full support to the BJP in the last elections, but have got nothing to show for it. The people of Jhansi are not going to fall in this trap again. "The Yogi government only changes the names of various places... they have not come to Moth, otherwise its name would have been changed too." Asked about AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, Akhilesh Yadav declined to respond. Addressing the gathering at Moth, he attacked the BJP over rising prices. "Our emotional people voted for them (the BJP), but now see how much prices have risen. Petrol, diesel, and LPG cylinder prices are going out of the common man's reach. Money is being taken out of the pockets of the poor to fill the treasuries of the rich," he said. "Under the Ujjwala scheme, an LPG cylinder was given to everyone but can anyone get them filled? Now, the government should rename it as 'Bujjwala' (extinguished) scheme," the Samajwadi Party leader added. Taking up the issue of unemployment, Akhilesh Yadav said: "Under Yogi's rule, the youths are not getting jobs or any form of employment... only big advertisements are being issued. They (the BJP) are promising tablets, but the laptops distributed by our government are still working. Whenever the beneficiaries use them, they remember us." He then asked the people to choose between a Yogi government and a 'Yogya' (capable) government, saying that the Samajwadi Party wants to come to power, so that it can help the farmers and the poor. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-aid-in-defeating-bjp-akhilesh-on-tie-ups-with-small-outfits-for-up-polls-1057336.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala meets Rahul Gandhi after joining Congress||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, AICC in-charge for Punjab Harish Chaudhary and state transport minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring were also present. Sidhu shared on Twitter a picture of their meeting with Gandhi and said, "Brothers in arms with Boss." Earlier in the day, the popular singer joined the party in Chandigarh in the presence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Sidhu and may contest the upcoming Punjab assembly elections. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjabi-singer-sidhu-moosewala-meets-rahul-gandhi-after-joining-congress-1057347.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||Get rid of 'why should I care' attitude: Amit Shah to IPS probationers||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday appealed to IPS probationers to get rid of the 'what is there for me, why should I care' attitude in order to be able to handle any situation with ease. Interacting with 122 Indian Police Service (IPS) probationers of 2020 batch here, Shah said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Central government has been taking many steps to curb acts of crime, including cyber crime. Referring to the commendable work done by the police and the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) during the Covid-19 pandemic, Shah said that the efforts have changed the attitude of the people towards the police, which needs to be taken forward. Shah also said that the Modi government has been emphasising on the use of forensic science in collaboration with the state governments, and efforts are being made to set up mobile forensic labs in every district of the country. "Efforts are also on to bring crimes like smuggling of fake currency, arms and narcotics under the heinous crime category," he said. "I want to tell all of you that the focus of your activities should be the police station and the focus of information should be the beat officer... this will help you a great deal," the Home Minister said, adding that when an IPS officer understands the language, history and social structure of the state of his cadre well, he can discharge his duties in a better manner. Shah also said that there is a need for coordination at the national level without interfering with the rights of the states and respecting the spirit of the Constitution to prevent crimes like smuggling of fake currency, arms and narcotics. "Officers should be good team leaders, who are concerned about the interests of their colleagues. Only then can they take everyone along and bring about a change in the image of the police," the Home Minister said. Advising the young officers, Shah also said that they should never avoid basic policing and women officers should visit the schools to meet girl students to inspire them to come forward for the service of the nation. There are 139 probationers in the 2020 batch, of which 17 are foreign nationals from Bhutan, Maldives and Nepal. Among the 122 Indian officers, 97 are male and 25 are female officers. These probationers are on a 29-week tour programme for practical training. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/get-rid-of-why-should-i-care-attitude-amit-shah-to-ips-probationers-1057394.html
03-12-2021||North and Central||Punjab's border districts on high alert after cops find another set of explosives||Two days after the police seized a kilogram of RDX from Punjab's Dinanagar, a tiffin bomb and four hand grenades were recovered in Gurdaspur district, officials said on Friday. Earlier this week, two terror modules sponsored by Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence were busted in Gurdaspur, they said. During a check at T-Point near Salempur Araiyan village on Thursday, Station House Officer Sadar Gurdaspur found a suspicious sack in the bushes on the side of a road. On checking, he found hand grenades and a tiffin bomb concealed in it, Director General of Police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota said, adding the bomb detection and disposal teams were asked to diffuse the explosives.          Keeping in view the recent recoveries of RDX, hand grenades and pistols from the border district, “Strong static and shifting 'Nakas' have been laid in the entire district by all SHOs under the supervision of gazetted officers,” Sahota said. The Punjab Police, especially the border district police forces, are on high alert and night duty domination operations are being carried out on the directions of Deputy Chief Minister Sukjhinder Singh Randhawa, the DGP said.         Several ADGP rank officers are deputed to personally supervise the night domination operations in border districts, he said in a statement. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjabs-border-districts-on-high-alert-after-cops-find-another-set-of-explosives-1057398.html
03-12-2021||Opinion||The metaverse is coming and world is not ready for it||By Zoe Weinberg, The metaverse is coming. It was once a science-fiction fantasy, most notably in Neal Stephenson’s novel “Snow Crash,” of an all-encompassing virtual universe that would exist alongside the physical one. But technological advances have brought this transformation of human society close enough to reality to demand that we consider its consequences. In the metaverse, a user might curate a digital avatar, like a character in a video game. Through the eyes of their avatar, they would experience a digital reality as active and engaging as the physical one. Some futurists believe that soon we might attend doctor’s appointments or class there. But while the metaverse could revolutionise work and play, it is essential to remain wary of the dangers that will emerge if it subsumes daily life. Virtual environments will supercharge disinformation campaigns, espionage and surveillance. Struggles for control of the metaverse’s physical infrastructure could very well aggravate global conflicts. And the supranational nature of the metaverse — where real-world borders become far less relevant — could revolutionise the way that individuals perceive and interact with nation-states. A failure to anticipate these possibilities may put the global world order at risk of being replaced by a virtual, and perhaps less virtuous, one. Today, glimpses of the metaverse are everywhere. Virtual concerts record audiences; high-end designers sell virtual fashion; and gaming has become a livelihood for people around the world. Many of the closest corollaries to a full-fledged metaverse are immersive games like Fortnite, Minecraft and Roblox, where players can socialise, shop and attend events in a virtual world. There’s already evidence that online multiplayer games can enable the spread of disinformation and conspiracy theories. Players can use in-game communication tools to disseminate rumors or “fake news,” targeting others in difficult-to-track ways. The metaverse could allow motivated regimes or extremist groups to go a step farther. Immersive layers of text, voice and visuals in virtual environments would provide new, convincing ways to broadcast misleading or extremist content. In environments where individuals can be represented by pseudonymous avatars, knowing whom to trust with sensitive information will become even more difficult. This could pave the way for a new era of espionage. Digital espionage has already been used by dozens of countries to gain access to commercial intellectual property, proprietary military technology and personal and financial information. A metaverse that contains nearly all aspects of life — work, relationships, assets, identity — could be susceptible to breaches or manipulation from across the globe. Countries and corporations alike will likely also be able to use the metaverse to engage in surveillance with greater sophistication. States have already used facial recognition technology to monitor individuals’ behaviour. Companies have used it for device-unlocking or real-time animation. Integration with the metaverse could make it — and the privacy issues it presents — even more ubiquitous. If exploited, that technology could easily be used to surveil any participant around the world. Even the metaverse’s physical infrastructure will likely present new vulnerabilities. A constellation of technologies, including hardware, computer networks and payment tools, will support the metaverse’s functionality. The countries that maintain control over those technologies will have significant international leverage, just as countries that command things like transport routes or oil supplies do today. China could effectively control the metaverse’s backbone in many corners of the world, thanks to its Digital Silk Road initiative, which finances some countries’ telecommunications systems. Taiwan, which dominates the semiconductor industry that supports computing needs, will likely become even more of a linchpin on the global stage. This kind of physical infrastructure will, in turn, be vulnerable to hacking and supply chain interruptions. If people own property, earn a living, and maintain communities in the metaverse, then hardware shortages or service outages could jeopardise livelihoods or undermine social stability. Despite these threats, the metaverse also has the potential to change global affairs for the better. International diplomacy may just as easily be conducted in virtual embassies. Smaller, less powerful nations may find themselves on a more level playing field, better able to stay in the mix in global affairs or perhaps, to forge unlikely alliances. Virtual environments have also shown promise for activists resisting digital authoritarianism. On Minecraft, Reporters Without Borders has sponsored an Uncensored Library where users could see content by dissident writers that had been censored in countries like Saudi Arabia, Russia and Vietnam. It’s possible that the metaverse may bring new promise for freedom and transparency across borders. But the metaverse’s consequences may be even more radical. If it becomes as all-encompassing as some predict, the metaverse may foster virtual communities, networks and economies that transcend borders and national identities. Individuals might one day identify primarily with metaverse-based decentralised autonomous organisations with their own quasi-foreign policies. Such a transition could mandate the reconceptualisation of geopolitical affairs from the ground up. The metaverse may have been born in science fiction, but it’s up to us to write a future grounded in cleareyed reality. (The author is the founder of a technology incubation fund that works to counter digital authoritarianism.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-metaverse-is-coming-and-world-is-not-ready-for-it-1057079.html
03-12-2021||Opinion||Omicron, Delta pave the wave for a new super variant||What happens when two nasty Covid-19 variants get together and share their most effective mutations? Omicron and delta have brought us closer to the answer, says Peter White, a virologist at the University of New South Wales who warns of the inevitability of a new Covid-19 "super strain." He joined Stephanie Topp, a global public health expert at James Cook University in Townsville, Australia, and Bloomberg Opinion columnist David Fickling for a Twitter Spaces discussion on the implications of the newest coronavirus variant shaking up the world. Leading the conversation, which has been lightly edited for length and clarity, is Bloomberg Opinion columnist Anjani Trivedi.   Anjani Trivedi: Here we are again. Omicron. Were you surprised, Peter? Peter White: No, I wasn't surprised because this is what viruses do. Viruses are built to change quickly. That's why every year we have to adjust the flu vaccine. Some viruses change quicker than others. We have to adapt as the virus adapts. Trivedi: Why is it so difficult for scientists to work out, and for us to understand, how a virus actually works on its hosts? White: Each of these viruses is somewhere in the order of 50 mutations different from the previous variant of concern. So the first thing we need to do is look at the mutations and where they are and what changes could be important. And then, what is the effect. You cannot tell from the sequence exactly what the virus is going to do. Trivedi: Is there anything that we're able to conclude with any certainty right now about immune resistance and how contagious this specific variant is? White: From what I've seen, it looks to be about the same severity as delta, and the fact that it's actually taken over Delta indicates that it's more transmissible. We're seeing quite a rapid spread of it across the globe. But it doesn't seem to be more severe. There's no more hospitalizations in South Africa compared to delta. Trivedi: Many emerging economies really struggled through previous waves, India being a case in point. How has South Africa gotten so far ahead? Stephanie Topp: They got there by making good decisions based on need. I would say that the imperative to manage and respond to the HIV epidemic in the 1990s and 2000s, has resulted in a great deal of investment in public health, human and material infrastructure. Developing or developed isn't particularly helpful context. We've also seen the United States of America struggle. A lot can be learned about the way public health and politics intersect, and the way that influences what is seen as a priority. Trivedi: When we think about the resilience of these health systems, how does that translate into distribution of vaccines? Topp: What we're talking about here is the fair and equitable distribution of these medical technologies. The reason we're failing the so-called self-interest test is because our global economy is not set up to protect the interests of global populations. It's set up to protect the interests of shareholders. So we lack vaccine equity today, because you see very tight knit relationships between governments and large corporations. That result in political choices to benefit a certain very small segment of the global community. Trivedi: What are your thoughts on why the death toll hasn't been as bad in South Africa and in Sub Saharan Africa so far? White: It's a much younger population. That's a major factor. I also think there'll be a big underreporting aspect to this. But I don't really know the answer to that question. Trivedi: How do we tackle this issue of vaccine demand? Something like one in six people in the US have had Covid-19, and nearly 800,000 people have died. What does that mean for going forward, especially in the next few months? Topp: This is where education and information — not just risk messaging — of a public health response becomes so critical. Because if people haven't heard about it before, then they are susceptible to misinformation. And in our incredibly hyper social-networked world, the capacity of misinformation to reach people before official information is ever-more present. And that abuts, I think, a growing mistrust of politicians who are in charge of delivering those messages. Trivedi: What should we be watching out for in the next few months? What answers are you looking for in the data, especially with the new variant? White: You've got to look at the severity of the new variant. The next thing you've got to ask is, "Does the vaccine cover us?" And the answer that we're seeing at the moment is, "Yes." But in the future, it might be, "No." And so I'll be asking Moderna and Pfizer: "Can you tweak your vaccine?" And they are doing this already. And then the thing I think people haven't realized is that we're going to see the largest-scale mutations, known as recombination in virology terms, between variants of concern. So if we mix the best bits of delta with the best bits of omicron, we might create a super new strain that could be better than both of them [at infecting or sickening people]. And so we need to be looking for these hybrid viruses, and they will pop up in the future. They will come. Trivedi: If we're going to keep getting new variants, how does that work in terms of vaccines and gaining immunity? White: Vaccines reduce the severity of the disease. The chances of you dying if you've been vaccinated are many, many times reduced. So it's much better to get the vaccine than it is to get the real virus because you could die. So you can still get the virus even if you'd double vaccinated, but you've got less chance of getting it and you're going to be less ill and you've got less chance of passing it on. Trivedi: What happens with a super-strain when variants combine? How does that play out? White: We would then be asking the vaccination companies to adjust their vaccines to give us the immunity that we need to protect us from that variant. And we should be able to do that. Trivedi: Does this change the business model for pharmaceutical companies? This virus is going to keep changing, and they're going to have to keep adapting their vaccines. David Fickling: For pharma companies, vaccines are a bit of a backwater. It's not a very attractive business. You have to go through a very, very stringent development process that's very capital intensive. And then you basically have no repeat business. [For many vaccines] you are protected for life. And you're having a price negotiation with a very large and powerful buyer (governments). And so you're not going to get a good profit margin compared to something like drugs against diseases of aging, heart disease and cancer in rich countries. That's actually what they want to be spending money doing. Drug companies have been quitting vaccine development. Now Covid has blown this open to a large extent. We've got the whole world being vaccinated once, twice, three times, and then again with boosters reformulations, potentially. Trivedi: Quarantines, border closures, how effective are these measures from a public health standpoint? Topp: No single public health measure by itself is sufficient to manage communicable disease. Things like border shutdowns, quarantines, masking, physical distancing and so forth can be effective but come with substantial and unquantified costs. The fact that we now have a medical technology that can mitigate the acute clinical consequences of this disease is an absolute gift. It's gobsmacking to me that we're not making every effort to utilize this to the best advantage. I mean, here is something that would enable us to very much recapture aspects of our daily lives that we value. The fact that we're not is deeply demonstrative of the pathologies now in our governance systems. White: we need to learn how to live with this virus. And the only way to do that is to stop people dying through vaccination, and then try to find a sensible balance between lockdowns and being back to normal. Trivedi: What do you think is the single largest challenge we face right now? Fickling: It's recognizing the type of business that vaccines are. For companies to make a proper return on vaccines, there has to be an unlevel playing field that produces suboptimal public health outcomes. So I think governments actually need to recognize they have a much bigger role to play. We need to regard the vaccine businesses as something that's much better suited to a public-private system. Topp: Until we recognize that our health systems mirror the same weaknesses that we see in society, the problems we're having in improving coverage and quality and access to technologies like vaccines are going to continue. White: To stay ahead of this virus will require funding of proper research and proper surveillance systems. What we don't have now is a proper antiviral [treatment]. We're close. In less than a year, we will have proper drugs targeting the virus and they will work well. And when we get those, are the rich countries going to keep them like they did with other viruses? Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/omicron-delta-pave-the-wave-for-a-new-super-variant-1057091.html
03-12-2021||Opinion||UP Polls: Will Mathura help serve BJP's electoral designs?||Is the ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) eyeing the Mathura issue to serve its political designs in the forthcoming 2022 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh? Recently a wing of the Hindu Mahasabha announced its decision to march down to the Idgah Masjid located in the precincts of the Krishna Janmabhoomi Temple area in Mathura, and where it has stood for four centuries. The Hindu Mahasabha announced it would install an idol of Lord Krishna inside the mosque that Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb had built, allegedly after the demolition of a temple, which had marked the birthplace of Lord Krishna. What compounded this announcement was a sudden tweet by UP's Deputy Chief Minister, Keshav Prasad Maurya. The tweet put an official stamp on the ruling party's apparent bid to keep religion at the centrestage of their politics in the country's most populous state. "Ayodhya Kashi bhavya nirmaan jaari hai, ab Mathura ki taiyari hai (temple constructions are on in Ayodhya and Kashi, now its Mathura's turn)," was the crisp tweet that Maurya issued on Wednesday. He followed this up in his tweet with religious slogans of "Jai Shree Ram, Jai Shiv-Shambhoo and Jai Shri Radhey-Krishna", which are salutations to the three most revered gods in the Hindu pantheon - Ram, Shiva and Krishna. Political analysts see this as a move aimed at creating a Hindu-Muslim divide that helped the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sweep three elections in UP - in 2014, 2017 and 2019. However, the ongoing farmers' agitation in western UP has restored amity between the Hindus and Muslims in the region, becoming a cause of worry for the ruling party. No wonder the Hindu Mahasabha chose to rake up the Mathura issue.  Quite strategically, the date selected by the outfit was December 6, which is a reminder of the demolition of the 16th Century Babri Masjid in 1992. The proposed march looks like a replay of the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP)'s Ayodhya movement that began in the same manner in the early 1980s. However, the difference is that unlike Ayodhya, where the Babri Mosque stood in place of a temple, the temple and mosque have coexisted for centuries in Mathura and Kashi, which figure prominently in the VHP's list of shrines it has wanted to be restored entirely to Hindus. Deputy CM Maurya's tweet kicked up a storm, which was precisely what the ruling party had desired. Much of it looked stage-managed and reflected the unwritten coordination between the different wings of the Sangh Parivar. The Hindu Mahasabha raised the pitch on the Mathura issue; the UP government promptly responded by clamping Section 144 and banning the assembly of more than four persons. A flag march by the armed police followed. Subsequently, a tweet from none other than the state's deputy chief minister propelled the entire opposition of the state to train their guns on him. The fact is that Maurya went ahead with such an explosive tweet even though Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat had declared quite explicitly that Mathura and Kashi were not on the Sangh Parivar's agenda. Bhagwat expressed his view on the subject shortly after the Supreme Court gave its verdict in November 2019, favouring the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. Political analysts believe this is the Sangh Parivar playbook to pave Hindu polarization. The BJP leadership and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath maybe indulging in the loud talk on "development", but deep down, they play up their old tried and tested card of the religious divide. The BJP leadership could find it challenging to stoke a divide between the reunited Jats and Muslims in western UP. The farmers' agitation has brought the two communities under a common umbrella once again. Therefore, the Sangh Parivar seems to be concentrating on influencing other Hindu castes in the region. Their visible effort is to win them over by raising the bogey of "Hindu khatre mein hain (Hindus are in danger)". As the polls draw near, there is no doubt the BJP will move heaven and earth to achieve their goal. Whether they can succeed once again, only time will tell. (The writer is a journalist based in Lucknow) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/up-polls-will-mathura-help-serve-bjps-electoral-designs-1057150.html
03-12-2021||Opinion||Making sense of Mamata Banerjee-Sharad Pawar game plan||Facts are incontrovertible. And politics is the art of the possible. The clichés are convenient to summarise the current state of play in the ongoing warm-up exercises by the non-Congress, anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) political actors for the 2024 Lok Sabha battle. There is no UPA as a formal alliance with all the trappings that such a configuration requires. That Pawar, Banerjee, the Shiv Sena and the Congress think there should be a partnership of parties opposed to the BJP is not the issue. The regional parties - from the big and robust with a lineage that underscores the durability and ideological foundations of these organisations, like the DMK, to the small, newer and effective players, like the Aam Admi Party - are at a point where for reasons both ideological and practical, they are in a situation where the compulsion is for "like-minded forces [have] to come together at the national level and set up collective leadership," as Pawar put it. And, as he explained, "We have to provide a strong alternative to leadership. Our thinking is not for today, but for the election." The compulsion to provide strong alternative leadership in the run-up to 2024 is not contingent on Congress joining or leading this emerging league of anti-BJP parties. Not Banerjee, and certainly not Pawar, have excluded the Congress from the exercises in coming together. Both did effectively convey the message that Congress was not as yet a full-time member of the league and not its natural leader. This was implicit but obvious in Pawar's comment that "All those opposed to the BJP are welcome to join us. There is no question of excluding anyone. We need to work unitedly against the BJP." At the centre of the exercises in coming together is the controversy about Banerjee's role in leading the league to defeat the BJP and make India, as she put it, "Modi mukt Bharat". As much as her personal role is being questioned, so too is the size, strength and presence of the Trinamool Congress, which till its foray into Goa, Tripura and Meghalaya, was a one-state regional party and its capacity as well as capability in leading the fight for a "Modi mukt Bharat". There is a set of political critics who believe Banerjee cannot be the "face" of the collective fight against the undisputedly popular Narendra Modi-led BJP. They also say that the Trinamool Congress is overambitious. It is a small party that is growing through acquisitions, mainly from the Congress, to bypass the grind of setting up shop in target states and slowly building bases that give its announced agenda of ousting the BJP from power in 2024 greater credibility. It is not in dispute that Congress has leadership and management problems. Congress leaders, specifically the 23 who wrote to Sonia Gandhi expressing their dissatisfaction with the current state of affairs in the party, have confirmed that such a problem exists. There is a vacuum in the opposition space because Congress has failed to give leadership to its party and the opposition's efforts to fight the BJP at the grassroots, which is evident in its performance in state elections and state politics. Both Pawar and Banerjee are making the simple point that the time to start the collective fight to oust the BJP is now. The meeting with Pawar in Mumbai and Banerjee's meeting with opposition party leaders in New Delhi shortly before that point to a calibrated exercise in keeping public attention thanks to the media and social media frenzy focused on the doings of the opposition parties and, of course, Banerjee. These exercises position her as the face and the leader taking the fight to the BJP. However, the real battle is in the states scheduled to go to the polls in two tranches in 2022. Pawar and Banerjee have emphasised that the league against the BJP is being forged in the states, where regional parties or even the Congress are taking on the Sangh Parivar. The strategy is evidently to loosen the ground that till now appeared to be baked hard in support of the BJP in states like Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and where the BJP had acquired the status of the alternative like Manipur and Goa. The inch-by-inch fight against the BJP is where the role of the regional parties is critical to the larger fight against the Sangh Parivar in 2024. Like the face that has become familiar and synonymous with leading a successful battle to prevent the BJP from acquiring new territory, Banerjee's current efforts are a way of keeping the focus on the role of the regional parties and how the BJP is increasingly open to challenge and defeat. The backing down, the apology by Modi and the farm laws repeal, however graceless the method of disregarding parliamentary due process of debate, are therefore part of the new narrative constructed by the opposition to tell and retell voters that the BJP is not the only alternative. In every state, voters are being made to face the possibility that there is an alternative to the BJP, which may be a regional party or the Congress. The catchline seems to be "no vote to BJP", and the subtext is the specific appeal of regional anti-BJP parties for voter mandate. The work that the anti-BJP opposition parties are expected to do in the run-up to 2024 is to keep the BJP fighting. It does not seem that the principle of working unitedly will end the competition between regional parties and the Congress in the states going to the polls between 2022 and 2024. Having delivered a homily on fighting unitedly, Pawar, however, shied away from spelling out how this would be done. It indicates that the opposition is unwilling to, as of now, invest time in formalising a unity with all its complexities when the object of the exercise is already a common and shared goal – fight the BJP and oust it from power, in the states and at the Centre. It is a formula that Banerjee has reiterated since May 2021, that anti-BJP parties in the states should fight to defeat the BJP, preferably by entering into seat adjustment exercises that convert each fight in each constituency into a direct face-off. Intriguingly, neither Pawar nor Banerjee has indicated that they are willing to mediate between competitors in the states on reaching a seat-by-seat agreement on winning candidates. By keeping things flexible rather than initiating an exercise for opposition unity that would only intensify the competitiveness between them, the anti-BJP opposition seems to have learnt from experience that a formal alliance structure is not a viable proposition now. There has been no hostile reaction to Banerjee's exercises to keep the anti-BJP opposition efforts the focus of public attention and do it successfully. Regional leaders have said that the Congress, as the biggest party, should lead, but no one has said that Banerjee should not lead the fight now. There seems to be a convergence between Banerjee's vision of transforming her party into a national party and the opportunity that is presented by the anti-BJP opposition's push to work together. She is effectively piggybacking on the growing resolve of regional parties to challenge the BJP and its icon, Narendra Modi. (Shikha Mukerjee is a journalist based in Kolkata) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/making-sense-of-mamata-banerjee-sharad-pawar-game-plan-1057201.html
03-12-2021||Opinion||Multicultural or Monochromatic India? Choice is ours||“There is no greater threat to democracy than indifference and passivity on the part of its citizens.” -- Bronislaw Geremek  Multiculturalism emphasises the importance of cultural diversity. It recognises the dignity and importance of cultural distinctiveness. It reiterates that cultural differences are natural phenomena. Cultural diversity, diverse ideas, perspectives and beliefs enhance our vision of a better society. Multiculturalism stands for heterogeneity and diversity. It is an inclusive process in which all cultures are valued. In India, immigration and multiculturalism are as old as recorded history. Since time immemorial, wave after wave of ethnically and culturally diverse people have poured into India, settled here, and assimilated into its mosaic. Each community, while interacting and being influenced by the others, retained its own identity, customs, beliefs and ways of life. It has truly been said that Indian culture is a ‘culture of cultures’, like a beehive of interlocking cells. Hinduism has played a seminal role in shaping the Indian mind and character. It has no dogma, no prophet, no single sacred book. It believes in freedom of thought and expression. It encompasses different forms of belief: monotheism, polytheism, agnosticism as well as atheism. Intense religiosity and materialism, godliness and godlessness – all sit side by side. Hinduism is also the foundation of a general spirit of tolerance and acceptance of the ‘other’, the belief that different paths can lead to the same goal. Hinduism’s flexibility has endowed Indian civilisation with a unique resilience and power of absorptive survival. The 700 years of Muslim rule from the 11-12th century bequeathed a mixed legacy. Politically, Islam in India represented subjugation. But culturally, it generated outstanding creative achievement and synthesis. The centuries of Muslim rule impacted all aspects of Indian life: our art and architecture, our music and dress, our manners and cuisines, our language and aesthetic sensibility – producing a composite Indo-Islamic culture. Kabir, a Hindu by birth but a Muslim by upbringing, represented a kind of spiritual fusion between Islam and Hinduism. Sufi shrines and festivals attract equal devotion from Hindus and Muslims in India today. British colonial rule replaced Muslim rule, adding one more layer to India’s plural personality. India’s exposure to the West was both debilitating and nourishing. On the one hand, colonial rule devalued Indian civilisation by claiming and justifying the ‘civilising mission’ of Britain. On the other hand, the work of great European Indologists helped India rediscover her classical literature, her forgotten wisdom and values. It is striking how the intellectual journey of the leaders of the Indian renaissance went from India to the West, before returning to India with a new-found sense of Indianness. The greatest of them in the last century were Rabindranath Tagore, Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru. All of them represented a mingling of East and West, a synthesis of European and Indian thought. This was the background to the emergence of an independent, democratic India in 1947, after the bloodbath of Partition. We are the most complex and diverse society on earth. Today’s India has over a billion Hindus, 150 million Muslims, 24 million Christians and 24 million Sikhs, apart from several smaller but important denominations. In addition to English and Hindi, we speak more than 20 major languages and some 22,000 dialects. Each religion is further sliced and diced by caste, sub-caste and region. There are also thousands of tribal groups, with distinct ethnic and cultural identities. Each of India’s states has its own centuries-old flourishing culture, with further internal diversities. Contemporary challenges However, it is indeed tragic that in the recent past, multiculturalism in India has become a battleground! In the competition for votes, various forms of identity politics have emerged, based on region, caste and religion. Identity politics has created a culture of ‘us’ and ‘them’. Opportunistic politics is today fomenting sectarian strife, by reopening old scars and reviving memories of past wrongs. The ambition of the leading political dispensation today is to make India a monochromatic ‘Hindutva’ nation. Its ideologues denounce secularism as a form of appeasement of India’s Muslims and Christians. They are portrayed as “foreigners”, undeserving of the full rights of Indian citizenship. They have become the targets of hate-speech and violence. State governments have often failed to enforce the law fairly and impartially. Repeated incidents of terror attacks have widened the chasm between Hindus and Muslims. Where enlightened politics once healed the wounds of Partition, opportunistic politics is today fomenting sectarian strife across the country. There is growing bigotry in other spheres as well. The contemporary reality reveals several disturbing features. There is a visible deepening of religious animosities; exploitation of religion for dubious purposes; spread of communalism and religious fundamentalism; cultural stereotyping of the ‘other’ religion, based on myths, misperceptions and fallacies; and maintenance of entrenched positions, with no spirit of give and take, no tolerance of the ‘other’, and no compromise. To compound matters, there are the challenges posed by modernisation, secularisation and industrialisation to the traditional order. Our responsibility Against this disturbing background, it is time to draw up a charter of multicultural responsibilities. Every right-thinking citizen of democratic India must seriously embark on the following: 1. Uphold the unity and integrity of the nation, maintain peace and harmony, observe the Fundamental Duties, and respect the Fundamental Rights and Freedoms guaranteed under the Constitution to all sections of the people. 2. Respect others’ faiths and beliefs in the religious, cultural and social spheres. 3. Promote the right understanding of religion, and stress the common core of all religions. 4. Understand and appreciate that at least eight values are central to all religious traditions: Justice, Peace, Equality, Love, Compassion, Non-Violence, Truth and Human Dignity. 5. Highlight the role of religion as a promoter of peace and an instrument of conflict resolution. 6. Build up public opinion against communalism, religious fundamentalism and religious and cultural discrimination. 7. Nip communal hatred in the bud. 8. Promote multicultural understanding. Today, India needs not just a culture of democracy, but a ‘democracy of cultures’. The challenge is to create an overarching sense of national identity that does not erode or threaten the rich tapestry of Indian life. People of India must retain the right to have, and to express, multiple identities of language, of region and of religion, within the framework of common citizenship. We must not allow ‘Multicultural India’ to become a ‘Monochromatic India’! (The writer is Hon. Professor at Karnataka State Rural Development and Panchayat Raj University, Gadag).||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/multicultural-or-monochromatic-india-choice-is-ours-1057329.html
03-12-2021||Right in the Middle||'Tyger Tyger' in prose||After a break of nearly two years, I mustered the courage to leave Bengaluru for a vacation, towards the forests of Tadoba and Kabini, both national tiger reserves. Choti Taara, Maya, Sonu, Babli. Beautiful names of pretty maidens no wonder stir in one’s mind elegant, charming and graceful women of tender and attractive age just like Cinderella, Snow White, Alice, et al conjure up in one’s mind nimble-footed, dancing and beautiful princesses. These are of the princesses of the forest. They are ferocious yet beautiful. They seem rugged but adorn a shiny and elegant coat. They have a natural beauty shorn of facial, but yet have colourful lines of white, black and orange drawn, with eyes lined as if with make up and liners by beauticians (truly by divine beauticians). They are big but shapely. They walk firmly on rough terrain but with the elegance of a queen, with the grace of a cat walk at a fashion show. They are earthly but divine and dignified. They do move sternly but softly and silently and strut with the elegance of a peacock. They show their pride by their indifference to surroundings. They unashamedly proclaim and assert their right to territory, sometimes aggressively, without tolerating any intrusions. Over all, they command respect and not demand it. It is these ‘tygers’ who inhabit the jungles of Tadoba and Kabini. They are the pretty women of the forests whose sight excites, delights and makes one wonder at the marvel created by the same creator who created the lesser mortals like us. They are a feast to the eyes and the pride of the forest. On the prowl, they generate fear among the others in the habitat who with their protective cries warn of impending danger, evidencing bonhomie not easily experienced in life outside the jungle. Contradictions rage when it comes to tigresses - beauty in the beast; elegance amidst sternness, dignity with pride, and an iron fist in a velvet glove. This is a short tribute in prose to that creature of wonder whom William Blake praised in poetry like this: Tyger Tyger, burning bright,In the forests of the night;What immortal hand or eye,Could frame thy fearful symmetry?When the stars threw down their spearsAnd water’d heaven with their tears;Did he smile his work to see?Did he who made the Lamb make thee?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/tyger-tyger-in-prose-1057330.html
03-12-2021||Second Edit||Omicron: Stick to Covid protocols||The emergence of the B.1.1.529 Omicron variant, which contains a large number of mutations in the coronavirus’ spike protein, has shaken up the world, which was settling down in the belief that it was getting the better of the virus. It is early days in the fight against the new threat whose nature is yet to be fully understood. While there is some evidence that Omicron spreads fast, initial assessments suggest that the severity of the infection may not be very high. The ability of the virus to escape vaccine-induced immune responses is yet to be fully ascertained. In fact, an earlier variant named Beta, which was first detected in South Africa in 2020, was shown to be very infectious and was considered to have the ability to partially escape immune responses, but it did not spread widely. It is in the nature of viruses to vary, and that is the main challenge about them.  The initial responses to the new variant expose the pitfalls in the handling of the virus. After the discovery of the first infection, South Africa made the announcement and made available to the world the basic genetic details of the variant a fortnight ago. This was done in the public interest. But the immediate global reaction was to impose travel bans on that country and some other African countries. Some countries have banned the entry of all foreigners. The variant was independently discovered in some European countries like the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany. It is now said to be prevalent in at least two dozen countries. So, the knee-jerk action of selective travel bans may only have a limited impact. Past experience in the fight against the virus suggests this.  The first two cases in India have been found in Karnataka and that has suddenly alerted the health machinery, other authorities and the general public. The situation is different from last year because a large section of the population has been fully or partially vaccinated. Though the efficacy of the vaccines against Omicron is yet to be proved, they are still considered to be a good defence against the virus. This underlines the need to shore up the campaign for vaccination, which has been lagging for some weeks now. The unevenness of vaccination within and among countries is a matter of concern because that itself would prolong the pandemic and encourage the birth of new variants. It is important to stick to the basics of defence -- mask wearing, maintaining social distance and washing hands. It is also important to improve the testing, surveillance and clinical facilities to deal with the situation at various stages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/omicron-stick-to-covid-protocols-1057333.html
03-12-2021||South||Former TNPCB chairman Venkatachalam found dead in Chennai||Former Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) chairman A V Venkatachalam and facing corruption charges has died by suicide, police said on Friday. Police said that he has not left any suicide note and it was his wife who found his body in his bedroom at their residence at the New Secretariat Colony street, Velachery. The former IFS officer was facing a corruption charge during his tenure as TNPCB chairman, and the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) had conducted surprise raids at his house on September 24. The sleuths of the DVAC found 13.5 lakh unaccounted money, 8 kg of gold worth 2.5 crore rupees and some documents related to property transactions from his residence during the raid. Ten Kg of sandalwood was also found at the residence during the raids. Venkatachalam retired from the IFS in 2018 and was appointed Chairman of TNPCB in 2019 by the then AIADMK government. DVAC registered cases against him while was serving as member secretary, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board during his tenure from October 14, 2013, to July 29, 2014. His tenure as Member secretary, Tamil Nadu Environment impact assessment authority, and as Chairman, TNPCB from September 27, 2019, for two years was also included in the corruption charges against him.The Velachery police have registered a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPc. His body was handed over to the relatives on Friday after post-mortem at Government Royapettah Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-tnpcb-chairman-venkatachalam-found-dead-in-chennai-1057166.html
03-12-2021||South||Four including a former RSS worker arrested for murder of CPI(M) local leader||Kerala police on Friday arrested four people, including one "former" RSS worker, among the five accused in the murder case of a CPI(M) local secretary at Peringara near here. P B Sandeep Kumar, who is also a former panchayat member, was stabbed to death here on Thursday night. Police have arrested prime accused and RSS worker Jishnu Chathankari (23), Pramod (23), Nandu (24) and Mohammed Faisal (22). Another accused, Abhi, is absconding, police added. The first three accused were apprehended from Karuvatta in Alappuzha district whereas Faisal was held from a lodge at Thiruvalla. The hideouts of the accused were triangulated based on information gathered and with the location of the cell phone tower, police said. Meanwhile, the BJP on Friday said that the worker was earlier ousted from the party and RSS does not have any connection with the murder. The CPI(M) has called for a dawn-to-dusk hartal in Thiruvalla municipality and adjacent panchayats protesting against the murder. Reacting to the incident, the CPI(M) State secretariat had issued a statement blaming the RSS and demanded a thorough investigation into the matter. According to the police, the incident occurred at around 8.30 PM on Thursday. Police had said there were 11 stab wounds on the body of the victim who died before reaching a hospital. After the victim tried to settle a dispute between the accused -- who were allegedly drunk -- and a shop owner, his bike was chased and he was stabbed multiple times, said the police. Kumar is survived by his wife and two minor children. After the post-mortem, the body was handed over to relatives which was taken to the CPI(M) party office in a procession with hundreds of party workers accompanying. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-including-a-former-rss-worker-arrested-for-murder-of-cpim-local-leader-1057189.html
03-12-2021||South||Political killings remain unabated in Kerala amid blessings of state leadership||There is no surprise why political murders remain unabated in Kerala as prominent leaders of the ruling CPI(M) themselves are found to be involved in the brutal political killings in the state, the latest incident being the CBI arraigning a former CPI(M) MLA in the murder of two Youth Congress activists at Kasargod in Kerala and the efforts made by the CPI(M) government to sabotage a fair probe in the case. As per available data, around 125 political murders took place in Kerala during the last 15 years and the highest number of victims are from the CPI(M) and the BJP-RSS, with around 50 each. During the term of the first Pinarayi Vijayan government from 2016 to 2021, nearly 30 political killings were reported. North Kerala district Kannur, a strong hold of the CPI(M), witnessed the highest of around ten killings. One of the most brutal political killings that Kerala witnessed was that of CPI(M) dissident leader T P Chandrasekharan in 2012 at Onchiyam in Kozhikode. He suffered 51 stab injuries and those convicted included CPI(M) local leaders. An in-depth probe by a special police team into the larger conspiracy behind the killings had even pointed fingers at some top leaders of the CPI(M). But with the CPI(M) government coming to power in 2016, not only did the probe into the conspiracy came to a standstill, those convicted for the murder were enjoying all comforts in prisons and some were even found to be coordinating illegal activities like gold smuggling through the Karipur airport from within the prison cell. With regard to the double murder of two Youth Congress workers in Kasargod in 2019 February, Kerala witnessed the Pinarayi Vijayan government vehemently opposing the plea for a CBI probe and even spent close to Rs 1 crore to hire senior lawyers to fight the case. Even then the case was lost and the CBI took over probe as per court orders. Vindicating the allegations of the Congress that the CPI(M) government wanted to sabotage the probe, the CBI has arraigned former CPI(M) MLA K V Kunhiraman and several other CPI(M) local leaders. The CPI(M) and the BJP-RSS are mostly involved in killings and counter killings over the years. The CPI(M) often puts up a defensive by citing that more number of CPI(M) workers were being martyred. CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said that over the years 588 CPI(M) workers were murdered by political opponents of which 215 were murdered by BJP-RSS workers. After the Pinarayi Vijayan government came to power in 2016 so far 20 CPI(M) workers were murdered, of which 15 were by BJP-RSS. Congress former MLA from Kannur district K C Joseph told DH that over the last few years there was a slight decline in political killings as both the BJP-RSS and the CPI(M) were in power in the centre and the state respectively. The involvement of party senior leaders in the political killings have become evident once again with the CBI arraigning even former MLA K V Kunhiraman, he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/political-killings-remain-unabated-in-kerala-amid-blessings-of-state-leadership-1057238.html
03-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt mandates qualifying in Tamil for government jobs||In a major step towards ensuring that the state’s youth get preferential treatment in government jobs, the Tamil Nadu government has made it mandatory for candidates appearing for all competitive exams run by various recruitment boards to qualify in Tamil. The GO (government order) is in line with an announcement made by Finance and Human Resources Development Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on the floor of the Tamil Nadu assembly in September that the government will ensure that 100% jobs in government offices and firms owned by it are occupied by youth from the state. The GO signed by Mythili K Rajendran, Secretary, Human Resources Department said getting 40 marks in the Tamil qualifying exam is mandatory to land in a government job in the state. The rule will apply to candidates applying for jobs for which exams are conducted by various recruitment agencies of the state. “As far as the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) is concerned, Tamil qualifying paper is being made mandatory. The question paper will be set as per the standard of 10th standard and the minimum qualifying mark is 40,” the GO said. It added that the papers of other subjects will be evaluated only if the candidate passes the Tamil qualifying paper. Rajendran further said the GO comes into effect immediately. The move was necessitated, according to the government, as many persons residing outside the state who do not know Tamil were qualified for positions in organisations run by the state government. The DMK had made appointment of those from north India in the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB) an election issue and promised to ensure that state government jobs are filled only by youth from the state. The party had in its election manifesto also promised to enact legislation promising 75% of jobs to locals. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-mandates-qualifying-in-tamil-for-government-jobs-1057254.html
03-12-2021||South||Kodiyeri Balakrishnan returns as CPM Kerala secretary||CPM politburo member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has returned to the party as its Kerala state secretary. Kodiyeri had stepped down from the state secretary post last November after his younger son Bineesh Kodiyeri was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case linked to a Bengaluru-based drug trafficking racket. Even as the party's official statement said that Balakrishnan was keeping off as he was suffering from cancer, he had later told television channels that it was not appropriate for him to continue in the state secretary post. Ever since his son was granted bail in the drug-trafficking case last month, there were speculations that Balakrishnan would soon return to the state secretary post. The party state secretariat meeting on Friday took the decision in this regard. In his absence, the post was held by Left Democratic Front convenor and former MP A Vijayaraghavan. A former home minister and a native of CPM's stronghold Kannur district, Balakrishnan is a close confidante of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Balakrishnan's return to the CPM state secretary post comes at a time when the party state conference and party congress are in the offing. Kerala is the only state where the CPM is now in power and the party congress is also scheduled to be held here. Over the years Kodiyeri faced many embarrassments due to allegations against his two sons. His elder son Binoy is alleged of sexually abusing and having impregnated a woman who was a former bar dancer in UAE – now settled in Mumbai – by promising to marry her. A Mumbai court had ordered a DNA test to prove the paternity of the complainant's child and the matter is still pending. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kodiyeri-balakrishnan-returns-as-cpm-kerala-secretary-1057267.html
03-12-2021||South||No curbs on planned on cinema theatres, says Telangana||Telangana's Cinematography Minister T Srinivas Yadav on Friday clarified that there are no plans to shut down cinema theatres or impose curbs on occupancy in view of Omicron, the new variant of Covid-19. After a meeting with Tollywood filmmakers, he appealed to people not to believe the rumours. He said the government was fully geared up to tackle the Covid situation and people can fearlessly go to cinema theatres to watch the movies. With some big budget movies starring leading stars scheduled for release on 'Sankranti', the rumours left Tollywood worried. In this context, a group of producers and directors called on the minister. The minister told reporters that in view of the reports of a possible third wave of Covid, there were rumours that the government may close down the theatres or reduce the occupancy but dismissed speculations. Srinivas Yadav said the film industry suffered badly for nearly two years due to the pandemic and just when it started to recover, fears of Omicron have emerged. The minister said though the state government is allowing screening of all shows with 100 per cent occupancy, for the last few days the number of viewers coming to theaters is not up to that level. He said after the release of "Akhanda", the number of movie goers increased. With some big budget films scheduled for release in coming days, he hoped that the number of viewers will increase. He said producers and directors should remain alert. Referring to measures taken to tackle Covid situation, the minister said the process of vaccination in the state is nearing completion. Producer Dil Raju said they also discussed with the minister various issues pertaining to the industry and he promised to convey their views to Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-curbs-on-planned-on-cinema-theatres-says-telangana-1057307.html
03-12-2021||South||Cyclone Jawad: North Coastal Andhra on high alert||North coastal Andhra Pradesh districts – Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam – are put on high alert as cyclonic storm Jawad moved closer to the coastline. The system is likely to reach west-central Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh – south Odisha coasts by Saturday morning. “Thereafter it is likely to re-curve, move along the Odisha coast reaching near Puri around Sunday noon. Subsequently, it could continue to move north north-eastwards towards the West Bengal coast,” Indian Meteorological Department said in its bulletin on Friday evening. The IMD has issued a Red alert (warning to take action) for these northern most Andhra districts for Saturday, while Orange alert (be prepared) is given for the adjoining East Godavari district. NDRF and SDRF teams are being dispatched to the low-lying areas and those close to the coast in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam. Though Jawad is not expected to hit the Andhra Pradesh coast, these districts would receive moderate to very heavy rainfall, with a possibility of extremely heavy falls at isolated places on Saturday. Squally winds with speeds reaching 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph would commence along and off North Andhra Pradesh – Odisha coasts from Friday night. “These winds speed would increase gradually to 80-90 kmph gusting to 100 kmph from Saturday evening, for the subsequent 12 hours,” the weather officials predicted. Since the sea condition would be rough to very rough, becoming high to very high from Saturday afternoon, fishermen are advised not to venture into the Bay of Bengal. Under the cyclone effect, major damages are predicted for thatched houses, huts and other vulnerable structures. It can cause uprooting of trees, minor damage to power and communication lines. In view of the Jawad cyclone, East Coast Railway has canceled more than 95 train services running through the Waltair Division. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cyclone-jawad-north-coastal-andhra-on-high-alert-1057313.html
03-12-2021||South||Two foreign-returnees in TN test positive for Covid-19; samples sent for sequencing||Two persons, including a 10-year-old, who arrived from Singapore and Britain, classified as “high risk” countries in Chennai and Tiruchirappalli airports have tested positive for the novel Coronavirus and their samples have been sent for genomic sequencing to check whether they have been infected with Omicron variant. While the 10-year-old arrived in Chennai from Britain along with her family members, the other passenger landed in Tiruchirappalli from Singapore on Friday morning. Passengers in three rows of the flights and the cabin crew have been tested. While the child’s family is under isolation, the young patient has been admitted to the King’s Hospital, one of the designated Covid-19 hospitals run by the state government. “The two have tested positive for Covid-19. We do not know as yet what variant they have been infected with. We have sent their samples for genomic sequencing to the State Testing Laboratory in Chennai and to Bengaluru,” Health Minister Ma Subramanian said. He refuted reports on one person from the state testing positive for the Omicron variant and asked people to refrain from spreading rumours, especially on social media. At the same vein, the Health Minister said the government will be “absolutely transparent” in announcing the results the moment it is available. The development comes a day after two persons were tested positive for Omicron variant of Covid-19 in Karnataka. While one had a travel history, the other is a government doctor who did not have any travel history. Tamil Nadu government has made elaborate arrangements at Chennai, Tiruchirappalli, Coimbatore, and Madurai airports to test passengers arriving from “high risk” nations. The state government has also appointed nodal officers for all four airports to liaison with airport authorities to test the passengers. When it was pointed out by reporters that the cost of an RT-PCR test at the airport was high, Subramanian said the state government will foot the bill for the test for those who cannot afford to pay the amount collected at the airport. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-foreign-returnees-in-tn-test-positive-for-covid-19-samples-sent-for-sequencing-1057337.html
03-12-2021||South||Police arrest BJP-RSS workers for communally sensitive sloganeering in Kerala||Tension is prevailing at Thalassery in Kannur district of Kerala over communally sensitive sloganeering forcing the district administration to clamp prohibitory orders. It began with BJP-RSS workers raising provocative slogans during the remembrance day of a martyr. The police registered a case against around 25 BJP-RSS workers in connection with this case. Subsequently, the SDPI staged counter demonstrations, which escalated the tense situation in the region. This prompted the district administration to clamp prohibitory orders. On Friday, BJP-RSS workers staged a protest march defying the prohibitory orders. Police blocked the march and later the workers dispersed. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/police-arrest-bjp-rss-workers-for-communally-sensitive-sloganeering-in-kerala-1057346.html
03-12-2021||South||CBI charge-sheet CPM leaders in Kasargod murder||The CBI on Friday filed charge-sheet against 24 persons, including a former CPM MLA, in connection with the murder of two Youth Congress workers at Kasargod in February, 2019. Former MLA K V Kunhiraman was arraigned as the 20th accused in the case on Thursday. Peethambaran, another local leader of the party, was the first accused. Eleven accused, including Peethambaran, were earlier arraigned by the Kerala police that probed the case initially. The CBI probe found that Youth Congress workers Kripesh and Sarathlal were murdered in retaliation to the political clashes in the region. The court ordered CBI probe on the basis of a plea of the parents of the deceased. The left-front government in Kerala objected CBI probe, which triggered allegation of attempt to protect the accused. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cbi-charge-sheet-cpm-leaders-in-kasargod-murder-1057353.html
03-12-2021||State||Omicron scare: Karnataka plans curbs on large gatherings||Hours after the Centre announced the country's first cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19 in Bengaluru, Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Thursday told reporters that the government will consider regulating large gatherings, especially those held indoors.  A final decision will be taken after a meeting with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday, Sudhakar said. Appealing to people not to panic about the Omicron mutant infection, Sudhakar said, "The doctor who tested positive for Omicron variant and five of his contacts who tested positive for Covid-19 are stable and have only mild symptoms. "However, I appeal to the public to get their second dose of vaccination at the earliest and wear masks compulsorily. People should avoid unnecessary large gatherings, especially those held indoors. We need to regulate such gatherings as a precaution and we will take a final call after a meeting with the CM." Revealing that the Omicron mutant virus is milder than the Delta variant, Sudhakar said, "Already 11 countries have notified that the latest mutant has only mild to moderate symptoms. However, it is too early to comment on how it spreads and infects. The WHO is still studying the nature of the virus and till the final report is out, we cannot comment on its features." As soon as Bommai arrives in Bengaluru on Friday from Delhi, a high-level meeting has been scheduled, officials said. "All health department officials, BBMP officials and Covid experts will meet the CM and decide on the future course of action to prevent the spread of the new variant," Sudhakar said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/omicron-scare-karnataka-plans-curbs-on-large-gatherings-1057029.html
03-12-2021||State||Kusha treads back to Dubare in search of mate||Kusha, the elephant which was released from the Dubare elephant camp to the Moolehole forest area in Bandipur Tiger Reserve, is now heading towards Dubare searching for a mate. The forest department has tracked the elephant through his radio collar. Six months ago, Kusha was released into Bandipur forest following a government order. Kusha was captured in Chetnalli in 2016 and was brought to the Dubare elephant camp. In 2017, he escaped from the camp and went missing for two years. After constant efforts, the forest department was successful in bringing the elephant back to the camp. However, after the animal lovers expressed displeasure against Kusha being tied with chains, MP Maneka Gandhi urged the forest department to release the elephant. Previous forest minister Aravind Limbavali, while conducting a meeting, had issued an order to release the elephant after applying a radio collar on him. Now, Kusha, in search of a companion, has left Bandipura and is on his way to Nagarahole National Park. In the last six months, Kusha has travelled a distance of 180 to 200 km. He has crossed the Kerala border and reached Nagarahole via Tholpetty forest. He is nearing Titimati and expected to come to Dubare limits through Maldare reserve forest, forest officials and staff said. Mahout Dobi said that Kusha might be wanting to reunite with his brother and meet other companions in the Dubare elephant camp. Dubare DCRF K P Ranjan said that the radio collar is being managed by a forest official in Dehradun.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kusha-treads-back-to-dubare-in-search-of-mate-1057044.html
03-12-2021||State||'Supari' to murder MLA: Police arrest Congman's aide||The Rajanukunte police have arrested Kulla Devaraj, a close aide of Congress leader M N Gopalakrishna, and registered an FIR, following a complaint by MLA and BDA chairman S R Vishwanath over an alleged plot to murder him. The officials issued a notice at Gopalakrishna’s residence on Hesaraghatta Road, but he was not present there. A senior officer told DH that they have arrested Devaraj, a resident of Attur Layout. Devaraj was told over the phone to appear before the investigating officer on Thursday morning. After questioning, the police arrested him. “If Gopalakrishna doesn’t respond to our notice, action will be taken legally,” the officer said. The police have registered an FIR in the case after taking permission from the court. Sections 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC have been invoked in the case.    Vishwanath, in his complaint, said that he had learnt that Gopalakrishna and Devaraj wanted to bring men from Andhra Pradesh to kill him, as they were jealous of his service to the people.  He said that the duo had forced Kadabagere Seena aka Srinivas to name him and his aides in an attempt-to-murder case to tarnish his image.  Vishwanath said Gopalakrishna wanted to get him killed by ‘supari’ (contract) killers to get political advantage.  Meanwhile, the police are trying to get the unedited version of the video that has gone viral. “We have confirmation that the video available in public domain is edited. Once we get the unedited video, we will get to know what exactly the conversation was,” said a senior officer. The officials also got an audio clip, said to be of a conversation between ‘Kulla’ Devaraj and Gopalakrishna. The officers are verifying it and are questioning a few other suspects.   How ACB got a tip-off An assistant commissioner of police attached to the Central Crime Branch (CCB), on November 30, had got a tip off that a gang of five ‘supari’ killers had come to kill a prominent person in the city. The informant told him that they were in a hotel near Anand Rao circle. The ACP went to the hotel, picked five persons, including Gopalakrishna and Devaraj, took them to the CCB office and questioned them.  The ACP had not informed his superiors about visiting the hotel or questioning the suspects. The police top brass is yet to get a proper explanation from the ACP over not bringing the information about the five persons to their notice.   MLA supporters’ protest The supporters of Vishwanath gathered in front of the Rajanukunte police station on Thursday and staged a protest, demanding the arrest of Gopalakrishna and others involved in the conspiracy against Vishwanath. The police convinced the crowd to drop the protest and promised action in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/supari-to-murder-mla-police-arrest-congmans-aide-1057045.html
03-12-2021||State||6 conferred Infosys prize; 3 are from Bengaluru||The Infosys Science Foundation gave away awards to the winners of the Infosys Prize 2021 on Thursday for their outstanding contributions to science across six fields and addressing some of the major problems confronting the world today: the Covid-19 pandemic, climate change and nuclear energy, plus sexual violence and jurisprudence in India.  Three of the winners are experts in their respective domains and live in the city. Among them is Dr Chandrasekhar Nair, the chief technology officer of Molbio Diagnostics in Bengaluru, who was recognised under the category of engineering and computer science. Dr Nair won the prize for his development and large-scale deployment of TrueNat, a new point-of-care testing platform for PCR-based medical diagnostics. The battery-operated platform can test over 30 diseases, including tuberculosis, in under one hour. Winning the prize for Humanities was Dr Angela Barreto Xavier from the Institute of Social Sciences, University of Lisbon, Portugal, who was recognised for her research and analysis of conversions and violence in the Portuguese empire in India, especially Goa. The third winner was another Bengaluru resident, Professor Mahesh Sankaran of the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), winning in the category of Life Sciences. In a statement, NCBS said Dr Sankaran’s research had “pioneered understanding of savannas”. His work on the ecology of tropical savannah ecosystems is said to have had an impact on conservation strategies. In the realm of mathematical sciences, Dr Neeraj Kayal of Microsoft’s research lab in Bengaluru, was recognised for his work on algebraic computation, as well as designing efficient algorithms for reconstruction and equivalence of such algebraic circuits. Dr Kayal’s theoretical work on complexity theory provides mathematical tools to understand efficiency and limitations of algorithms. In the realm of physical sciences, the winner is Professor Dr Bedangadas Mohanty of NISER, Bhubaneswar, who has been involved in investigations of nuclear force. While the most devastating consequences of the nuclear force are known, there has been little detailed understanding of how it works. Dr Mohanty’s view is that by understanding nuclear force in detail, we can better harness nuclear energy.  Finally, in the field of social sciences, Dr Pratiksha Baxi from the Centre for the Study of Law and Governance at Jawaharlal Nehru University was rewarded for her “pioneering work on sexual violence and jurisprudence.” Baxi’s research and analysis revealed how gendered violence is reproduced by juridical practice. Kris Gopalakrishnan, president, Infosys Science Foundation, said the prize was instituted to help important science agencies. “We have all of this talent and we have very few names of scientists that the younger generation can look up to and emulate,” he said, adding that the Foundation’s job is to make “icons and role models of these individuals for showing us the way while finding answers to their own quest.” The winners were felicitated by the chief guest, Professor Gagandeep Kang of CMC, Vellore. The award comprises a pure gold medal, a citation and a prize-purse of $100,000, tax-free in India. The laureates were chosen from a competitive pool of 201 nominations received this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/6-conferred-infosys-prize-3-are-from-bengaluru-1057046.html
03-12-2021||State||Karnataka government relaxes criteria for Rs 1 lakh Covid aid to BPL families||Karnataka has tweaked its order on compensating BPL families for Covid-19 deaths by removing the clause that said only those households where a ‘working’ member died would get the money.  The government had ordered the payment of ex-gratia of Rs 1 lakh to BPL families that lose a member due to the virus. The order required the death of a ‘working’ member of the family, which has been changed to state that the death of any member of a BPL household would be eligible for the ex-gratia.  Also, the government has specified that there is no age limit for ex-gratia. Earlier, the government said Rs 1 lakh will be paid in case an adult member died.  The government has received more than 7,000 applications seeking the ex-gratia of Rs 1 lakh.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-government-relaxes-criteria-for-rs-1-lakh-covid-aid-to-bpl-families-1057157.html
03-12-2021||State||CJ hails 'anti-corruption judge' Justice Sudhindra Rao||The High Court of Karnataka bid farewell to Justice N K Sudhindra Rao who attained superannuation on Friday. A judge who sent former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and several officials to judicial custody on charges of corruption while officiating as a special judge of Lokayukta court, Justice Sudhindra Rao on Friday said, “Right from student days, casteism and corruption have been my strong enemies and I never left a single opportunity to express my dissent.”   Wishing Justice Rao a warm farewell, Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi said Justice Sudhindra Rao was popularly known and referred to as anti-corruption judge and dealt with many high profile cases involving offences of corruption. “Justice Sudhindra Rao had a distinguished career in the judiciary for approximately 19 years. As the judge of this court for nearly five years, Justice Sudhindra Rao has served the institution with utmost dedication. He has authored numerous important judgments, many of which have been reported in law journals. His knowledge of law and a strong sense of justice are reflected in his judgments and orders,” he said. Replying to the farewell programme, Justice Sudhindra Rao recalled his journey as an advocate from Kolar district. Justice Rao said he was the first generation advocate in the family and also a first graduate. He thanked advocates’ association in KGF and advocates in Bangarpet for their cooperation. “I remember one promise which I had made on June 26, 2002, when my parent association gave an affectionate farewell, that I will try to uphold the name of the association and in case if it is maligned I will not remain in this service and I will come back. I hope I have tried my level best to reach the expectations,” he said. Justice Sudhindra Rao was appointed as a high court judge on February 18, 2017, and was made a permanent judge in November, 2018. When he was officiating as a special judge of Lokayukta court in Bengaluru in 2011, he had sent Yediyurappa, his then cabinet colleague S N Krishnaiah Setty to judicial custody in cases pertaining to alleged illegal denotification of land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cj-hails-anti-corruption-judge-justice-sudhindra-rao-1057372.html
03-12-2021||State||Janaseva Vidya Kendra golden jubilee||The RSS-affiliated Janaseva Vidya Kendra will celebrate its golden jubilee on December 26. The event will take place at Janaseva Vidya Kendra, Channenahalli, in which Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot will take part along with RSS Sarkaryavah Dattatreya Hosabale. The institute began in 1971 with thirteen students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/janaseva-vidya-kendra-golden-jubilee-1057373.html
03-12-2021||State||16 Omicron cases in Karnataka, not 2, claims H K Patil||Senior Congress leader H K Patil on Friday said, according to information available with him, as many as 16 persons had tested positive for Omicron variant of coronavirus in the state by December 2 evening. Speaking to reporters here, Patil said, “A total of 16 people had returned positive for the Omicron variant of the virus in the state as on December 2. The situation is alarming, but the state government is doing precious little in tackling it.” “Over 250 doctors had attended a conference held in Bengaluru on Nov 20. State’s first case of Omicron variant, a doctor, had also attended the meeting. His family members too have tested positive for Covid. However, there is no clarity on whether they are infected with the Omicron variant. What’s more disturbing is the fact that the state government has, so far, made no effort to collect the information about the conference attendees and trace their primary and secondary contacts,” Patil alleged. He added, the doctors had hired 125 cabs and visited malls and restaurants after the conference got over. “Last week, Bengaluru saw 466 international arrivals. However, only 100 international travellers were subjected to Covid tests. The government initiated measures to trace and collect the information about those who were not tested, only after the two cases were confirmed in the state,” Patil charged. The Congress legislator urged the state government to make public the recommendations by the Technical Advisory Committee in its 136th meeting and implement the same soon. “The government should make arrangements to compulsorily screen travellers from Omicron-affected countries and make them undergo institutional quarantine. Also, steps should be taken to get genome sequencing reports at the earliest. Further, it should publish treatment guidelines for the patients infected with the Omicron variant of the virus,” the former RDPR minister said. The Election Commission should ease poll conduct rules to enable the government to convene meetings with elected representatives on Covid, he said. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/16-omicron-cases-in-karnataka-not-2-claims-h-k-patil-1057374.html
03-12-2021||State||Council polls: Suraj Revanna’s candidature challenged before HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday ordered notice to Suraj Revanna, son of former minister H D Revanna, in response to a petition seeking to declare his candidature for the upcoming Legislative Council elections as not qualified. The petition alleges that Suraj Revanna has concealed information in his election affidavit. The next hearing has been posted to Monday. The petition is filed by K L Harish, a member of Kundur gram panchayat in Channarayapatna taluk of Hassan district. Suraj Revanna, grandson of former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, is contesting from Hassan local authorities constituency. The election is scheduled for December 10 and the petitioner claims to be a voter in Hassan local authorities constituency. Suraj had filed the nomination papers on November 19 along with the affidavit furnishing particulars of his assets and liabilities. According to the petitioner, Suraj has concealed his marital status in the affidavit. The petition said Suraj has stated in the relevant column as ‘NA’ (Not Applicable), whereas he was married on March 4, 2017, at Palace Grounds in Bengaluru. The petitioner claimed that by suppressing this fact Suraj Revanna has further concealed the financial status and transactions of his wife. The petition further claimed that Suraj Revanna has stated that he is one of the partners of ‘Chennambika Convention Hall’ at Holenarasipura. However, he has deliberately suppressed the information regarding the operation of a current account in Karnataka Bank at Holenarasipura, the petition said. The petitioner stated that the nomination was accepted on November 24 in spite of raising objections. According to the petition concealing this information in the nomination papers would lead to declaring Suraj Revanna’s candidature as not qualified in terms of Sections 33 (A) and 125 (A) of Representation of the People Act. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/council-polls-suraj-revanna-s-candidature-challenged-before-hc-1057375.html
03-12-2021||State||Drop plan to to provide eggs to students, Jain seer urges Karnataka govt||Jain Mutt seer Bhattaraka Charukeerthi Swami has urged the Karnataka government to withdraw its decision on providing eggs three times a week with midday meals to students.  The seer, in a letter to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, said the government's decision has saddened the minority Jains and others who consume vegetarian food.  "Some children are vegetarians by birth. Providing non-vegetarian food in government schools affects the harmony in schools. Instead, the government can provide pulses, badam, milk and fruits to the children," the seer suggested in the letter.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/drop-plan-to-to-provide-eggs-to-students-jain-seer-urges-karnataka-govt-1057376.html
03-12-2021||State||Covid deaths: Karnataka govt eases criterion for Rs 1 lakh ex gratia||The Karnataka government has tweaked its order on compensating BPL families for Covid-19 deaths by removing the clause that said only those households where a ‘working’ member died would get the money.  The government had ordered the payment of ex gratia of Rs 1 lakh to BPL families that lose a member due to the virus. The order required the death of a ‘working’ member of the family, which has been changed to state that the death of any member of a BPL household would be eligible for the ex gratia.  Also, the government has specified that there is no age limit for the ex gratia. Earlier, the government said Rs 1 lakh will be paid in case an adult member died.  The government has received more than 7,000 applications seeking the compensation of Rs 1 lakh. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-deaths-karnataka-govt-eases-criterion-for-rs-1-lakh-ex-gratia-1057378.html
03-12-2021||State||Karnataka govt move to change rail line leaves 1,000 farmers in distress||Nearly 1,000 farmers of Belur and Sakleshpur taluks in Hassan district, who were alienated in their own lands for the last two decades after the government notified acquisition of their land for a railway line, are in distress. Not only were they discouraged from cultivating their land since 1996, when their lands were surveyed for the new railway line between Kadur and Sakleshpur, but the government’s unilateral move to shelve the Belur-Sakleshpur stretch of the railway line has left them in the lurch. The hapless farmers are demanding the government not to cancel the project or at least provide the compensation for their losses. The farmers have even filed a petition in the Karnataka High Court where two hearings were completed. “The notices have been served to the Railway Department and also to the state government,” said K Srinivasa Gowda, an advocate who filed a petition on behalf of farmers. Speaking to DH, one of the petitioners H C Nandish from Sakleshpur taluk said, “This was the line promised by former prime minister Indira Gandhi when she had contested elections in Chikkamagalur. Even the funds were allocated in the Union Railway Budget for the new line. We farmers were restricted from taking up tilling, developmental activities or selling our lands. Now, suddenly in 2019, the state government issued a notification about changing the line by dropping Sakleshpur.” The documents accessed by DH show that farmers had written to the then Railway minister Piyush Goyal requesting him not to change the railway line. “There have been efforts since 1999 to change the line. When J H Patel was chief minister, he wrote to the then Railway minister Nitish Kumar requesting for diversion of route. But he got a reply that the work on the  project is being executed on the alignment as per the original planning,” said S V Parameshwaraiah, another aggrieved farmer from Sakleshpur. As explained by the farmers, the Belur and Sakleshpur area is known for cultivating paddy, coffee and pepper. Since the survey of the land was done, they were restricted even from cultivating. Farmers said vested interests of a few local politicians was behind the decision to change the original plan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-move-to-change-rail-line-leaves-1000-farmers-in-distress-1057379.html
03-12-2021||State||Unvaccinated face higher risk of hospitalisation, shows data||The triaging of thousands of patients over a three month period by corporation health officers in Bengaluru has shown that more unvaccinated individuals are ending up in the ICU than those with at least one dose of a vaccine. The issue of vaccinations reached new urgency on Thursday following the disclosure that two Omicron cases had been found in the state, leading to officials calling for unvaccinated individuals to rush for getting their doses. Researchers have previously said Omicron could cause more breakthrough infections. Between August 8 and November 27, BBMP triaged 12,400 people with Covid-19, out of which 2,856 were not vaccinated and another 2,953 had only one dose. Within the unvaccinated group, 94.7% developed only mild or moderate symptoms allowing them to either isolate themselves at home, go to a Covid care centre (CCC) or seek out a general bed at a hospital for observation. However, 102 required treatment in a high dependency unit (HDU) bed, while a further 47 required an ICU or an ICU-ventilator bed.  “In comparison, 98.7% of people who have been fully vaccinated had developed only minor symptoms, allowing them to isolate at home, go to a CCC or require only a general bed at a hospital,” said Dr Balasundar A S, chief health officer, BBMP. In the vaccinated group, out of 7,162 people who had taken Covishield, 2,505 were only partially vaccinated. Among these, 46 required a HDU bed, while 10 required an ICU/ICU-V bed.  Among 1,725 people who had taken Covaxin, 145 had one dose. Out of these, two people were placed on a HDU bed, while none required an ICU or ICU-V bed. In total, about 98.03% of partially vaccinated individuals could be isolated at home or seek a general bed, while 1.97% developed serious health problems. For a relatively small sample size of 127 people who had been dosed in other vaccines such as Pfizer, Moderna, Sputnik, Sinopharm...etc, the BBMP did not note any hospitalisations of any sort among the partly and fully vaccinated. Breakthrough infections However, the matter of breakthrough infections remains a concern with more individuals fully vaccinated requiring HDU or ICU/ICU-V beds than even partially vaccinated individuals (17 people with Covaxin and 63 with Covishield). According to Dr Ravindra Mehta, Chief of Pulmonology and Critical Care Services at Apollo Hospital (Jayanagar), most of the patients turning up at the hospital with the disease are fully vaccinated. “Most of them are middle-aged or older with comorbidities, but a portion of younger people are also turning up. In 4-5% of them, we have seen vaccine failure in that no antibodies have been generated at all,” Dr Mehta said.  ‘Unvaccinated may be barred’ Dr Thrilok Chandra, special commissioner (BBMP), said that the government could soon release a circular which would make it difficult, if not impossible for people to go to places of recreation and shops without having two doses of a vaccine.  “We have been speaking with business and associations to ensure compliance of this instruction when it comes,” he told DH.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/unvaccinated-face-higher-risk-of-hospitalisation-shows-data-1057380.html
03-12-2021||State||Omicron: Medical colleges across Karnataka put on high alert||Close on the heels of the outbreak of Omicron variant infection in Bengaluru, the Karnataka government on Friday put all the medical colleges across the state on high alert to face the possible third wave and provide treatment to the cases of the new strain of coronavirus. Chairing a video conference meeting with the directors of all the medical colleges, Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said that all health workers must stand up to the demands and provide effective treatment. “There are 21 medical colleges offering health services in Karnataka. Everyone, including the HoDs, professors and senior doctors have been advised to stand up to the demands and provide effective treatment. They can also avail the help of resident doctors, and final-year medical students,” the minister said. The minister also directed the establishments to conduct a month-long training for 18,000 nurses and ramp up pediatric ICUs to face the possible onslaught of the third wave. “During the first and second wave, the state faced a shortage of nurses to treat patients in the ICUs. We have resolved that issue now as there are about 18,000 students in final-year nursing and paramedics. Officials have been asked to provide one-month training to them, in collaboration with RGUHS and other institutions,” explained Sudhakar. The minister said that the Cabinet had decided to set up paediatric ICUs. “As per the advice of the Covid Technical Advisory Committee, a special ICU and ward will be provided for the Omicron-infected patients. Those who are infected with Delta will be treated in a separate ward. The number of beds and ICUs to be reserved will be decided soon,” he said. Acknowledging that there has been a delay in payment of allowances to the resident doctors, Sudhakar said, “The pending Covid risk allowance dues, amounting to Rs 73 crore, of resident doctors will be cleared soon.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/omicron-medical-colleges-across-karnataka-put-on-high-alert-1057381.html
03-12-2021||State||On-call crop tests: Karnataka govt to expand mobile units||Now, farmers across Karnataka can benefit from mobile soil and crop testing vehicles. Manned with experts and a basic laboratory setup, the vehicles will go around testing crops and soil and give suggestions to farmers on how to optimise their crops. The government had earlier launched these vehicles on a pilot basis, predominantly in Koppal. Now, it is set to add 100 vehicles across various districts in the state, with plans for further expansion in the coming months. Speaking to DH, agriculture commissioner Brijesh Kumar Dikshit said, “The idea is to have these vehicles at the hobli-level. The vehicles will travel from village to village, testing soil and health of the crop. Farmers can also call and ask for it. They will test and make suggestions on what kind of insecticide to use etc.” Last year, the government had introduced it on a pilot basis in Koppal district and a few other hoblis in the state, with 40 such vehicles being operational. Now 100 more vehicles are being added, expanding it across the state. There are 742 hoblis in Karnataka. The government plans to eventually extend iteverywhere. So far, the response on ground has been good with farmers making use of the service for crop testing, water testing and even crop surveys, an agriculture officer from Koppal told DH. They get at least three to four calls everyday. “There will be one technical staff and a driver travelling in the vehicle, along with basic laboratory equipment. The expert on call will assess the situation and give suggestions to farmers. In case, it requires further testing, it will be sent to a lab,” the officer added. These vehicles have been especially useful for horticulture crops, when farmers had to figure our solutions for crop diseases, according to the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/on-call-crop-tests-karnataka-govt-to-expand-mobile-units-1057387.html
03-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Bommai to chair high-level meeting on December 3 to discuss Omicron variant||Following the detection of two cases of new Covid-19 variant 'Omicron' in Karnataka, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has convened a high-level meeting with experts to prepare a strategy to address the issue on Friday. "After taking views from the expert, the government will prepare a standard operating procedure on taking steps to prevent spreading of disease," the CM told reporters in Bengaluru on Thursday.  The CM, who held two back to back meetings with Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, said that the Health Minister promised to send detailed laboratory reports about the detected cases on Friday. Once the report comes, the same will be shared with experts and will seek their views, he said. Referring to the two cases, the CM said “Our duty is now to track & trace such strains & their contacts wherever it's found. We're already tracking & tracing international travellers.” On the demand by several states to stop all international flights, the CM said he had already discussed the issue with Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. "The Union Minister assured me that his ministry would announce all the precautionary steps to be taken on this issue at the earliest," he said. The CM also requested the Union Health Minister to take steps to supply Covid-19 vaccines to give booster doses to health workers. The CM, who arrived in the national capital to meet Union Ministers on Thursday, will leave for Bengaluru on Friday. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bommai-to-chair-high-level-meeting-on-december-3-to-discuss-omicron-variant-1057022.html
03-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Cops living like dogs, taking bribes,' says Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra in viral video||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra caused a flutter on Friday after a video of him slamming the police for being corrupt and “living like dogs eating bribes” went viral.  The video — in which the minister is seen speaking on the phone with a top police officer from Chikkamagaluru district — is said to have been recorded during a meeting chaired by Jnanendra. The reason for the home minister’s outburst was the alleged involvement of policemen in illegal transportation of cattle, especially cows. Transporting cattle for the purpose of slaughter is prohibited in Karnataka.  “Those who regularly transport (cattle) are habituals. Your people know that. But, they’re living like dogs eating bribes. Don’t you police people want a sense of self-respect?” Jnanendra is heard saying in the video. “I had never spoken like this. But, as home minister, should I continue or not? The entire Chikkamagaluru district is yours. I come from Shivamogga. All policemen have become bad and corrupt. We give them a handful of salary. Nobody wants to live off of the salary. They are living off leftovers (money),” he says. Continuing his tirade, the home minister says: “If they are unfit, let them remove their uniform and go die at home. Let them get buried somewhere. How can people live by counting on them? People wield swords and take away cattle from the sheds...” With his remarks going viral, Jnanendra went into damage control and issued a statement, saying he was not referring to all police personnel.   “I did not generalise to include all policemen. I was referring to only those who are colluding with illegal cattle transporters,” he said. “As the home minister, I respect the police. Karnataka’s policing system is good,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cops-living-like-dogs-taking-bribes-says-karnataka-home-minister-araga-jnanendra-in-viral-video-1057160.html
03-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Omicron scare: 10 South African nationals go missing, Karnataka government worried||After detection of the country's first two cases of Omicron infection in Bengaluru, the Karnataka Health Department is now worried over 10 South African nationals, who have gone untraceable in Bengaluru, sources revealed. These South African nationals had arrived in Bengaluru between November 12 and 22. The Health department, which is on high alert after the detection of Omicron cases, wants to get these persons tested, but they have gone missing, sources said. The officials said that the 2 persons were not found at the addresses given by them at the airport and their mobile phones were switched off. As many as 57 persons had arrived from high risk countries. The health department has already approached the police department to track and trace these persons. The department is planning to send all samples to genomic sequencing tests to get clarity on the presence of Omicron virus. Sources said that the stringent measures at the airport were initiated from November 22 onwards and these ten persons had arrived in Bengaluru before that. When asked about this, Gaurav Gupta, the Chief Commissioner, stated that he doesn't have any direct information regarding the matter. "I can say that, contact tracing is a continuous process and if they are not found, there are standard protocols to deal with the situation. We are prepared to tackle any situation." Gaurav Gupta also hinted at initiation of restrictions after the high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/omicron-scare-10-south-african-nationals-go-missing-karnataka-government-worried-1057163.html
03-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government imposes new Covid curbs amid Omicron scare||Taking a wait-and-watch approach on the Omicron threat, the Basavaraj Bommai administration on Friday chose not to impose curfew-like measures, but limited the number of people attending functions and made vaccination compulsory for parents of school-goers and citizens visiting malls.  Cultural events, fests and functions in all educational institutions stand cancelled till January 15, the government said in an order issued after Bommai chaired a high-level meeting to review the Covid-19 situation.  “We are making double vaccination mandatory for people to be allowed inside malls and theatres,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka said.  Parents of children below 18 years going to school or college should be compulsorily vaccinated with two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, the government said. Vaccination is a must for government employees, too.  Ashoka said the relaxation on functions will be revoked. “We are placing a cap of 500 guests attending marriages,” Ashoka said. The 500-limit also applies to all gatherings, meetings and conferences.  The meeting Bommai chaired discussed the severity of the Omicron threat. “Two cases have been reported in Karnataka. The world over there is 400 cases. Officially, there’s no study report available. But, unofficially, we’ve been told that this infection is not intense. Those infected have mild symptoms and no death has been reported due to Omicron,” Ashoka explained.  The government, however, is bullish on holding the winter session of the legislature in Belagavi notwithstanding calls for it to be cancelled in the wake of the fresh threat. “Omicron cases are in Bengaluru. Belagavi is safer,” Ashoka said.  Asked about curbing political meetings happening for the December 10 Legislative Council elections, he said: “For now, we’re focussed on schools and colleges as most of the fresh [Delta variant] cases involve students.”  Unwilling to be caught off guard, the government will bring back systems that were in place during the devastating second wave of Covid-19.  Fines for not wearing a face mask in public places will return: Rs 250 in cities and Rs 100 outside.  “The government has decided to increase daily testing from 60,000 to 1 lakh,” Ashoka said. “Also, directions have been issued to restart oxygen and ICU beds that were set up during the second wave. Oxygen plants should be served and restarted. Committees that were formed to oversee the logistics of oxygen supply will be reactivated,” Ashoka said, adding that state-wide control rooms will be opened once again. “We're preparing for everything.”  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-imposes-new-covid-curbs-amid-omicron-scare-1057196.html
03-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government orders inquiry into Omicron-positive South African's mysterious RT-PCR report||A day after Bengaluru reported India's first two cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, controversy erupted over the ‘hush-hush’ departure of the first patient – a 66-year-old South African traveller – and mysterious RT-PCR reports that he managed to get without stepping out of quarantine. Acknowledging lapses on the parts of local administration, the state government on Friday ordered an inquiry into the incident and took up a case at the High Ground police station. Soon after the high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Revenue minister R Ashoka told media persons that Bengaluru City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant has been directed to monitor the investigation and submit a detailed report pertaining to the case. Sources in the government revealed that the 66-year-old South African traveller, a top official from a Johannesburg-based pharmaceutical major landed in Bengaluru on November 20 with a negative RT-PCR report. However, his swab samples taken at the airport upon arrival tested positive for Covid-19. “Subsequently, the Bengaluru Urban health officials triaged the patient at a star hotel in Vasanth Nagar and found him to be asymptomatic. His samples were collected again on November 22 for genomic sequencing,” an official said. However, in the meantime, the traveller while under isolation at the star hotel managed to self investigate in consultation with a private lab and obtained a negative RT-PCR report and reportedly visited a subsidiary firm in Bommasanadra to attend a board meeting. “It was puzzling to know how a patient under isolation could obtain a negative RT-PCR report without even stepping out of the hotel and in less than three days of testing positive. Nobody had been to his room to collect the swab samples,” explained a BBMP official. The traveller even as his genomic sequencing reports were awaited by the district administration, had managed to check out of the hotel on November 27 and left for Dubai on the same day. Admitting to missing links in the case, Revenue minister R Ashoka said, “We have taken up a case at the High Ground police station and Commissioner of Police has been directed to investigate the matter and submit a report.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-orders-inquiry-into-omicron-positive-south-africans-mysterious-rt-pcr-report-1057212.html
03-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 413 new Covid cases, four deaths||Karnataka logged 413 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Friday. The day also saw 256 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,52,101. Bengaluru Urban continued to top the list of cases (212). The city also saw 185 discharges and two deaths. The total number of active cases in the state are now 6,896. The positivity rate for the day stood at 0.39% and the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.96%. Mysuru district reported 45 followed by Shivamogga 33 and Tumakuru 30. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-413-new-covid-cases-four-deaths-1057371.html
03-12-2021||West||Five more travellers from 'at risk' countries test Covid-19 positive in Mumbai; nine so far||Five more persons, who arrived in Mumbai from 'at risk countries' tested positive for Covid-19 infection on Thursday amid concerns over the new Omicron variant of the virus, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said. The civic body's additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the number such travellers who have tested positive on arrival in the city and who are suspected to have been infected with the Omicron variant, increased to nine. The BMC officials said that all the five travellers are males, who had arrived in the city from November 17 to December 2. Three of them had arrived from London, one from Portugal and the fifth one from Germany. According to civic officials they have carried out Covid-19 tests on a total of 485 travellers so far. All the positive travellers have been admitted to the civic-run Seven Hills Hospital and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing, the BMC official said. "Contract tracing of these travellers is going on," he said. A traveller had tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday and was admitted to the hospital. According to the Centre, the countries designated as "at-risk" are European countries, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-more-travellers-from-at-risk-countries-test-covid-19-positive-in-mumbai-nine-so-far-1057063.html
03-12-2021||West||Gujarat Congress gets new president ahead of 2022 Assembly polls||Ahead of 2022 Assembly polls, former parliamentarian and a strong leader from dominant Other Backward Caste (OBC) Jagdish Thakor on Friday was officially appointed as President of Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC). The decision came nearly nine months after outgoing president Amit Chavda had tendered resignation following the party's embarrassing defeat in local body elections. The party is yet to officially announce the name of Leader of Opposition (LOP) in the state Assembly to replace Paresh Dhanani who had also resigned along with Chavda in February this year. The name of Sukhram Rathwa, a tribal MLA from central Gujarat, is said to be considered for the post of LOP. "We are very happy with the announcement. It is a good decision ahead of Assembly polls. He is an old hand and an experienced leader. The party will surely do well in his leadership in the coming polls," party's state working president Hardik Patel told DH while reacting to the announcement. The 64-year-old Thakor is originally from Kankrej taluka of Banaskantha district and was elected member of legislative assembly twice from Dahegam Assembly in Gandhinagar district and won Patan Lok Sabha seat in 2009. The elevation of Thakor, who is currently the party's vice-president, comes amidst lobbies by several groups in the Congress who wanted their own men for the post that included several past presidents. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-congress-gets-new-president-ahead-of-2022-assembly-polls-1057170.html
03-12-2021||West||Sample from Omicron suspect in Gujarat's Jamnagar sent for testing||The Gujarat health department on Friday informed that the samples obtained from a Zimbabwe resident's arrival in Jamnagar have been sent for laboratory testing to identify whether the Covid-19 patient has been infected with the new mutant Omicron or not. The Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), health department, Manoj Agrawal said, "The samples obtained from the 72-year-old person, who arrived from Zimbabwe, have been sent to the Biotechnological Research Laboratory in Ahmedabad. It will take at least 2 to 3 days for the results to arrive and ascertain whether the person was infected with the new mutant omicron or not. Right now there's no threat as far as the new variant of the Covid-19 is concerned and the government is fully prepared to combat the threat against the coronavirus and no changes have been made for the preparation of the upcoming Vibrant Gujarat Summit." A 72-year-old man tested positive for Coronavirus in the Morakda village near Jamnagar city of Gujarat. Following his return from Zimbabwe, an African nation and one of the 'at-risk' countries identified by the authorities and in order to ascertain if he is infected with the Omicron variant, the health authorities have sent his samples to Ahmedabad for genome sequencing. The man is believed to be a native of Jamnagar and has been living in Zimbabwe for many years. He arrived on November 28 to meet his father-in-law. After he got a fever, his doctor advised him to get an RT-PCR test done. As mandated, the private laboratory informed the health authorities that his report was Covid-19 positive. He is shifted to the isolation ward at the Guru Gobind Singh Government Hospital in Jamnagar. The authorities started contact tracing as per protocols. Two people have tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus in Karnataka. The new strain has been marked as a 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organization (WHO). Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sample-from-omicron-suspect-in-gujarats-jamnagar-sent-for-testing-1057179.html
03-12-2021||West||Chargesheet filed against 33 accused in Dombivli gang-rape case||Nearly two months after a girl filed a complaint of gang rape against 29 youths and four juveniles in Thane district, police on Friday filed a charge sheet in the case.  The 15-year-old victim girl from Dombivli filed the complaint on 22 September.  The charge sheet was filed in the Magistrate’s court in Kalyan in Thane district. The charge sheet runs over 800 pages and contains the statements of 112 witnesses.  Initial investigations revealed that the girl’s boyfriend indulged in forcible sex and made a video.  Later, he shared the video with his friends, blackmailed the victim girl and was repeatedly raped by different boys at different locations.  The accused were booked under sections 376 (rape), 376 (N), 376 (3), 376 (D) (A) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4,6 and 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). According to police, the girl was raped in various places - Dombivli, Ambarnath, Rabale and Murbad in Thane city and district. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chargesheet-filed-against-33-accused-in-dombivli-gang-rape-case-1057215.html
03-12-2021||West||Omicron scare: 28 samples sent for genome sequencing in Maharashtra||Amid threats over the Omicron variant of Covid-19, the Maharashtra government on Friday reiterated the importance of “vax and mask” even as 28 samples have been sent for genome sequencing. Maharashtra has so far not reported a single positive case of the Omicron variant. “We have sent 28 samples for genome sequencing,” state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope told reporters in Jalna. He said that while 12 samples have been sent to Kasturba Hospital in Mumbai, 16 samples have been sent to Pune-based National Institute of Virology. Around 10 samples have been collected from Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region. While 25 samples are from those who have come from high-risk countries, the rest three are from their close contacts. “There is no reason to worry. We have to take precautions….double vaccinations and masks,” Tope said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 Task Force member Dr Shashank Joshi said: “Every virus mutates so will SARS-COV-2 but in evolution the next strain should be less virulent. What can we do? Don't panic, get vaccinated, get your next shot, wear N-95 or double mask, avoid crowds and follow Covid appropriate behavior and focus on proper ventilation.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/omicron-scare-28-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-in-maharashtra-1057250.html
03-12-2021||West||Assembly Speaker election will be held during Winter Session: Nana Patole||The new Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly would be elected during the winter session to be held in Mumbai later this month. “The election for the post of the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly will be held in the Winter Session in December and the Speaker will be from the Congress party,” Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee President Nana Patole said. It may be recalled Patole, who is an MLA from Sakoli in Bhandara district, resigned in February to take over as the MPCC chief. Patole said that the duration of the sessions held so far were short due to Covid-19 restrictions. “The election process for the post of Speaker takes at least three days, so the election could not take place so far. In the Sinter Session, however, the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly will be elected by voice vote,” Patole told reporters. “There is nothing wrong with the method of voice voting; it is being practiced in all the states across the country. The Legislative Assembly has made changes in their rules. In Maharashtra too, the election of the Chairman of the Legislative Council is done in the same manner, so there is no reason to object if it is being used for the Speaker's elections,” Patole added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/assembly-speaker-election-will-be-held-during-winter-session-nana-patole-1057257.html
03-12-2021||West||Nawab Malik says NCB wants to take over 'top five' drug cases from Maharashtra police, questions motive||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Friday said the NCB has asked the state police's Anti Narcotics Cell (ANC) to transfer its "top five cases" to the central agency, and questioned the Union government's intentions. The Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) letter to the ANC attributed the decision to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, he claimed in a video shared on social media. He also shared the text of the purported letter. NCB Director General S N Pradhan wrote to Maharashtra Director General of Police on November 24 asking for a list of five cases fit to be handed over to the NCB, said the senior NCP leader. The letter sought that state governments prepare lists of cases having "inter-state and international" ramifications and consider handing them over to the NCB to help it unearth entire networks, he said. "We want to know what is the criteria for (selecting) top five cases. Are they the ones which garnered a lot of publicity?" Malik said. Why the rights of the states were being infringed upon in this manner despite there being no provision in the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act for such a take-over, he asked. "Is there an ulterior motive? NCB must answer the citizens of India," Malik, who has been attacking the Central agency on a host of issues centering on the arrest of Aryan Khan in an alleged drugs case, tweeted. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nawab-malik-says-ncb-wants-to-take-over-top-five-drug-cases-from-maharashtra-police-questions-motive-1057270.html
