04-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man attempts suicide over Ambedkar statue installation row in Mysuru||A 29-year-old man made an attempt to kill himself by silting his throat after police and the officials of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) prevented the installation of a statue of Dr B R Ambedkar, late on Friday. Satish made an attempt to kill himself as the officials shifted the statue. It has to be noted that a section of people of Paduvaragalli in the city prepared to install the statue at Matrumandali Circle without obtaining permission and thus, the officials opposed it and shifted the statue from the place. According to the police, Satish silt his throat as mark of protest. However, the police stopped him and shifted to hospital. Flash protest: Following the incident, the people of the area staged a flash protest against the officials and the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-attempts-suicide-over-ambedkar-statue-installation-row-in-mysuru-1057518.html
04-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ensure uninterrupted supply of sand from CRZ areas: CCA||Members of Civil Contractors’ Association (CCA) urged district administration to take steps to ensure uninterrupted supply of sand from coastal regulation zone (CRZ) areas within 15 days. "The quality of sand from non-CRZ areas is poor and cannot be used for plastering in construction works. There is excess wastage also. We need fine quality of sand which is available in the CRZ areas. The cost of sand from the non-CRZ areas is much higher than the price fixed by district administration," Association President Mahabala Kottary told media persons at Patrika Bhvan on Friday. He said, “Elected representatives and officials should allow mining of sand in the CRZ areas for the benefit of construction activities in and around Mangaluru. If no steps are taken to allow mining of sand from the CRZ areas, the association will suspend all ongoing construction activities and intensify its protest to ensure availability of sand.” “During the previous year, mining of sand at the CRZ areas was allowed after much delay. The permit for sand extraction in the CRZ areas had ended on September 16 this year. Even after two months, no steps were taken to renew the permits. The Bathymetric survey to assess the sand dunes had been conducted in the CRZ areas and the report was submitted to experts,” Kottary said. The district administration had fixed price of sand from the non-CRZ areas at Rs 700 per tonne (keeping the distance between Mangaluru and the non-CRZ blocks in mind). Thus district administration had fixed Rs 8,000 per load of sand. But owing to the increase in transportation cost, three units of sand were now priced around Rs 15,000, which proved to be too expensive for the civil contractors. Association Honorary President Purushotham Kottary said that about 20 to 25 loads of sand were needed for the construction of a small house. Due to increase in the price of sand, the construction cost had also doubled. The district did not face any shortage of sand from 1990- 2010, he added. He said there is no shortage of sand in the coastal belt as sand is available in abundance on the seashore and river banks. “The shortage of sand is an artificial scarcity. Mangaluru city alone requires 500 loads of sand daily. The construction of government projects has not been hit as they get sand, seized from racketeers, for the work," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ensure-uninterrupted-supply-of-sand-from-crz-areas-cca-1057519.html
04-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||BS Yediyurappa confident that JD(S) will back BJP in council polls||Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa exuded confidence that JD(S) would back BJP in local authorities constituencies of legislative council polls where it has not fielded candidates.  Speaking to media persons at Aangodu village in Davangere taluk on Saturday, he said BJP is facing the council polls in 20 constituencies out of 25. "I am hopeful that JD(S)would back BJP in the polls". When questioned on cabinet expansion, he said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai may do it.  On a meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Midi and former prime minister HD Deve Gowda in Delhi, he said that there was no need to attach political meaning to it.  On Chitradurga-Davangere legislative council polls, he said BJP nominee KS Naveen has lost the polls twice. There is sympathy for him. He is likely to win this time.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bs-yediyurappa-confident-that-jds-will-back-bjp-in-council-polls-1057540.html
04-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four die in Chitradurga as tanker hits parked lorry||Four persons died on spot when a gas tanker ran over them near Doddasiddavanahalli on Pune-Bengaluru stretch of NH 4 in the taluk in the wee hours of Saturday. Hulugappa of Raichur, Manjunath of Kushtagi, Sanjay of Vijayapura and Sharanappa of Rona taluk, Gadag district are the deceased. The lorry ferrying onion was heading towards Bengaluru from Rona of Gadag district. Following a tyre puncture, the driver parked the vehicle on the road side and he was replacing it. A speeding gas tanker rammed into parked lorry, killing four including the lorry driver. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-die-in-chitradurga-as-tanker-hits-parked-lorry-1057549.html
04-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cattle theft by wielding weapon: Four arrested||In a swift action, the Kavoor police arrested four persons for allegedly stealing three cattle that were left for grazing near Goldfinch ground in Bangrakuloor by wielding lethal weapons against those who tried to stop them from stealing, in the wee hours of Friday (December 3). The arrested are Mohammed Salim, Mohammed Tanzil, Mohammed Iqbal and Afridi. All the arrested hail from Ullal, on the outskirts of the city, said City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar. The police have seized a vehicle that was used for transporting the stolen cattle. The police are investigating the previous offences carried out by the arrested, he said. Further, he said that close friends of the arrested were involved in similar cattle theft and illegal slaughtering of cattle and selling the meat. The police will verify it as well. The arrested had claimed that they had stolen cattle in Uppinangady, Bantwal and other places, said the Commissioner. The police officers from Kavoor, Moodbidri and Bajpe stations were involved in arresting four persons and tracing the vehicle used for the transportation of stolen cattle. In fact, following the theft of cattle,  Vishwa Hindu Parishad members had even planned a mega protest rally in front of the Kavoor station on Saturday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cattle-theft-by-wielding-weapon-four-arrested-1057552.html
04-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||E-Cell of MIT supports over 10 student startups||The student entrepreneurship cell—the E-Cell of Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) has supported over 10 student startups and provided internships to over 50 students at the institute despite the constraints of Covid-19 pandemic. Founded by senior engineering students at the institute—Dhwanit Shah, Ankit Jajoo, Armaan Charania under the guidance of faculty advisor Dr Sriram K V, the E-Cell aims to inculcate an entrepreneurial mindset among students and to establish a strong startup ecosystem for budding entrepreneurs, said Cell Chairperson Saish Shetty.The E -Cell has been working on mentorship and guidance for the last seven months.   A significant struggle faced by startups at an elementary level has been the lack of sufficient early-stage mentorship and guidance. The E-Cell’s objective is to tackle the status quo by providing effective mentorship to students with raw ideas using support from experienced faculty and experts in the industry, he added. The E-Cell was formally inaugurated by the institute’s director Dr Anil Rana. Speaking at the launch, the Director encouraged students to think innovatively in this age of entrepreneurship and to utilise the college’s Innovation Centre to implement their ideas.During the inauguration, the new office-bearers including chairperson Saish Shetty, deputy chairpersons Shroat Mheta and Ujjwal Somani for the year 2021-22 were announced.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/e-cell-of-mit-supports-over-10-student-startups-1057618.html
04-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Take money from Congress but vote for BJP in legislative council: MLC||MLC N Ravi Kumar stirred a controversy at election campaign meeting at Aanugodu village in the taluk on Saturday by asking voters to take money from Congress but cast their votes to BJP in the legislative council polls slated to be held on December 10. He was campaigning for BJP nominee from Chitradurga-Davangere local authorities constituency K S Naveen. He said Congress workers will try to lure voters with money. "You take it from them. But vote for BJP in the polls." He also asked them to cast their votes carefully to ensure that they won't become invalid. BJP had lost the polls twice in the polls due to invalid votes. "So, this time, they just have to write one in numeric form in front of BJP nominee K S Naveen on the ballot paper and don't think of giving second preference votes as you have to elect one representative and not two." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/take-money-from-congress-but-vote-for-bjp-in-legislative-council-mlc-1057641.html
04-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bhadravathi farmer lodges complaint against cows over no milk||In an unusual case, a farmer from Sidlipura village in the taluk lodged a complaint at Holehonnur police station against his four cows alleging that they are not giving milk for the past four days despite providing fodder to them. Ramaiah in the complaint stated that he takes four cows to farm fields for grazing every day from 8:00 am to 11:00 am and from 4:00 pm to 6:00 pm. "But they are not giving milk for the last four days. So, police must convince them to give milk," he urged. Police told DH that such a complaint can't be registered. But the complaint has gone viral on social media. "We have convinced the farmer about this," they said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bhadravathi-farmer-lodges-complaint-against-cows-over-no-milk-1057672.html
04-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP-JD(S) to forge alliance for Karnataka Legislative Council polls||The BJP and JD(S) have come to an understanding for the forthcoming Legislative Council polls in Karnataka after JD(S) national president H D Deve Gowda had a back-to-back meetings with BJP top leadership for the past few days here, sources in the BJP said. As per the understanding, the BJP voters will vote for JD(S) candidates in Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Mysuru (2 seats), Bengaluru Rural, Mandya, Hassan and Tumakuru constituencies while JD (S) voters will vote for the BJP candidates in other segments. “Though the BJP has fielded candidates in all seats, including Southern Karnataka region, the party will direct its voters to vote in favour of JD(S) candidates,” the BJP sources told DH. Gowda, who met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on November 30 in the national capital, also spoke to BJP national president J P Nadda over the phone two days ago expressing his desire for an alliance with the party. Nadda discussed the issue with Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and BJP national general secretary B L Santosh, sources said. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who was in Delhi two days ago, also deliberated the issue with Joshi and Santosh. Bommai also favoured the pact with JD(S) to get a majority in the 75-member Upper House of the state legislature. At the state level, senior BJP leader B S Yediyurappa and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy held initial talks for the alliance, thesources said.   Gowda, who strongly pitched for an alliance with BJP, also explained to the BJP top leadership that if JD(S) and BJP form an alliance, both parties can limit the Congress victory to 5 to 6 out of 25 seats. In case of triangle contests, Congress would walk away with a victory of more than 10 seats, Gowda is learnt to have told BJP, the sources said. The election to 25 MLC seats will be held on December 10 and the results will be declared on December 14. Gowda, who is nursing a political grudge against Congress leader and former chief minister Siddaramaiah, wanted to put a break to Congress in the state by ensuring the defeat of its maximum number of candidates, the sources said. Meanwhile, Gowda, speaking to reporters in Tumakuru, said Kumaraswamy would make an announcement about their election strategy on Sunday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-jds-to-forge-alliance-for-karnataka-legislative-council-polls-1057606.html
04-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||I am not an aspirant for the CM's post now, says Murugesh Nirani||"I am not an aspirant for the chief minister's post now. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai is the capable person to this post and the 2023 assembly polls will be fought under his leadership", clarified Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani. Replying to Rural Development and Panchayat Raj minister K S Eshwarappa's recent remarks that Nirani will become Chief Minister, he said Bommai had an experience in politics, spanning 30 years. "His father S R Bommai had also served as Chief Minister of the state. We (Nirani and Basavaraj Bommai) both studied engineering in the same college and the Chief Minsiter who holds an additional law degree had also worked well as law minister. Hence, he is the suitable person to the CM's post," the minister said. The party is aiming at winning over 125 seats in the next assembly polls. The high command and Rastriya Swayamsevak Sangha would decide on who the next Chief Minsiter will be after the party comes back to power. "If the party tells me not to contest the next assembly polls, I will accept it and will continue to work for the party", he added. On the rumours of possible truck with the JD(S), Nirani stated that he was not aware of it. "Senior party leaders and the Chief Minister will take a call on allying the JD(S) for the forthcoming MLC polls," he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-am-not-an-aspirant-for-the-cms-post-now-says-murugesh-nirani-1057635.html
04-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) doors closed for GTD, says H D Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Saturday made it clear that the doors of JD(S) are permanently closed for MLA G T Devegowda, who is staying away from the party activities since 2018. Kumaraswamy said the party workers have expelled Devegowda from the party. Without taking any names, he said, “Devegowda performed ‘Kalyanotsava’ at a temple for the welfare of someone and to make him chief minister.”  A few days ago, the leader of opposition Siddaramaiah and district in-charge minister had attended the event. “JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda, myself and my son Nikhil had made several attempts to convince Devegowda and now it is a closed chapter,” he said.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-doors-closed-for-gtd-says-h-d-kumaraswamy-1057701.html
04-12-2021||National||Editor's Note | DH on Saturday||Bang in the middle of the pandemic last year, we launched DH on Sunday, packed with in-depth stories, features and analyses under the credo of Ideas on Every Page. It was unconventional timing, but good journalism is even more welcome in tough times. We value the feedback you have sent us and will work hard to keep your faith. Today, 14 months later, we’re turning our attention to the other half of the weekend. We are delighted to present DH on Saturday, which gives you much more to read as the week slows pleasurably down. At the new product’s heart is the Saturday Story, which draws on experiential or ringside storytelling, either through a text narrative or through the best of our pictures. This week, three of our journalists get a unique peek into the life of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. That’s the top of the pyramid, but in coming weeks, expect to get inside the shoes of some of the city’s other, very different professions, to take unusual journeys, and to don the lab coat for interesting experiments. Since it’s a hot-button topic, we’re introducing a Design page: this week we talk of container homes and temple jewellery. It’s great to save -- and look for advice in our Monday personal finance pages -- but it’s fun to Spend, subject of another new section. We’re not given much to nostalgia, but we do have a gift for DH loyalists: We’re bringing back Open Sesame, a section for kids. The young at heart are likely to enjoy it, too, as we’re introducing graphic storytelling to explain the news. And of course, don’t miss our page 1 Whackyverse combination of topical caricature and verse. Do tell us what you think by mailing in to dhonsat@deccanherald.co.in||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/editors-note-dh-on-saturday-1057425.html
04-12-2021||National||MSP to continue, committee formed to make it more effective and transparent: Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said Minimum Support Price (MSP) for crops would continue and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had set up a committee to make the mechanism more effective and transparent. Queried on the shortage of fertilisers in the country, the minister said farmers were getting it in full quantity and would continue to do so. "The MSP for crops was already there, and will be there in the days to come. Besides, to make it more effective and transparent, the prime minister has constituted a committee," he told reporters here. He brushed aside a query on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's comments on the farm issue by claiming "even Congressmen don't believe in Rahul Gandhi's statements". On reports of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) forming its own police, the minister said he was not aware of it but wondered how a political party could form its own "police".  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/msp-to-continue-committee-formed-to-make-it-more-effective-and-transparent-tomar-1057438.html
04-12-2021||National||National-level coordination needed to check smuggling of fake currency, arms, narcotics: Amit Shah||To prevent crimes such as circulation of fake currency notes and smuggling of narcotics and arms, there is a need for coordination at the national level respecting the spirit of the Constitution and without interfering in the rights of states, Home Minister Amit Shah said on Friday. Addressing 122 probationary officers of the 2020 batch of the Indian Police Service, Shah said all officers should pay attention to issues related to the internal security of the country in totality. "Our Constitution has placed its trust on you to serve the country for 30 to 35 years and you should try to bring the spirit of the Constitution to the ground level fearlessly, because those who take a stand become societal agents of change," he said. Emphasising that the officers should never avoid basic policing, Shah said focus of their activities should be the police station and the focus of information should be the beat officer. "There is a need for coordination at the national level without interfering with the rights of the states and respecting the spirit of the Constitution to prevent crimes such as smuggling of fake currency, arms smuggling, and narcotics," he said. He said the commendable work done by the police and Central Armed Police Forces during the Covid-19 pandemic has changed the attitude of the people towards the police and "we need to take this forward". Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-level-coordination-needed-to-check-smuggling-of-fake-currency-arms-narcotics-amit-shah-1057442.html
04-12-2021||National||DH Toon | Truth shall triumph with terms and conditions!||The Government has no record of the deaths of protesting farmers during the agitation against the controversial farm laws, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed the Lok Sabha, even as the lower house of Parliament on Wednesday witnessed uproar over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-truth-shall-triumph-with-terms-and-conditions-1057451.html
04-12-2021||National||Woman who returned from SA to Chandigarh jumps home quarantine, goes to 5-star hotel||A woman who returned to Chandigarh from South Africa two days ago allegedly broke home quarantine and went to a five-star hotel here, prompting authorities on Friday to order strict action against her for violating Covid protocols for travellers, especially those arriving from "at-risk" countries where Omicron variant has been detected. After returning from South Africa, the woman reached a housing society in Sector 48-B here on December 1, according to an official order. On December 2, she broke the quarantine protocol and went to a five-star hotel here in the evening and later left the hotel late in the night to go back home, it said. She has allegedly violated the home quarantine Covid protocol for international travellers from "at-risk" countries. The Health Department authorities here ordered that strict action be taken against her for violating the quarantine protocol. The director, Health Services, has been asked to arrange for an RT-PCR test of all the staff of the hotel immediately. The order said the woman's RT-PCR report on December 1 was negative and a repeat sampling, as per current protocol, was due on December 8. The authorities concerned have directed the hotels/guest houses here to ascertain travel history of the guests for the last 15 days at the time of their check-in. Earlier, a 39-year-old Chandigarh resident who had returned from South Africa a few days ago had tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday and his sample was sent to Delhi for whole genome sequencing. The B.1.1.529 Covid variant or Omicron, first detected in South Africa last week, was designated by the World Health Organisation (WHO) as a “variant of concern”, the health body's top category for worrying coronavirus variants. Meanwhile, amid concerns over the new variant, the administration here stepped up surveillance of those returning from abroad. The administration held a review meeting here earlier this week and the authorities concerned have been asked to ensure enforcement of the Covid protocols. The country's first two cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 were recorded in Karnataka -- in a 66-year-old South African flyer and a 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor with no travel history and both men fully vaccinated. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-who-returned-from-sa-to-chandigarh-jumps-home-quarantine-goes-to-5-star-hotel-1057456.html
04-12-2021||National||India logs 8,603 fresh Covid-19 cases, 415 deaths||India on Saturday reported 8,603 fresh Covid-19 cases and 415 deaths in the past 24 hours, Union Health Ministry data showed. Meanwhile, 8,190 persons recovered in the same time period The country's death toll has risen to 4,70,530 since the beginning of the pandemic Active caseload currently stands at 99,974. More to follow... Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-8603-fresh-covid-19-cases-415-deaths-1057473.html
04-12-2021||National||INSACOG wants random Covid testing to assess Omicron threat||With India detecting its first two cases of the Omicron Covid-19 variant in Bengaluru, the country's Central genome sequencing forum, INSACOG, has pulled up its socks to gauge the true extent of Omicron cases. The Omicron strain, first detected in South Africa is said to be much more heavily mutated than the Delta variant that had shaken up the word. After a meeting on Friday following India's Omicron discovery, INSACOG had reviewed their sequencing strategy. They revealed that 'no specific decision' was taken in the meet other than ramping up random testing for genome sequencing. Covid clusters are being investigated across the country, including 2 outbreaks in Karnataka. "The collection should be focussed in and around areas where omicron positive cases have already been reported,” a member of the body told INSACOG. INSACOG is waiting for 'virus isolation' results, News18 reported. Virus isolation is a means to find out the characteristics of the virus. An official said that the forum will take calls once they get a report on it. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/insacog-wants-random-covid-testing-to-assess-omicron-threat-1057486.html
04-12-2021||National||Venkaiah Naidu calls for wider debate on 'freebies' during polls||As various governments dole out 'freebies' to keep voters under its spell during election seasons, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday sought a wider debate on 'freebies' to ensure "most effective utilisation" of scarce resources. Naidu said that resource base and their best use separates the developing economies from the developed while urging the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of the Parliament, which is celebrating the 100th anniversary of its existence, to examine this aspect to enable wider public discussion. Lauding the role of the PAC, he said that its constant pursuit of action taken by the government creates a "fear of scrutiny" and this results in systemic improvement and prevention of "financial murders", which are large scale irregularities and wasteful expenditure. Addressing a function here in Central Hall, which was inaugurated by President Ram Nath Kovind, the Vice President said that the "wise, faithful and economical" utilisation of the monies granted by the Parliament is spent for realising the stated socio-economic outcomes. "We are all alive to the present scenario of the governments indulging in doling out freebies for obvious reasons. While ensuring the welfare and social security of the needy people is an important obligation of the Governments, it is time that there is a wider debate on harmonizing the welfare and development objectives," Naidu said. "Expenditures must be carefully balanced so that both the short-term and long-term development objectives get equal attention. Since PAC has to examine the effectiveness of resource use in terms of socio-economic outcomes, it may be in order for the Committee to examine the issue of balancing these two objectives for wider consideration," he said. When it comes to people getting benefits, Naidu said was of the view that there should be "no line, no queue, no waiting list, no meetings, no greetings, no shaking of hands and no doing in between hands" and referred to the Direct Benefits Transfer (DBT), which has led to "substantial savings". Naidu emphasised that the PAC examines the expenditure already incurred and its reports are further amplified by the MPs, which lead to questions and debates in Parliament besides getting media attention. It is a dream of every MP to be on PAC given its role and importance, he said. He urged the PAC to reinvent itself based on the experience of the last 100 years to more effectively ensure financial discipline in the context of the central government’s budgetary expenditure increasing from a mere Rs 197 crore in the first Budget to Rs 35 lakh crore now, marking an increase of 17,766 times. This makes monitoring by the PAC "much more complex and challenging", he said. Lauding Narendra Modi government for "efficient utilisation" of resources besides "checking corruption and improving governance", he said, "it may not be out of place to note on this occasion that the government...has over the last seven years undertaken a wide range of initiatives to ensure effective utilisation of limited resources. One illustration is the Direct Benefits Transfer (DBT) which has resulted in substantial savings. Corruption has been substantially eradicated and spirited efforts were launched to improve governance at various levels." Recalling former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi's remark that out of every rupee spent, only 16 paise reached the beneficiary, he called for a fresh assessment on wasteful expenditure and underutilisation of scarce resources. At the function, he also called for a minimum of 100 sittings of Parliament every year and an adequate number of sittings of State Assemblies to enable detailed discussions on a range of issues. Parties should take a consistent stand instead of speaking differently while in opposition and in the government, he said. He also stressed improving the functioning of Parliament panels, as they enable bi-partisan discussions rising above the political divide. "Discipline, time sense and ethics should guide all those in public life," he added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/venkaiah-naidu-calls-for-wider-debate-on-freebies-during-polls-1057517.html
04-12-2021||National||INX media case: Former director Peter Mukerjea gets regular bail||A Delhi Court on Saturday granted regular bail to former media baron Peter Mukerjea, in connection with an alleged criminal conspiracy involving former Union Finance minister P. Chidambaram, his son Karti and others in relation to foreign direct investment to a firm, INX Media, in 2007. The special CBI judge M K Nagpal granted the bail to Mukerjea, who was the erstwhile director and Chief Operating Officer of INX Media. The bail application was argued by Adv Sandeep Kapur, Senior Partner, Karanjawala and Co and assisted by Adv Apoorva Pandey, Adv Ashneet Singh, Adv Mridul Yadav, and Adv GG Kashyap. According to the case, excess Foreign Direct Investment was approved by INX Media (P) Ltd without the approval of the Foreign Investment Promotion Board which was allegedly scuttled by Karti Chidambaram by influencing public servants from various government departments by virtue of his relationship with the then Finance Minister P Chidambaram and receiving huge kick-backs as consideration. On November 27, the same special court had issued summons to the Chidambarams and others in ED and CBI cases in connection with Aircel Maxis money-laundering and corruption cases, in which the CBI and the ED have alleged that as the former finance minister granted approval to the deal beyond his capacity, which benefited certain persons and he received kickbacks in return. It is alleged that Chidambaram withheld Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance of the deal until his son, Karti Chidambaram received the five-per cent share in the company. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, appearing for probe agencies had earlier informed the court that agencies have sent Letters Rogatory -- documents making a request through a foreign court to obtain information -- to different countries and there are some developments on that. According to rules and the foreign direct investment policy in force at that time, Chidambaram was allegedly empowered to give approval to proposals involving foreign investment only up to Rs 600 crore. Special Judge M K Nagpal had noted that there was sufficient evidence to summon Chidambaram and the other accused in the corruption and money-laundering cases. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inx-media-case-former-director-peter-mukerjea-gets-regular-bail-1057523.html
04-12-2021||National||Cases should be taken to logical conclusion expeditiously: FM to DRI||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday urged officials of intelligence wings to take every case to logical conclusion expeditiously, so that it can deter perpetrators of economic crime like smuggling. Speaking at the 64th DRI Foundation Day, the Finance Minister said logical conclusion is important but speedier conclusion is what will keep the heat on people who are promoting these kinds of activities. The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), under the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), is an intelligence and enforcement agency of the Government of India on anti-smuggling matters. She stressed on capacity building so that the officials are quick to pick up right intelligence inputs and act on time. "You get a lot of intelligence input, but sometimes and many times it is difficult to identify if it is really actionable, sometimes they're so generic. To act on it becomes difficult...capacity to be built within these institutions to make sure you're able to see which of these intelligence inputs are so quickly actionable," she said. Agencies like DRI based on their experience can give ideas on the methods through those illegal acts can be prevented, she said. "I think attempts at preventing will also have to be undertaken by us while deterrence and detection will always have to be on the high," she said. She exhorted the DRI to be vigilant with regard to toxic waste being dumped into the country. In emerging economies "because of the way in which we have built over the decades capacity to recycle materials, I'm afraid quite a large attempt and frequent attempt is being made on bringing in toxic waste to our shores and leave them there. So I would think that is an area on which I would like to see DRI more active", she said. She also observed that greater media coverage of success of DRI's would also deter the perpetrators of illegal activities. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cases-should-be-taken-to-logical-conclusion-expeditiously-fm-to-dri-1057533.html
04-12-2021||National||Proud of exemplary contributions of Indian Navy: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday on the occasion of Navy Day praised the navy personnel for their outstanding courage and professionalism. "Greetings on Navy Day. We are proud of the exemplary contributions of the Indian navy. Our navy is widely respected for its professionalism and outstanding courage. Our navy personnel have always been at the forefront of mitigating crisis situations like natural disasters," Modi said in a tweet. Navy Day is celebrated every December 4, as on this day in 1971 during the Indo-Pak war Indian Navy undertook Operation Trident in which its missile boats carried out an audacious attack to sink enemy ships. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/proud-of-exemplary-contributions-of-indian-navy-modi-1057536.html
04-12-2021||National||Omicron variant already in India, not coming from abroad, says CSIR-CCMB chief||After a Bengaluru doctor with no travel history tested Covid-19 positive with the new variant of Omicron, the chief of a government-run research institute said the case affirmed that the mutated virus is not coming from abroad but it is already prevalent in the country and likely to be present in all major cities.  However, CSIR-CCMB Director Rakesh Mishra said that Omicron seems to be causing negligible symptoms despite a possibility of community transmission.  Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) is a fundamental life sciences research institute under the aegis of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), an autonomous body under Government of India. India has so far managed to detect three cases of Omicron. Two, including the Bengaluru doctor, in Karnataka and another in Gujarat, on Saturday.  Experts have called for extensive screening and genome sequencing to detect the cases of Omicron in the country. A positive aspect, Mishra said, is that despite its potential presence there has been no surge in mortality or hospitalisations due to the virus.  He said the news of the new variant is a wake-up call for Indians to follow Covid-19 protocols like wearing masks and receiving both doses of the vaccine against the virus. "Vaccines are like helmets. Just as helmets don’t prevent an accident, vaccines don’t prevent Covid-19 infections. They both protect us from hospitalisation and death," Mishra said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-variant-already-in-india-not-coming-from-abroad-says-csir-ccmb-chief-1057541.html
04-12-2021||National||India's defence exports in past 7 years have crossed Rs 38,000 crore: Rajnath||India has exported defence items worth more than Rs 38,000 crore in the past seven years and the country hopes to become an overall net exporter soon, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday. "We have an estimated Rs 85,000 crore industry of aerospace and defence. The contribution of the private sector in this has increased to Rs 18,000 crore," he said in his speech at the MSME conclave of the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM). Singh urged the MSMEs to invest more in research and development as it would help strengthen the nation's security. "You should bring new technologies, new products. You should not think that just because of your small, you cannot do great innovation," he added. Around 12,000 MSMEs have joined the defence industry due to the government's initiatives, he added. "Defence exports from India during the last seven years have been of more than Rs 38,000 crore due to the government's initiatives," he noted. Innovation, research and development and the number of startups have increased in the defence industry due to these initiatives, Singh said. Reiterating the government's focus on encouraging exports, the minister expressed hopes that India will soon become a net exporter from a net importer. "The government aims to achieve the export target of Rs 35,000 crore by 2024-25. Presently, India is exporting defence equipment to around 70 countries. According to Stockholm International Peace Research Institute 2020 report, India is in the list of top 25 countries in defence exports," he said. The Indian armed forces have completely supported the self-reliance initiative of the government, he stated. "Therefore, the number of contracts given to indigenous defence industry has increased," he said. Singh accepted that the big companies have a major role to play in defence manufacturing but the reality is that the work of numerous small companies is hidden behind that of big companies. "Big defence platforms are assembled from numerous small parts and most of them are provided by the MSMEs," he noted. "Therefore, I believe that the term ‘industry’ really means MSMEs as they are not only responsible for economic activities but also for societal progress," he added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-defence-exports-in-past-7-years-have-crossed-rs-38000-crore-rajnath-1057554.html
04-12-2021||National||SKM sends list of 702 farmers who died during protest||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday sent a list of 702 farmers who are said to have "died" during protest against three contentious farm laws, to the government. Confirming the development, farmers' leader Kishan Pal told IANS: "We have sent a list of 702 farmers who were martyred during the agitation." A question was recently asked in the Lok Sabha whether the Union government has any data of farmers who died during the agitation, and whether it will provide compensation to the affected families? In reply, the government said that the Agriculture Ministry has no record of anyone losing life due to agitation, so the question of granting compensation does not arise. The farmers are holding an important meeting at Singhu border to discuss the future course of action after the repeal of three farm laws. They are also demanding withdrawal of cases registered against them, law on MSP, compensation for the families of those dead, among others. Earlier on Friday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had said: "The government says that it does not have any record. We have data of 503 farmers. If the government wants, it can take the list from us. The Punjab government has given compensation to 403 families and jobs to 152 affected families. Watch the DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/skm-sends-list-of-702-farmers-who-died-during-protest-1057558.html
04-12-2021||National||Accountability central to governance in a parliamentary democracy: Kovind||Parliament is the embodiment of the people's will, and accountability is central to governance in a parliamentary democracy, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Saturday, inaugurating the centenary celebrations of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC). He said the parliamentary committees in general and the PAC in particular ensure administrative accountability of the Executive towards the Legislature. Emphasising that various parliamentary panels work as its extension and enhance its functioning, he said the committee system is a welcome division of labour as they allow the Houses to discuss and debate all issues while select groups of MPs can devote more focus on select matters. "Without Parliamentary Committees, a parliamentary democracy would be rendered incomplete. It is through the PAC that citizens keep a check on the government finances. In a parliamentary democracy, accountability is central to governance. Therefore, it is obvious that a committee of people’s representatives doing scrutiny of public accounts plays an important role," he said. "The PAC examines public expenditure not only from a legal and formal point of view to find out technical irregularities, if any, but also from the point of view of the economy, prudence, wisdom, and propriety. It has no other objective but to bring to notice cases of waste, loss, corruption, extravagance, inefficiency. If more paise out of every rupee coming from honest taxpayers are reaching those in need and also for nation-building initiatives, the PAC and its members have played a large role in the process," he said. On the role of the PAC, he said it aids in finding better ways to raise the resources and, more importantly, to spend them efficiently on people’s welfare. Since it is the Parliament that grants permission to the Executive to raise and spend funds, he added, it has the duty to assess if funds were raised and spent accordingly or not. Kovind also recalled the contributions of former President R Venkataraman and former Prime Ministers A B Vajpayee, P V Narasimha Rao and I K Gujral as members of the PAC. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said institutions like PAC are today seen as effective platforms to solve the problems of the people and fulfill their expectations. Despite several problems in the past seven decades, he said, the biggest achievement has been that the country has emerged as the largest and most effective democracy in the world. "The main responsibility of democratic institutions is to make the government accountable and transparent to the people. Parliamentary committees have contributed significantly in making this possible through their functions," he said. He said the constructive suggestions of the PAC have not only promoted the optimal use of financial resources but have also helped in improving the policies and programs of the government. "Non-partisan functioning of parliamentary committees and the tradition of generally accepting the recommendations of the committee by the government show the maturity of our parliamentary system," he added. PAC Chairperson Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said that over the decades, the examination of accounts by the PAC accomplishes the aim of enforcing public accountability in the transactions of Government business. And in this manner, the committee contributes towards maintaining the standard of efficiency and financial propriety in the running of the administration. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/accountability-central-to-governance-in-a-parliamentary-democracy-kovind-1057559.html
04-12-2021||National||No appointments till formation of governing bodies: Delhi govt shoots off letter to 28 DU colleges||The Delhi government has written to 28 Delhi University colleges partially or fully funded by it to not make any appointments till the formation of governing bodies, in what could lead to a fresh tussle between the colleges and the ruling dispensation. Out of these 28 colleges, 12 are fully funded by the city government, with the release of funds by the latter being a bone of contention between the two parties. "It has come to the notice that many Delhi government funded (fully/partially) University of Delhi colleges are in the process of making appointments without notification of duly constituted governing bodies in the colleges. “Hence you are hereby directed that no appointments are to be made till the notified governing bodies are formed in the colleges," an order from the Directorate of Higher Education (DHE) said on Friday. A senior official of Acharya Narendra Dev College (ANDC), a fully funded college by the government, said, "We are in a fix now. Without teachers, how can any institute work? We have seven to eight vacant positions for full-time faculty and we also need guest teachers. "… We do not have faculty for humanities courses. We had a permanent faculty for English, but the teacher died due to coronavirus. The subject is compulsory for Science courses and we have a total of 1,600 students in first and second semesters. We have an ad-hoc teacher, but he won't be able to take the classes for 1,600 students. Once practicals start in offline mode, what will we do?" he asked. Poonam Verma, principal, Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, however, said they will notify the DHE that they are making guest appointments as an interim arrangement for the new session for first-year students which commenced on November 22. "The new session has begun. Whatever appointments are happening are an interim arrangement. These will not be permanent positions that we will be processing. The spirit of this notification is for permanent appointments. “The applications for permanent posts need to be processed, screened and by that time, we would have bigger governing bodies in place in two months. We will notify this to the DHE that we are making guest appointments. We will follow the notification with full gumption," she added. However, the official from ANDC said the order also applies for guest appointments. Meanwhile, in a Facebook post, DUTA president A K Bhagi, said, "AAP government sponsored agenda to ruin and destroy Delhi government funded (fully/partially) colleges is clear from the attached letter. This letter may create havoc for ad-hoc teachers rejoining in many colleges which is due today. Fund cut government now says no appointments so no classes. DUTA shall fight and DUTA shall win!" The Indira Gandhi Institute of Physical Education & Sports Science, Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, Shaheed Raj Guru College, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, Acharya Narendra Dev College and Bhagini Nivedita College are some of the DU colleges fully funded by the Delhi government. The Shivaji College, Motilal Nehru College, Laxmi Bai College, Shaheed Bhagat Singh College, Maitreyi College, SPM College for Women, Satyawati College, Vivekananda College, Rajdhani College, Kamla Nehru College, Gargi College, among others are partially funded by the government. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-appointments-till-formation-of-governing-bodies-delhi-govt-shoots-off-letter-to-28-du-colleges-1057561.html
04-12-2021||National||People have already branded Goa as 'casino capital' of India: Minister||The central government may consider branding Goa as the 'casino capital' of India, but the coastal state which is only one of the two states in the country to legalise casinos has already been unofficially dubbed as the 'casino capital' by people, Union Minister for Tourism and Culture G. Kishen Reddy said on Saturday. Reddy who was in Goa on a two-day visit, also said that the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) had formed a special team to probe illegalities involved in the construction of a controversial bungalow in the protected Old Goa area, constructed by BJP national spokesperson Shaina NC's husband Manish Munot and the spouse of a local politician. “The people have given that title. We do not need to give a title. People are flocking to Sikkim, the other is here. People have declared this is the casino capital. There is no need (for the government) to do it,” Reddy said to a question from a media person who asked if the Union Tourism Ministry had plans to brand Goa as the 'casino capital' of India. Goa, one of the leading beach and nightlife tourism destinations in the country, along with Sikkim is one of the two Indian states to promote legalised casinos. The coastal state has five offshore and around 10 onshore casinos, which attract hundreds of thousands of visitors every year. Casino operations had been shut down in wake of the second Covid wave, but have resumed since September this year. Reddy also said that the central government would consider branding Goa as the 'casino capital' of the country if Goa stood to benefit from the moniker. Commenting on the ongoing controversy surrounding an illegal bungalow located in the protected heritage zone at Old Goa, which is home to 17th-century churches, Reddy said that the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), a central government agency that functions under the Union Ministry of Culture, had formed a team to probe the illegalities. "They have constructed without ASI permission. We will take action. This is wrong. Enquiry is on. I have asked the ASI to form a special team to enquire. We will definitely take action on behalf of ASI," Reddy said. Reddy's comment comes a day after Archbishop Fr. Filipe Neri Ferrao had come down heavily on government agencies that facilitated the construction of the illegal bungalow, describing such developments as "obnoxious". The Archbishop also said that such unregulated activities could lead to the 17th-century church complex losing its world heritage status bestowed upon it by UNESCO.The controversy surrounding the construction of the allegedly illegal bungalow, located near the St. Cajetan Church in Old Goa erupted some months back and protests are peaking ahead of the 2022 state assembly polls. With protests rapidly gathering pace, the state Town and Country Planning Minister and Deputy Chief Minister Chandrakant Kavlekar has said that the permissions and licences for constructing the structure were illegally obtained, even as the local village panchayat has now revoked permissions for the projects and served the original owner of the land where the construction has been carried out, with a show-cause notice. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-have-already-branded-goa-as-casino-capital-of-india-minister-1057566.html
04-12-2021||National||1 in 3 Indians continue to step out without masks, survey finds||Mask compliance continues to remain at its lowest in India despite concerns over detection of Omicron variant in the country, with only 2 per cent of surveyed citizens saying that people in their area, city or district are complying well with mask-wearing norms. According to a latest survey conducted by digital community based platform LocalCircles, one in three Indians say most people in their area are not even carrying masks when stepping out of their houses. The survey, conducted in April, received more than 25,000 responses from citizens residing in 364 districts of India. It also said that 29 per cent of citizens rated mask compliance as high. This percentage dropped to 12 per cent in September, and dropped drastically to only 2 per cent in November. The need of the hour is to educate the public on the effectiveness of masks as two in three Indians are still wearing cloth masks that provide limited protection from Covid-19. “It is critical that the central government, state governments and district administrations introduce all possible mechanisms to create awareness about mask compliance in light of the Omicron variant and enforce necessary penalties to drive this compliance," Sachin Taparia, founder, LocalCircles said. If two individuals in an indoor space are not wearing a mask, in just 10 minutes, the infected person can transmit the virus to the other person, while if both are wearing a fitted N-95 mask, it requires over 600 hours of exposure for transmission, he said. The Omicron variant, which has scientists and epidemiologists from around the world raising red flags, was categorised as a “variant of concern” by the World Health Organisation earlier this week after it was identified in three countries. Within a week, Omicron has been detected in over 40 countries around the world, with India reporting its first two cases in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1-in-3-indians-continue-to-step-out-without-masks-survey-finds-1057568.html
04-12-2021||National||Labour minister launches annual health check-up programme for ESIC members aged above 40||Employees above 40 years and insured under Employees' State Insurance Corporation's (ESIC) will soon be able to undergo free annual health check-ups at the government facilities spread across the country, at a time lifestyle diseases are on the rise. A pilot programme will start with four ESIC hospitals in Bapu Nagar in Ahmedabad, Faridabad, Sanat Nagar in Hyderabad and Joka in Kolkata, Union Labour Minister and ESIC Chairperson Bhupender Yadav said. He said this programme will help in the early detection of diseases, as the authorities intend to address lifestyle and cleanliness related diseases among employees. "Once the pilot project is reviewed, we will spread it across the country. I will myself monitor the progress of the programme," Yadav told reporters after the 186th meeting of ESIC. In relief for employees hit by Covid-19, the meeting also decided to relax the contributory condition for ESIC Covid-19 Relief Scheme. For providing help to the families of the employees who died due to Covid-19, the ESIC approved relaxation of the contributory condition of payment from 70 days to 35 days for eligibility under this scheme. The meeting also cleared the setting up of a 500-bedded hospital in Haryana's Manesar and a 100-bedded hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut. Approval was also accorded for construction of new ESI Hospitals at Dubri (Odisha), Atchutapuram, Visakhapatnam (Andhra Pradesh) and taking over of ESIS Hospital in Assam's Tinsukia. For the hospital in Manesar, land measuring 8.7 acres will be acquired while for the Meerut facility, 2.02 hectare has been provided free of cost by the Uttar Pradesh government. The acquisition of five acres for a 50-bedded hospital at Duburi, which is expandable to 100 beds, and taking over of the state-run hospital at Tinsukia and its subsequent upgrade to a 100 bedded ESIC hospital has been approved. ESIC also approved the proposal for the creation of a Sub Regional Office at Jharsuguda in Odisha. Andhra Pradesh government has provided two acres of land in Atchutapuram in Andhra Pradesh's Vishakhapatnam free of cost for a 30-bedded hospital. Three high-powered committees were also formed to improve and strengthen the service delivery mechanism of ESIC. Minister of State for Labour Rameswar Teli will head a Committee on Buildings and Infrastructure for monitoring the ongoing projects of ESI Hospitals for their completion in a time-bound manner. Labour Secretary Sunil Barthwal will head a panel on human resources to suggest an action plan for recruitment, manpower, transparency and other best practices in the day-to-day functioning of the ESIC. The Labour Secretary will also head another panel on Information and Technology for capacity building, Artificial Intelligence (AI), telemedicine and online monitoring of procurement and dispensing of medicines. Yadav also asked the states to conduct Regional Board meetings regularly so that the recommendations may be incorporated in the future meetings of ESIC which will be held four times a year. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/labour-minister-launches-annual-health-check-up-programme-for-esic-members-aged-above-40-1057574.html
04-12-2021||National||Development projects in Uttarakhand part of countrywide connectivity 'mahayagya': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday kick-started the BJP's election campaign in Uttarakhand, inaugurating or laying foundations of projects worth over Rs 18,000 crore and asserting a connectivity "mahayagya" is underway across the country to make up for the loss of 10 years of the previous government. "The infrastructure projects inaugurated and founded here today are part of this 'mahayagya'. We are doing things at double-triple speed to make up for the lost time," Modi said addressing a rally at the Parade Ground here. Reiterating what he had said in Kedarnath, the prime minister noted that the projects will help make this decade that of Uttarakhand. He said the reconstruction work done at Kedarnath by his government had brought a record number of over 10 lakh devotees to the Himalayan temple in 2019. He said the projects whose foundation stones were laid in Uttarakhand on Saturday cover almost all sectors, including a Delhi-Dehradun economic corridor which will reduce the duration of journey between the two cities to half, the country's largest elevated wildlife corridor, child friendly city project and a new bridge next to Lakshman Jhoola in Rishikesh. He said the previous governments had done little for the development of Uttarakhand whereas the BJP government at the Centre had spent Rs 12,000 crore on the development of the state in the past seven and a half years. "Uttarakhand's development is the highest priority of the double engine government. We have sanctioned development projects worth over Rs 1 lakh crore for the state," Modi said. "The previous governments did not have this thinking. Be it in Uttarakhand or elsewhere, the previous government only thought of filling their own coffers." Modi talked about the implementation of 'one rank, one pension' for ex-servicemen, buying modern weapons for the armed forces and giving a fitting reply to terrorists. He also spoke about how his government had built hundreds of kilometres of border roads. Assembly polls in Uttarakhand are slated for early next year.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/development-projects-in-uttarakhand-part-of-countrywide-connectivity-mahayagya-pm-modi-1057577.html
04-12-2021||National||Veteran journalist Vinod Dua passes away, confirms daughter||Veteran journalist Vinod Dua, who was admitted to Apollo Hospital's intensive care unit, has died, his daughter and actor-comic Mallika Dua said on Saturday. He was 67. The last rites of the well-known journalist, who was hospitalised with Covid earlier this year and lost his wife, radiologist Padmavati 'Chinna' Dua, to the virus in June, will be performed at the Lodhi crematorium here on Sunday, she said. "Our irreverent, fearless and extraordinary father, Vinod Dua has passed away. He lived an inimitable life, rising from the refugee colonies of Delhi to the peak of journalistic excellence for over 42 years, always, always speaking truth to power. "He is now with our mom, his beloved wife Chinna in heaven where they will continue to sing, cook, travel and drive each other up the wall," Mallika Dua wrote on her Instagram Stories. Vinod Dua, a Hindi broadcast journalism pioneer with stints in Doordarshan and NDTV, was moved to the ICU of Apollo Hospital on Monday. Vinod Dua and his wife were in a hospital in Gurgaon when the second Covid wave was at its peak. The journalist's health had suffered ever since and he had been in and out of hospitals. The couple is also parents to elder daughter Bakul Dua, a clinical psychologist. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/veteran-journalist-vinod-dua-passes-away-confirms-daughter-1057584.html
04-12-2021||National||Covid-19: Govt writes to states over rising weekly positivity rates & deaths||The Union health ministry on Saturday wrote to Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha and Mizoram to take necessary steps under the 'Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate-Covid Appropriate Behaviour' strategy to control the spread of Covid-19 and reduce fatality. The move comes in view of rising cases of the infection, weekly positivity rates and weekly deaths in some districts. Referring to a letter sent to all states/UTs on November 27 in the context of the new Omicron variant, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday said all states have been advised to undertake enhanced surveillance of international travellers, monitor emerging hotspots, prompt contact tracing of positive people, besides sending all positive samples for genome sequencing, early identification of cases and review of health infrastructure preparedness, and most importantly to focus on IEC and community sensitisation. In a letter addressed to the principal secretary (Health), he pointed out that Karnataka has reported 8,073 new cases in the month ending December 3 (30 days). It is also important to note that the state has reported a slight increase in weekly new cases to 2,272 cases (week ending December 3) from 1,664 cases (week ending November 26), along with an increase in weekly new deaths from 22 to 29 over the same period, Bhushan said. An increase in weekly new deaths has been noted in Bengaluru Urban, from eight new deaths reported in the week ending November 25 to 14 deaths in the week ending December 2, he said. According to the health ministry, rise in weekly cases have also been noted in Tumakuru, Dharwad, Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru in the southern state. The secretary further said Kerala has reported 1,71,521 new cases in the month ending December 3, with a contribution of 55.8 per cent to the country’s new cases from over the past month. “Also, 13 out of 14 districts are reporting a high quantum of weekly new cases in the state. Districts of concern in the week ending December 2 are Thiruvananthapuram (5,541), Ernakulam, (4,976), Kozhikode (3,676), Thrissur (2,903) and Kottayam (2,478)," Bhushan noted. Four districts --Thiruvananthapuram (11.61 per cent), Wayanad (11.25 per cent), Kozhikode (11 per cent) and Kottayam (10.81 per cent) -- are showing high weekly positivity of more than 10 per cent, while nine districts are reporting weekly positivity between 5-10 per cent. "Kerala has reported a slight increase in weekly new deaths to 2,118 deaths (week ending December 3) from 1,890 deaths (week ending November 26). Four districts -- Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kollam -- are reporting high quantum of weekly new deaths in the state," he highlighted. As for Jammu and Kashmir, Bhushan said, it has reported 4,806 new cases in the month ending December 3, with a few districts such as Kathua, Jammu, Ganderbal and Baramulla showing an increase in the previous week. Tamil Nadu has reported 23,764 new cases during the same period. Vellore, Thiruvallur and Chennai showed an increase in weekly new cases in the past week. As far as Odisha is concerned, Bhushan pointed out that the state has reported 7,445 new cases during the same period, with a contribution of 2.5 per cent to India's new cases from over the past month. "It is important to note that Khordha district in the state is reporting a high quantum of weekly new cases with 900 new cases reported in the week ending December 3. Further, six out of 30 districts ---Dhenkanal, Kandhamal, Nabarangpur, Kendujhar, Anugul and Balangir-- reported an increase in the weekly caseload as compared to the week ending November 26," he said in the letter addressed to the Additional Chief Secretary (Health), Odisha. Further, the state exhibited a decline of 3.1 per cent in weekly tests conducted, from 4,01,164 tests in the week ending November 26 to 3,88,788 tests in the week ending December 3, with -36 per cent RT-PCR share, the Union health secretary highlighted. Mizoram has reported 12,562 new cases in the month ending December 4, with a contribution of 4.1 per cent to India's new cases from over the past month. It is important to note that Aizawl district is reporting a high quantum of weekly new cases with 1,079 new cases reported in the week ending December 3. Further, four out of 11 districts -- Saiha, Khawzawl, Serchhip, Mamit -- reported an increase in the week ending December 3, as compared to the week ending November 26. Also, eight out of 11 districts are showcasing high weekly positivity of more than 10 per cent, Bhushan said in his letter. "In this context, required necessary steps to control the spread of infection and reduce fatality need to be taken as per the ongoing strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate-Covid Appropriate Behaviour to keep the situation under control," he underlined. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will continue to provide requisite support to states/UTs in the ongoing and collective efforts against Covid-19, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-govt-writes-to-states-over-rising-weekly-positivity-rates-deaths-1057589.html
04-12-2021||National||Samyukta Kisan Morcha meeting under way to decide future course of farmers' agitation||A five-member committee constituted by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) is deliberating on the government's fresh proposal on their remaining demands in its meeting at All India Kisan Mahasabha office in central Delhi on Wednesday. Ravneet Brar, the spokesperson for BKU Kadian, said the committee members are also discussing about the panel to be set up by the government on a legal guarantee for MSP and other issues. The SKM, which has been spearheading the protest, is scheduled to hold a meeting later in the day to take a decision on whether they should end their agitation following the government's fresh proposal. On Tuesday, the SKM had demanded clarification on certain points in the government's proposal, including on the precondition set for withdrawal of "fake" cases against farmers. According to the farmers' body, the government's proposal said it will form a committee to look into the demand for legal guarantees on minimum support price (MSP) for crops and the panel will include farmer organisations outside the SKM, government officials and representatives of states. The SKM members had objected to this and had decided to meet again Wednesday to deliberate on these issues and announce the future course of the agitation. On November 30 this year, Parliament passed the bill to repeal the three contentious agricultural laws at the centre of protests by farmers for over a year, with the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha giving their approval in quick succession amid an uproar on the first day of the Winter session without any discussion as demanded by the opposition.   Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/samyukta-kisan-morcha-meeting-under-way-to-decide-future-course-of-farmers-agitation-1057593.html
04-12-2021||National||10 bilateral agreements, show of camaraderie to take centre stage during Putin's visit to Delhi||Documents for as many as 10 bilateral agreements are being prepared which will be signed between India and Russia during Vladimir Putin's flying visit to India scheduled for Monday. Revealing some details of the Russian President's one-day trip to New Delhi to attend the 21st India-Russia Annual Summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his top aide Yuri Ushakov said on Friday that the talks between the two leaders would be held without the unnecessary "protocol jumbles". "When preparing it, we took into account all the difficulties with the coronavirus situation, so it will be a purely working format, without unnecessary protocol clutter," Russian media quoted Ushakov as saying. The working visit will see Putin heading straight for talks with PM Modi immediately after his arrival in New Delhi on Monday afternoon. The presidential aide said that, post delegation-level meeting, no specific limits have been planned for the Putin-Modi talks. He stressed that the both leaders have in the past, while communicating face-to-face, discussed "the most difficult, most delicate issues of the international situation" which could happen once again during an informal one-on-one dinner. "The president and the prime minister will talk as much as they want. And then the departure, regardless of whether it's late evening or night time," Ushakov said. This will be Putin's only second trip abroad since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. He had travelled to Geneva in June for a Summit with the US President Joe Biden. The Russian delegation for the New Delhi summit has also been downsized with only Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, Defence Minister Sergey Shoigu, Deputy Prime Minister Yuri Borisov, Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin and Ushakov accompanying Putin. There will be a series of meetings which will be held on Monday before the Russian President's arrival. According to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), the day will start with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoygu co-chairing the Intergovernmental Commission on Military Technical Cooperation. Just about the same time, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov will also be holding their bilateral meeting. The meetings will be followed by the inaugural meeting of the newly instituted 2+2 dialogue mechanism at the level of the foreign and defence ministers. "Both ministers are expected to discuss bilateral, regional and international political and defence issues within this format, as you know, we have with very few countries," said MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi. In the afternoon, the 21st India-Russia Annual Summit will be held where PM Modi and Putin will review the state and prospects of bilateral relations and discuss ways to further strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries. Russia's Deputy Prime Minister Yuri Borisov is also expected to take part in a meeting of the intergovernmental commission on trade, economic, scientific, technical and cultural cooperation. Ushakov said on Friday that "about 10" bilateral agreements, including in the field of energy, space, culture, are planned to be signed at the end of the Russia-India summit. "Preparations are underway, we are confident that the package of agreements in the context of the visit will be drawn up," he said. The top aide to the Russian President also highlighted that, in spite of the Covid-19 pandemic, the trade turnover between the two countries is recovering at a good pace. "In January-September, it increased by more than 38%, amounting to $8.8 billion. Not a bad figure," he said. As reported by IndiaNarrative.com, the growing Modi-Putin camaraderie, and the increasing multifaceted bilateral cooperation, is highlighted by the fact that the two leaders have met each other 19 times since 2014. After their last meeting at the BRICS Summit in Brasilia in November 2019, Modi and Putin have also had six telephonic conversations during the Covid-19 pandemic and several virtual interactions on various multilateral platforms. Last week, Putin said that during his forthcoming talks with PM Modi, he will be outlining new large-scale initiatives for the further development of the especially privileged Russian-Indian relationship, the Russian-Indian strategic partnership. He said that this partnership brings real mutual benefit to both states as bilateral trade shows good dynamics; ties are actively developing in the energy sector, innovation, space, and the production of coronavirus vaccines and medicines. The Russian President also mentioned the extensive cooperation in the defence sector, including through the creation of joint ventures. "India is one of the authoritative centres of the multipolar world with a foreign policy philosophy and priorities that are closely aligned with our own. I am convinced that, relying on strong traditions of friendship and mutual understanding, we will continue working together to expand the full range of Russian-Indian ties," said Putin at a ceremony to received newly arrived foreign ambassadors in Moscow, including India's Ambassador Pavan Kapoor. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-bilateral-agreements-show-of-camaraderie-to-take-centre-stage-during-putins-visit-to-delhi-1057601.html
04-12-2021||National||Shillong surprise: A new party for Mukul Sangma||On the night of November 24, as Shillong and Delhi slept, the Trinamool Congress set off a political tremor in the national capital with an announcement: 12 sitting MLAs, including former CM Mukul Sangma, from the Meghalaya Congress were switching over to the party. Next day, with the media agog over the Congress implosion, Mukul spoke about the kerfuffle in the hills. A medical doctor by training, he seemed to have diagnosed the problem in the party unit and came up with a solution for it: split and exit. The decision meant that the TMC led by ambitious Mamata Banerjee was suddenly catapulted as the main Opposition party in the Northeast state, even though it did not win a single seat in the 2018 Assembly polls. The Congress tally plunged to a mere five. A few days later, on November 30, Mukul was in Kolkata. Having met Mamata a day earlier, Sangma confidently announced: “You will see Trinamool Congress’ flags fluttering all across Meghalaya soon.” Out of the 12 MLAs who defected, eight, including Mukul, are from Garo Hills while the remaining four are from Khasi Jaintia Hills. Mukul belongs to the Garo community but he took four Khasi-Jaintia MLAs on board, something which would help him spread the TMC across Meghalaya. This astuteness and capacity to pull leaders and workers from all communities, perhaps, made the 56-year-old and the father of four the tallest leader in Meghalaya politics after P A Sangma. Mukul’s political journey, in a sense, began at the Regional Institute of Medical Science, Imphal, Manipur, where he joined as an MBBS student in 1990 but keenly followed political currents of the state and beyond. A resident of South Garo Hills, Mukul soon joined the government service as health and medical officer at a remote public health centre. In 1993, he quit his job and contested the Assembly elections as an Independent candidate, a pivotal moment in his life as he won the election. Five years later, he became a Cabinet minister; then, continuing his rapid ascent in politics, he found himself in the deputy chief minister’s post in 2005 and again in 2009 when Congress veteran D D Lapang was the CM. Mukul took oath as the chief minister in 2010 after Lapang resigned. He was re-elected as the CM in the 2013 Assembly elections. One of the highlights of his tenure was the health insurance scheme launched for BPL families in 2015. Then the tide turned, not just in Meghalaya but in the entire Northeast. In 2018, Mukul contested from two seats (Ampati and Songsak) and won both. But the Congress failed to form the government despite emerging as the single largest party with 21 MLAs in the House of 60. The National People’s Party-led coalition wrested power from Mukul in 2018, and the other famous Sangma, Conrad, son of P A Sangma, became the chief minister. With just two MLAs, the BJP is an ally of the NPP-led coalition government. “His meteoric rise in Meghalaya politics since 2009 has been extraordinary in many senses as he majorly broke the dominance of Khasi-Jaintia hills’ politicians in Meghalaya politics,” said Prasenjit Biswas, a political analyst based in Shillong, of Mukul, whose brother Zenith is also a politician. Trouble with Congress “Trinamool has the potential to be the real alternative to BJP,” Mukul said while justifying his decision to join the TMC. Mukul, however, did not take the decision soon after Shillong MP Vincent Pala was made the president of the state Congress unit, which triggered the exodus. “I travelled to Delhi and met the high command (Sonia Gandhi/Rahul Gandhi) and tried to sort out the issues within the four walls. But it did not make much difference,” he said. With the BJP having no chance to make it big in Christian-majority Meghalaya, Mukul had no option but to look for a new party to secure his political career. Veteran Shillong-based journalist Patricia Mukhim feels that the decision to dump the Congress in favour of the TMC could parachute Mukul into national politics. “Mukul Sangma has the potential to be a national leader,” Mukhim wrote in an article recently. “In the TMC, he has the leverage to emerge as a strong tribal leader from the Northeast. Aligning with BJP was not an option because there is space for only one leader in the region. That space has been taken by Himanta Biswa Sarma, his bete noire.” In a way, Mukul and his fellow leaders are retracing the cultural bond Bengal and Shillong share since Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore’s visit to the hill station in 1919. If they are successful, their efforts would pull the Bengali voters, particularly in Shillong and elsewhere, towards the TMC, strengthening it further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shillong-surprise-a-new-party-for-mukul-sangma-1057608.html
04-12-2021||National||Centre effects major bureaucratic reshuffle, Alka Upadhyaya appointed NHAI chief||Senior bureaucrat Alka Upadhyaya has been appointed as the chairperson of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) as part of a major bureaucratic reshuffle effected by the Centre on Saturday. Upadhyaya, a 1990-batch IAS officer of Madhya Pradesh cadre, is currently Additional Secretary, Department of Rural Development. Sanjay Bandopadhyay, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways, has been named chairman, Inland Waterways Authority of India, a Personnel Ministry order said. Dharmendra S Gangwar, Additional Secretary and Financial Adviser, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, will be Secretary, Department of Border Management, and Sundeep Kumar Nayak has been appointed as Director General, National Productivity Council, Department for Promotion of Industry & Internal Trade. Upma Srivastava, a 1988-batch IAS officer of Sikkim cadre, has been named Secretary, National Commission for Scheduled Castes. Juthika Patankar, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, has been appointed as Secretary, Central Information Commission. Anita Praveen, Special Secretary, Department of Telecommunications, Ministry of Communications, will be Special Secretary, Ministry of Food Processing Industries. She will take over as Secretary of the Ministry of Food Processing Industries upon superannuation of Pushpa Subramanyam next month-end. Amit Yadav, Director General, Directorate General of Foreign Trade, has been moved as Additional Secretary, Department of Commerce, the order said. Ashish Srivastava, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Development, has been appointed Additional Secretary, Cabinet Secretariat. G Asok Kumar, Mission Director, National Water Mission, Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, will be Director General, National Mission for Clean Ganga. Neelam Shammi Rao has been appointed as Central Provident Fund Commissioner, Employees' Provident Fund Organization, Amit Agrawal will be Additional Secretary, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, and Deepti Umashankar as Establishment Officer & Additional Secretary, Department of Personnel & Training. Vivek Aggarwal, Additional Secretary, Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, has been appointed as Additional Secretary, Department of Revenue. Hari Ranjan Rao, Joint Secretary, Department of Telecommunications, will now be Additional Secretary, Department of Telecommunications. Shyamal Misra, a 1996-batch IAS officer of Haryana cadre, has been appointed as Joint Secretary, Department of Home, Ministry of Home Affairs. He is currently Joint Secretary, Department of Commerce. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-effects-major-bureaucratic-reshuffle-alka-upadhyaya-appointed-nhai-chief-1057616.html
04-12-2021||National||Centre flags uptick in Covid-19 cases after Omicron scare; calls for prompt action||Citing Omicron concerns, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday shot off letters to top health officials of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Jammu & Kashmir, Odisha and Mizoram, flagging the increase in weekly cases in past one week and asking them to take measures to control the spread of infection and reduce fatalities. In the missive to Principal Secretary Karnataka T K Anil Kumar, the health secretary drew the state government's attention towards the "slight increase" in cases in the last one week in the state and cited figures for four districts in particular -- Tumakuru, Dharwad, Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru -- where the difference in the percentage of cases went up to 152.17 per cent, 20.92 per cent, 19.16 per cent and 16.49 per cent respectively in the week from November 26 to December 2 as against the preceding week from November 19 to November 25. In Tumakuru, it went up to 116 cases from just 46, while it was 185 in Dharwad from 153 recorded in the previous week. The new cases in Bengaluru Urban between November 26 and December 2 were 1,424 as against 1,195 between November 19 and November 25. Mysuru, which had recorded 188 cases in the week previous to it, saw the spike to 219 cases in the week ending December 2. Bhushan noted that the increase in weekly new deaths has been noted in Bengaluru Urban from eight new deaths in the week ending November 25 to 14 in the corresponding week ending December 2. Flagging the total increase in weekly cases to 2,272 from 1,664 cases of the previous week and weekly deaths to 29 from 22 over the same period in Karnataka, the Health Secretary called for necessary steps to contain it. Karnataka has reported 8,073 new cases in the month ending December 3. In the letter to the states, the health secretary also drew the attention of the authorities towards the ministry's November 27 missive in the context of the new variant of concern, Omicron after which all the states have been advised to undertake enhanced surveillance of international travellers, continued monitoring of emerging hotspots, prompt and comprehensive contract tracing of positive individuals and sending all positive samples for genome sequencing quickly to INSACOG labs. In identical letters to other states, he flagged rise in cases in Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kollam in Kerala, Chennai, Thiruvallur and Vellore in Tamil Nadu, Dhenkanal, Kandhamal, Nabarangpur, Kendujhar Angul and Balangir in Odisha, Jammu, Baramulla, Ganderbal and Kathua in J & K and Saiha, Khawzawl, Serchhip and Mamit in Mizoram. Of the districts where the health secretary flagged the rise in the weekly number of cases, Kathua in Jammu & Kashmir is seen recording a whopping 726 per cent rise in cases, Dhenkanal in Odisha recorded a weekly rise of 666.7 per cent followed by Kandhamal with 250 per cent. Saiha in Mizoram saw a 237.9 per cent rise in case of numbers from the previous week. Kerala has reported 1,71,521 new cases in the month ending December 3 with a contribution of a whopping 55.8 per cent of India's new cases from over the past month. Thirteen out of 14 districts in Kerala are reporting a high quantum of weekly new cases in the state. Districts of concern in the week ending December 2 in the state are Thiruvananthapuram (5,541), Ernakulam (4,976), Kozhikode (3,676), Thrissur (2,903) and Kottayam (2,478). Four districts showing high weekly positivity rates of more than 10 per cent are Thiruvananthapuram (11.61 per cent), Wayanad (11.25 per cent), Kozhikode (11 per cent) and Kottayam (10.81 per cent). Nine districts of Kerala are reporting a weekly positivity rate between 5 per cent and 10 per cent. Moreover, Kerala has reported an increase in weekly new deaths to 2,118 in the week ending December 3 from 1,890 in the week previous to it. Thrissur saw the jump in mortality from just 12 to a whopping 128 and Malappuram from 70 to 109 in the same period. Kozhikode and Kollam recorded a decline in mortality, though. Tamil Nadu reported 23,764 cases in the month ending December 3. Vellore saw a rise from 93 to 128 cases, Thiruvallur from 117 to 136 and Chennai from 845 to 981. India's Active caseload currently stands at 99,974 and they account for less than 1 per cent of total cases, currently at 0.29 per cent, which is the lowest since March 2020. While the daily positivity rate is 0.69 per cent, less than 2 per cent for the last 61 days, the weekly positivity rate is 0.81 per cent, less than 1 per cent for the last 20 days. Hence clearly the spike in cases in some regions in the last week has raised the alarm bells within the government. In the letter, the health secretary further flagged that 8 out of 11 districts of Mizoram are showing higher positivity rates than 10 per cent. They are Champhai, Serchhip, Saitual, Saiha, Hnahthial, Mamit, Lunglei and the state capital Aizawl. Mizoram has reported 12,562 new cases in the last 30 days in the month ending December 4 with a contribution of 4.1 per cent to India's new cases from over the past month. Of this, the health secretary pointed out that the state capital Aizawl is reporting a high quantum of weekly new cases with 1,079 new cases reported in the week ending December 3. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-flags-uptick-in-covid-19-cases-after-omicron-scare-calls-for-prompt-action-1057617.html
04-12-2021||National||SC concerned over delay in Karnataka HC on contempt proceedings for frivolous plea against Premji||The Supreme Court has expressed concern over techniques adopted by an NGO and others on delaying contempt proceedings before the Karnataka High Court for filing a frivolous complaint against business tycoon and philanthropist Azim Premji. "It appears that there is undoubtedly an endeavour to obfuscate proceedings before the Karnataka High Court and the matter is being dragged on unnecessarily to prevent the culmination of the same," a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh said. The court noted that interlocutory applications were being filed for splitting proceedings, postponement of filing of replies, assailing sanction granted by the Advocate General and so on. The top court issued directions to ensure the speedy disposal of contempt proceedings against  'India Awake for Transparency' and others before the High Court. "In normal circumstances, it is not for us to lay down as to how the High Court should proceed with the matter but the manner in which these proceedings have gone on disturbs us," the bench said. The court explained it adopted the "unusual practice" on laying down norms as to how the two sides pursue the matter so that there is a culmination of the proceedings. The court said no further interlocutory applications would be entertained by the High Court. It also restricted time for oral arguments to half an hour each for both the parties and filing of short synopsis not running more than three pages.  Senior advocate S Ganesh and Advocate Vipin Nair appeared for Premji. The other side was represented by advocate R Subramanian. The court directed the matter for consideration on January 21, 2022. The High Court had imposed Rs 10 lakh costs on the NGO for filing multiple petitions seeking registration of a case against Premji and others. It had decided to initiate contempt proceedings against the NGO for filing frivolous petitions. In December, 2020, the top court had stayed the proceedings against Premji and his wife before a Bengaluru court on a private complaint filed in 2017 by the Chennai-based NGO, alleging illegally transferring assets worth many crores, from three companies into a private trust and a newly formed company.   Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-concerned-over-delay-in-karnataka-hc-on-contempt-proceedings-for-frivolous-plea-against-premji-1057621.html
04-12-2021||National||Indian economy fastest in world to come out of Covid pandemic impact, says Amit Shah||The Indian economy is the fastest in the world to come out of the impact of the coronavirus pandemic because of policy decisions taken by the Modi government, Home Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday. Delivering the keynote address at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit here, Shah said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had envisioned that India would have great opportunities in the post-corona world. He visualised that economic slump would affect the globe but the policy decisions by the government ensured that the global economic slowdown did not touch the country, Shah said. "It is the result of policy decisions of the Modi government that the Indian economy is the fastest to come out of corona impact across the globe," he said. On the new coronavirus variant Omicron, he said that the government is keeping a close watch on related developments. Shah said the fiscal deficit remained in discipline in spite of the fact that the government committed Rs 15 lakh crore to be invested in the next three years to improve health infrastructure, provided free ration to 80 crore people and free vaccination to 130 crore people. "I am sure that country will find its place in the global order and the dream of Prime Minister Modi to have a five trillion dollar economy will come true," he said. The home minister said the country has seen governments of the Congress and the NDA at the Centre and in states and that of socialists and communists in states, now experts on the economy must give a comparison by data analysis as to which government performed better in ushering development. "I believe that it is the duty of economic pandits that they bring forth this comparison before people so that they can decide at the time of elections. The result may not be according to your beliefs but this much transparency should be there," he said. After the BJP came into power in 2014, Shah said, 80 crore people were brought into mainstream by opening their bank accounts and providing other facilities. He said the Modi government has shown humane face of the GDP. Elaborating on the point, Shah asked economists wether the supply of drinking water and cooking gas to every household and building of 10 crore toilets in the country will increase the GDP or not. Such policies not only help in the growth of GDP but also solve the problems faced by the people, he said. Shah said with steps such as direct benefit transfer, poverty alleviation, rural electrification and other programmes, PM Modi ensured the participation of everyone in the country's progress. He said when the coronavirus struck, the World was apprehensive how a large country like India with such diversity, poor health infrastructure will cope with it. "People who ridiculed lamp lighting, bell ringing, masks, are now silent because the corona war was fought by 130 crore people along with state and central governments unlike the rest of the world where only governments were tackling the pandemic. When history is written there will be no other leader in the world who managed to convince 130 crore people to remain indoors just by self-discipline," he said. "After Lal Bahadur Shastri, I have not seen the country paying so much respect to the words of any leader as it did to Narendra Modi," Shah said. In the second wave when the oxygen emergency came up there was chaos for six-seven days, but the prime minister successfully faced the challenge by patiently arranging all available resources from across the globe, optimal use of domestic resources and communicating with district levels, he said. "The production capacity of oxygen in the country was 1,500 MT per day but our requirement was 15,000 MT per day. Within 10 days production was increased to 10 times under Prime Minister Narendra Modi," he said. In order to boost economic activities after the pandemic, Modi made policy reforms to improve manufacturing in the country, increase investment for factories, and to change the investment climate. He said reforms were brought in the mining sector to encourage private investments, difference between captive and non-captive mines was abolished, mineral index development was started, stamp duty for mining lease was rationalized and commercial production in coal sector was cleared. "This opened a lot of investment opportunities in the coal and mining sector. Investment is coming, production has increased. When the world was facing a coal shortage and people were writing that the country may plunge into darkness but nothing of that sort happened because we increased coal production in time," he said. He highlighted the changes in policies to give boost to the civil aviation sector, setting up of project development cells in every ministry, dynamic ranking system to spur healthy competition among states to attract investments, the schemes which have brought in Rs 2.25 lakh crore investment in the country.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-economy-fastest-in-world-to-come-out-of-covid-pandemic-impact-says-amit-shah-1057623.html
04-12-2021||National||Maharashtra reports first case of Omicron Covid variant; total 4 cases in India||The first case of Omicron was confirmed in Maharashtra on Saturday with a 33-year-old passenger who arrived from Cape Town in South Africa being confirmed for the latest Covid-19 variant.  The passenger arrived in Mumbai on November 24 from Cape Town through Dubai and Delhi.  The infected person is a resident of Kalyan-Dombivli in Thane district, which falls under the larger Mumbai metropolitan region. “The person has not taken any Covid-19 vaccine. On November 24, the passenger got a mild fever. However, no other symptoms were observed. This mildly symptomatic patient is being treated at the Covid Care Centre in Kalyan-Dombivali,” Maharashtra’s Public Health Department said.  So far, 12 of the passenger’s high-risk contacts and 23 of the low-risk contacts have been traced and all have been tested negative for Covid-19.  Additionally, 25 of the co-passengers from the Delhi-Mumbai flight have also been tested negative.  More contacts are currently being traced. Meanwhile, results of the genomic sequencing of a 60-year-old male passenger’s sample who had arrived from Zambia has been obtained from the National Institute of Virology and Omicron has not been detected in the sample.  Instead, a sub-lineage of the Delta variant has been detected in the sample. Until Monday morning, 3,839 passengers arriving from at-risk countries for Omicron at Mumbai airport had been tested with RT-PCR and 344 out of 17,107 passengers arriving from other countries had been tested. Since 1st December 2021, 8 passengers have been tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples have been sent for genomic sequencing. Additionally, field surveillance of all international passengers who have arrived since 1 November is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-reports-first-case-of-omicron-covid-variant-total-4-cases-in-india-1057628.html
04-12-2021||National||Meghalaya BJP minister urges PM to ensure 'safety' of Karnataka's Christians||Meghalaya's lone BJP minister Sanbor Shullai wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to ensure "safety and security" of Christians living in Karnataka. Shullai, the Northeastern state's labour minister, sought the prime minister's intervention with "regards to a recent survey of the Christian community". He termed it "unconstitutional" and said such an act would create distrust among the minority Christian community in Karnataka, besides being highly objectionable. "I request your honourable office to kindly take cognizance of the issue raised by the Archbishop and also by other Christian Communities. Kindly ensure that the safety and security of Christians Community living in Karnataka and every state of India is protected," he said in the letter. "I would like to seek your kind intervention with regards to a recent survey of the Christian community citing it as data collection. Since India has a global secular image, such acts are definitely going to dent our image," he added. The senior BJP leader of Christian-majority Meghalaya said that even Archbishop of Bangalore Peter Machado objected to the survey. "Any person who believes in any religion is by virtue of their birth or due to a belief or faith they tender upon any religion they feel compatible with," Shullai said. With two MLAs, BJP is a part of the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance government led by National People's Party whose president Conrad K Sangma is the chief minister. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meghalaya-bjp-minister-urges-pm-to-ensure-safety-of-karnatakas-christians-1057648.html
04-12-2021||National||Centre gives final approval to Rs 5,000 crore AK-203 rifles deal ahead of Putin's visit||The government has given its final approval to a nearly Rs 5,000 crore deal to manufacture over 5,00,000 AK-203 rifles by an Indo-Russian joint venture at a manufacturing facility in Amethi in Uttar Pradesh, official sources said on Saturday. The mega deal is expected to be formally announced at a summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin in Delhi on Monday, they said. The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) headed by Prime Minister Modi cleared the deal on Wednesday, days after it was given a go-ahead by the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC), the sources said. "In an endeavour to provide a big boost to self-reliance in defence manufacturing in India, the government has approved the plan for the production of over 500,000 AK-203 assault rifles at Korwa in Amethi," said a source. Both Russia and India had given in-principle approval for the deal during Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's visit to Moscow last year. The joint venture is also expected to explore the possibility of exporting the AK-203 rifles. "The approval reflects the ever-increasing paradigm shift in defence acquisition from buy (global) to Make in India. The endeavour also reflects the deepening partnership between the two countries," another source said. The 7.62 X 39mm caliber AK-203 rifles will replace the INSAS rifles. AK-203 assault rifles, with an effective range of 300 meters, are lightweight, robust and easy to use and they are expected to enhance the combat potential of the troops. The project will be implemented by a special purpose joint venture called Indo-Russian Rifles Private Ltd (IRRPL). It has been created with erstwhile OFB (now Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited) of India and Russia's Rosoboronexport (RoE) and Kalashnikov. The two sides are also likely to wrap up the final phase of negotiations for a logistics support agreement which is likely to be signed either during the two-plus-two talks or at the summit. India and Russia are also set to renew for the next decade a framework for military-technical cooperation at the summit besides announcing a joint commission on technology and science. The two sides may also firm up a number of defence procurement proposals besides deliberating on the long-pending project for joint production of 200 twin-engine Kamov-226T light helicopters for Indian armed forces. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-gives-final-approval-to-rs-5000-crore-ak-203-rifles-deal-ahead-of-putins-visit-1057649.html
04-12-2021||National||Farmers should end protests and go home now as farm laws repealed: Narendra Singh Tomar||Even as the stalemate continues between the government and farmers who have raised demands including a legal guarantee on the Minimum Support Price (MSP), Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday asked the protesters to end the stir and return to their homes. Talking to reporters here, Tomar said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already withdrawn the three farm laws- the main demand of agriculturists who have been staging protests at Delhi borders for over a year- and announced to constitute a committee for discussion on the issues like MSP, crop diversification and zero-budget agriculture. “I think no issue is left now and farmer brothers should end their agitation and get engaged in their routine work,” Tomar, the MP from Morena constituency in Madhya Pradesh, told reporters. The Parliament on Monday passed a bill to repeal the three contentious farm laws. Earlier in the day, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) formed a five-member panel for dialogue with the government on their pending demands including MSP, compensation to kin of farmers who died during the movement against the agri laws and withdrawal of cases against the protesters. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-should-end-protests-and-go-home-now-as-farm-laws-repealed-narendra-singh-tomar-1057655.html
04-12-2021||National||Restore J&K's statehood before assembly election: Ghulam Nabi Azad||The real 'Jehad' is to fight against poverty and unemployment, rather than against any leader, party or religion, senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Saturday. Addressing a public rally here, he reiterated the demand for restoration of statehood of Jammu and Kashmir before assembly elections, saying the bureaucracy is no match to popular rule in fulfilling the aspirations of the people. He said the people of the country are suffering due to the price hike of essential commodities and the Congress has been fighting over it within and outside parliament. “Jehad (holy war) is not fighting against another religion. The real 'Jehad' is to wipe out poverty and unemployment which is our biggest enemy, rather than any leader or party,” Azad said. The former chief minister said that he does not consider any leader or party as his enemy. “There has been a spurt in the prices of fuel and other daily use items including vegetables and pulses. The domestic gas was available to the people for Rs 400 during the Congress rule, but now the price has gone up nearly three times, bringing misery to the commoners,” Azad said. He said he is a less politician and a more reformer as “I believe there is a need for reforms to end the evils of discrimination and maltreatment”. “There are some who are dividing the people on the basis of religion, which I view as a mental sickness. I, as a chief minister of J-K, never differentiated the people on the basis of religion and region and treated everyone equally,” Azad said, adding the people are precious to him and he was ready for any sacrifice for them. Azad claimed the present government is not treating everyone equally and is taking “anti-people” steps like evicting people from their land which they have been possessing for decades together. The Congress leader said the people of J&K are suffering as there is no alternative to the democratic government. “The bureaucracy is no substitute for the popular government. We cannot hold them responsible for their failure to mitigate the sufferings of the public. They are not meant to visit far-off places and listen to the public as they are constitutionally assigned the job of working in offices,” Azad said. Raising the demand for early restoration of statehood followed by assembly elections, the Congress leader said the people of J-K need a democratic government and not central rule, which is going on after the fall of the previous government in 2018. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/restore-jks-statehood-before-assembly-election-ghulam-nabi-azad-1057671.html
04-12-2021||National||No need to panic, follow Covid-appropriate behaviour: Vice President on Omicron||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday urged people not to panic about the emergence of new Covid-19 strain Omicron and advised them to remain vigilant and keep following Covid-appropriate behaviour till the pandemic is over.  Addressing a gathering at a book launch event at the Upa Rashtrapati Nivas here, he also urged people to shed hesitancy and get themselves vaccinated against coronavirus at the earliest. The vice president said the coronavirus pandemic has come as a big challenge for the entire human race, and appreciated the world's largest vaccination drive currently underway in India, an official statement of the Vice President Secretariat said. Naidu also referred to the transformational changes brought in governance over the past seven years. These changes are both empowering and enabling 1.3 billion people to deliver on their potential, he said.  "Be it life expectancy, financial inclusion, access to healthcare, employment, owning a house, or honouring entrepreneurial ability, the quality of Indian lives is getting better with each passing day," Naidu said. Quoting the prime minister's three word mantra – 'reform, perform and transform', the vice president praised the tremendous progress made by the nation over the past few years in various fields such as financial inclusion, insurance coverage, number of LPG connections for poor women and tap water connection to households.  He said following the principle of 'minimum government and maximum governance', the government is leveraging technologies to bring transformation in every sector, and expressed satisfaction over India becoming the third largest startup ecosystem in the world. "It is a testimony to the government's resolute commitment to improve the business environment in the country that India's ranking rose to 63rd place in World Bank's Ease of Doing Business Index 2020," he said. Naidu noted that India's strategic partnerships are based on mutual respect and the nation has given a resolute response to inimical forces who dared to challenge its integrity and sovereignty.  "We are guided by our unwavering self-belief and our dedication to becoming 'atmanirbhar' (self-reliant) in every possible way," he noted.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-need-to-panic-follow-covid-appropriate-behaviour-vice-president-on-omicron-1057677.html
04-12-2021||National||Mamata to attend event in Kathmandu pending Centre's clearance||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to go to Nepal for a day. Though she has initially consented to the invitation of addressing a gathering in Kathmandu, her visit is subject to clearance from the Centre. Earlier, the Centre had turned down her proposal to visit Rome. Banerjee recently received an invitation to address a gathering in Kathmandu on December 11. Sources in the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) confirmed that Banerjee is interested to go to Kathmandu and has informed the organisers of the event, but she needs to get clearance from the Central government. The state government is writing to the Centre to allow her to go to Kathmandu. Banerjee has a busy schedule ahead in December. She will go to Goa directly from Kathmandu to attend a party programme, where she is likely to stay for two days. Trinamool Congress all-India General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee will accompany Banerjee. On her return from Goa, Banerjee is likely to go to Shillong and then to Junglemahal. Few administrative meetings are also lined up in different districts, including North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad and Nadia. Sources in the party also confirmed that she would campaign for at least two of the party candidates for the Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections scheduled on December 19. Recently, the Chief Minister had visited Delhi and Mumbai. In Delhi, besides meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, she also met several leaders of the opposition. In Mumbai, Banerjee met industrialists, civil society members, as well as met NCP chief Sharad Pawar. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-to-attend-event-in-kathmandu-pending-centres-clearance-1057684.html
04-12-2021||National||Over 1 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India in one day||The number of Covid vaccine doses administered in a day crossed one crore on Saturday after more than two months, taking the total jabs given so far to over 127.5 crore, amid fears of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. Four cases of the Omicron variant have been reported in India so far. The vaccination has gathered pace in the country over the last one week after South Africa reported the new variant which has been designated as a variant of concern by WHO. More than one crore vaccine doses have been administered till 8.15 pm on Saturday. "India achieves another 1,00,00,000 #COVID19 vaccinations today! With the #HarGharDastak campaign in full swing, the world's #LargestVaccinationDrive is touching new heights & accomplishing new feats under PM @NarendraModi ji's leadership," Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late Saturday night. According to the government data, 59.32 lakh vaccine doses on an average were administered per day in November compared to 19.69 lakh doses per day in May this year. Besides, 55.77 lakh doses on an average were administered per day in October, 78.69 lakh in September and 59.29 lakh in August. Officials said around 84.8 per cent of the adult population in India has been given the first dose of the Covid vaccine, while 50 per cent has received the second dose. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-in-one-day-1057688.html
04-12-2021||National||‘Jawad’ shows mercy, spares India’s east coast havoc||India’s east coast is unlikely to face the fury of cyclonic storm ‘Jawad’ which has weakened into a deep depression before reaching the Odisha-Andhra Pradesh coast but thousands of people living along the sea have been evacuated as a precautionary measure, officials said on Saturday. However, a teenager was killed in Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh after a tree came crashing down on him in heavy rain under the influence of the tempest. People of Odisha, already battered by cyclone ‘Gulab’ and ‘Yaas’ in the last one year, heaved a sigh of relief as the storm began ebbing away while still rolling over the sea. There was no rain in Odisha capital Bhubaneswar and coastal districts since noon, prompting the authorities to stop the evacuation. “About 1,500 people have been evacuated, including 300 pregnant women. We have stopped evacuation now,” an official said. “The system is likely to hit the Puri coast (Odisha) as a deep depression after getting weakened inside the sea during its journey to the shore,” Weather Scientist US Dash of the Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar, said on Saturday morning. However, the weatherman said in the evening that the deep depression will further weaken and Puri, where the cyclone was expected to make landfall, will witness rainfall and wind at 50-60 kmph Sunday afternoon. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jawad-shows-mercy-spares-india-s-east-coast-havoc-1057691.html
04-12-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee may visit Nepal next week||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee may travel to Nepal next week on an invitation by Nepali Congress, the ruling party of that country, an official said on Saturday. Banerjee has accepted the invitation to be present at the Nepali Congress' 14th National Convention scheduled to be held from December 10 to 12 in Kathmandu, where she may be among the speakers. She has been invited to the inaugural session on December 10, he said. "It is our firm belief that your gracious presence will encourage us to work together in the strengthening of democracy in our region and beyond and reinforce our party-to-party relations," the invitation signed by Nepali Congress president Sher Bahadur Deuba read. A formal letter has been sent to the Centre for necessary permission, the official said.  “The CM has accepted an invitation to speak at a programme in Kathmandu on December 10,” he said. In case Banerjee travels to Nepal, she may fly straight to Goa, where her party is planning to be in the reckoning in the state poll in 2021, the next day to attend a Trinamool Congress programme there, the official added. Banerjee is slated to travel to Uttar and Dakshin Dinajpur, Malda and Nadia districts from Tuesday. She will hold back to back administrative review meetings in those districts.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-may-visit-nepal-next-week-1057694.html
04-12-2021||National||Akhilesh suffering from 'seasonal disease', claims every work as his: UP BJP chief||Uttar Pradesh BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh on Saturday attacked Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, saying he suffers from a "seasonal disease" due to which he claims as his every work done by the ruling party. The BJP leader said those who "built haj houses" worth hundreds of crores are now claiming that the decision to build the Kashi Vishwanath corridor was theirs. "The SP chief is suffering from some seasonal disease due to which he is describing every work of the government as his own work and now he thinks that the Kashi Vishwanath corridor is also built by him," Singh said. "He has forgotten that he only cut the ribbon of haj houses," Singh said in a statement. He compared the Yadav-led previous government with Mahmud Ghaznavi and Muhammad Ghori, saying it "looted the country". He alleged that police guarded temple during the SP regime to ensure that their "bells don’t ring". "People have not forgotten how they had to make requests for setting up Durga puja and Ram Lila pandals before 2017," the BJP leader claimed. He said today flowers are being showered on the Kanwar Yatra and the Kumbh is praised by the world. The grand celebrations of Deepotsav, Dev Deepawali, Holi and Krishna Janmotsav are the hallmarks of Uttar Pradesh, he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akhilesh-suffering-from-seasonal-disease-claims-every-work-as-his-up-bjp-chief-1057710.html
04-12-2021||National||Congress will take up issues of fishermen at national level: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday assured fishermen that his party would take up their concerns and issues at the national level and hold protests against the WTO regulation on fisheries subsidies and the Indian Marine Fisheries Bill. He was interacting with leaders of the All India Fishermen Congress (AIFC) at its national executive meeting at the party headquarters. Gandhi asked AIFC chairman and party MP T N Prathapan to prepare a detailed report on fishermen-related issues such as the Coastal Regulation Zones (CRZ), the World Trade Organization's new regulation on fisheries subsidies, Indian Marine Fisheries Bill and the blue economy programme. The national executive meeting of the AIFC demanded India's withdrawal from the WTO regulation which calls for removing subsidies on fishing. Prathapan said the WTO's new regulations will destroy the lives and livelihood of traditional fishermen. The agreement, which will destroy the fisheries economy of developing countries, is being carried to the ministerial-level summit and the Government of India is expected to sign it, Prathapan said. The AIFC will hold national-level protests against these moves, he said, alleging that the central government is implementing the corporate agenda in the fisheries sector, which will harm both marine and inland fisheries. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-will-take-up-issues-of-fishermen-at-national-level-rahul-gandhi-1057713.html
04-12-2021||National Politics||CAA 'fundamentally anti-national', urge govt not to implement it: Tharoor||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Friday termed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) "fundamentally anti-national" and urged the government not to implement it. The CAA, which facilitates granting of Indian citizenship to persecuted non-Muslim minorities of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, was passed by Parliament in 2019 and had led to protests in different parts of the country. After the government announced the repeal of the three farm laws, there have been calls from some quarters seeking withdrawal of the CAA as well. "The #CAA is fundamentally anti-national & I urge the Govt not to implement it," Tharoor tweeted. The objective of the CAA is to grant Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities -- Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian -- from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. People from these communities who had come to India till December 31, 2014 due to religious persecution in these countries will not be treated as illegal immigrants but be given Indian citizenship. After the CAA was passed by Parliament, widespread protests were witnessed in the country. Those opposing the CAA contend that it discriminates on the basis of religion and violates the Constitution. They also allege that the CAA along with the National Register of Citizens is intended to target the Muslim community in India. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/caa-fundamentally-anti-national-urge-govt-not-to-implement-it-tharoor-1057437.html
04-12-2021||National Politics||Kejriwal is a power greedy outsider: Punjab CM Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday called his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal a "power greedy outsider" who wants to rule the state and accused him of misleading Punjabis. Continuing his attack against Kejriwal, he claimed that the AAP supremo had little knowledge about the state and was "groping in the dark for fulfilling his lust of power". The Punjab chief minister also slammed former CM Amarinder Singh for his "myopic mindset" towards the poor. "Kejriwal is a power greedy outsider, who desires to rule Punjab due to which he is trying to mislead Punjabis," Channi said addressing a gathering here. The Punjab chief minister said "Kejriwal and company" must remember one thing that history is witness to the fact that Punjabis love their land and people, and they would never allow any outsider to rule their state. "Besides being an outsider, Kejriwal is a rumour monger who knows nothing about the state but pokes his nose in everything,” he alleged. Such type of "cheap" politics will never be successful in the state, a statement quoting Channi said. He said the Kejriwal government has "failed" in Delhi whereas the Congress is delivering its best to people. His remarks came a day after Kejriwal visited Pathankot ahead of the upcoming polls. Attacking Amarinder Singh, Channi said, "As the chief minister, the 'Maharaja' (Amarinder Singh) targeted me because I had raised issues of the common man.” As he comes from a family with a humble background, the chief minister said he always impressed upon Amarinder Singh to safeguard the interests of the common man. However, Channi alleged that instead of resolving the issues to give a reprieve to the poor and downtrodden, the “Maharaja” started victimising him. Channi said he continued his struggle for the common and underprivileged masses due to which the “haughty Maharaja” was ousted by the Congress party. He said only the Congress can take a “revolutionary” decision to oust a “Maharaja” and bestow responsibility of the chief minister to a common man. However, he said this “revolution” can sustain only if all the needy people stand united to support the Congress. Channi said the powerful elite class is conniving to destabilise this common man's government by dividing the poor on sectarian lines. Attacking the Akalis, BJP and Amarinder Singh, Channi said they are "partners in crime" against the people of Punjab. "The trio of (Narendra) Modi, (Sukhbir Singh) Badal and Captain (Amarinder Singh ) had connived to pass anti-farm laws for jeopardising the interests of the state," he claimed. "An elite and unholy nexus of politicians across party lines had eluded power from the common man just to loot Punjab,” he alleged. He claimed that the members of this elite group like the Badals and Captain have a common bond in the form of their own vested interests. They have been “willfully” doing this by enjoying the fruits of power in a game of musical chairs where the ruler changes after every five years but power remains in their hands, Channi added. However, Channi said now this nexus has been broken and the power is with the common man.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kejriwal-is-a-power-greedy-outsider-punjab-cm-channi-1057440.html
04-12-2021||National Politics||Whackyverse: Mamata Banerjee, the slayer of giants||Speedy Didi Slayer of giants Mamata Banerjee Is bursting with a bold new energy. As she eyes the PM's chair, Rahul has much to despair: Will this shake him out of his lethargy? Just after her West Bengal election victory, Mamata Banerjee vowed to be the prime mover of the united Opposition in the country and met Congress chief Sonia Gandhi in Delhi. It galvanised the entire anti-BJP populace. But then, something inexplicable happened, and the Trinamool Congress started preying on leaders of the parties from the Opposition itself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/whackyverse-mamata-banerjee-the-slayer-of-giants-1057476.html
04-12-2021||National Politics||BJP in talks with Amarinder, Dhindsa for alliance in Punjab: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said that the BJP is in talks with former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and former Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa to forge an alliance with their parties ahead of the state assembly polls. During an interaction followed by his keynote address at the HT Leadership Summit 2021, Shah also ruled out the possibility of farmers' protests impacting elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, saying after the repeal of the agri laws, no other issue remains. He asserted that the BJP will form once again form the government in Uttar Pradesh with a comfortable majority. Assembly elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh will be held early next year. "We are talking to Captain saab (Amarinder Singh) as well as (former Akali Dal leader Sukhdev Singh) Dhindsa saab. It is possible that we will have an alliance with both (their) parties. We are talking to both parties with a positive mind," Shah said. On the farmers' agitation, Shah said Prime Minister Narendra Modi showed a big heart to repeal the three farm laws. "The prime minister showed a big heart to end the farmers' protests, (saying) OK fine, if you think farm laws are not in favour of the farmers... repealed the three farm laws. Now I don't think any issue is left in Punjab. The elections will be fought on merit," he said. Asked if there had been any changes in the electoral atmosphere in western Uttar Pradesh, he said the impact of farmers' protests was even less in the state. In Punjab, the BJP will be testing waters on its own after its decades-old ally Shiromani Akali Dal parted ways with it over the issue of farm laws last year. In Uttar Pradesh, the BJP will try to return to power. Responding to a question about former BJP allies joining the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh, Shah said connecting coalitions with vote arithmetic is not the correct way of assessing elections. "Politics is not physics but chemistry. When two parties join hands, their votes will be added is not a correct assumption according to me. When two chemicals combine a third chemical is created. "We have seen in the past when the SP and the Congress joined hands and later all three (SP, BSP and Congress) came together, (but) the BJP won the elections. People are aware. Coalitions formed on the basis of vote banks cannot guide people now," he said. The minister said the Uttar Pradesh elections are being fought under organisational in-charge and Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and the political leadership of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. "I have been to Uttar Pradesh. I can confidently say that the BJP will form a government in Uttar Pradesh with a thumping majority," Shah said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-in-talks-with-amarinder-dhindsa-for-alliance-in-punjab-shah-1057571.html
04-12-2021||National Politics||AAP alleges illegal sand mining in Channi's constituency Chamkaur Sahib||Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha on Saturday alleged that illegal sand mining is being carried out in Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s constituency Chamkaur Sahib as he paid a surprise visit to a village there. Terming it an "expose", the AAP leader also accused the ruling Congress in the state of "patronising" the sand mafia. Chadha made the accusations after he visited Jindapur village in Chamkaur Sahib. "Illegal sand mining in Charanjit Singh Channi constituency's constituency has been exposed. It is the biggest expose which will shake Punjab's politics," Chadha told reporters at the site. "We are in Jindapur village, which is in the chief minister's constituency Chamkaur Sahib. Illegal sand mining is going on here openly. Sand is being illegally ferried in trucks," the AAP leader said. Chadha said when Channi became the CM, he had declared that those connected to the sand mafia should not try to approach him. "But here we can see this mafia is enjoying the patronage of the ruling outfit," he alleged. He said as per their estimates, 800 to 1,000 trucks, called tippers, filled with sand were being taken out from the site. "Right under the chief minister's nose and in his own constituency, this illegal activity is going on," he alleged. "Channi's hoardings can be seen in the state that his government has checked various mafia. The truth is that in his own constituency illegal mining is going, so his claims are hollow. Another claim that people were getting sand at Rs 5 per cubic feet is also hollow," Chadha claimed. He said AAP wants to know how many sites like this are in Punjab where this illegal activity is going on. "Chief Minister Channi should give an answer," he said. Chadha also alleged that a forest officer recently wrote to the local SHO and tehsildar, telling them about illegal mining in Jindapur village. In the letter, the officer mentioned that the land comes under forest department and activities like mining cannot be conducted there, Chadha said referring to the site in Jindapur. "He wrote the letter on November 22 and just a day he was transferred," said Chadha. Later, in a tweet, Chadha wrote, "Mega expose by AAP on Congress' Channi government that can shake up the politics of Punjab. Mafia, scandals and loot in the chief minister's own constituency being exposed."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-alleges-illegal-sand-mining-in-channis-constituency-chamkaur-sahib-1057578.html
04-12-2021||National Politics||Congress launches online campaign to press for Rs 4 lakh compensation for kin of Covid-19 deceased||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday launched the party's online campaign demanding compensation for the families of those who died of Covid and accused the government of sleeping while people coped with pain and loss. "When it comes to people's pain and loss, Government of India is sleeping. Let's wake them up," Gandhi said on Twitter while launching the "#SpeakUpforCovidNyay" campaign. On its official Twitter handle, the Congress party said the aim of the campaign was to demand that the central government disclose the actual number of Covid deaths in the country, and "properly compensate all families of the victims with Rs 4 lakh". The Modi government has very tactfully tried to cover up its failures in managing the Covid-19 pandemic by distorting the number of Covid deaths, the party alleged. "#SpeakUpForCovidNyay so the govt is forced to disclose the correct number of Covid deaths," it said. "By making up false numbers, the Modi government is not only withholding compensation for lakhs of families, but it is simply trying to cover up its failure in managing and controlling the pandemic," the party said. The Congress said that under the disaster management guidelines, the government is required to compensate the families of Covid-19 victims with Rs 4 lakh. "The Modi government has carefully tried to wriggle its way out of compensating the fair amount and is trying to settle compensation of a meagre amount of Rs 50,000," it alleged. Several state Congress units and leaders across the country put out videos in support of the online campaign and to press the government for providing compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of the Covid-19 deceased. The party has raised the demand in Parliament too. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-launches-online-campaign-to-press-for-rs-4-lakh-compensation-for-kin-of-covid-19-deceased-1057583.html
04-12-2021||National Politics||Shiv Sena slams Mamata Banerjee for 'no UPA' remark||Days after her three-day political-cum-official tour of West Bengal chief minister and TMC chairperson Mamata Banerjee in Mumbai, the Shiv Sena has slammed her for the anti-UPA remark. During the Mumbai visit, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s son and state protocol, tourism and environment minister Aaditya and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut called on her.  Besides, Banerjee met NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and his core team and also the civil society members in India’s financial capital.  The visit was considered important in view of the fact that it was a build-up for opposition unity in the run-up to the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, however, Mamata Didi’s “there is no UPA” remark has not gone down well with the Congress.  Now, Shiv Sena too has criticised her for such remarks.  “Although it is true that in West Bengal, she finished the Congress, the Left and the BJP, doing politics by keeping Congress away from national politics is like strengthening today’s state with a fascist tendency,” said an editorial published in Saamana, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece.  The editorial further said: “One can understand that if Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP work for the defeat of the Congress since it is a part of their agenda. But if even those who are against Modi and the BJP wish ill of the Congress, then it is the biggest threat.” Later speaking to media persons, Raut said that several parties in different states are fighting BJP. “We feel that the UPA must be strengthened, aggressive…even Uddhav ji has said this several times…but then he has also asked where is the NDA,” he said, adding that excluding Congress and forming an alliance is difficult. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-slams-mamata-banerjee-for-no-upa-remark-1057591.html
04-12-2021||National Politics||Kangana Ranaut may campaign for BJP in Uttar Pradesh polls||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut may campaign for the BJP in the forthcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. In an informal chat with reporters after paying obeisance at the famous Banke Bihari Temple at Vrindavan in UP's Mathura district, Kangana also said that she was not associated with any political party. "Though I am not a member of any political party, if need be, I will campaign for nationalist parties," she said in reply to a question. "Those who had stopped my vehicle were not farmers, they were anti-social elements. Besides, there were many in the crowd, who asked them to let me go," Kangana said. She said that only those who were not nationalists criticised her. "The nationalists always support me," she remarked. The Bollywood actor, who is often in the news for her controversial statements, also visited the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi and paid obeisance there. "Some portions of the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi are not open for darshan. I hope Yogiji will do something in this regard," she added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kangana-ranaut-may-campaign-for-bjp-in-uttar-pradesh-polls-1057597.html
04-12-2021||National Politics||Scams exploded during ten years of UPA rule, says PM Modi||Launching a scathing attack on the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA), Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that scams exploded in the name of infrastructure during the ten-year rule of the Manmohan Singh government. Addressing a public gathering in poll-bound Uttarakhand after inaugurating and laying the foundation stones for development projects worth Rs 18,000 crore in Dehradun, the Prime Minister accused the Congress of doing politics of appeasement and dividing the country. He said that perversion of politics does not allow people to be strong and makes them dependent on the government for their needs. Modi claimed that "Whatever schemes we bring, we will bring them for everyone, without discrimination. We do not make vote bank politics the basis but give priority to the service of the people. Our approach has been to strengthen the country." Targeting the Congress, Modi said, "For 10 years there were scams, scams in the name of infrastructure in the country. We worked twice as hard to make up for the loss caused to the country and are doing it even today." He heaped praises on his party leader and state Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and also spoke about other veteran BJP leaders in the state. The Prime Minister said that Uttarakhand is not just the centre of faith but is the symbol of hard work and determination. That is why the development of the state is one of the foremost priorities of the 'double engine government' of the Centre and the state. Comparing the pace of development, the Prime Minister pointed out that between 2007 and 2014, the then Central government (UPA), built only 288 km of national highways in Uttarakhand in seven years, whereas the current (NDA) government has constructed a national highway of more than 2,000 km in the state in seven years. He charged that the earlier governments did not work on the infrastructure of the border hill areas as seriously as they should have. The previous governments did nothing on critical issues like One rank, one pension, modern weapons, giving a befitting reply to terrorists that demoralised the Army at every level, he said, adding that "The government which is in place today cannot come under the pressure of any country in the world. We are people who follow the mantra of the nation first, always first." He said the reconstruction of Kedar Dham has not only increased the number of devotees coming for darshan but also provided many opportunities for employment and self-employment to the people there. Before the Kedarnath tragedy in 2012, 5,70,000 devotees had darshan, which was a record number, whereas before the start of the corona period, in 2019, more than 10 lakh people had come to visit Kedarnath. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/scams-exploded-during-ten-years-of-upa-rule-says-pm-modi-1057600.html
04-12-2021||National Politics||AAP will soon become a clone of BJP, says Chidambaram||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will soon become a clone of the BJP as it is imitating the saffron party. "Imitation is the best form of flattery. The more the AAP imitates the BJP, the less relevant it will become. Soon, the AAP will become a clone of the BJP," he said on Twitter. Imitation is the best form of flattery The more the AAP imitates the BJP, the less relevant it will become Soon, the AAP will become a clone of the BJP The former Union minister also hit out at the BJP for changing three chief ministers in Uttarakhand in five years. "Uttarakhand has seen three chief ministers in five years, but no development. The start of development will be today, three months before the elections! There will be nothing but foundation stones and plaques," he said in another tweet. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday laid the foundation stones of 11 projects worth Rs 15,728 crore and inaugurated seven projects worth Rs 2,573 crore in Uttarakhand where assembly polls are slated for early next year.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-will-soon-become-a-clone-of-bjp-says-chidambaram-1057634.html
04-12-2021||National Politics||Will not severe ties with TMC, says Mallikarjun Kharge||Opposition leader in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Saturday clarified that there was no question of severing ties with Trinamool Congress (TMC) just because West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee questioned the United Progressive Alliance's (UPA) existence. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, he replied to Mamata's question, stating, "It is known to everyone that only Congress-led UPA is fighting against the BJP in the country. Is she unaware of the UPA government in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Maharashtra and Uttarakhand?"  "The oppression of the communal forces in BJP-ruled states in the country has increased. Mamata should expand her party's base in such states and bring the party to power to strengthen the secular parties. TMC should chalk out strategies to grab the places occupied by BJP. At present, she could try in neighbouring states of West Bengal," he advised. Calling the suspension of 12 MPs from the Rajya Sabha 'illegal,' he said, "There is a provision to fight democratically in the session. The suspension order stands cancelled when the session resumes after the adjournment. But the RS members' suspension has continued till the completion of the winter session. This move by the BJP is undemocratic," he alleged. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-not-severe-ties-with-tmc-says-mallikarjun-kharge-1057650.html
04-12-2021||National Politics||TMC bins Shiv Sena's editorial piece, says party will continue work to build Opposition front||The TMC leadership on Saturday declined to attach much importance to Shiv Sena's remarks on the party's effort to build an opposition alliance, one parallel to the UPA, and said that it would continue to cobble up an alternative front as the Congress "failed to lead the fight" against the BJP. In a snub to TMC chief Mamata Banerjee, whose party is currently engaged in a tussle with the Congress, the Shiv Sena on Saturday said keeping the grand old party away from national politics while creating an opposition alliance parallel to the UPA is akin to strengthening the ruling BJP and other "fascist" forces. In an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana', the Sena also said that those who don't want a Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) should make their stand clear publicly instead of creating confusion by talking behind curtains. "The Shiv Sena is free to have its opinion. But let's not talk about what is right and wrong. The Shiv Sena itself was part of BJP-led NDA. It left the NDA after a fracas over the chief minister’s post in Maharashtra. It joined hands with the NCP and the Congress for CM's chair," TMC MP Sougata Roy said. He stated that the party would continue to increase its strength and venture out to other states. "The TMC only wants opposition unity to be strengthened. We have never said that an opposition alliance will be forged without Congress. But if Congress can't perform its duty, we have nothing to do. They can't blame us for their incompetence. If one fails, then someone else has to fill the vacuum," he said. Echoing him, TMC's state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said Shiv Sena's comment is out of its "alliance compulsion" in Maharashtra. "We don't want any misunderstanding with the Shiv Sena. It is running a government in Maharashtra with the support of Congress. So they have some compulsions, and these statements have been made out of that compulsion. We are cobbling up an opposition front as the Congress has failed to do so," he underlined. Reacting to TMC's remarks, veteran Congress leader and MP Pradip Bhattacharya said the activities and statements of the TMC are only going to help the BJP. "It seems the TMC is more interested in fighting the Congress than the BJP. The TMC is doing everything to break opposition unity and, in turn, helping the BJP in its political interests," he said. The TMC has been up in arms over the Congress' alleged failure to fight against the BJP. Banerjee during her recent visit to Mumbai had said that "UPA doesn't exist". Her camp termed the Congress an "incapable and incompetent" party that has gone into a "deep freezer". The relationship had soured after TMC mouthpiece 'Jago Bangla' claimed that Banerjee, and not Rahul Gandhi, has emerged as the face of the opposition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Last week, the ruling camp in Bengal had said it is "disinterested" in coordinating with the Congress during the winter session of Parliament, but maintained that it would cooperate with other opposition parties on various issues concerning people's interest.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-bins-shiv-senas-editorial-piece-says-party-will-continue-work-to-build-opposition-front-1057674.html
04-12-2021||National Politics||'Naya Kashmir' that is being advertised is not reality: Mehbooba||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday accused the Centre of projecting Jammu and Kashmir as "peaceful" whereas the fact was that blood was being spilt on its roads and people were being slapped with anti-terror laws for expressing their opinion. Speaking at the Aaj Tak Summit here about "Naya Kashmir", Mehbooba, a former chief minister, said her late father Mufti Mohammed Sayeed had tied up with the BJP in 2014 only because he wanted to usher in a new regime of peace in the state. "My father had seen a statesmanlike Atal Bihari Vajpayee earlier and he had hoped that the new regime of BJP will work on the same ideology," she said. She questioned the use of the term "Naya Kashmir" and said "the new Kashmir that is being advertised is not the reality. Today an 18-month-old girl is sitting in a protest to get the body of her father who was killed by security forces." "Today, a Kashmiri Pandit was killed in broad daylight. The road is covered with the blood of a Bihari man and we call it Naya Kashmir? Is this what we anticipated from the word 'Naya Kashmir'? Everywhere the situation is projected to be better, then why are the number of paramilitary forces increased, fresh bunkers built," she asked. She also targeted the central government. "Forget 'Naya Kashmir' and let us talk about 'Naya Hindustan'.... In Naya Hindustan, anyone talking about the Constitution is labelled as 'tukde tukde gang', minorities irrespective of being a roadside vendor or a film star are socially and economically outcast, farmers demanding repeal (of farm laws) are labelled as Khalistani and booked under UAPA. "This may be the Naya Hindustan but it does not belong to my (Mahatma) Gandhi. This seems to be an India of (Nathuram) Godse and what they are making is Godse ka Kashmir where people are not allowed to talk and even, I am detained in the house for at least two days in a week," she said. She said Kashmiris embraced the national tricolour in 1947 when they joined India. "But if it was today's regime at the helm of affairs then, I am afraid the results would have been different," she said. To a question as to what difference did the abrogation of Article 370 make, she said, "We have been betrayed first and foremost. If this was a guarantee, why was it (abrogation) done. There are many states who do not allow outsiders to buy land or ensure employment for their own people. If there is no problem with that, then why single out only Kashmir." She warned that whatever is happening in Kashmir can be replicated in the rest of the country. "If today anyone thinks that he or she won't be affected by these kinds of laws, then let me remind you that Kashmir is a laboratory for them. UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act) was abused first in Kashmir and now it is being followed in the rest of the country. Similarly giving extra powers to BSF," she said. The Union government recently amended the BSF Act empowering the border guarding force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a 50 km stretch, up from the existing 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. She said the Centre should begin the political process in Jammu and Kashmir at the earliest and initiate a dialogue process, and added that she was not against the security forces. "In fact, it is the hard work of security forces that we have achieved the kind of peace where we could hold elections. However, the politicians should not use the shoulder of security forces to aim at innocent people," she said. To a question on the Gupkar Alliance, she said it is a coalition of parties for the just cause of Jammu and Kashmir. "If PDP and BJP, which were the North Pole and the South Pole, could come together, why not National Conference and PDP? Moreover, we have not decided on the electoral process yet...because elections are not on priority for Mehbooba Mufti," she said. The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) is a coalition of seven political parties, including the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/naya-kashmir-that-is-being-advertised-is-not-reality-mehbooba-1057675.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||Newly-constructed UP road cracks open after BJP MLA smashes coconut during inauguration||A portion of a newly constructed road cracked when a BJP MLA smashed a coconut on the road to mark its inauguration in Uttar Pradesh's Bijnor district. Upset over the incident, BJP MLA Suchi Chaudhary sat on a dharna and scolded officials over the poor quality of the road. A total of Rs 1,16,00,000 was spent on the construction of the road, according to sources. On Thursday evening, the Bijnor MLA had gone to inaugurate the seven-km-long road near Kheda village. During the inaugural ceremony, she smashed a coconut on the road but it did not break and instead a gravel came off. When the MLA's husband Mausam Chaudhary, who was also there on the spot, used a shovel on the newly constructed road, the surface started disintegrating. Executive engineer at the Irrigation Division Vikas Aggarwal said a sample has been taken for analysis. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/newly-constructed-up-road-cracks-open-after-bjp-mla-smashes-coconut-during-inauguration-1057441.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||Congress ‘dissenter’ Azad making his presence felt in J&K’s frozen politics||Former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Ghulam Nabi Azad, who is part of Congress’s G-23 group of ‘dissenters’, is making his presence felt in Jammu and Kashmir politics which had been frozen since the abrogation of the erstwhile state’s special status in August 2019. Azad, a shrewd politician, is being seen as the best bet on the vexed issue by political pundits and politicians alike. For the last two weeks, the septuagenarian politician has been holding huge political rallies across Jammu and Kashmir. In the same period, a large number of senior Congress leaders in J&K have resigned from different positions and openly asked the central leadership to appoint Azad as the party’s J&K chief in place of incumbent Ghulam Ahmad Mir. Their argument is that with Mir at the helm, Congress has shrunk in J&K and only Azad can transform it into a force and bring it into power. Mir was not present at any of the rallies addressed by the Congress ‘dissenter’ in the last two weeks. In his addresses, he has been calling for immediate restoration of J&K’s statehood and holding of Assembly polls, which is something which even Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah have promised several times in the last two years. Azad, who was Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha till the beginning of this year, is not making any fiery speeches on the restoration of J&K’s special status unlike regional party leaders and former CMs Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti. “I don’t talk about Article 370 because it is in the Supreme Court. The present government cannot restore Article 370 as it has abrogated it. And we don’t have 300 parliament members to restore it and there seems no possibility for Congress to have 300 seats by 2024,” he said in one of the rallies. It is pertinent to mention here that while bidding a tearful farewell to Azad on February 9 in the Upper House, the Prime Minister had said that he respects the veteran leader as a “true friend” and will not let him retire, and will continue taking his advice.” Political analyst Zafar Choudhary says he can’t rule out Azad coming up with another party in J&K. “So far, he (Azad) has held all rallies under the Congress banner and flag. The response of people in these rallies can compel the Congress high command to hand over J&K to Azad or work out a middle path. If it doesn’t work, then he has his options open,” he said. Choudhary added that whether Azad remains in Congress or not, “he will be a key player as and when assembly polls are held in J&K". There is a possibility that the Centre will hold elections in J&K next summer as the Delimitation Commission set up in March 2020 is set to complete the process before the onset of spring in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-dissenter-azad-making-his-presence-felt-in-jk-s-frozen-politics-1057484.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||No more Urdu, Persian words in FIRs: MP CM Chouhan tells cops||After Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh wants to root out Urdu and Persian words from the lexicon of police officers, to "simplify" the language.  A senior Madhya Pradesh police officer was told off by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and other ministers for using the Urdu word 'Dastiyab', literally meaning 'be available', while referring to the recovery of evidence during a high-level meeting. State Home Minister Narottam Mishra has ordered to delete Urdu, Persian words from the MP police lexicon, with the Superintendent of Police being told to drop usage of words from the Mughal era, the report said. After this order, 350 words like 'adam pata' (untraceable), 'tarmeem' (amendment) and 'muddayi' (complainant) will not be used by the state police. Congress has said this move is more to send across a political message than simplify the vocabulary. "It took them 18 years to understand the meaning of these words? They should understand the meaning of murder, rape, then only the situation would improve because as per NCRB (National Crime Records Bureau), the situation is getting worse. This is just politics," Congress spokesperson Narendra Saluja told NDTV. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-more-urdu-persian-words-in-firs-mp-cm-chouhan-tells-cops-1057503.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||Kashmir witnessing 'peace', investment & tourists post 370 abrogation: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said Kashmir was witnessing peace, good business investment and influx of tourists post the abrogation of Article 370 in 2019. He also said Prime Minister Narendra Modi ensured an optimum utilisation of resources to successfully fight oxygen shortage during the second wave of coronavirus in the country. Delivering his keynote address during the HT Leadership Summit here, Shah said the country has given a strong reply to the cross-border terrorism perpetrated by Pakistan, "hitting it in its house" by way of surgical strikes conducted by defence forces. No one believed that Article 370 and 35A could be repealed but Prime Minister Narendra Modi did it in 2019, he said. "I can say that there is peace now in Kashmir, investment is coming and tourists are flocking." "Kashmir slowly is getting back to normal to stand in unity with the country," he said. He said the Modi government made it clear through its armed surgical strikes into Pakistan that breaching Indian borders was not that easy. This feat till now was only known to be done by Israel and the US but India too now is in that list. "We want peace with everyone... the security of our borders is our top priority and we have given a definite and loud message in this context." "Due to this, India now has a different acceptance in the world," he said.  Talking about the recent challenges posed by the Covid-19, the home minister said PM Modi's effective policies brought out the economy, hit by the pandemic, in quick time. "Indian economy is growing fastest in the world now," Shah said. Lauding Modi's leadership, Shah said it was the first time that India's security policy "came out of the shadows" of its foreign policy. He said in last 10 years before Modi government came to power (2014), there was a "policy paralysis" in the country, the Prime Minister's office was "compromised" and India's respect in the world had come down. "We got political stability in 2014 as there was an era of coalition governments for long in the country," the home minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-witnessing-peace-investment-tourists-post-370-abrogation-amit-shah-1057509.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||12 suspected Omicron cases in Delhi, genome sequencing awaited: Minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said that total 12 patients are suspected of carrying Omicron variant of the coronavirus so far in the national capital. He said that all have been admitted to the isolation ward of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital. "There were total 12 suspected patients of Omicron till yesterday in Delhi. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing and the report will be out by today evening or tomorrow", said Minister Jain, adding that Delhi government has two genome sequencing labs, one at ILBS and one at LNJP. Talking about the new Omicron variant, he said, "more than expressing concern, it is the subject of caution and vigilant. We all need to be alert of this Covid variant". He underlined that the global health body WHO has called it a variant of concern but has not said that it will cause a major disaster. "RT-PCR test is being done for all the passengers landing at the international airport from abroad. No one is being allowed to go without the test", he added. While talking about Hepatitis, the Delhi Health Minister said that Hepatitis is very high in the country and Delhi, but there is a lack of awareness about it. "Delhi government provides free treatment for both Hepatitis B and C. Hepatitis vaccination is being done for 70 per cent children in Delhi, we will take it to 100 per cent. Hepatitis medicine will also be made available to Mohalla clinics, doctors will be trained for this, so that it can be treated in Mohalla clinics as well", said Minister Jain. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-suspected-omicron-cases-in-delhi-genome-sequencing-awaited-minister-1057525.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||Close associate of LeT commander arrested in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday arrested an active militant who was a close associate of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander in Budgam district. A joint team of police and counter insurgency Rashtriya Rifles arrested the LeT militant from the Pushkar area. "The arrested militant was identified as Hamid Nath of Peth Zanigam village. He was active since February this year," the police said. The police added: "He was a close aide of LeT commander, Muhammad Yousuf Kantro."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/close-associate-of-let-commander-arrested-in-jk-1057551.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||Going to courts should be last resort, says CJI stressing on arbitration, mediation for dispute resolution||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Saturday emphasised the alternate dispute resolution mechanism like mediation and arbitration, saying going to courts should only be the last resort by the parties. "My advice, after participating in the legal profession for over 40 years in different capacities, is that you must keep the option of going to courts as a last resort. Use this last resort only after exploring the option of ADR — arbitration, mediation and conciliation," he said. The CJI was speaking at the curtain raiser and Stakeholders’ Conclave of International Arbitration and Mediation Centre, Hyderabad. Maintaining that arbitration and mediation are efforts at restoring a relationship, Justice Ramana said, "I think that the most important factor behind the resolution of any dispute is having the right attitude. By right attitude, I mean we should leave aside our ego, emotions, impatience and embrace practicality. But, once these conflicts enter a court, much gets lost in the practice and procedure." Observing that no one can imagine a world without conflicts, he said arbitration and mediation are the preferred modes of dispute resolution now. He said these methods mean fewer delays, less expense, more involvement of the parties in the process, greater party choice, more control, more comfort and an amicable environment for both parties. He said despite local arbitration centers, Indian parties that enter into an international arbitration agreement often opt for foreign players from Paris, Singapore, Hong Kong, London, New York, and Stockholm, incurring huge expenses. The setting up of this International Arbitration and Mediation Centre in Hyderabad will change this trend in India, he hoped. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/going-to-courts-should-be-last-resort-says-cji-stressing-on-arbitration-mediation-for-dispute-resolution-1057553.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||BJP to give Laddoos in Varanasi on inauguration of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor by PM Modi||The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh, it appears, does not want to leave any stone unturned in making the proposed inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 13. The district administration in Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of Modi, plans to distribute laddoos to lakhs of households in the city on this occasion. "We plan to distribute laddoos to all the seven-eight lakh households in the city," a senior official associated with the event told DH over phone from Varanasi. A booklet would also be distributed along with the sweets containing information about the spiritual importance of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, which was one of the 12 'Jyotirlingas' (Shiva Temples) in the country. The official said that every packet would have two- or four laddoos depending upon their size. "We may have to prepare around 28 to 30 lakh laddoos...the preparation will start at least two days prior to the inauguration," another district official said. The food and civil supplies department had been entrusted with the task of preparing and distributing the laddoos. A senior BJP leader here, when queried about the sweet distribution on such a large scale, said that the people of Kashi (the ancient name of Varanasi) the Kashi Vishwanath Temple were devotees of Lord Shiva and the renovation of the Temple was a great event for them. "No political meaning should be taken out of the sweet distribution...it's essentially the prasad which every household in the town will be given," the BJP leader added. According to the sources, around 25 thousand seers, including prominent Hindu religious leaders, heads of Mutts and Akharas, from different parts of the country had been invited to attend the function. Besides a host of programs, including meetings of travel writers, panchayat presidents, Dalit intellectuals and entrepreneurs, historians and others would also be held after the inauguration. A meeting of the chief ministers of the BJP ruled states would also be held at the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor Complex a day after the inauguration by Modi. The event assumes added significance as it comes barely two months before the state goes to polls and appears to be a strategy by the BJP to reiterate its commitment to Hindutva to its supporters. The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor Project, whose foundation stone had been laid by the prime minister in March 2019, had a Vedic library, meditation platforms, virtual Vedic gallery, a cafeteria, food court and other facilities for the pilgrims. An estimated Rs 1,000 crore had been spent on the project. The project was mired in some controversies also as a section of the people, whose shops and houses were razed to clear the way for the Temple, voiced their opposition to the same. Hundreds of smaller, ancient temples were also razed for the project. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-to-give-laddoos-in-varanasi-on-inauguration-of-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-by-pm-modi-1057563.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||3 of a family killed in collision with bus going to PM Modi's Dehradun rally||Three people of a family were killed, and two others injured, when the car they were travelling in collided with a roadways bus near Mohand village of the district, police here said on Saturday. The bus was ferrying passengers to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rally in Dehradun, while the family was on its way to Saharanpur for a wedding shopping. The incident occurred on Saturday in Biharigarh Police Station area, when Praveen Chauhan (45), along with his wife Manju Chauhan (42), daughter Shilpa (22), and two sons Vishnu(17) and Deekshant(20), was travelling in his Wagon R car to Saharanpur to shop for Shilpa’s wedding. According to Superintendent of Police (Rural) Atul Sharma, the collision was so impactful that Praveen, Manju, and Shilpa were killed on the spot, while the two sons were wounded critically. A few passengers from the bus too received minor injuries. The seriously injured were referred to a bigger facility, he said. Praveen Chauhan worked as a Junior Engineer in Dehradun water department. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-of-a-family-killed-in-collision-with-bus-going-to-pm-modis-dehradun-rally-1057575.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||Modi announces projects worth over Rs 18,000 cr in poll-bound Uttarakhand||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced development projects worth Rs 18,000 crore in election bound Uttarakhand before addressing a rally at the Parade Ground here to kickstart the BJP's campaign for the state assembly polls. He laid the foundation stones of 11 projects worth Rs 15,728 crore and inaugurated seven projects worth Rs 2,573 crore after inspecting their models on display at the rally venue. The Delhi-Dehradun Expressway or economic corridor which will reduce the distance between the two cities from 248 km at present to 180 km, and infrastructure development projects for Badrinath which are part of the masterplan for the redevelopment of the Himalayan temple, were among the major projects whose foundation stones were laid by the prime minister. The 120 mw Vyasi hydro-electricity project, a 38-km long stretch between Devprayag and Shrikot on NH-58, and a widened 33 km stretch between Brahmapuri and Kaudiyala on Rishikesh-Badrinath national highway, which are both part of the all-weather road project, were among the other crucial projects inaugurated by Modi.               "These projects will help making this decade that of Uttarakhand,'' Modi said at the rally. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modi-announces-projects-worth-over-rs-18000-cr-in-poll-bound-uttarakhand-1057579.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||Congress, Samajwadi Party on the warpath in Uttar Pradesh ahead of elections||Congress and Samajwadi Party (SP), which had contested the 2017 assembly polls in one alliance in Uttar Pradesh, appeared to be on the warpath in the state ahead of the forthcoming elections which are due in March next year. Within days of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra taking on SP president Akhilesh Yadav at a public meeting at Moradabad, the latter targeted the grand old party during his visit to Jhansi. ''I have no idea about Congress' role in the forthcoming assembly polls in UP......I have a feeling that the people of the state will reject the Congress and that it may not be able to win even a single seat,'' Akhilesh told reporters. The retort came two days after Priyanka launched a scathing attack on Akhilesh at her rally at Moradabad and likened the SP to the BJP. ''The SP and BSP leaders speak the language spoken by the BJP,'' she had said. ''Where was Akhilesh when a dalit girl was raped and killed in Hathras?....where was Akhilesh when police shot dead CAA protesters? Did he visit any of the families of the victims? If not then why he is going to the people now?'' she said. The war of words between the two former alliance partners was apparently aimed at attempts to portray who was the principal opposition party in the state and which party could effectively counter the BJP in the next assembly election.  ''Both parties are targeting the Muslim votes.....Muslims usually support the party, which they think can put up a better fight against the BJP.....Priyanka had in the past met many families in western UP districts who had lost their members during protests against the CAA.....apparently, she is staking a claim on the Muslim votes,'' a Lucknow-based political analyst told DH. He said that despite the bitter exchanges, the two parties could join hands in case if there was a hung assembly and BJP fell short of a majority and the SP reached closer to the halfway mark.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-samajwadi-party-on-the-warpath-in-uttar-pradesh-ahead-of-elections-1057585.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh man gets 10 years' jail for raping 15-year-old niece||A Special POCSO Court has sentenced a man to 10 years of imprisonment for raping his 15-year-old niece, court officials said here on Saturday. Special Judge Sanjiv Kumar Tiwari also imposed a fine of Rs 27,000 on the accused, Jitendra, convicting him under section 363, 366 and 376 of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. According to special POCSO lawyers Dinesh Sharma and Manmohan Verma, Jitendra had abducted his niece from a village under Charthwal Police Station on April 21, 2017. He raped the girl keeping her captive in Meerut, Mathura, Vrindavan, and Agra, they said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-man-gets-10-years-jail-for-raping-15-year-old-niece-1057590.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||SKM sends five names for panel to discuss MSP; agitation to continue||Asserting that farmers will not move from protest sites till the government withdrew cases registered against them during stir against farm laws, Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday formed a five-member panel to talk to the government to discuss their demands including on MSP. A decision on the next course of action by SKM, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions, will be decided after another meeting on December 7. Among other things, farmers were also demanding space for setting up a memorial at the Kundli border. Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Yudhvir Singh, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ashok Dhawle, and Shiv Kumar Kakka were named panel members after a much anticipated SKM, which was earlier saying that it was yet to get written intimation from the government seeking representation of SKM for talks. Centre had on Tuesday demanded five names from the SKM for the panel. Other demands of the farmers are compensation to kin of farmers who died during the agitation and withdrawal of cases against the protesters. Farmer leader Darshan Pal Singh said, "Our agitation will continue. Right now we will maintain status quo. This has been the stand from long that as long as cases are not withdrawn, the agitation will continue". SKM leaders demanded assurance in writing to this effect. The government has already withdrawn the three contentious farm laws through a Bill in Parliament after nearly one year of agitation of farming bodies against the laws that had also led to NDA ally Shiromani Akali Dal walking out of the ruling alliance. On Friday, Haryana farmer leaders had a meeting with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar but no agreement was reached then. The same day UP Cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath gave nod to implement Atma Nirbhar Krishak Integrated Development Scheme in Uttar Pradesh from 2021-22 under which 1,475 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) will be formed in the next three years with an expenditure of Rs 1,220.92 crore between 10 years from the financial year 2021-22 to 2031-32. Clearly, the BJP government in states affected by farmer protests are trying to diffuse the tussle with the farming community, which plays a crucial role in deciding election outcomes in agrarian states like UP, Punjab and Haryana. Check out DH's latest videos:  (||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/skm-sends-five-names-for-panel-to-discuss-msp-agitation-to-continue-1057596.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||JNU administration advises students' union to cancel 'unauthorised' screening of 'Ram Ke Naam'||The Jawaharlal Nehru University administration on Saturday "firmly" advised the students' union to cancel the screening of 'Ram Ke Naam' documentary, saying "such an unauthorised activity may disturb communal harmony and peaceful environment" of the campus. The Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union (JNUSU), however, said that it will go ahead with the screening at 9 pm on Saturday. In a circular, the JNU registrar said, "It has come to the notice of the undersigned that a group of students have in the name of JNUSU released a pamphlet for screening a documentary/movie 'Ram Ke Naam' scheduled for tonight at 9:30 pm in Teflas (student union hall)." The university administration said no prior permission for the event was taken from it. "This is to emphasise that such an unauthorised activity may disturb communal harmony and peaceful environment of the university campus. The concerned students/individuals are firmly advised to cancel the proposed programme immediately failing which a strict disciplinary action as per the university rules may be initiated against those responsible for this event. The students are also instructed not to get provoked by this pamphlet, which is unauthorised and unwarranted," the circular read. 'Ram ke Naam', a 1992 documentary by filmmaker Anand Patwardhan, explores the campaign to build a Ram temple in Ayodhya. JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh, in a Facebook post, said they have scheduled a screening of 'Ram Ke Naam' at the union hall. "So the puppet body of this RSS-BJP has come out with a circular that this documentary screening is unauthorised and might disturb the communal harmony. 'Ram ke Naam' shows the truth, what is BJP doing in this country and how communal hatred is spread in this secular country by the right wing fundamentalists," she alleged. "The JNUSU will not back out at any cost. This screening will happen and we request JNU student community to participate in huge numbers at 9 pm for watching this documentary," she said. JNUSU vice president Saket Moon said the administration cannot decide what the students will watch. "December 6 will be the anniversary of the Babri Masjid demolition. We decided to hold the screening of the documentary. The university administration cannot decide what students will watch. The documentary is in the public domain, freely available on Youtube and has also won awards," he said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-administration-advises-students-union-to-cancel-unauthorised-screening-of-ram-ke-naam-1057610.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi airport sets up 20 counters for international flyers who have pre-booked Covid test to ease 'chaos'||The Delhi airport authorities on Saturday said 20 dedicated counters have been set up for the passengers arriving from "at risk" countries and having pre-booked their mandatory Covid-19 test, after many flyers complained of chaos and crowding at the terminal following the implementation of new travel guidelines. According to the Union Health Ministry's guidelines issued earlier this week, all passengers coming from "at-risk" countries have to compulsorily undergo PCR test and five per cent of passengers arriving from other countries would also have to take the test on a random basis. The passengers will have to wait for the results before leaving the airport or taking a connecting flight, according to the guidelines. "For the convenience of the passengers, DIAL has set up 20 dedicated counters on arrival piers for passengers who have pre-booked their RT-PCR/Rapid PCR test," Delhi International Airport Limited said. There will be dedicated queues for these passengers, it noted.  They will save the time taken for registration and will proceed directly for testing, it added. Commenting on a tweet about the situation at the Delhi airport after the new travel rules kicked in, Congress MP Karti Chidambaram said, "As I feared & warned. Total confusion & crowding in airports." A Twitter user tagged Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia in a tweet and said, "No doubt our govt doing tremendous job in Covid-19 and taking all possible precautions on international flier testing. But if review Delhi airport is getting chaos day by day. No proper guidances and informations, no social distancing (sic)." "Travellers are facing lots of issues, not having smooth instructions and information to follow in proper queue from RT-PCR to Emigration and luggage collection.... Indian with family planned their travel after 2-3 yrs. So please help them for smooth journey," the user wrote on Saturday. Another Twitter user shared pictures of long queues at the terminal and said on Friday, "Taxes Paid, Airport Charges paid. Huge rush but available resources are not being utilised. For 1 hour of flight approx 3 hours need to be spent in queue for processes to be completed." The Union Health Ministry's recent guidelines have come due to the fear of Omicron variant of the coronavirus that reportedly has higher transmissibility. In a bid to ease the RT-PCR/Rapid PCR booking process for the passengers, DIAL, in collaboration with the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, has allowed for online payment to pre-book the test from the originating airport itself, it mentioned. About 80 per cent of the international arriving passengers from "at-risk" countries opt for Rapid PCR, it said. Rapid PCR test costs a passenger Rs 3,500 but the results come in 60-90 minutes. RT-PCR costs a passenger Rs 500 and the results come in around 6 hours. Passenger coming from an "at risk" country can choose either of the tests. Countries in Europe including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Zimbabwe, Mauritius, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore and Israel have been placed in the 'at-risk' category by the Union Health Ministry. DIAL said it is also facilitating RT-PCR tests of two per cent international arriving passengers who are not from at-risk countries.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-airport-sets-up-20-counters-for-international-flyers-who-have-pre-booked-covid-test-to-ease-chaos-1057630.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC grants bail in POCSO case saying accused 'happily cohabiting' with alleged victim||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to a man, accused under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, saying it is prima facie satisfied that the alleged victim was happily cohabiting with him and raising a family together. Taking cognisance of the alleged victim's statement, Justice Subramonium Prasad said she had voluntarily admitted that she had eloped with the accused on her own accord, married him and has since been "peacefully living" with their two children. The judge was of the opinion that keeping the accused in custody will drive the woman and the children to starvation and thus directed that the accused be released on bail on a personal bond of Rs 5,000 and two sureties of the like amount. “It will not be in the interest of the children to keep the petitioner in custody. There is no danger of the petitioner fleeing from justice. The petitioner and the victim are happily married and they have two children and have been raising a family together is a ground enough to release the petitioner on bail,” the court said. “This court is prima facie satisfied that the petitioner and the victim were happily cohabiting with each other and raising their family,” it noted. The court also considered that the custodial interrogation of the accused was no more required since the chargesheet had been filed and all evidence collected. The woman's father, based out of Delhi, had in early 2017 filed a police complaint that she had been been kidnapped. She was then 17 years old. In December 2020, the woman telephoned her mother saying she had been married for the last four years and delivered a baby boy three months ago. The information was then passed on to the police, who traced her to Madhya Pradesh, and brought her back to Delhi. The accused was thereafter arrested pursuant to an FIR for the alleged commission of offences under Section 363, 366, 376 (kidnapping for marriage and rape) of Indian Penal Code, Section 4 and 6 (penetrative sexual assault) of POCSO Act read with Section 10 (solemnising a child marriage) of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-grants-bail-in-pocso-case-saying-accused-happily-cohabiting-with-alleged-victim-1057631.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police directs personnel to be prepared for Omicron||Amid rising concerns over 'Omicron', the new variant of Covid-19, the Delhi Police has instructed its personnel and their family members to get fully vaccinated, besides following Covid-appropriate behaviour, officials said on Saturday. The department has also called for reviving its Covid-19 Health Monitoring Cells headed by inspector-rank officials, and ensuring availability of oxygen cylinders and life saving medicines, they said. Further, police officials have been directed to make the Covid-19 helpline functional at the earliest and gradually step up prosecution of those found violating Covid-appropriate behaviour. Special Commissioner of Police (Welfare) Shalini Singh, in an order issued on December 2, has instructed all the 15 police districts and other units to be fully geared to face any exigency related to Omicron through their respective Covid-19 nodal officers. The force has been asked to ensure preparedness of Covid care centres, availability of oxygen cylinders and concentrators, life saving medicines, hospital beds, ambulances, sanitizers, masks, gloves, PPE kits and other essential items, it stated. "We have advised our staff to wear masks, maintain hygiene, minimize touching items and use sanitizers regularly. Windows of police stations are being kept open for ventilation. They have also been asked to ensure there is no crowding at police stations," a senior police officer said. According to data shared by the Delhi Police, over 95 per cent of its staff are vaccinated. Of the total 77,809 members, 74,289 have been vaccinated till December 2 while 1,636 have been medically exempted due to health-related issues. "Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs) have been tasked with reviewing the medical exemption granted to certain police personnel from vaccination and encouraging them to get vaccinated after consulting doctors," the order read. "The DCPs shall be the nodal officers for ensuring proper medical facilities to the police personnel and their families, and an officer of the rank of inspector or above shall visit the hospitalised police personnel and ensure requisite assistance," the order read. The department directed that the nodal officers from the hospitals and the DCPs, who are the nodal officers for the police, share all contact information immediately on the department's official e-mail ID. Besides, the DCPs will be responsible for ensuring that the data on hospitalisation of police personnel is e-mailed to the department by 8 am everyday. The order laid emphasis on revival of Covid care centres at Shahdara and Rohini on priority. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-directs-personnel-to-be-prepared-for-omicron-1057636.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||Congress government in Rajasthan has completely lost its credibility, says BJP state chief||The Congress government in Rajasthan has completely lost its credibility among the people as it has failed to fulfil the promises made in the party's 2018 election manifesto, BJP state president Satish Poonia said on Saturday. He also exuded confidence that the BJP will form government in the state after the 2023 assembly elections. "The Congress had promised that it would waive loans of farmers in 10 days, give the unemployed youth Rs 3,000 as unemployment allowance and not increase electricity tariff, but the Ashok Gehlot government has turned away from all these promises, due to which there is a huge resentment among the people against the Congress government," Poonia said. Poonia, while addressing the inaugural session of a two-day BJP state working committee meeting, claimed that crime has increased so much in Rajasthan that it has become the top state in the country for crimes. He called upon party leaders and workers to make Rajasthan a Congress-free state. Poonia expressed confidence that the party will win the next assembly elections in the state in 2023 and will form government. He said that it is only possible in the BJP that a worker who sold tea, Narendra Modi, became the prime minister. "The BJP is the only party in the world in which democracy resides completely. A tea seller like Narendra Modi can become the prime minister of the country. A booth worker like Amit Shah can become the national president of the BJP and home minister, and a worker born in a small village in a normal farmer family like me can become a BJP state president,” he said. In the meeting, a political resolution was passed by the members of the committee to thank Prime Minister Modi for the government of India's works in sectors like social security, agriculture, environment, cultural values, internal security and border security and welfare of the poor. The BJP targeted the Congress government in the state over law and order, farmers' loan waiver, high electricity and water rates and corruption, among other issues. BJP state general secretary (organisation) Chandrashekhar, national vice president and former chief minister Vasundhara Raje, national secretary Alka Gurjar, former state president Arun Chaturvedi, Union Minister Arjun Ram Meghwal, Deputy Leader of Opposition in the assembly Rajendra Rathore, Rajya Sabha MP Om Prakash Mathur and other leaders were present in the meeting held at the Jaipur Exhibition and Convention Centre (JECC). There will be six sessions in of the BJP state working committee meet, and Union Home Minister hah will address the concluding session on Sunday. Shah will also address a meeting of the party's public representatives after the working committee meeting.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-government-in-rajasthan-has-completely-lost-its-credibility-says-bjp-state-chief-1057657.html
04-12-2021||North and Central||15 suspected Omicron patients admitted to Delhi hospital||Fifteen suspected patients of Omicron, who flew in the national capital from "at risk" countries", are admitted to the Delhi government's LNJP hospital, according to a senior hospital official. Of these, nine are confirmed coronavirus patients, while six have symptoms like sore throat, fever and history of contact with patients. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing and the results will take four or five days, the official said. On Friday, the number of patients stood at 12. "The three new patients are from the UK,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital. Earlier this week, the Delhi government had designated the LNJP hospital for the treatment of patients infected with the new Omicron variant of coronavirus. According to the Centre, the countries designated as "at-risk" include the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. Travellers from these "at-risk" countries are following additional measures on arrival in India from Tuesday midnight. Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come. Also, two per cent of the passengers arriving in flights from other countries will be subject to the test randomly.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-suspected-omicron-patients-admitted-to-delhi-hospital-1057724.html
04-12-2021||Opinion||Why Peng Shuai has China’s leaders spooked||By Leta Hong Fincher, Four years after the #MeToo movement rocked global halls of power, one of its most politically consequential cases to date is unfolding in the unlikeliest of places: China. And unsurprisingly, the government there is trying to silence the dissent. Yet the Chinese Communist Party’s choreographed response to a tennis star’s sexual assault allegations has backfired spectacularly. Instead of squashing a scandal, it is fueling China’s feminist movement — it could ultimately pose a challenge to the party itself. On November 2, Peng Shuai, a former Wimbledon doubles champion, accused China’s former vice premier Zhang Gaoli of sexual assault. “Like an egg hitting a rock, or a moth to the flame, courting self-destruction, I’ll tell the truth about you,” she wrote in a lengthy post on Weibo, China’s popular social media platform. Then she disappeared. State censors quickly restricted searches for Ms Peng’s name on the Chinese internet and deleted the post, but not before it was shared around 1,000 times. In the following hours, netizens logged nearly seven million searches for the post. Journalists started asking about Ms Peng’s whereabouts at Chinese Foreign Ministry briefings. #WhereIsPengShuai trended on Twitter. Beijing dodged for days. But then state-controlled media released a series of bizarre images and videos purporting to show Ms Peng safe and sound: at a restaurant; cuddling a cat; signing children’s tennis balls at a teenagers’ tournament. If Beijing thought those measures would settle matters, it was sorely mistaken. So far Ms Peng has not made any public comment. Steve Simon, the chief executive of the Women’s Tennis Association, said on Wednesday that the women’s professional tennis tour would suspend all tournaments in China, including in Hong Kong, in response to Ms Peng’s disappearance, citing “serious doubts” that she was free and safe. Ms Peng’s celebrity certainly has driven interest in her case. But her allegations also are groundbreaking: They are the first to implicate such a high-ranking Chinese official, a former member of the Politburo Standing Committee, the country’s highest ruling body. The upper echelons of the Chinese Communist Party have been largely impenetrable to scandal and enjoyed relative respect from much of the population. But Ms Peng’s allegations raise the spectre that not all is well within the elite ranks and that maybe she’s not alone: More women could speak up. The floodgates could open. And the party can’t have that. That might help explain the heavy-handed reaction to Ms Peng’s allegations: They were a clear attempt by the Chinese Communist Party to protect itself and its legitimacy in the eyes of the people. Such moves from the authoritarian playbook tend to succeed in silencing dissent. But what the party apparently failed to take into consideration is the current women’s-rights climate in China. Its actions hit an already aching, raw nerve. And so a domestic #MeToo scandal exploded into an international cause célèbre. While the patriarchal nature of Chinese society is well known, Ms Peng’s case is the rare, revelatory moment that exposes how much China’s all-male rulers depend on the subjugation of women to ensure the Communist Party’s longevity. Things have only worsened under President Xi Jinping, architect of a state-run masculinity campaign. Women are severely underrepresented in national politics: There is one woman on the 25-member Politburo. Female representation on the 204-member Central Committee, the largest of the party’s political bodies, has declined over the past decade, to 10 currently from 13 in 2012. Broader gender inequality also has worsened. Women’s labour-force participation has fallen to 60.5 per cent in 2019 from 73 per cent in 1990, according to the World Bank. China is in the bottom third of all countries evaluated for their gender disparities, according to the World Economic Forum. The grim prospects for Chinese women are particularly jarring given the prominent role of feminism in China’s revolutionary history. Women’s emancipation was a central goal not just for activists in the May Fourth movement of 1919 but throughout the Communist revolution, culminating in the founding of the People’s Republic of China in 1949. China’s ruler Mao Zedong famously proclaimed that “women hold up half the sky.” Propaganda images in the 1950s and ’60s showed smiling, muscular female welders and factory workers labouring to boost industrial production. But today’s Communist Party appears to want women to be obedient wives and mothers. In his International Women’s Day address this year, Mr Xi barely mentioned working women’s contributions to economic development. Therein lies the tinder that has fueled the current feminist fire around Ms Peng’s case. It also should have informed the government’s response, since those same conditions and authoritarian overreach landed the Communist Party in a similar mess in 2015. That’s when Chinese authorities jailed five female activists for planning to commemorate International Women’s Day by handing out stickers against sexual harassment on public transportation. At the time, the five were almost completely unknown. But other feminists created the term “Feminist Five” to shine a media spotlight on the jailed women. Inside China, the injustice invigorated activists, marking the beginning of a significant feminist movement. As internet censors worked to shut down expressions of solidarity with the five, the term “feminist” (“nüquan zhuyi zhe”) itself became a sensitive keyword. Since then, organized feminist activists have tapped into the broad discontent felt by Chinese women and developed a level of influence that is highly unusual for any social movement in China. The government has responded by shuttering women’s rights and L.G.B.T.Q. rights centres, deactivating feminist social media accounts and tightening control over gender-studies courses. The government crackdown on feminist organizing intensified earlier this year. One #MeToo activist, Sophia Huang Xueqin, was reportedly arrested under the charge of “inciting subversion of state power.” It’s telling, though, that neither her case nor the few other #MeToo cases that broke through state media censorship — like the rape allegation against an executive at the tech giant Alibaba — have had the explosive impact of Ms Peng’s. That’s because none hold such potentially enormous implications for the Chinese Communist Party’s future. The party derives its legitimacy in part from its ability to control and finesse (all) narratives, through censorship and other authoritarian means. But with Ms Peng, it has lost that control. If more women are inspired and able to speak out, the party might not be able to get it back. Sports celebrities such as Naomi Osaka, Serena Williams and Martina Navratilova have tweeted support for Ms Peng. The Biden administration called on Beijing to offer “verifiable proof” Ms Peng is safe. To be sure, there’s always a chance the government could take even harsher action to crush the #MeToo movement. The party leadership is certainly spooked. Acknowledging Ms Peng’s allegations of assault might delegitimize its hold on power. Staying the course could infuriate more people, driving them to activism. Chinese feminists have been tweeting out pictures of Ms Peng projected onto walls, with slogans like “Chinese Women Breaking the Silence” and “The Voiceless Rise Up!” Their words echo those of the feminist revolutionary Qiu Jin in the early 20th century: “Arise, arise, Chinese women arise! … Chinese women will throw off their shackles and stand up with passion,” she wrote. “They will ascend the stage of the new world, where the heavens have mandated that they reconsolidate the nation.” Just a few years later, Chinese women and men fighting for greater freedoms helped bring down the last imperial dynasty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-peng-shuai-has-china-s-leaders-spooked-1057445.html
04-12-2021||Opinion||Modi-Putin meet: India-Russia ties await more clarity||A major diplomatic initiative between India and Russia is set to be formalised next week in the format of a 2+2 dialogue. The new template in the bilateral ties carries the potential of injecting new dynamism and providing renewed thrust to this seven-decade-old relationship. Over the past few years, despite the annual leadership summits, warmth in the bilateral relations was missing. The 2+2 format of dialogue on December 6 results from a decision arrived by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin earlier this year and will be held ahead of the 21st edition of the summit, last hosted by Russia in 2019. There is considerable excitement in the strategic community as to what makes President Putin travel to New Delhi, his second such sojourn since the global health pandemic. After meeting with President Joe Biden at Geneva this summer, the Russian President avoided travelling for the G20 and rescheduled a trip to China. The 2+2 format meeting with Russia will introduce another facet to New Delhi's diplomatic/strategic calendar of engagements. Currently, India holds similar 2+2 format meetings with Japan, the United States and Australia, all members of the Quad. Now, New Delhi agreeing to host one with Moscow should open up a new vista in the region and Asia when the geopolitical landscape is changing. The summit between Modi and Putin and 2+2 between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Defence Minister Sergey Shoigu would succeed the annual inter-government meeting between the defence ministers. There is plenty on the table to be discussed at each of these engagements - the situation in Afghanistan and exchange views on interactions in multilateral meetings like BRICS, Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and the Russia-India-China trilateral. While the relationship with Russia, characterised as a "Privileged Strategic Partnership", remained on course, it lost much of the steam as India deepened its ties with the United States. The upcoming 2+2 and the summit following Monday should provide an opportunity to underscore traditional strengths in bilateral relations, especially in the area of defence, with an estimated 65 per cent of Indian armed forces still using equipment of Russian origin. The latest in this series is the $5.4 billion (Rs 40,000 crore) contract for the supply of five S-400 air defence missile systems, deliveries for which are understood to have started. The deal comes with a risk of India attracting sanctions from the United States under its Countering American Adversaries through Sanctions Act, or CAATSA. The 2018 missile pact remains an eyesore for the American establishment. The Russians can open up trade by joining the 'Make in India' campaign in the military-industrial sector. A joint venture factory at Korwa, in the Amethi district of Uttar Pradesh, to produce 7.5 lakh Kalashnikov assault rifles is the latest example of cooperation heralded by the Brahmos missiles. There is a distinct possibility of expanding military and strategic engagement as talks move across several fronts. These encompass upgrading military exercises, leasing another nuclear submarine, more joint projects, and bilateral reciprocal logistics pacts like India has with Australia, France, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, and the United States. The lower trajectory of New Delhi-Moscow relations can be altered as both sides remain in touch at the bilateral level and multilateral fora. In pursuit of its 'strategic autonomy' mantra, India strives to find a balance in ties with Russia as its relations with the United States grew during the corresponding period. As chief strategic and defence policymakers in India and Russia sit down to draw the road map ahead, a few challenges require candid conversations. These include the uncertainty in Afghanistan, India's troubled relationship with China and differences over the "Indo-Pacific" nomenclature vis-à-vis Moscow's insistence on Asia-Pacific. With the United States abruptly pulling out from Afghanistan and the Taliban making a comeback, the world awaits a clearer picture of Kabul's emerging model of government. India supports an inclusive regime that respects the rights of minorities, women and children and an assurance that the country does not offer a platform to terror groups amid concerns over the wide footprint of Pakistan in the war-torn country. It is here that Russia weighs in. The country is among the few with a diplomatic presence even after the swift turn of events. The country also remained part of the troika arrangement with Islamabad drafted into the extended format, and India kept away from the table. Another disturbing dimension is the increase in exchanges between militaries of Russia and Pakistan with hardware supplies. On the other hand, Moscow- Beijing ties are increasing, and both sides are working together on global issues. The growing strategic engagement came when India's relations with China dipped sharply following the continuing standoff in the Himalayan plateau since April 2020. Interestingly, at the recent Russia-India-China meeting, the joint statement of ministers expressed support to China, the host of the March 2022 Winter Olympics. The Indian position is different and moves New Delhi away from the US-led diplomatic boycott initiative to highlight conditions of Uyghurs in the Xinjiang province of China. In the meantime, another confrontation is developing over the situation around Ukraine, with the West watching Moscow's moves in the region. Reports emanating from western capitals suggest the possibility of a military operation from Russia inside Ukraine, a charge rebutted by Russia. Moscow reiterates the course being adopted is in pursuit of the 2015 Minsk Package of Agreements. These issues are illustrative of the changing nature of discourse and form the backdrop at these meetings. (KV Prasad is a senior Delhi-based journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/modi-putin-meet-india-russia-ties-await-more-clarity-1057492.html
04-12-2021||Opinion||English is a phunny language, but it is having the last laugh||Let me begin by giving you a test. Say this line in your mother tongue, quickly -- without using a single syllable of English: I am going to the market to buy vegetables like tomato and carrot because my friends are coming home for dinner. Did you get 10 on 10? Did you struggle for carrot? What is tomato in your tongue, by the way? The same test a few decades back would have been a piece of cake…or gajar halwa. Back then, Hinglish, Kanglish, Tamglish hadn’t entered our lives or lexicon. English was there, ‘second language’ at best. Today, those seniors too have to get good at English, and the ‘university’ that gives them this compulsory learning: Their own grandchildren. It is a common sight, the daily video call when elders try to get a glimpse of their tiny tots growing up in a faraway land, speaking an alien language. That call is the little window of time when the children get to bond with their dada-dadi, ajji-thatha, who try to make sense of the words the kids are saying. They reply, trying to tell children their stories, but realise that replacing raja-rani with king and queen doesn’t feel half as good. They don’t know much English, and the kids don’t know anything but English. There is a disconnect and one more story is lost in translation. Grandpa’s Tenali Rama loses to Doraemon. A lady who I meet on my morning walk, stopped to show me her delightful grandson on her phone. “Adi must be 3 now, aunty? What is he talking these days?” I asked. “Many things, ma…only thing is, I don’t understand. He talks so fluently in French, you know!” she said a bit wistfully, reminiscing about her daughter in the US, who married a French colleague. Losing link with one’s own language is like losing a slice of culture every day. Slowly. It is like the peanut butter you started slathering on the kids’ bread, instead of the sugar inside the hot ghee-filled chapati amma made, which used to melt in your mouth. But the generation that is losing touch with the mother tongue is not to be blamed. Is it their fault really? The school – for which the parents have paid through their nose to be in English medium – bars the children from, and in some cases ‘punishes’ them for, speaking in the local language. TV shows from the West seem to them way cooler than folk songs and concerts in the community. The parents themselves prefer to speak to, love, and scold the kids in English, especially when in public places. There is a shame built around speaking in one’s own mother tongue, as if it is any lesser than English. Three years ago, at a film festival, I watched a superb Mexican movie I dream in another language. It was about a tribal language called Zikril that has only its last two speakers surviving, both of whom are ripe old men, and sworn enemies. A young linguist from the US arrives to make them talk to each other, just so that the language they speak can be restored to the world. In India, too, a dialect somewhere is dying every day. Ganesh Devy, founder of the Bhasha Research and Publication Centre, estimates that India may have lost 220 languages since 1961, based on the Census number of 1,652 mother tongues. Another 150 languages could vanish in the next 50 years, he says. Luckily, a few people are working to prevent that. Like the Prabha Khaitan Foundation that does ‘Aakhar’ (alphabet) programmes that host authors and poets writing in languages such as Odia, Punjabi, Bhojpuri, Maithili, Tamil, Kannada, Gujarati, Magadhi, Rajasthani, Urdu, Arabic and Persian. Kottur Sampath created Sheshamma-Shallamma, a hugely popular and hilarious audio series of two old women speaking about modern life in a forgotten Iyengar dialect. In February 2010, Boa Sr, the last speaker of an ancient tribal language called Bo, died in the Andaman Islands, breaking a 65,000-year link to one of the world’s oldest cultures. Boa spent the last few years of her life unable to talk to anyone. How lonely may have that felt, despite an entire language living right inside you! A language is that fragile. If you don’t speak it, it will fade away. Into the day when we may order “spiced pancake with lentil”, when all we wanted was a plate of masala dosa with sambhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/english-is-a-phunny-language-but-it-is-having-the-last-laugh-1057725.html
04-12-2021||Opinion||Choices: Crypto-hype vs climate change, regulating vs banning||Cryptos, a byproduct of Blockchain technology, are often called currencies as they can be a medium of exchange. But unlike paper money or bank accounts, they use encryption tools to verify the monetary unit and to control its creation. They are not validated by a government or bank, but by the repeated use of computing processes that are electricity-dependent. They live like equity shares, only within ‘their specified exchange’ and can be bought/sold by members of only that exchange. Unlike equity shares, however, they have no intrinsic worth or ‘earning power’, except ‘mining’ gains. They command prices based on their ability to convince the buyer of their ‘scarcity’ premium. Crypto was invented in 2008, the year of the Global Financial Crisis. It was seen as an alternative asset class, like gold, because it was generated by a mathematically designed framework to ensure a precise finite supply. Each bitcoin is unique and cryptographically secured and cannot be replicated or hacked. So, crypto cannot be spent twice or counterfeited. This created glamour and hype. Supporters of Blockchain technology and its associated crypto currencies foresee increased prominence in the future, given that in the current monetary set-up, governments are reckless about printing money, regardless of inflation, which wipes out laboriously earned income/wealth. Cryptos have been quick to command a global market capitalisation of over $1.5 trillion. In India, there are about 15 million subscribers, with an estimated investment of over $6 billion. Currently, it is classified as an unregulated asset. Blockchain technology is basically a system of authenticating a shared database. It has potential to reform financial record-keeping, including asset transactions. It can underpin smart contracts, facilitate instantaneous low-cost settlement of cross-border payments, and curb money-laundering. In Blockchain technology, each ‘block’ of a shared database is required to be validated by all the computers linked to the network, before it is added to the earlier chain. Users of a publicly distributed database need incentives. This is provided endogenously. The authentication process or mining, if done a specific number of times, ‘produces’ the crypto. This ‘rewards’ the miner doing the authentication. The mathematics is such that each crypto requires an increasingly larger number of ‘authentications’ for production than its predecessor. Computers internal to an institution will not seek incentives, so they will use less computing power than ‘public/open’ systems. The need to incentivise makes the technology power-intensive. According to Cambridge University’s bitcoin electricity consumption index, bitcoin miners currently consume 130 Terawatt-hours of energy (TWh), roughly 0.6% of the global electricity consumption. This puts the crypto economy at its current size at par with the carbon dioxide emissions of Finland or Sri Lanka. The hype regarding a technologically-limited finite supply may be contrasted with the fact that in May 2021, there were already 10,115 different crypto currencies. The number rises daily. Two cryptos, Bitcoin and Ethereum, account for 60% of the market valuation, not on account of any intrinsic quality difference or separately proven income stream but owing to branding/first mover advantages. This can change course, or even evaporate overnight. Neither Bitcoin nor any other specific crypto is essential to carry out a commercial-scale Blockchain operation. Any of the large number of variants will do, or a brand-new variant can be set up with equal ease. Further, it is often ignored that the ‘Core Banking Technology’ (housing all the global accounts of a bank, irrespective of country, in a single central supercomputer set-up) now used by banks permits the same instantaneity claimed for Blockchains. Banking transactions are priced based on what the regulator allows. In India, inter-person UPI remittances from Mumbai to J&K or the North-East are free of charge, but a bank transfer to an account in Dubai would attract a high charge. There exist apprehensions that cryptos confer anonymity to the holder and may thus be a popular settlement mechanism for a variety of illegal/dark web transactions. So, there is an interesting conundrum. On the one hand, there is a new technological discovery, the Blockchain, which has the potential to grow but has a power-intensive byproduct, the crypto. On the other hand is a planet scrambling to save itself from climate disaster due to global warming caused by excessive carbon use, by focusing on achieving carbon efficiencies/reducing power dependencies. In the recently concluded CoP-26 summit, the EU and the US committed to becoming net carbon zero by 2050, China by 2060 and India by 2070. So, how will this paradox be managed? The recent government announcement of an intent to regulate cryptos is a welcome move in this highly volatile, nascent sector, given that currently policy lags technology. What should the regulators do? Attempts to ban outright, limit use or adopt a rigid stance may not be appropriate. Nor will picking and choosing between cryptos be desirable. Excessive exuberance in a power-hungry sector is what needs to be curbed. It will be best to treat cryptos as a luxury good, as it is neither currency nor equity nor a common-use asset. It should be subjected to standard GST, income and capital gains taxation rules. Also, like all equity, commodity or currency remittances, crypto trading should be made fully compliant with RBI norms, permitting only domestic inter-relationships. All export/import transactions should be made ‘Exchange to Exchange’ with full KYC. All crypto exchanges should be subjected to usual SEBI enunciated regulations. Thereafter, authorities may allow scenarios to develop before attempting additional regulation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/choices-crypto-hype-vs-climate-change-regulating-vs-banning-1057726.html
04-12-2021||Opinion||China has taken the arms race to a different level||China recently demonstrated an “assassin’s mace” weapon that has the US and Russia worried, for different reasons. For the US, China’s flight test of a manoeuvrable hypersonic glide vehicle upsets the strategic balance of power, while proliferation of such technologies through clandestine methods could undermine Russian security. Given the ongoing border stand-off and China’s refusal to de-escalate, such tests add fuel to the fire with India. Hypersonic glide vehicles are manoeuvrable weapons that can deliver nuclear or other payloads at Mach 5-10 speed and strike anywhere on the earth within an hour. The combination of hypersonic speeds and manoeuvrability means that such weapons could spring a surprise on the adversary by evading its early warning systems and penetrate missile defence systems. While China’s foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said in October that this was a “routine test”, the US Air Force Secretary Frank Kendall in November stated that an arms race with China is on – not necessarily for increased numbers of weapons but for qualitatively superior ones -- and that Beijing has been at it “very aggressively” for some time now. While Russia underplayed China’s tests as not violating any international treaty it has signed, it is concerned about losing ground on such technologies. Russia has several hypersonic test beds in Ayaks, Zircon, Avangard and Kinzal missiles. But it has made a spate of arrests of its scientists involved in hypersonic systems, including Anatoly Gurbanov, Valery Golubkin and Alexander Kuranov on charges of treason and transferring sensitive information. Much of the R&D on hypersonic technologies is done by the China Academy of Aerospace Aerodynamics, along with China Aerodynamics Research and Development Centre. China’s hypersonic vehicles include a glide-boost Dongfang-17 (that appeared in the October 2019 military parade at Beijing), a possibly air-breathing N-capable Xingkong-2 (tested in 2018) and other models. China’s missile technologies development was led by Qian Xuesen, an MIT and Caltech product, who developed the country’s strategic weapons programme. The recent civil-military fusion programme channelised civilian talent into developing such technologies. The “thousand talents plan” since 2007 likewise recruited scientists from abroad, including from the US. China transited from passive missile interception technologies in the 1980s to active mode in the last decade, ironically based on US and Russian inputs, surreptitiously acquired over a period of time. The Cox Report accused the US space company Loral & Hughes, for instance, of transferring satellite guidance systems to China in the 1990s. Many Chinese scientists involved in hypersonic technologies work with their counterparts in theUS and Russia. China’s tests are worrying the international community as it has been a free rider so far, with no responsibility in regional and global orders. China is not part of the strategic arms reduction pacts between the US and Russia, and has embarked on increasing its nuclear warheads. Recent reports say China has increased the number of missile silos at Yumen and Hami in its western region. Nor is China part of the Missile Technology Control Regime, and it has been involved in proliferation of weapons of mass destruction to several countries, especially Pakistan. China sold ‘silkworm’ ballistic missiles to Saudi Arabia in the 1980s. Its proliferation of nuclear and ballistic missiles/technologies to Iran attracted sanctions from the US. The 1967 Outer Space Treaty, of which China is a signatory, bans nuclear weapons and other WMD in space, but it has no implications for hypersonic vehicles as they move in low-earth orbit. China conducted an anti-satellite test in 2007 and exo-atmospheric missile interception tests since January 2009 and has acquired considerable capability in space weapons. For India, China’s hypersonic glide vehicle demonstration poses multiple challenges, including the proliferation of such technologies to Pakistan, the opening of a “two-front war under nuclear threshold”, and the penetration of nascent Indian missile defence systems. These are compounded by the strain in bilateral relations since May last year. China continues to dodge the February 10 agreement to disengage troops all along the border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/china-has-taken-the-arms-race-to-a-different-level-1057727.html
04-12-2021||Opinion||Well then, let’s joke about not being able to joke||As somebody with strong links to Bengaluru, and as an imminent full-time resident, it’s hard to not see the cancelling of comedian Munawar Faruqui’s show as an assault not only on constitutional rights, but also an affront to the city’s mores. Many Bengaluru-lovers drone on about its chilled-out, diverse ethos. But cities, like people, have their own versions of who they are, and these are often misleading. Like people, cities deceive themselves before deceiving others. Bombay, where I grew up, didn’t bat an eyelid before becoming Mumbai after the riots of the early 1990s. Indeed, all the social and political schisms were in place for its plurality to plummet. Over the last few years, with women revellers getting molested during New Year’s Eve in the heart of town, the killing of a firebrand editor, and now the censorship and dog-whistle against a young comedian, Bengaluru’s supposed openness lies in dregs as it joins other Indian metros where myriad toxicities abound. Due to regular threats and insults to him and his kin, Munawar Faruqui declared in a trenchant Tweet that he would cease being a comic -- the artist had lost and hate and injustice had won. Kunal Kamra, too, has had his shows in Bengaluru snipped. At this time, one wishes performers, entertainers and artists do not, should not, must not, lose hope. In the past, in India and abroad, artists have parlayed the oppression they faced into creative work. Perumal Murugan, one of India’s great storytellers, declared that the writer within him died in 2015, when caste groups pressured and criticised his novel One Part Woman for showing them in a poor light in rural Tamil Nadu. Yet, he returned to writing, with verse and prose. In the late 1940s and early 1950s, Saadat Hasan Manto was sued for obscenity in British India and Pakistan. He said he wrote what he saw and didn’t pull his punches. His stories, letters and prose only got better through those white-heat years. “A writer picks up his pen only when his sensibility is hurt,” he told a judge then. Urdu writer Ismat Chugtai shook up Muslim conservatives of her time with the rock-the-boat story Lihaaf. Manto and Chugtai were saying things that needed to be said about our social realities and our inhuman social structures that required confronting. A slew of writers, artists, filmmakers during Mao and later Deng’s China, Stalin’s Soviet Union or Franco’s Spain found varying ways to show us their truths. George Orwell’s Animal Farm and 1984 are essays on oppression masquerading as fiction. The Indian press gets well-earned flak for its role during the Indian Emergency, yet there were bands within it that found subversive ways to speak the truth at the time. Some of our stand-up comics are too talented and courageous to remain silent about the everyday circus, farce, tragedy, called India, for too long. There’s no doubt that Munawar Faruqui has been singled out due to his name and the faith he belongs to. What if he is as critical of his faith as anything else? How come we have been made to see not him, but his religious identity only? Salman Rushdie once said that it takes a lot of effort to get offended by something, especially a piece of written work. For those who do get offended, there is the constitutional right to not engage with something. If you don’t like a film or show or book, don’t see it, or read it. Nobody is forcing anyone to watch a stand-up act. Oddly, though, all these questions relating to oppression have the potential to be sublimated into art. No matter how tough it may be right now, our stand-up comedians mustn’t lose this opportunity to convert their privations into humour and art.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/well-then-let-s-joke-about-not-being-able-to-joke-1057728.html
04-12-2021||Opinion||Uncovering the creative response to uncertainty||Just as things were appearing to get back to normal, the troubling new Covid variant, Omicron, is threatening to upend our return to regular life. Our hardened minds are beginning to fear for the future and a familiar and lived-in uncertainty is back. Even as we wait for clarity about the severity of the Omicron threat, maybe this is the right time to ask whether there is a way of being or an approach that will help us navigate the uncertainty of our times and emerge as thriving individuals and communities through the pandemic and after it. Of course, pausing for reflection is a big ask at this juncture. Our fears and worries about the situation are not unfounded and the memories of the Delta havoc are too close to the skin. There are too many of us who don’t have the mental space or the privilege to step back and take stock of how best to respond. While this is valid, the shutting out of our fears and anxieties, our numbing and overwhelming, triggered by the unfolding situations around us, is also not a great option. It’s very much the old “rock and hard place” story. So, if one is able to do this now, it may be worthwhile approaching a mostly unacknowledged need as we go through life — finding out how to live with uncertainty and face the chaos within, rather than turn away from it. An artist friend recently mentioned in passing, during a snatch of a conversation, that the making of art was like life itself — inherently uncertain. That is why he made art, he said, instead of doing other things. It struck me in the writing of this piece that in some ways, the uncertainty caused by the pandemic has nudged us all to function like artists. We too have been forced to embark on a journey of not knowing in order to make something. In fact, we have been called to consciously create our very lives in a situation that is not under our control at all beyond our responses to it. In the usual course, we feel armed to tackle the vicissitudes of life from the vantage of knowing. By assuming a position of knowing and knowing best, we are able to go through uncertain situations with an imagined sense of security. But this position can be a kind of self-deception, as the pandemic has shown us. In this hour, there is an unvarnished clarity about our condition here that may have eluded us in the past. Therefore, we are right when we think of our normalcy as unstable now. It is a normalcy shot through with reality. The reality of living in an uncertain world. Of not knowing what will happen next. Maybe our best ally in the face of these opposite pulls of not knowing and the desire to conquer with knowledge isn’t an assumed certainty, but something else we’re not used to employing. It’s something like an openness to the situation and all that it will bring, including the feelings of insecurity that must inevitably well-up. Maybe it’s being able to recognise that we have within us this faculty that is capable of turning towards the light without rejecting the darkness within, a quality of aliveness that does not need us to deny our brokenness, a ground that remains whole through the awareness of being hollowed out. Maybe digging deep to make contact with this is what will allow us to become assimilated into our situations, allow us to go beyond our known responses of fear, anxiety and panic, as we are seeing with respect to Omicron in some quarters, and function beyond the categories of what is good and bad for us, or what we will lose or find. Much like the artist who must give into the process of creation completely without reserve, maybe we too have to learn to act without leaving any residue behind, rather than stand separate from the situation or try to fix it from the outside based on what we want and don’t want. Perhaps this is what a creative response to uncertainty really looks like. Life living itself fully, a total embrace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/uncovering-the-creative-response-to-uncertainty-1057729.html
04-12-2021||South||Former Andhra Pradesh CM Konijeti Rosaiah passes away||The former chief minister of Andhra Pradesh Konijeti Rosaiah (88) passed away this morning. A towering figure in the Congress party and united Andhra Pradesh politics, Rosaiah also served as Tamil Nadu governor. Rosaiah held various portfolios under five different Congress chief ministers beginning with T Anjaiah in 1979. He managed the state finances for a very long time and has presented the budget 15 times, seven of them in a row from 2004 to 2010. A staunch loyalist to the high command, Rosaiah was made the chief minister in September 2009 following the untimely death of YS Rajasekhara Reddy in a chopper crash. The Congress party picked him for the post, even as a signature campaign was underway with majority MLAs' support to make Jaganmohan Reddy the CM. Rosaiah continued in the post for 14 months. The first-ever announcement to create Telangana was made in December 2009, during his tenure. He faced flak from the Andhra side for not firmly stating opposition to bifurcation. “I am not a powerful chief minister to put my foot down,” Rosaiah maintained. In a political landscape dominated by Reddys and Kammas, Rosaiah, hailing from the Arya Vysya, a business community, carved a special niche for himself with hard work, patience and perseverance while endearing himself to everyone with his soft approach and ajathashatru attitude. Rosaiah promptly relinquished the CM chair when asked by the Congress leadership in November 2010. He was later rewarded for his services especially during a complicated phase and made the governor of Tamil Nadu in August 2011. Rosaiah maintained a cordial relationship with the then Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa. He was continued as the governor even after the Narendra Modi government took over at the centre in 2014. Leaving the Chennai Raj Bhavan in August 2016, Rosaiah retired from active politics and was taking rest in his Hyderabad home. For decades, Rosaiah was the go-to man for many leaders in Congress. Even politicians from other parties used to seek his proficient advice. Rosaiah was born on 4 July 1933 in Guntur district, AP and began his seven-decade long political journey as a student leader in the Guntur Hindu College. For the most part, he was elected to the upper house as MLC. He became an MP from Narasaraopet Lok Sabha in 1998, after serving as the APCC president from 1995 to 1997. In the 2009 elections, he won from the Chirala assembly constituency and became the finance minister in the YSR cabinet. Rosaiah was suffering from age-related issues for some time now. He breathed his last on Saturday morning while being taken to a hospital when his pulse went down. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao paid homage to the departed leader, laying a wreath on Rosaiah's mortal remains at his residence. “Rosaiah brought laurels to all the posts he has held. He made his mark in politics too with his own style of dignity, patience and gentleness,” Rao said. AP CM Jaganmohan spoke with the family members over the phone and consoled them. “Rosaiah led an ideal life in politics. His demise is a great loss to the state,” the CM said. Andhra Pradesh and Telangana governments have declared state mourning for three days. Rosaiah's last rites would be performed on Sunday afternoon in Hyderabad with state honours. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-andhra-pradesh-cm-konijeti-rosaiah-passes-away-1057478.html
04-12-2021||South||Kerala teachers, non-teaching staff given a week's time to get jabbed||Kerala Education Minister V Sivankutty who has been speaking tough of strong action against those government teachers who are yet to take Covid vaccine, appears to have yielded results as just 1,707 more teachers and non-teaching staff are left to be jabbed, said the Minister on Saturday. According to the figures there are close to 2 lakh teachers and non teaching staff in the government schools in Kerala. On Friday, Sivankutty said that district-wise lists of teachers who have not got themselves jabbed against Covid-19 will be released, and they will have to give an explanation for that, but on Saturday, the Minister decided to give a week's time to the remaining who are yet to take the vaccine. "Those who have medical reasons for not taking the vaccine have to get that certified by a state or a central government health official. If not, such teachers will have to provide a RT-PCR test result every week. And if any are unwilling to do this, they can sit at home with no salary. So we will wait for a week more," said Sivankutty. On November 28, the Minister said more than 5,000 teachers of the state have not inoculated themselves against the virus. After a gap of 20 months, on November 1, the schools in the state had opened and the students and teachers returned to the campuses. In the last meeting to discuss the latest Covid situation in the state, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said that from now onwards, those who are not inoculated will not get free Covid-19 treatment at state government hospitals. Meanwhile it has now been decided that from December 13, all students have to wear school uniforms. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-teachers-non-teaching-staff-given-a-weeks-time-to-get-jabbed-1057491.html
04-12-2021||South||Omicron in Kerala? 3 samples sent for genome sequencing||Kerala, which is already making waves on the Covid front by recording more than 60 per cent of the daily new Covid cases in the country, is now waiting with bated breath for the results of three Covid positive samples sent for genomic sequencing. According to the authorities, the results of the three samples are expected to be out in a day or two. The three samples which have been sent for genomic sequencing include samples of a medical professional who arrived from the UK, early this week and his Covid test turned positive. Following this, his mother also turned Covid positive whose samples have been sent for genome sequencing. The third sample belongs to a person of Tamil origin who arrived at Kozhikode from Germany. All the three are isolated. Kerala on Friday saw 4,995 turning positive after 62,343 samples were tested and there were 44,637 active cases. Genomic sequencing is a process through which the entire genetic make up of a specific organism or cell type may be known. Through genomic sequencing, the changes in the genetic make up of the SARS-CoV-2 virus can be noted and monitored. Incidentally, Kerala has the record of reporting the first Covid case in January 2020, when a medical student from China tested positive. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/omicron-in-kerala-3-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-1057512.html
04-12-2021||South||Panneerselvam, Palaniswami file nominations for leadership posts||The two top leaders of AIADMK - O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami - on Saturday filed their nominations for the party posts of Coordinator and Joint Coordinator. Earlier, the AIADMK had announced the election schedule for two positions. The party has fixed December 7 as the poll date to elect the Coordinator and Joint Coordinator. It will announce the result on December 8. Even though the party had restored the power of electing the top leaders to the primary members, they later may not be able to vote. Going by the past trend in the party, there may not be any rival contestants for the incumbent leaders. On Friday, the Madras High Court declined to stay the elections in a petition filed by expelled former Parliamentarian K.C. Palanisamy. Palanisamy had contended that the party did not give the mandated notice period for nomination filing after announcement of poll schedule. According to AIADMK's by-laws, organisational elections have to be held once in five years. Currently the party Coordinator and Joint Coordinator positions are held by former Chief Ministers Panneerselvam and Palaniswami respectively. The party said filing of the nominations will start on December 3 and conclude on December 4. The scrutiny of the nominations will be on December 5 and the last date for withdrawal is December 6. The AIADMK also announced the organisational elections in two phases for various posts starting from December 13 to December 23. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/panneerselvam-palaniswami-file-nominations-for-leadership-posts-1057520.html
04-12-2021||South||Kamal Haasan discharged from hospital; resumes Bigg Boss shooting||After spending 13 days at a private hospital, Tamil film icon Kamal Haasan returned home on Saturday following his recovery from Covid-19. Immediately after getting discharged, Kamal Haasan drove to the sets of 'Bigg Boss', a reality show that he hosts, and resumed the shooting.  “Mr Kamal Haasan who has been admitted to SRMC on 22nd November 2021 has recovered completely from Covid infection. He is being discharged today (4th December 2021). He is fit to resume his routine activities,” Dr Suhas Prabhakar, Medical Director, Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre, said in a statement. Kamal Haasan was admitted to SRMC after he complained of cough following his return from the US. He was found Covid positive and spent 13 days in isolation at the SRMC.  The actor put out a statement on his verified Twitter page thanking Chief Minister M K Stalin and others who wished for a speedy recovery. After his discharge from the hospital, Kamal Haasan resumed shooting for Bigg Boss season 5.  In the promo for Saturday’s episode, Kamal Haasan said, “I am here amongst you people yet again because of the love that helped me recover (from Covid-19). I will be always for the people.”  “Covid-19 spread has not gone away. Please realize this and be safe,” Kamal Haasan had said on the day he was hospitalized.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasan-discharged-from-hospital-resumes-bigg-boss-shooting-1057532.html
04-12-2021||South||Telugu states mourn undivided Andhra's former CM Rosaiah||Tributes are pouring in from all corners of the Telugu states, for former chief minister of combined Andhra Pradesh, K. Rosaiah who passed away on Saturday. Telangana chief minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao expressed his condolences, and remembered Rosaiah as one of the "leaders who brought many laurels to the posts he had held, such as the finance ministry." Telangana governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan expressed grief and shock at the passing away of the former Governor of Tamil Nadu and former chief minister of the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh. Paying rich tributes to his memory, the Governor termed him as an iconic politician in the undivided Andhra Pradesh. "It is a great testimony to his unmatched acumen in administration that he presented the State Budget for a record number of 15 times," the governor observed. In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh from where Rosaiah hails, chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed grief over the demise of Rosaiah, and conveyed condolences to the bereaved family members. Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan expressed sorrow over Rosaiah's death, and described him as a leader with values. The Jana Sena Party leader Pawan Kalyan described Rosaiah's death as a void that can never be filled for the Telugu states. Congress leaders from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, have paid tributes to the party veteran and loyalist. The government of Telangana has announced a three-day mourning for the former chief minister who was at the helm of affairs of the undivided state of Andhra Pradesh, from 2009 to 2011. Arrangements are being made for his funeral to be conducted with police honours. Rosaiah was rushed to hospital on Saturday morning after his pulse rate reportedly fell. The hospital bulletin stated that the former chief minister was brought to the hospital in an unresponsive state. Rosaiah was declared dead at 8.20 a.m. He is survived by wife, three sons and a daughter. His body has been shifted to his residence for people to pay their final respects. The funeral is to take place on Sunday, according to family sources. Sworn in as chief minister following the death of Dr Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy in a helicopter crash, Rosaiah had served as the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh from September 3, 2009 to November 24, 2010. After stepping down as chief minister, the wizened old Congress-man had served as Tamil Nadu governor, from 2011 to 2016. Earlier he had served as finance minister and has the distinction of presenting the state budget for a record 15 times. Born in 1933, Rosaiah began his legislative journey as a member of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council in 1968. He also represented Chirala in the Andhra Pradesh Assembly. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telugu-states-mourn-undivided-andhras-former-cm-rosaiah-1057573.html
04-12-2021||South||Covid-19: Only 1,707 school teachers and staff in Kerala unvaccinated||Kerala general education minister V Sivankutty, who recently said that around 5,000 school teachers in Kerala were yet be vaccinated against coronavirus on Saturday said that now only 1,707 school teachers and non-teaching staff yet to be inoculated. The minister had, on Friday, said that a list identifying teachers who did not take the vaccine would be published, however, the state government did not do so fearing that identifying them would fan resentment against those who were keeping off from vaccination and create trouble. The minister had initially said that around 2,300 teachers and staff were not vaccinated even as schools across the state reopened on November 1. Recently he stated that the number of unvaccinated teachers were around 5,000. Several teachers kept away from getting inoculated citing religious beliefs. After the minister's statement, the government warned teachers and government employees against not getting vaccinated except on genuine medical grounds. Subsequently, it was decided that weekly Covid RT-PCR negative certificate would be mandatory for government employees and teachers. The Minister said that these norms would be strictly enforced. He added that teachers and parents were taking the government's steps positively and the number of students turning up at schools was rising after norms were tightened.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-only-1707-school-teachers-and-staff-in-kerala-unvaccinated-1057580.html
04-12-2021||South||O Panneerselvam, Edappadi K Palaniswami to be elected unopposed as AIADMK leaders||For the first time since late chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s death in 2016, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) will have an elected leadership at the helm with O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami set to be elected as coordinator and joint coordinator of the party.  As the filing of nomination papers for the dual post of coordinator and joint coordinator ended at 3 pm on Saturday, Election Commissioners C Ponnaiyan and Pollachi V Jayaraman announced that only Panneerselvam and Palaniswami have expressed their interest to contest for the posts by filing nomination papers.  The nomination papers will be taken up for scrutiny on Sunday and the announcement of the duo’s unanimous election is likely to be announced the same day. The election is aimed at keeping ousted general secretary V K Sasikala, who has vowed to take over the AIADMK, at bay.  Panneerselvam and Palaniswami, who were at loggerheads, buried their hatchet on December 1 by getting an amendment passed in the powerful Executive Committee that allowed the election of coordinator and joint coordinator by primary members of the AIADMK through “single vote” system.  The conduct of internal elections and OPS-EPS duo sending a “message of unity” is due to growing realization, according to political observers, within the party that the “dual leadership” was the only solution to stave off any threat from Sasikala. The decision to hold the internal polls immediately after amending the by-laws is a serious setback to Sasikala’s efforts to take over the AIADMK leadership. According to the AIADMK, Sasikala is not even a primary member of the party after she failed to renew her membership in 2017 after the by-laws were amended to accommodate Panneerselvam as coordinator and Palaniswami as joint coordinator.  This is the first time that the AIADMK is conducting organizational polls since Jayalalithaa’s passing away in 2016 – the General Council in 2016 had used its powers to appoint V K Sasikala as the interim general secretary. However, the same General Council nullified Sasikala’s appointment a year later and introduced the posts of coordinator and joint coordinator by appointing Jayalalithaa as the “permanent general secretary.” Sasikala has vowed to “reclaim” the AIADMK from the current leadership –Panneerselvam and Palaniswami – following the party’s defeat in the April 6 assembly elections. However, the close friend of late Jayalalithaa is yet to make any headway in her efforts to take over the AIADMK leadership with no visible swell in her support base.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/o-panneerselvam-edappadi-k-palaniswami-to-be-elected-unopposed-as-aiadmk-leaders-1057638.html
04-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu inoculates 20.98 lakh in 13th mega vaccination drive||Tamil Nadu inoculated 20,98,712 people against Covid-19 in the 13th mega vaccination exercise conducted across the state on Saturday, the Health Department said. A total of 7,50,147 people received the first dose while 13,48,565 received the second dose -- 80.44 per cent for the first dose, and 47.46 per cent second dose, a press release said here. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma Subramanian, Minister for Higher Education K Ponmudi and Minister for Minorities Welfare and Non-resident Tamils Welfare 'Gingee' K S Masthan inspected the vaccination drive in Villupuram and Tindivanam. The mass vaccination exercise conducted in over 20,000 camps was held in various places like primary health centres, government-run hospitals and schools. The Health Department began the mass vaccination programme on September 12. In view of this vaccination exercise, the Health Department would not hold camps on Sunday (December 5). However, Subramanian said, those centres, which operate 24x7 providing vaccination in government-run hospitals, would function as usual. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-inoculates-2098-lakh-in-13th-mega-vaccination-drive-1057686.html
04-12-2021||State||Only 40.32 lakh hectares of cultivable land irrigated in Karnataka||Of the total 1.28 crore hectares of cultivable land in Karnataka, 40.32 lakh hectare irrigated, the Centre informed Rajya Sabha on Friday. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar in his written reply to K C Ramamurthy (BJP) said that in the entire country, out of 18.09 crore hectares of cultivable land, a total of 7.15 crore hectares irrigated. Since agriculture is state subject, the works related to irrigation and water resources are implemented by the State Governments themselves as per their own resources. However, to supplement the efforts of the states, the central government providing technical and financial assistance to them to encourage sustainable development and efficient management of water resources through various schemes and programmes including Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana - Har Khet Ko Pani, Surface Minor Irrigation, Repair, Renovation and Restoration of Water Bodies Schemes. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/only-4032-lakh-hectares-of-cultivable-land-irrigated-in-karnataka-1057453.html
04-12-2021||State||All-pass PU results spur admissions in Karnataka govt degree colleges||The government degree colleges in Karnataka have seen record admissions this academic year as the numbers have gone up by 50,000 compared with last year. A huge chunk of the total 2 lakh seats available in the undergraduate courses at government degree colleges remain vacant every year. Last year, at least 85,000 had remained vacant. To the surprise of officials, colleges have already filled 1.65 lakh seats this year, as per the data available from the collegiate education department. This is the highest number ever. According to officials from the department of collegiate education, one of the main reasons for this increase in demand is the ‘all-pass’ decision by the department of pre-university education. Another reason is financial crisis caused to several families due to Covid-19 pandemic.  “Besides the fact that all students in II PU were promoted, the financial crisis caused to families by the pandemic led to huge demand for seats in government colleges, considering the fee factor,” an official said. Classes in shifts The department is conducting classes in shift basis due to high numbers. P Pradeep, commissioner for department of collegiate education, told DH, “Wherever there is lack of infrastructure to accommodate students, we have asked the principals to conduct classes in shifts.” To overcome the shortage of faculty, the department has issued directions to continue the guest faculties for the current academic year and hire new ones, if necessary. Officials said the demand for commerce courses is high in southern districts of the state and arts stream is highly sought after in north Karnataka region. However, the demand for science stream is stagnant. “A majority of science students try their luck with KCET to join engineering courses. So, there is no increase in demand for BSc courses,” an official said. There are over 430 government degree colleges in the state. As some of the universities have extended the admission dates, the department is expecting to get more students on board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/all-pass-pu-results-spur-admissions-in-karnataka-govt-degree-colleges-1057699.html
04-12-2021||State||Bahuroopi national theatre festival postponed||The 10-day national theatre festival, Bahuroopi, has been postponed till January 15, following the guidelines issued by the government in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The theatre festival was scheduled to commence on December 10. Rangayana director Addanda C Cariappa said the theatre festival has been postponed as per the Covid-19 new guidelines issued by the state government.  “As per the guidelines, only 500 people are allowed to participate. But We have prepared for 1,000 people,” he said. A few artistes, who were part of Parva play, opposed Rangayana’s decision to invite Yuva Brigade founder Chakravarthy Sulibele to deliver the valedictory address of the theatre festival. The artistes have written a letter to the Rangayana director in this regard. However, the director said he has not received any letter from the artistes. Cariappa said artistes have not opposed the decision and it is just a rumour. Rangayana, the state government-run repertory, hosts the national theatre festival every year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bahuroopi-national-theatre-festival-postponed-1057702.html
04-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Search on for five ‘missing’ South Africa returnees in Karnataka||A day after the country’s first two cases of Omicron variants were reported in Bengaluru, the Health department officials have expressed concern over 10 missing South Africa returnees. Acknowledging the concerns of the officials, Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said that efforts are on to trace and track these missing returnees from South Africa, soon after holding a high-level meeting with all medical college directors. However, by evening, the number had come down to five. According to Health Department officials, as many as 72 people have arrived in Bengaluru from South Africa. Out of these only 43 passengers had given addresses in Bengaluru, four have left for their states while the remaining travelled to different districts. As per the BBMP data from November 28 to December 2, as many as 23 passengers arrived in Bengaluru. “A total of 14 passengers have tested negative and the test results of others are awaited. Only five are yet to be traced,” said an official from the health department. Revenue minister R Ashoka told media persons, “We have directed the health officials to look into it and trace the missing travellers. We have given them a 24 hours deadline to track all of them and test them as per the protocol.” Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/search-on-for-five-missing-south-africa-returnees-in-karnataka-1057449.html
04-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Priority for planned growth of Bengaluru: Karnataka CM||Bengaluru is an international city, growing at a rapid pace. The huge vehicle density is choking the roads in the city. So a 'Vision Document' has been prepared for the comprehensive and planned growth of the city and new projects would be implemented in accordance with the plan, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said. Construction of 12 high density corridors with a total length of 195 km with seamless signal system, installation of more than 7,000 sophisticated cameras under the Nirbhaya programme for women's safety is being taken up, Bommai said in his address after inaugurating Govindaraja Nagar Police Station on Friday evening. Action has been initiated to prepare a master plan for remodelling of Rajakaluves (major storm water drains) to address the flooding problem, work is on for comprehensive development of Bengaluru through development of slum areas and lakes in the city, he said. Lauding the service of police personnel Bommai said, "it is the police who get the call whenever people are in trouble. Police are like a mother for the kid. It is a very tough job. They do not have fixed duty hours. I have immense respect for them as I witnessed their work from a very close quarter when I was the Home Minister. Karnataka police are the best, they are the number one in the country." Law and order situation in the city has improved substantially. There was a time when it was a Rowdy Raj with murders, gangwars and robbery being the order of the day. It has come down now. The Law and Order is fully under control, he said. "Our government has brought new law to clamp down on online gambling, thus saving lakhs of families from economic ruin. Under the leadership of Housing minister V. Somanna, 1 lakh houses in Bengaluru and 5 lakh houses in rural areas are being built," Bommai said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/priority-for-planned-growth-of-bengaluru-karnataka-cm-1057534.html
04-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka again rejects Kasturirangan report on Western Ghats||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday told the Centre that Karnataka is against declaring the Western Ghats as an ecological sensitive area (ESA) as that would hit the livelihoods of people. Bommai said this during a meeting with Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Bhupender Yadav on the recommendations of the K Kasturirangan report on conserving the Western Ghats. Bommai attended the meeting virtually. The Kasturirangan Committee has recommended that 20,668 sqkm spread across 11 districts in the Western Ghats cradling 1,592 villages be declared as an ESA. "The Cabinet has decided - after consulting residents of the Western Ghats region, officials and other stakeholders - to oppose the implementation of the Kasturirangan Committee report," Bommai told the meeting, according to a statement from his office. Karnataka has repeatedly rejected the report as the ESA tag is feared to bring restrictions that the government believes will hamper development works. "Karnataka is proud to be one of the states having a large forest area. Even before there were laws, people (in the Western Ghats region) following environment-friendly agriculture and horticulture activities. They have been conscious of conserving the Western Ghats," Bommai said. "We already have the Biological Diversity Act, the Forest (Conservation) Act among others. It's not right to introduce another law that will affect the livelihood of people," he added. Bommai also pointed out that the Kasturirangan Committee report is based on satellite surveys. "Ground reality is different. A physical survey of every acre will show the environment-friendly lifestyle of people," he said. According to the chief minister's office, Yadav assured Karnataka that a team of officials will be sent to Karnataka for talks. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-again-rejects-kasturirangan-report-on-western-ghats-1057633.html
04-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Not targeting all policemen, says Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra||Clarifying his statement against police, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Saturday said he was not targeting all policemen but a section of them.   "I have a lot of respect for policemen. But few policemen are corrupt and bring bad names to the Department," the Minister told reporters here. The Minister, who was in the national capital to attend official meetings, said that, "I made a statement against police officials of a few police stations. I am upset after receiving a number of complaints against cattle theft and the police taking no action.”   In a video clip that has gone viral, Jnanendra is purportedly seen shouting at a police officer over phone for his failure to check the theft and smuggling of cattle, especially cows in Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru districts. "Those who are transporting cattle are habitual offenders. Your officers know it well but they take bribes and sleep like dogs. Your police need self-esteem," Jnanendra is heard saying in the video. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/not-targeting-all-policemen-says-karnataka-home-minister-araga-jnanendra-1057642.html
04-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka fares poor in genomic sequencing: Data||Contrary to the state government’s claim of aggressive testing, Karnataka’s genomic testing track record has taken a nosedive. Even as calls for ramping up genomic sequencing in the state grow louder in the backdrop of transmission of the Omicron variant, the data revealed that Karnataka has not sent more than 1,000 samples for sequencing for a single month in the past four months since August. The state had sent 886 samples in August followed by a dismal 396 samples in September and about 977 in October. During November, the numbers further plummeted to 139. The only saving grace in November was 306 additional samples sent for sequencing from the Dharwad medical college cluster. This, even as the neighbouring Tamil Nadu sent as many as 1,303 samples for sequencing in August itself, as per Union Health ministry data, at the tail end of the second Covid wave. State Health Commissioner D Randeep, explaining the reason for sending lesser samples for sequencing said, “The state surveillance unit says positive caseload was less and also Ct values of some samples were more than 25. It would be good to have a minimum threshold for sampling like testing. There is a guideline already.” The government had mandated that 5% of all positive samples should be sent to INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium) labs for sequencing. However, the reality is far from it.  On Friday, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai met with the members of the state’s genomic surveillance committee. A source said, “The government says sequencing will be ramped up by the six new genome sequencing labs that were proposed to be set up in June. However, they’re yet to be operational. Also, there are only three government INSACOG labs where samples are sequenced now: Nimhans, NCBS and IISc. If private labs can be leveraged for RT-PCR testing during the pandemic, why can’t they also be used for sequencing?” The head of a large private diagnostic lab said, “Three months ago, we submitted an application to INSACOG to approve our request for sequencing Covid samples. It is still pending with the DBT (Department of Biotechnology). We have the largest capacity in sequencing in India. We are tired of this bureaucracy and lack of transparency.” Prof Satyajit Mayor, Director, NCBS, and member of state genomic surveillance committee, said, “It’s bizarre that we’re not leveraging private testing infrastructure. We should use whatever capacity we have with right rules and protocols.” A source also pointed out that the state was not taking to task government hospitals for not sending Covid samples with high viral load for sequencing.  “Sample numbers are low. Stricter follow up of guidelines is certainly desirable. But this not happening,” said Dr Vineeta Bal, Immunologist, IISER, Pune, after reviewing Karnataka’s figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-fares-poor-in-genomic-sequencing-data-1057696.html
04-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Omicron-infected Bengaluru doctor bats for ramping up testing||The Omicron-infected Bengaluru doctor said that the virus might have mutated in the state itself and advocated for more testing. “Maybe if we test more, we’ll get to know more. Henceforth, if we regularly test, definitely we can be more aware of this variant,” he said to reporters at Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital on Saturday. Putting speculation on his travel history to rest, the doctor, an anaesthetist at a government hospital, said he had travel history. “If I left the hospital (where he works), I went straight home. If I left home, I went straight to the hospital. That’s all. I used to avoid going outside as much as possible.  Neither I have time to go out nor have the interest to during this (pandemic) time,” he said. Source unknown The doctor said that he was clueless about how he got infected with the Omicron variant. He added that even his friends and colleagues too were surprised, “They told me they are surprised that I got infected despite taking so much precaution. I have absolutely no travel history. I want to say this again: I don’t know from where I contracted Omicron,” he said. His treating physician Dr Madhumathi R, Professor of Medicine at Bowring, said, “He had already taken monoclonal antibody therapy before coming to Bowring. If it is taken within five days of exposure it is definitely beneficial. Usually, we use the therapy for risk factors but professionals like doctors take it because they’re at more risk. Since he had taken the antibodies treatment, the progression of the disease in him is not severe. He came to our hospital only on the eighth day and the disease severity hasn’t progressed despite today being day 13.”  At med conference The doctor made a surprising revelation about the much-hyped medical conference that he had attended on November 20, a day before he developed symptoms - that he was there only for an hour.   “On November 20, I went for a medical conference in a hotel but I was late. I reached the venue at 9.30 pm since I had to finish some work at home. By 10.30 pm I left. That’s just one hour. I don’t know how the incubation period can be just 24 hours: from Saturday to Sunday. Any virus takes three to four days to incubate after entering the body. But this is a new variant and I don’t have much information,” he explained.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/omicron-infected-bengaluru-doctor-bats-for-ramping-up-testing-1057700.html
04-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No vaccine, no entry to schools, colleges, says Karnataka HC||The high court of Karnataka on Saturday categorically said that no student (18 years and above), teacher or staff can be permitted to attend school or college unless they have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum said this while dismissing a PIL filed by Dr Srinivas B Kakkilaya, a medical practitioner from Mangaluru city, and others. The petitioners claimed that the circular issued by the state government on July 16, 2021, which makes vaccination mandatory in nature, is in violation of fundamental rights as guaranteed under Articles 14 and 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution. The petitioners contended that the World Health Organisation (WHO) has held that the vaccination does not prevent the spread of the disease from person to person and hence has little potential of stopping the pandemic or preservation of public health. The petitioners further stated that the circular coerces the teachers and non-teaching staff to meet the arbitrary and baseless parameter requiring 60 per cent of the staff to be vaccinated in order to operate for additional business hours. According to the petitioners, such discrimination based on unreasonable classification, such as status of vaccination of an individual, is curbing the rights to practice any profession. The petitioners further claimed that the circular violates the dictum of the Supreme Court in the Common Cause Vs Union of India (2018) case which recognised the right, choice and liberty of an individual to prefer the medicine of his/ her choice. The bench declined to entertain the contention raised by the petitioners. “We are of the considered view that no student, teacher or staff who have not received vaccines shall be permitted to attend the school or college, where the students gather in large numbers and risk them. As such no directions can be issued to permit such teachers, students or staff who have not received at least one dose of vaccine to attend colleges in terms GO dated July 16, 2021,” the court said. 73L refunded by hospitals Meanwhile, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has informed the court that a total Rs 73.28 lakh has been refunded by the hospitals to 303 Covid-19 patients. The court had directed the BBMP to initiate action against the hospitals that have charged an excessive amount for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The court was told that, so far, 1,715 complaints have been received against 343 hospitals with regard to the collection of excess amounts. The government advocate informed that Rs 10.2 crore has been withheld following these complaints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-vaccine-no-entry-to-schools-colleges-says-karnataka-hc-1057703.html
04-12-2021||West||Omicron will impact international tourist footfalls to Goa: Minister||The emergence of the new Covid variant Omicron will impact international tourist footfalls in Goa, the state's Ports Minister Michael Lobo has said. Lobo, who runs a chain of tourism related businesses in the state, on Friday also said that Goa would have to adopt a 'wait and watch' approach before deciding its next course of action in the tourism sector. "We are hoping that this variant does not harm the people who have already taken vaccination. Looks like charter flights will be cancelled. Because charters were supposed to come at the end of this month and it looks like there will be cancellation because of the new variant," Lobo said. "So international tourism may be affected in a very big way," he added.Before Omicron cases were reported in other parts of the world, the Goa international airport at Dabolim had received interest from Russian and Kazakhstan charter companies. Nearly 900 charter flights mostly from Russia, the UK and Germany annually found their way to Goa before the Covid pandemic struck last year, closing down all international travel. Charter flights account for the bulk of the international tourists arrivals to Goa. Nearly half a million foreign tourists arrived in Goa in 2019. "There will be a slight effect in the intial stage, but we will have to wait and watch and see what is happening worldwide and also in India. Some cancellations have already started, but we are hoping that this variant does not spread," Lobo said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/omicron-will-impact-international-tourist-footfalls-to-goa-minister-1057483.html
04-12-2021||West||Mumbai mandates quarantine for travellers from at-risk nations; civic body to check in on quarantined arrivals 5 times a day||With Omicron threat compounding, the Mumbai civic body has come out with unique, comprehensive and strict home quarantine norms, which include calling up people arriving from high-risk countries five times a day and visits by medical teams with ambulances.  After the successful 'Dharavi Model' during the first wave, 'Mumbai Model' during the second wave, this is yet another initiative in India’s financial capital.  The new rules were announced by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday. “The BMC has introduced a very unique and strict home quarantine monitoring mechanism for international passengers arriving from risk countries. It will be as effective as institutional quarantine. Our objective is to prevent the possible spread of the Omicron variant in Mumbai,” Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said.  Subsequent to the guidelines by the Centre and Maharashtra government, seven days home quarantine has been prescribed for people arriving from “at-risk” countries.  Every day, the Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) will communicate with the Disaster Management Unit and share a list of international travellers arriving at Mumbai from “at-risk countries’ and “high-risk countries”, and those who have visited such countries in the last 15 days.  The list, however, will only include the names of passengers who reside in Mumbai. After receiving the list, the Disaster Management Cell will send it to the 24 administrative wards based on their address. From there, the Ward War Rooms (WWR) will track, test and start contact tracing. Teams in WWRs will dial people in home quarantine at least five times a day to monitor their health. It will monitor whether those who are in quarantine are indeed following the rules and if need be, counsel them and address their concerns.  Besides, medical teams will be sent regularly with ambulances to check whether passengers are complying with rules. On Day 7 of home quarantine, WWRs will ensure passengers take an RT-PCR test. The WWRs would be adequately staffed and would have multiple functional communication lines and 10 ambulances at disposal. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-mandates-quarantine-for-travellers-from-at-risk-nations-civic-body-to-check-in-on-quarantined-arrivals-5-times-a-day-1057501.html
04-12-2021||West||Gujarat reports first case of Omicron Covid-19 variant||A 72-year-old man in Jamnagar, who had returned from Zimbabwe, tested positive for the Omicron coronavirus variant on Saturday, which is said to be the third case in the country. Earlier, Karnataka had reported the first two cases two days ago. "The sample report from Gujarat Biotechnology Research Center has confirmed the Omicron variant in the Jamnagar resident. We have isolated him and many of his close contacts. The entire area has been put under the micro containment zone. We appeal to everyone to wear masks and take vaccines," additional chief secretary, health department, Manoj Agrawal told reporters in Gandhinagar. The health department also convened an emergency meeting to issue new guidelines to contain the virus. Health officials said that another sample of the 72-year-old from Jamnagar village, who landed from Zimbabwe, has been sent to the Pune-based National Institute of Virology for genome sequencing whose report is awaited. Meanwhile, Jamnagar deputy municipal commissioner, A K Vastani, told DH, "We have isolated 10 people, who came in close contact with the infected person, while 80 others are under our watch. None of them has tested positive for the virus. The condition of the infected person is stable. He only had a sore throat and tiredness." Officials said that the infected person, fully vaccinated, is a native of Jamnagar who has been living in Zimbabwe. He landed on November 28 and caught a fever. He was found covid-19 infected following the RT-PCR test. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-reports-first-case-of-omicron-covid-19-variant-1057529.html
04-12-2021||West||Indian Navy exhibits world's largest national flag||Coinciding with Navy Day festivities, the world’s largest national flag has been exhibited by the Western Naval Command at the Naval Dockyard in Mumbai, overlooking the iconic Gateway of India. Measuring 225 feet in length and 150 feet in width, the flag weighs about 1,400 kg and is made of khadi. It has been conceptualised and manufactured by the Khadi and Village Industries and Commission as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. As the Indian Navy rededicates itself to the service of the nation on Navy Day, it renews its pledge and commitment to protect and promote national interests and serve the people of India through this small but important gesture of exhibiting the monumental national flag. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-navy-exhibits-worlds-largest-national-flag-1057538.html
04-12-2021||West||Irrespective of Covid, tourists should visit destinations: Kishan Reddy||Irrespective of whether the third Covid wave hits Goa or not, people should travel to tourism destinations, attend meetings and festivals by following necessary Covid protocols, Union Minister for Tourism and Culture G Kishan Reddy said on Saturday. Addressing a press conference here, Reddy also said that the emergence of the Omicron variant of Covid, could prove to be a dampener to the movement of international tourist footfalls to India. "The tourism sector not just in India, but across the world was affected. Domestic tourism is picking up now and people are travelling to destinations in a big number. But today, there is debate about the third wave," Reddy told mediapersons. "But I urge the people, whether the third wave hits or not, everyone should follow corona protocol and travel to tourist destinations. People should follow their itinerary. State governments have also taken their own decisions with regard to following protocols," he also said. Commenting on the immediate future of the charter tourism flights to Goa, which had recently been allowed by the Union Home Ministry, Reddy said that the emergence of Omicron globally could prove to be a dampener. "We have made a decision and we have met tour operators from different countries in Delhi. We had opened charter flights, but because of the new variant, countries have imposed restrictions on tour operators, therefore a problem has cropped up again," he said. He also said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that international cruise tourism should be pursued on a mission mode and said that his Ministry was working with the Union Ministry of Shipping to further the Prime Minister's agenda. "Cruise tourism is a part of the Sagarmala initiative, our shipping ministry is encouraging it. In the coming days cruise tourism development will be taken up on a mission mode, as per directions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," he said, adding that officials of his Ministry would be meeting with their counterparts in the Shipping Ministry to work out an action plan to start cruise terminals across India's coastline. Reddy also said that Goa would stand to benefit from the central government's international cruise terminal initiative. "If cruise tourism is developed in Goa the largest amount of benefit will be accrued to Goa. Andaman, Vishakhapatanam, Chennai all these destinations can be connected to Goa. Passenger terminals will be developed in ports and the Tourism ministry has given the shipping department money to develop the same," he said. Reddy, who also said that Goa would stand to benefit by developing heli-taxis -- helicopter taxis -- which he said had worked well as a concept in the North Eastern states. "In the northeast, we have developed heli-taxis in many places. It can be done here too. Goa is a tourism destination, it should have a helipad... We also do gap funding for helicopter taxis to control rates," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/irrespective-of-covid-tourists-should-visit-destinations-kishan-reddy-1057564.html
04-12-2021||West||Maharashtra acting chief secretary takes 1st Covid jab 10 months after inoculation drive began||Maharashtra acting chief secy takes 1st Covid-19 vaccine jab 10 months after launch of inoculation drive Over 10 months after the Covid-19 vaccination drive began in the country, Maharashtra's acting chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty has taken the first dose of the vaccine, a medical officer said on Saturday. The 59-year-old senior bureaucrat was administered the dose here on Thursday. The medical officer said that Chakrabarty defended the move of taking the jab months after the launch of the vaccination drive, saying that although he had no aversion to the vaccine, it was his personal decision and he could take the dose whenever he wanted. The IAS officer took the vaccine chiefly in view of the upcoming winter session of the state Assembly, which is scheduled to start from December 22, the medical officer added. Vaccination is mandatory to attend the winter session of the Assembly. A total of 11.72 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the state so far, while nearly 50 per cent of the eligible population has been covered with the first dose, it was stated. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 this year.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-acting-chief-secretary-takes-1st-covid-jab-10-months-after-inoculation-drive-began-1057567.html
04-12-2021||West||Need to unite opposition by including both Congress and non-UPA parties, says Nawab Malik||NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik on Saturday said there could not be a united opposition without the Congress, but parties outside the UPA camp should also be part of such an alliance. Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee had said during her Mumbai visit earlier this week that there was "no UPA now", and also taken potshots at the Congress leadership. Speaking to reporters at the airport here, Malik said NCP chief Sharad Pawar had made it clear that without Congress there cannot be unity of opposition. At the same time, there are also about 150 Lok Sabha members from opposition who are not part of the UPA, said the Maharashtra minister. "We need to bring all the opposition together. Sharad Pawar is ready to work on this," he added. As to who would lead an opposition alliance against the BJP, Malik said Pawar had clearly stated that there would be collective leadership.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/need-to-unite-opposition-by-including-both-congress-and-non-upa-parties-says-nawab-malik-1057592.html
04-12-2021||West||Why Savarkar's name is missing from Marathi literary meet, asks Fadnavis||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday objected to the name of freedom fighter Vinayak Damodar Savarkar being 'missing' at the ongoing annual Marathi literary meet at Nashik in north Maharashtra. The late Hindutva ideologue was born at Bhagur near Nashik in 1883. There was a demand from some quarters that a pandal at the Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan, being held at Bhujbal Knowledge City, be named for Savarkar. Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Chhagan Bhujbal is involved in the organization of this year's meet. Speaking to reporters here, Fadnavis said Savarkar had presided over both the Marathi literary meet and Marathi theatre conference, and he had also been president of the Marathi Patrakar Sangh, a journalists' union. "He would be probably the only person to have achieved this feat and still his name is missing from the entire event," the BJP leader said. “He is an idol for us and if our idols are not respected, why should we even bother to go there,” said Fadnavis, a former chief minister. He also said the BJP welcomed the decision to name the venue of the literary meet as 'Kusumagraj Nagari', after the Jnanpith award winner Marathi poet late V V Shirwadkar (who wrote poetry under the pen-name 'Kusumagraj'). “We welcome the decision to name the venue after Kusumagraj. But it seems his name was used only to counter a possible demand to name it after Savarkar," Fadnavis said. "Savarkar was not just a freedom fighter. He wrote essays, plays, composed verse, was a scholar of grammar, historian and introduced many new words in Marathi," the BJP leader added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-savarkars-name-is-missing-from-marathi-literary-meet-asks-fadnavis-1057605.html
04-12-2021||West||Mumbai Police files chargesheet against Param Bir Singh, others||The Mumbai Police on Saturday filed its chargesheet against suspended DGP-rank IAS officer and its former chief Param Bir Singh in an alleged case of extortion lodged by a city-based businessman.  The chargesheet was filed before the 37th Esplanade Magistrate Court.  This is the first chargesheet filed against Singh, a former Mumbai Commissioner of Police in Mumbai and Thane.  Singh is an officer of the 1988-batch of the Indian Police Service.  The chargesheet, with the evidence and the recorded statements of witnesses, also names dismissed Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, currently in custody and two others in the extortion case filed by a hotelier, Bimal Agarwal. The two other accused named are Alpesh Patel and Sumit Singh, who are currently out on bail, and the police have yet to file the charges against two more accused, Vinay Singh and Riyaz Bhati. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-files-chargesheet-against-param-bir-singh-others-1057652.html
04-12-2021||West||Maharashtra Omicron patient, a marine engineer, couldn't get vaccinated, says official||The 33-year-old man from Thane district in Maharashtra who was found to be infected with the Omicron variant of coronavirus is a marine engineer by profession. Due to the odd nature of his job he couldn't get vaccinated while on the ship since April despite his efforts, a Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) official said on Saturday. The man, a resident of Kalyan-Dombivli municipal area near Mumbai, had arrived at the Delhi airport from South Africa via Dubai before flying to the Maharashtra capital before he was tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus, making him the first such case in Maharashtra and fourth in India, officials had said on Saturday. "He was working on a private merchant navy ship and left the country in April when the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak. At that time, vaccine doses were available only for healthcare and frontline workers," the official told PTI. The man tried his best to get a vaccine shot at some port but due to several restrictions and strict measures regarding the administration of jabs, he couldn't succeed, the official said. “He remained on the ship till November-end. As his ship arrived in South Africa, he was allowed to return to the country (India) and his employer arranged a return ticket for him. As he was out on the sea for a long time, he could not get vaccinated. By the time he could get his tickets and the visa to travel back to India, he had been infected by the Omicron variant,” the official said. His case is very unfortunate as vaccine shots are available in abundance in the last some months but he missed taking them due to his odd job profile. He is a marine engineer by academic qualification, the official said. The patient has been kept in Kalyan-based Covid care centre but isolated from other patients as a precaution, she added. Meanwhile, KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi on Saturday asked citizens to not panic and strictly adhere to Covid-19 norms. He said the civic corporation had examined the taxi driver in whose vehicle the patient had travelled to Dombivli. Also, the occupants of the entire building where he is living have been tested. They all tested negative for Covid-19, Suryavanshi said.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-omicron-patient-a-marine-engineer-couldnt-get-vaccinated-says-official-1057706.html
