05-12-2021||First Edit||Undue political interference in transfers biggest malaise||Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra finds himself in the eye of a storm after a video of him accusing the police of being corrupt has gone viral. Angered by the police failure to check cattle smuggling in Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts, the minister is heard saying, “You take money from them and sleep like dogs. The entire police system is rotten. You do not want to live only on your salary, but on leftovers.” Jnanendra was quick to clarify that he did not mean the entire police force was corrupt, though there were some shortcomings. A few months ago, the police top brass had received a tongue lashing from Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai who while addressing a conference of IPS officers, had pointed out, “You as senior officers wear stars on your shoulders. Are you not ashamed to engage brokers to strike deals? Do you know that a broker gets four times more salutes than you get?” A politician calling the police corrupt may be akin to the pot calling the kettle black, but the outbursts of both the Home Minister and the Chief Minister reflect the current reality in the state. Perhaps, the biggest malaise confronting the police force is the undue political interference in transfers, with elected representatives dictating who should be posted to their constituency. Such officers usually end up becoming stooges of the local MLA. While paying a bribe was always the order of the day for transfers in the lower echelons of the police, in the past few years even IPS officers have not been spared by politicians. In addition, often officers are also required to pay a monthly ‘mamool’ to the local MLA and other political bosses and such demands cannot be met from their meagre salaries unless they indulge in largescale corruption. Though the Supreme Court has held that all transfers above the post of Deputy Superintendent of Police should be decided by the Police Establishment Board (PEB), this remains only on paper. Transfers were largely insulated from corruption when Ajai Kumar Singh was the Director General of Police as he stood his ground against politicians, but the same cannot be said of most others who held the post. To make matters worse, the Anti-Corruption Bureau has miserably failed to bring the guilty to book. While it is a good sign that the Chief Minister and Home Minister have recognised the fault lines, they should first set their own houses in order and stop the practice of bribe-for-postings and monthly pay-outs if the credibility of the police force has to be restored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/undue-political-interference-in-transfers-biggest-malaise-1058021.html
05-12-2021||In Perspective||Maximising job prospects amid pandemic||All development effort is expected to and should lead to maximising employment opportunities. All able-bodied and willing people should be enabled to be employed. During the years preceding the Covid-19 outbreak, there was a general decline in growth, capacity utilisation and demand. The pandemic just added to the economic misery. Crores went back to their relatively poor native villages fearing unemployment and starvation in bigger cities, which had once lured them with unceasing earning opportunities. The manufacturing and service sectors in cities suffered a major setback, with feeble signs of recovery. Green shoots are emerging now and employment is believed to be slowly picking up. It is common sense that in any economy, increased growth entails increased employment. But this relationship is proportionately worsening due to many factors, including the use of labour-saving technology, Schumpeterian ‘creative destruction’ and capital, and of course the officially advised studies/changes in manpower use and suggestions for methods that downsize labour, particularly in the government. The private sector is generally not committed to employing more labour and is instead resorting to labour-saving devices, including outsourcing, employing gig workers, mechanisation etc. In this trade-off, capital is winning and labour is continuously losing; complementarily, the organised sector of labour, the phenomenon of standard secure incomes, is shrinking. Systemically, there is declining employment elasticity of GDP growth: this is otherwise called jobless growth, possibly pejoratively. During the 1990s, every one per cent growth in the GDP resulted in 0.4% growth in employment; it worsened to 0.2% during 2010-2020. The pandemic further hit employment prospects with cessation/disruptions to the economy. But there are areas of activities where labour is greatly absorbed. Sector-wise, there is differential absorption of labour. Parallel to this is the relative lack of skills in the expanding fields of production and service rendering. The construction sector is said to absorb more labour even though there is continuous mechanisation of sub-processes. Expansion of affordable housing to the poor and lower middle classes will provide more employment on city outskirts and in small towns and villages. Villagers, who are finding seasonal employment in agriculture rather uncertain, can be absorbed in construction in nearby locations. Another area is transport and road construction, water body upgrade and maintenance, where willing villagers may be employed. Every lorry on the road is said to absorb 5-6 labour, and more lorries and cargo autorickshaws plying on the roads will mean more lucrative non-farm employment to villagers. Marginal farmers’ monthly family incomes stood at Rs 4,600 during 2012-13; it increased to Rs 9,099 during 2018-19. In view of continuing inflation and erosion of the value of rupee, this means a real decline in family incomes. Thus, any encouragement to an increase in non-farm incomes in villages will make the marginal farmer and landless agricultural labourer less poor. Cities and urbanisation processes are increasingly unenthused about rural-urban migrants despite the exodus. Demography policies have to encourage the retention of rural populations in their native villages. Here, agriculture, particularly diversification of crops in dry land farming and raising superior food and livestock, holds the key to increased incomes and employment for all, including women. Labour in these times of lower population growth and longer education years will be more productive and possibly more versatile. All these hold out hope for increased production, productivity and income. Almost 60% of India’s population live in villages, where most of the poor are concentrated. The return of migrants to lowly endowed native places in poorer states has compounded the problem. This poverty is characterised by low and uncertain incomes, unemployment and underemployment and the endemically low affordability and intake of nutrition, particularly among women and children. Access to nutritious food has to increase along with their availability. The demand for and use of superior food in schools, ante- and post-natal centres and anganwadi meals will result in superior food production, dry land farming, multi-farming and rotation of crops. These renewed, re-vogued practices will promote the spread of employment among the poor and landless. Once their incomes become stable, all-round demand, even for urban goods and services, will pick up. This is indeed a pro-village transformation focusing on employment in India. (The writer is former professor, Maharaja’s College, University of Mysore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/maximising-job-prospects-amid-pandemic-1058018.html
05-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||32 students test Covid positive in Chikkamagaluru school||As many as 32 students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya at Seegodu in N R Pura taluk in Chikkamagaluru district have tested positive for Covid-19. “Initially, four staff and three students contracted the infection. Later, 25 students tested positive for Covid-19. Reports of several students are awaited” said Deputy Commissioner K N Ramesh to DH. All the infected have been isolated and they are being monitored by the health personnel. A total of 418 samples including that of students and staff were sent for testing, said a health officer. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/32-students-test-covid-positive-in-chikkamagaluru-school-1057754.html
05-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||One dead, 2 injured in mishap in Karnataka||A serial accident involving a car, a mini pick-up vehicle carrying fish and a bike has claimed the life of one person while seriously injuring two others near Saibrakatte in Udupi district on Sunday, police sources said. The fish vehicle driver, Suresh Marakala (40), is deceased. Another person who was in the vehicle and the bike rider suffered serious injuries. They have been admitted to the Manipal Hospital. A case has been registered and the investigation is on. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-dead-2-injured-in-mishap-in-karnataka-1057958.html
05-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Murugesh Nirani gets honorary doctorate||Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani received an honorary doctorate from the Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences Deemed-to-be-University at Karad in Maharashtra’s Satara district on Sunday. “Many people advised me to find a job after I completed my studies in Dharwad’s KLE and Pune. Had I chosen to find a job, I would not have become an industrialist,” Nirani said at the convocation ceremony, according to a statement from his office.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/murugesh-nirani-gets-honorary-doctorate-1058029.html
05-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||With Karnataka Council polls around the corner, parties go all out to garner votes||When JD(S) candidate H M Ramesh Gowda started campaigning for the December 10 Legislative Council elections, his biggest challenge was to convince his voters about the relevance of an MLC. “What do MLCs do? You claim that you are also legislators, but we don’t see you in the Assembly. Where do you sit? How can we vote for you to become MLCs? These were the questions I faced from gram panchayat members,” Gowda recounts. Gowda is contesting for the MLC polls from the Bengaluru Rural Local Authorities constituency. “They can relate to MLAs, but are unfamiliar with MLCs. We then tell them that we, too, get funds like MLAs, which can be used for the development of panchayats,” Gowda says. With the Council polls for 25 local authorities seats getting closer, all three political parties have drummed up their campaign, with a special focus on gram panchayat members as they constitute a majority of the voters. Voters of the local authorities seats include gram panchayat members, MLAs, MPs and members of local bodies such as zilla panchayat and taluk panchayats. The election is crucial for the BJP to win a majority in the upper house. The BJP needs to win at least 13 seats in the December 10 election for a majority in the 75-member Council. This will help the ruling party have its way when it comes to passage of Bills.  The high octave campaigning for these polls is akin to any general election. The BJP has roped in all its ministers. Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj, for example, is leading the efforts in Davangere and Chitradurga. “I’m visiting every gram panchayat for campaigning,” he says. The party has identified ‘Page Pramukhs’ whose job is to interact with gram panchayat members and talk to them about the significance of the MLC. There are also taluk and district-level teams.   The opposition parties are making similar efforts. The JD(S) has teams at gram panchayat, taluk and district-level, with MLAs supervising them, says MLC candidate Appaji Gowda.    The Congress, on its part, has appointed senior leaders as observers in every Council constituency. That the panchayats are not getting adequate funds, delay in honorarium and poor implementation of MNREGS are part of its poll plank, according to KPCC Working President Saleem Ahmed, who is himself a candidate.  Money is being spent like never before, candidates say. According to one candidate, “Voters are being promised anywhere between Rs 3 lakh and Rs 5 lakh per vote. The pressure on candidates to beat such promises is unprecedented.” Given that these elections aren’t fought on party symbols, parties are also resorting to internal understandings to maximise their gains. The Congress and JD(S), for instance, have joined hands in Chikkamagalur constituency as the JD(S) has not fielded anyone here. The outcome of these Legislative Council polls will be crucial for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai who has had mixed electoral results since he took office, especially the Hangal assembly bypoll defeat that was demoralising.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/with-karnataka-council-polls-around-the-corner-parties-go-all-out-to-garner-votes-1057748.html
05-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bommai woos villages with promise of developmental works ahead of Legislative Council polls||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said the government will take up “comprehensive development” of villages on the outskirts of Bengaluru, addressing voters ahead of the December 10 Legislative Council election. Addressing a public meeting organised by the BJP in Anekal, some 40 kilometres from the city, Bommai said his government will prioritise the development of not just Bengaluru but also gram panchayats attached to the city. “There’s a concern that in spite of being attached to Bengaluru, the development of the gram panchayats is not on par with municipal wards inside the city. I’m here to drive that concern away,” Bommai said.  Bommai was canvassing for BJP’s Bengaluru Urban local authorities’ seat candidate HS Gopinath. There are 2,073 eligible voters, mostly gram panchayat members.  “We have resolved to take up comprehensive development of Bengaluru. This idea is incomplete without the development of gram panchayats,” Bommai said, adding that he would consider the demand to expand the jurisdiction of villages.  BJP’s Gopinath is going up against Congress’ Yusuf Sharif, one of Karnataka’s richest politicians who has declared assets worth Rs 1,744 crore. “Of all people, Congress has fielded a wealthy man with the sole intention of winning the election with money power. They know they don’t have the support of people,” Bommai said. Bommai said his government has ordered the construction of five lakh homes. “Four lakh homes will be in rural areas and one lakh in urban areas. I’ve asked officials to complete them in 1.5 years. The Congress, in 2017, announced 15 lakh homes. They didn’t allocate money, because they knew they wouldn’t come back to power (in the 2018 polls). After we came to power, we gave the money and works are going on,” he said. Recalling the Amrith Gram Panchayat scheme that he announced in his Independence Day speech, Bommai said 750 gram panchayats across the state will see improvements in terms of water supply, roads, school buildings and solar lighting, among others.  “If works are finished by March 2022, the gram panchayats will get an incentive of Rs 25 lakh. And, if this is successful, I plan to include a similar programme covering all gram panchayats in the next budget,” Bommai said, adding that the are plans of a housing scheme for villages as well.  The December 10 Legislative Council election is a crucial one for the BJP, which is looking for a majority in the upper house. The BJP needs to win at least 13 of the 25 seats for a majority in the 75-member Council. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bommai-woos-villages-with-promise-of-developmental-works-ahead-of-legislative-council-polls-1057836.html
05-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress trying to win Legislative Council polls with money power, says Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday accused the Congress of trying to win the Legislative Council elections, scheduled for December 10, using "money power" and claimed that it has lost people's support. Speaking at the 'Vijay Sankalp' convention organised by the BJP at Attibele, Bommai said, "The Congress had stooped to the level of using any means to win the election. Fielding those with moneybags as its candidates, making them pay big for the party kitty. Fall of morality in Congress party is clear. People should show Congress its place as the party is trying to win the election through immoral splurge of money." Refuting former CM Siddaramaiah's allegations that BJP always used money and muscle power to win elections, Bommai said it is the Congress party that indulged in money distribution. "What morality do you talk about when you are banking on money for selecting candidates to fight the election? You (Siddaramaiah) did not bother to look at gram panchayats when in power. Your promise just ahead of the 2017 election to distribute one lakh houses has remained a promise," Bommai told the gathering. The CM further said the BJP-led government in the state has initiated steps to build one lakh homes in urban areas and four lakh homes in rural areas, which would be completed in the next one and half years. Opining that comprehensive development of Bengaluru is possible only if the adjoining gram panchayat areas are well developed, Bommai said all-around development of these villages is the objective of his government. The revenue generated by the industrialisation of Bengaluru would be utilised for the development of these gram panchayats, he said. On Anekal, he said his government will prepare an exclusive 'Anekal Vision' document for its comprehensive development, on the lines of Bengaluru Vision. Bommai pointed out that many entrepreneurs are showing a keen interest to invest in Anekal. The BJP is contesting in 20 out of 25 seats in the Legislative Council election across 20 local bodies. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-trying-to-win-legislative-council-polls-with-money-power-says-bommai-1057934.html
05-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||CPI(M) flags irregularities in Bengaluru road works||The CPI(M) on Sunday hit out at the BJP government by flagging irregularities in the whitetopping works in Bengaluru, saying their cost was inflated. “It is puzzling to find that the cost per km has gone up from Rs 12 crore to Rs 35 crore. Instead of being used for development of the city, taxpayers’ money is reaching the homes of BJP ministers and legislators,” the CPI(M) Bengaluru North-South district committees said in a joint statement. The party also condemned setting aside Rs 787 crore for the maintenance of high-density corridors when, as per rules, contractors have to maintain the roads for two years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cpim-flags-irregularities-in-bengaluru-road-works-1057979.html
05-12-2021||National||DH Toon | Vaccine inequality danger looms||The emergence of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus is the "ultimate evidence" of the danger of unequal vaccination rates around the world, the head of the Red Cross said on Friday. During a visit to Moscow, Francesco Rocca, the president of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, also raised concerns about the politicisation of migrants and for the plight of civilians in Afghanistan as winter approaches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-vaccine-inequality-danger-looms-1057753.html
05-12-2021||National||Muslims filed maximum complaints with National Commission for Minorities in 3 years||Around 6,200 complaints were received by the National Commission for Minorities between April 2018 and November 2021 with those from Muslims topping the list accounting for 72.38% of the total complaints. An analysis also showed that half of the complaints between 2018-19 and 2020-21 was related to law and order related issues while service matters accounted for 355. According to figures provided by the Union Ministry of Minority Affairs, 2018-19 saw the highest number of complaints and it decreased in the next two years -- 1,670 in 2019-20 and 1,463 in 2020-21. However, the number is expected to rise in 2021-22 as the number has already touched 1,234 as of November 22. When it comes to the number of complainants religion-wise, Muslims filed 4,543 complaints between 2018-19 and 2021-22 till November 22, 2021. Sikhs were a distant second with 481 followed closely by Christians at a close third with 456. Jains filed 203 complaints followed by Buddhists 152 and Parsis just 15. If one takes year-wise figures, Muslims filed 1,344 complaints in 2018-19 followed by 1,232 and 1,103 in the next two fiscals while there were 864 in this fiscal till November 22. According to official statistics, people other than the six minority communities -- Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhists and Parsis -- filed 388 complaints during the period. When one takes the nature of complaints, a written reply by Union Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi to a question by Rajya Sabha BJP MP Rakesh Sinha showed that law and order related complaints topped the list -- 2,508 or 50.11% out of 5,004 complaints filed between 2018-19 and 2020-21. Service matters (355), educational matters (192), religious rights (146) and Wakf related (133) were among other major areas of complaint. Interestingly, not a single complaint related to land disputes were reported in 2018-19 and 2019-20 while 119 were filed in 2020-21 alone. Similarly, 83 cases were filed against police officials, 37 against government officials, 20 against the administration and five on communal violence. Naqvi said the NCM calls for reports from concerned authorities and summons them, if necessary, and makes suitable recommendations or forward the complaints to the appropriate authorities. "The complaints concluded as propaganda, false, frivolous and anonymous are closed with the approval of the competent authority," he said in the reply tabled in Rajya Sabha on November 29. The NCM has conducted 115 hearings between 2018-19 to 2020-21 to enquire about whether the complaints were genuine or not. While 44 such hearings were held in 2018-19, 51 were held next fiscal. In 2020-21, the number slid to 20, apparently due to Covid-19 lockdown and restrictions.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslims-filed-maximum-complaints-with-national-commission-for-minorities-in-3-years-1057747.html
05-12-2021||National||Farm law repeal to deter investments in agriculture||India's repeal of agriculture laws aimed at deregulating produce markets will starve its vast farm sector of much-needed private investment and saddle the government with budget-sapping subsidies for years, economists said. Late last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government introduced three laws meant to open up agriculture markets to companies and attract private investment, triggering India's longest-running protest by farmers who said the reforms would allow corporations to exploit them. With an eye on a critical election in populous Uttar Pradesh state early next year, Modi agreed to rescind the laws in November, hoping to smooth relations with the powerful farm lobby which sustains nearly half the country's 130 crore people and accounts for about 15 per cent of the $2.7 trillion economy. But by shelving the most ambitious overhaul in decades, Modi's backtracking now seemingly rules out much-needed upgrades of the creaky post-harvest supply chain to cut wastage, spur crop diversification, and boost farmers' incomes, economists said. "This is not good for agriculture, this is not good for India," said Gautam Chikermane, a senior economist and vice president at New Delhi-based Observer Research Foundation. "All incentives to shift towards a more efficient, market-linked system (in agriculture) have been smothered." The u-turn does allay farmers' fears of losing the minimum price system for basic crops, which growers say guarantees India's grain self-sufficiency. "It appears the government realised that there's merit in the farmers' argument that opening up the sector would make them vulnerable to large companies, hammer commodities prices and hit farmers' income," said Devinder Sharma, a farm policy expert who has supported the growers' movement. But the gruelling year-long standoff also means no political party will attempt any similar reforms for at least a quarter-century, Chikermane said. And, in the absence of private investment, "inefficiencies in the system will continue to deliver wastage and food will continue to rot," he warned. Collossal waste India ranks 101 out of 116 countries on the Global Hunger Index, with malnutrition accounting for 68 per cent of child deaths. Yet it wastes around 6.7 crore tonnes of food every year, worth about Rs 9,000 crore - nearly five times that of most large economies - according to various studies. Inadequate cold-chain storage, shortages of refrigerated trucks and insufficient food processing facilities are the main causes of waste. The farm laws promised to allow private traders, retailers and food processors to buy directly from farmers, bypassing more than 7,000 government-regulated wholesale markets where middlemen's commissions and market fees add to consumer costs. Ending the rule that food must flow through the approved markets would have encouraged private participation in the supply chain, giving both Indian and global companies incentives to invest in the sector, traders and economists said. "The agriculture laws would have removed the biggest impediment to large-scale purchases of farm goods by big corporations," said Harish Galipelli, director at ILA Commodities India Pvt Ltd, which trades farm goods. "And that would have encouraged corporations to bring investment to revamp and modernise the whole food supply chain." Galipelli's firm will now have to re-evaluate its plans. "We have had plans to scale up our business," said Galipelli. "We would have expanded had the laws stayed." Other firms specialising in warehousing, food processing and trading are also expected to review their expansion strategies, he said. Perishable prices yo-yo Poor post-harvest handling of produce also causes prices of perishables to yo-yo in India. Only three months ago, farmers dumped tomatoes on the road as prices crashed, but now consumers are paying a steep Rs 100 a kg. The laws would have helped the $34 billion food processing sector grow exponentially, according to the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), an industry group. Demand for fruits and vegetables would have gone up. And that would have cut surplus rice and wheat output, slicing bulging stocks of the staples worth billions of dollars in state warehouses, economists said. "Crop diversification would also have helped rein in subsidy spending and narrow the fiscal deficit," said Sandip Das, a New Delhi-based researcher and farm policy analyst. Food Corporation of India (FCI), the state crop procurement agency, racked up a record Rs 3.81 trillion in debt by last fiscal year, alarming policymakers and inflating the country's food subsidy bill to a record Rs 5.25 trillion in the year to March 2021. However, while the federal government now has limited scope for change, local authorities "can opt for reforms provided they have the political will to do so," said Bidisha Ganguly, an economist at CII. Similarly, venture capital-funded startups have also expressed interest in India's agriculture sector. "Agritech, if it is allowed to take root, has the potential to enable a better handshake of farmers and consumers through their technological platforms," Chikermane said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-law-repeal-to-deter-investments-in-agriculture-1057765.html
05-12-2021||National||8,895 new Covid-19 cases in India; Bihar adds 2,426 backlog deaths||India saw a single-day rise of 2,796 fatalities with Bihar carrying out a reconciliation exercise of its Covid data, pushing the country's death toll to 4,73,326, while 8,895 new infections were reported, according to Union health ministry data updated on Sunday. India's total tally of Covid-19 cases has increased to 3,46,33,255, the data updated at 8 am showed. India had recorded a single-day rise of 3,998 fatalities on July 21 after Maharashtra carried out the 14th reconciliation exercise of its Covid data. As for a high 2,796 fatalities, the Union health ministry said, 2,426 reconciled deaths by Bihar were adjusted in Sunday's data. Kerala also cleared a backlog of 263 deaths. Hence, the nation's death tally is showing a spike. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has remained below 50,000 for 161 consecutive days now. The active cases stand at 99,155, comprising 0.29 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. The national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.35 per cent, the health ministry said. A decrease of 819 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.73 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 62 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.80 per cent. It has remained below 1 per cent for the last 21 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,40,60,774  while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.37 per cent. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far has exceeded 127.61 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid-19 cases on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23. The 2,796 new fatalities include 2,426 from Bihar, 315 from Kerala and 14 from Maharashtra. Kerala has been reconciling deaths for the past few days, hence the death tally of the state is high. The total 4,73,326 deaths reported in the country include 1,41,163 from Maharashtra, 41,439 from Kerala, 38,224 from Karnataka, 36,519 from Tamil Nadu, 25,098 from Delhi, 22,911 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,534 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8895-new-covid-19-cases-in-india-bihar-adds-2426-backlog-deaths-1057768.html
05-12-2021||National||Jane Goodall conferred Sanctuary award||Legendary scientist, ethologist, conservationist, and messenger of peace, Jane Goodall has been conferred with the “Legend Award” by Sanctuary Nature Foundation. Retired civil servant, ornithologist, mammalogist, artist, and author Anwaruddin Choudhury was conferred with the prestigious “Lifetime Service Award”. The Sanctuary Wildlife Awards 2021, instituted by Sanctuary Nature Foundation. were presented on Saturday. "Since the year 2000, we have been honouring our nation’s true heroes, the dharti sevaks, who live to champion and protect the biosphere that supports us all. These men and women live the truth that working with nature's maintenance engineers -- single-celled organisms, plants, molluscs, insects, amphibians, birds and mammals -- the original Gardeners of Eden -- is the only real hope we have of healing our one and only home,” said Bittu Sehgal, founder and Editor, Sanctuary Asia.  This year, the Sanctuary Wildlife Service Awards and the Sanctuary Wildlife Photography Awards were held together on the same night.  The Sanctuary Wildlife Photography Award was won by Ganesh Chowdhury while Sandeep Das and Sridhar Sivaram were ranked second and third, respectively.  The “Green Teacher Award” went to Yuvan Aves. The three “Young Naturalist Award” went to  Ayushi Jain, a researcher, community conservationist, and student, Ramya Nair, a researcher, anthropologist, and conservationist and Radheshyam Pemani Bishnoi, wildlife conservationist, animal rescuer, and photographer. “Saving our biosphere is the most efficient way to halt the climate crisis. The many collateral benefits include better water security, reduced floods and droughts, and the sequestration of atmospheric carbon. DSP has been working together with Sanctuary since the last 20 years and are proud of our association to support those foot soldiers working to save all this and more,” added Hemendra Kothari, Chairman, DSP Investment Managers Pvt. Ltd. The event was hosted by Dia Mirza, actor, producer, UN Environment Goodwill Ambassador and United Nations Secretary-General Advocate for Sustainable Development Goals. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jane-goodall-conferred-sanctuary-award-1057769.html
05-12-2021||National||Amid shutdown of schools, dropout rate goes up||With the shutdown of schools in many states including Delhi, lakhs of students are falling out of the education system. According to an estimate, out of two crore students who dropped out of school across the country, more than 20 lakh comes from Delhi alone. Educationists are now demanding to open the schools "at any cost". According to Ashok Agarwal, President of All India Parents Association (AIPA), in such a "critical situation", it is absolutely unnecessary to keep the schools shut just because of pollution. Citing his assessment, Agarwal said that "more than" 20 lakh students have dropped out due to the shutdown of schools in the national capital. "These include more than one lakh disabled students. While the total figure of school dropouts across the country is more than two crores," he noted. The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi as well as across the country is now weakening. Experts are predicting a third wave. However, in the meantime, many students, parents and parent organisations want opening of schools for all. According to renowned educationist C.S. Kandpal, the problem of dropout has arisen due to continuous lack of connection of students with schools, teachers, classmates and regular classes for a long time. The problem is bigger especially amongst the sections with whom the facility and resources of online classes are not fully available. "According to an estimate, about 30 per cent students of government schools are 'dropouts'. We should not overlook the fact that the best and safest place for children is school. Shutting down schools for a long time is like giving rise to social evils like child labour, sexual harassment, and disease, among others. Why can't schools start when all other activities have started in corona unlock," AIPA told IANS. The Union Education Ministry is also aware of the problem of dropout amongst students. The ministry says that a policy to bring down the school dropout rate is being worked upon with all the states. It also asserts that the objective of the 'New Education Policy 2020' is to bring out-of-school children back into the mainstream. To monitor the progress, the data of such children will be compiled by each state. For this, the ministry has developed a portal and online module named 'Prabandhan'. In view of pollution, schools in Delhi and some neighbouring cities have been directed to remain shut. The Delhi government also believes that with the onset of the pandemic, there has been a massive loss of students' studies. "This year, there is a need not only to bridge the learning gap of children, but also to provide emotional support to them. Also, students need to be mentally prepared again for the teaching-learning process." At the same time, the Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan says that the target is to ensure 100 per cent enrolment of children in schools across the country during the next nine years. The Union Ministry of Education has set this target under the New Education Policy. Pradhan noted that by the year 2030, there is a target of 100 per cent gross enrolment in schools. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-shutdown-of-schools-dropout-rate-goes-up-1057797.html
05-12-2021||National||Half of India's adult population fully vaccinated against Covid-19||Over 50 per cent of India's eligible adult population is now fully vaccinated against Covid-19, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Sunday as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country exceeded 127.61 crore. According to Union Health Ministry officials, over 84.8 per cent of the adult population in India has been administered the first dose. "Congratulations India.It is a moment of great pride as over 50% of the eligible population is now fully vaccinated. We will win the battle against Covid-19 together," Mandaviya said in a tweet. हम होंगे कामयाब ✌🏼 Congratulations India 🇮🇳 It is a moment of great pride as over 50% of the eligible population are now fully vaccinated 💉 With the administration of 1,04,18,707 vaccine doses in a span of 24 hours, the total Covid-19 vaccine doses given in the country has exceeded 127.61 crore, according to the provisional report till 7 am.   This has been achieved through 1,32,44,514 sessions, the ministry said.   The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with health care workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of front line workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/half-of-indias-adult-population-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-19-1057807.html
05-12-2021||National||Suspended MP Priyanka Chaturvedi steps down as host of Sansad TV show||Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi - who was among the dozen lawmakers suspended from Rajya Sabha for unruly behaviour - has stepped down as the anchor of Sansad TV’s show Meri Kahani.  In this regard, Chaturvedi has written to Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu the copies of which were marked to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and CEO of Sansad TV. In a tweet, Chaturvedi said, “It is with anguish that I step down as anchor of Sandad TV’s ’s show Meri Kahani, I am unwilling to occupy space on Sansad TV for a show but denied space on it for discharging parliament duties due to arbitrary suspension. Hence as much as I was committed to the show, I must step away.” Chaturvedi has pointed out: “That this suspension also chose to disregard my parliamentary track record and my contribution beyond the call of duty so as to give a platform to women parliamentarians to share their journey, I believe injustice has been done but as it is considered valid in the eyes of the chair, I must respect it.”  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suspended-mp-priyanka-chaturvedi-steps-down-as-host-of-sansad-tv-show-1057813.html
05-12-2021||National||Cyclone Jawad: Rain lashes Kolkata, other parts of south Bengal||The West Bengal government stopped ferry services on the Hooghly River and urged tourists not to visit seaside resorts, as rain lashed Kolkata and other southern parts of the state on Sunday with cyclonic storm Jawad laying centred 180 km from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. The India Meteorological Department forecast that the cyclonic storm will move north-northeastwards towards the West Bengal coast before weakening into a deep depression during the day. "With the system likely to move north-northeastwards along the Odisha coast towards West Bengal and develop into a well-marked low-pressure area, light to moderate rainfall has begun in Kolkata, Howrah, North and South 24 Parganas, and Purba and Paschim Medinipur districts," an official said. Heavy rain will occur in some isolated parts of south Bengal, including coastal areas of South 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur districts, and parts of Purba Bardhaman, he said. The state administration asked tourists not to visit seaside resorts such as Digha, Mandarmani, Bakkhali, Frazerganj, and other coastal areas on the weekend. However, with the MeT department forecasting that there won't be a cyclonic storm in West Bengal, tourists were seen wading into waters and taking photographs of the choppy sea in Digha in Purba Medinipur district and Bakkhali in South 24 Parganas, ignoring the warnings of disaster management personnel camping there. Regular ferry services on Hooghly connecting North 24 Parganas and Hooghly districts have been suspended, an official said. The IMD predicted that wind speed will not exceed 55 kmph in coastal areas as the system approaches West Bengal. The West Bengal government has evacuated around 17,900 people from coastal areas of South 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur and opened 48 relief centres in the two districts, another official said. The administration has also opened 115 multipurpose cyclone shelters and 135 additional temporary relief shelters to deal with any "emergency-like situation", he said. "We have kept everything ready to face any problem due to heavy rain in the next couple of days. Weekly offs and other holidays of all staffers have been cancelled," he said. Nineteen National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams have been deployed in West Bengal and quick response teams of the state power and public works departments and West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company (WBSEDCL) have been posted at crucial points, the official said. While almost all fishermen have returned to Kakdwip, Digha and other coastal areas, the authorities are coordinating with fishermen associations to find out if anyone is still in the deep sea. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is constantly monitoring the situation and officials of the municipal bodies are on guard, state minister Firhad Hakim said. In the last two years, West Bengal has witnessed three devastating cyclones -- Bulbul in November 2019, Amphan in May 2020 and Yaas in May 2021 – that left behind a trail of death and destruction. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-jawad-rain-lashes-kolkata-other-parts-of-south-bengal-1057830.html
05-12-2021||National||Modi govt showed no one can take India's borders, jawans lightly: Shah||The Modi government showed that no one can take India's borders and jawans lightly after it took the "strong decision" to conduct cross-border strikes following attacks in Pulwama and Uri, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday. Speaking on the occasion of the 57th Raising Day of the Border Security Force (BSF) here, Shah said for the Modi government, "border security is equal to national security". "This government under the leadership of Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi has accorded a different importance to border security since 2014. If our borders were breached or security personnel were attacked anywhere, we responded immediately. We showed that no one can take our borders and jawans lightly," Shah said at the Shaheed Poonam Singh Stadium here. The BSF was raised on December 1, 1965, and is for the first time holding its Raising Day celebrations outside Delhi and in this strategic desert town along the Pakistan border. After taking salute of the parade, Shah said the Modi government took the "strong decision" to conduct air and surgical strikes post the Pulwama (2019) and Uri attacks (2016) on Indian troops. "Our action was lauded by the world," he said. The minister said he believes that any country can progress and prosper only when its borders are protected and the BSF and other security forces are doing an "exemplary job" in this domain. Talking about the recent emergence of the threat from drones on the country's borders, Shah said it is the government's "commitment to provide the best global technology for the protection of troops and the security of borders". "We are working in this direction... BSF, NSG and DRDO are jointly working to develop indigenous counter-drone technology and that should be brought out soon," he said. Shah said developing good border infrastructure is inherently linked to border security and his government has made it a point to create these assets with a firm commitment. The road construction budget between 2008 and 2014 was about 23,700 crore. It was enhanced to Rs 44,600 crore between 2014 and 2020 under the Modi government, he said. A total of 14,450 km of border roads were constructed between 2007 and 2020 along with 7,270 km of bridges, he added. Shah said the land acquisition process for "critical border projects" is also being undertaken by his ministry. He asked the BSF jawans to maintain a strict vigil on the border. He also asked them if the benefits of government welfare schemes are reaching the remote border locations. "When you keep the border population happy, enhance their facilities, it will help you in effectively guarding the borders," he said. If the borders are safe, the border areas will also be secure, Shah said. He said the government recently recruited about 50,000 new troops to the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) like the BSF and plans to recruit more in the future. Shah said the government is "very sensitive" to the needs of CAPF personnel and hence has recently brought out the 'Ayushman CAPF' healthcare scheme under which troops and their families can avail hassle-free treatment at 21,000 hospitals by just swiping a special card provided to them. He underlined that the government is working to enhance the housing satisfaction ratio for CAPF personnel before 2025. BSF Director General Pankaj Kumar Singh shared the operational achievements of the force during the event.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-showed-no-one-can-take-indias-borders-jawans-lightly-shah-1057847.html
05-12-2021||National||Indian Navy's 'Killers' squadron, that sunk Pakistan warships, to get President's Standard||The Indian Navy's 22nd Missile Vessel Squadron, that bombed the Karachi Port and sunk Pakistan Navy's vessels in the 1971 war, will receive the President's Standard, a rare honour for its distinguished service, from President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday, the Navy said. This year also marks 50 years of inception of the Missile Vessel Squadron, also known as the 'Killers', which over the past five decades has maintained the capability of delivering a credible offensive punch from the sea, a Navy official said on Sunday. Based in Mumbai, the Missile Vessel Squadron has participated in the Operation Vijay, Operation Parakram and most recently, during the heightened security state following the Pulwama attack, it was deployed within striking distance off the Pakistan coast. "The ships in this squadron have the ability to move swiftly and are missile-ready. Their deployment also acts as a deterrent,” said an official posted in the squadron. The Indian Navy was awarded the President's Colours on May 27, 1951 by the then President of India, Dr Rajendra Prasad. The President's Standard is the same honour as the President's Colours, awarded to a relatively smaller military formation or unit, the Navy said in a statement. The 22nd Missile Vessel Squadron was formally established in Mumbai in October 1991 with 10 Veer Class and three Prabal Class missile boats. But, the genesis of the 'Killers' dates back to 1969, with the induction of OSA I Class missile boats from the erstwhile USSR to bolster the Indian Navy's strength, the official said. These missile boats were transported to India on heavy lift merchant ships and commissioned in early 1971 in Kolkata. They were deployed on a crucial mission in the very first year, during the Indo-Pak war in 1971 and they played a decisive role in its outcome, he said. On the intervening night of December 4-5, 1971, the youngest warriors of a young Indian Navy drew first blood when they launched a devastating offensive on the Pakistan Navy. Indian Navy ships Nirghat, Nipat and Veer fired their Styx missiles and sank Pakistan Navy ships Khyber and Muhafiz, the official said. Codenamed Op Trident, this operation is considered to be one of the most successful operations in modern naval history, with no casualties being sustained by the Indian forces, he said. The Indian Navy carried out another daring attack on the intervening night of December 8-9, when INS Vinash, along with two frigates, launched four Styx missiles, sinking the Pakistan naval fleet tanker Dacca and inflicting substantial damage to Keamari oil storage facility in Karachi. “There were no damages reported to the Indian forces. It is because of these heroic deeds of the ships and men of the squadron that they earned the title of 'Killers' and the Indian Navy celebrates December 4 as the Navy Day,” the official said. The squadron personnel have been awarded battle honours, including one Maha Vir Chakra, seven Vir Chakras and eight Nausena Medals (Gallantry), which are testimony to the gallant spirit of the 'Killers', the Navy said. The year 2021 marks the 50th anniversary of India's victory in the 1971 war and is being celebrated across the country as 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh'. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navys-killers-squadron-that-sunk-pakistan-warships-to-get-presidents-standard-1057855.html
05-12-2021||National||After recommending booster dose for age 40 and above, INSACOG says more experiments needed||The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) in its recent weekly bulletin has said that many more scientific experiments are needed to assess the impacts of booster dose, which are being guided and monitored by National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC). However, in its previous weekly bulletin dated on November 29, INSACOG has recommended a booster dose for those 40 years of age and over, first targeting the most high-risk / high-exposure "may be considered". Clarifying on the need of booster dose amid Omicron looming threat, the top genome sequencing body INSACOG has said that the mention of the booster dose was merely a "discussion about the potential role of additional dose of Covid-19 vaccines in high-risk populations" and the recommendation was not for the India's immunisation programme. "Immunity and protection from SARS-CoV-2 is multifactorial with several unknown factors and further compounded by emerging VOCs. Many more scientific experiments are needed to assess the impacts of booster dose, which are being guided and monitored by National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19", said INSACOG. The recommendations and suggestions regarding vaccines, schedule, and roll out come under the expressed mandate of NTAGI and the NEGVAC, said the Consortium on Genomics INSACOG. NTAGI is also expected to meet next week to assess the need for a booster jab in India. However, INSACOG's clarification on the booster jab has come after Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in the Lok Sabha during the Winter Session said that a decision on booster doses and kids' vaccines would be taken on the basis of scientific advice. The top health ministry officials have said many times that the priority at the time is to vaccinate all eligible population with both doses at the earliest. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-recommending-booster-dose-for-age-40-and-above-insacog-says-more-experiments-needed-1057869.html
05-12-2021||National||India is eager for Putin’s weapons despite US sanctions risk||By Archana Chaudhary and Ilya Arkhipov President Vladimir Putin will visit New Delhi on Monday as billions of dollars of Russian weaponry flow into India that would normally attract US sanctions. Eager to draw India into its efforts to contain China, the US may look away this time. Putin is making his first foreign trip in nearly six months for talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as India takes delivery of Russia’s S-400 advanced missile-defense system that’s part of a $5 billion weapons deal. A similar purchase by NATO ally Turkey prompted the US to ban Ankara from its advanced F-35 fighter jet program. “It looks like Washington turned a blind eye for now since Indian support in the Asia-Pacific region is extremely important for the US,” said Ruslan Pukhov, a member of the Russian Defense Ministry’s public advisory board. “India sent a strong message to the US that it would not tolerate American sanctions.” India is part of the Quad group with the US, Japan and Australia that is shaping up as a bulwark against China’s influence in the Indo-Pacific region. Even as US and North Atlantic Treaty Organization tensions with the Kremlin are running high over a Russian build-up of forces near Ukraine, India is betting President Joe Biden’s focus on China will allow it to press on with defense purchases from Moscow. Russian arms purchases by US allies can trigger sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act. While the US has “urged all of our allies, all of our partners, to forgo transactions with Russia” involving the S-400 that may trigger sanctions, it hasn’t decided on a potential waiver for India, State Department spokesman Ned Price said at a Nov. 23 briefing. Conversations are ongoing “in the context of a defense relationship that is meaningful to us, that is important both to the United States and India, including in the context of a free and open Indo-Pacific,” Price said. For the Modi government, Putin’s visit means more than just bolstering ties that date to the Cold War era. India needs Russia to keep up weapons supplies as it remains locked in its worst border standoff with China. New Delhi also wants more of a role in Afghanistan where Russia along with China and Pakistan remain key players following the Taliban’s takeover. India will need to watch Russia’s actions on Ukraine as this could complicate New Delhi’s ties with Washington, said Tanvi Madan, director of The India Project at the Brookings Institution. “Delhi says it needs to do certain things with Moscow because it is in India’s interest; Washington says it needs to do certain things with Islamabad because it is in America’s interest,” she said. “Neither likes what the other is doing with its rivals.” With meetings scheduled between the Indian and Russian foreign and defense ministers, Putin’s trip may yield more Indian orders for the Sukhoi Su-30 and MiG-29 fighter jets as well as 400 extra T-90 tanks, India’s ambassador to Russia, Bala Venkatesh Varma, told the Tass news service last month. There’s an agreement to produce more than 7,00,000 AK-203 rifles in India, too, he said. India won’t go ahead with a plan to build Russian Ka-226T military helicopters locally under a $1 billion deal, according to senior government officials with knowledge of the matter. Instead, the world’s third largest military force might make off-the-shelf purchases as replacements for its fleet of over 320 aging helicopters. New Delhi may look to ink deals to buy another 5,000 missiles and about 250 single launchers of the Igla-S Very Short Range Air Defense system that India first ordered when its border confrontation with China was at its peak last summer. Still, while Russia remains India’s largest weapons supplier, Moscow’s share of Indian purchases declined to 56% from 72% in 2015-2019, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. At the same time, India has increased weapons and technology purchases from Europe and Israel and conducted more military exercises with the Quad nations. India is also part of a newly emerging partnership between Israel, the United Arab Emirates and the US that plans to cooperate on economic and maritime security in the Middle East. “The US is not likely to be happy about India’s decision to purchase more weapons from Russia, but will wait to see how many of these deals actually materialise,” said Akhil Bery, Director of South Asia Initiatives at the Asia Society Policy Institute. “However, the US-India relationship is arguably stronger now, as both sides recognise that China is the biggest geopolitical threat.” --With assistance from Sudhi Ranjan Sen. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-eager-for-putin-s-weapons-despite-us-sanctions-risk-1057870.html
05-12-2021||National||Navjot Singh Sidhu joins guest teachers' protest in Delhi||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu joined the sit-in protest of Delhi guest teachers demanding regularisation of their jobs outside Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence in Civil Lines on Sunday. Last month, Kejriwal had joined the contractual teachers in Punjab's Mohali, who staged a protest making a similar demand. In the run-up to the Punjab polls, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener has announced a slew of sops for different sections of society, including teachers. Among the assurances are regularising contractual teachers and revamping the education system in the state if voted to power. Punjab goes to polls in early 2022 and the AAP is not leaving any stone unturned to make a decisive presence in the border state. Hitting out at Kejriwal, Sidhu said the Delhi government was following a contractual model of education. “Delhi Education Model is Contract Model … Delhi Govt has 1031 Schools while only 196 schools have Principals … 45% teacher’s posts are vacant and schools are run by 22,000 Guest Teachers on daily wages with every 15 days renewal of contracts,” Sidhu alleged in a tweet. The Punjab Congress chief said that there were 12,515 job vacancies for teachers in Delhi in 2015, but in 2021, the number had shot up to 19,907. He said the AAP government had been filing up the vacant posts by hiring guest lecturers. “AAP promised to regularise contractual teachers give equal wages as permanent staff but made it worse by just having guest teachers. Through School Management Committees, so-called AAP volunteers earn Rs 5 Lac yearly from Govt funds that earlier were meant for school’s development,” Sidhu's another tweet read.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navjot-singh-sidhu-joins-guest-teachers-protest-in-delhi-1057875.html
05-12-2021||National||Amethi's development issues were never raised in Parliament in past: Smriti Irani||Union minister Smriti Irani on Sunday launched a veiled attack on Rahul Gandhi, saying those who claimed to have family bonds with the Amethi Lok Sabha constituency never raised the issue of its development in Parliament. Without naming Gandhi, the BJP leader said Amethi faced various problems for years but the person elected from the constituency was silent on them. Irani had won the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Amethi after defeating the then MP Gandhi in his family bastion. "Those who claimed to have family bonds with Amethi had never raised the issue of its development in the House (Parliament). As a result, the people of Amethi parliamentary constituency were deprived of development for years. Amethi faced various problems for years, but the person whom it (Amethi) had elected and sent to the House, sat there silently," she said, after inaugurating projects worth Rs 5 crore, including a bus stand in Tiloi here. She said the bus stand in Tiloi was ready in a span of nine months due to the Yogi Adityanath government's approach towards work in Uttar Pradesh. "I am happy to say that a medical college is being built in Tiloi and an oxygen plant has also been established," she said. The Amethi MP also inaugurated a health mela at the community health centre in Tiloi, and met patients and asked about medical facilities there. Amethi is considered as a bastion of the Gandhi family. Late Sanjay Gandhi was the first from the family to win the Lok Sabha election from the seat in 1980. After his demise, former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi won the seat four times till he died in 1991. Sonia Gandhi successfully contested from here in 1999 before handing over the constituency to Rahul Gandhi in 2004, who retained it till 2019. In the upcoming Assembly polls, the Congress is making all-out efforts to do well in the Assembly segments under the Amethi parliamentary constituency. Amethi covers five Assembly constituencies of Tiloi, Salon, Jagdishpur, Gauriganj and Amethi. In the 2017 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, the BJP had won four constituencies, while one was bagged by the Samajwadi Party. District Congress Pradeep Singhal told PTI that the party is reaching out to the people highlighting various issues, including rise in prices of various commodities under the BJP government and the prevailing poor security situation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amethis-development-issues-were-never-raised-in-parliament-in-past-smriti-irani-1057879.html
05-12-2021||National||PAC has responsibility to evolve, be flexible: Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Sunday advised Parliamentary committees to directly interact with people and take inputs from them so that it can make "more effective and meaningful" recommendations to the government for the development of the country. Birla was addressing the valedictory ceremony of the centenary celebrations of Parliament's Public Accounts Committee attended by Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairperson Harivansh, who warned that the delay in law-making hampers socioeconomic growth of the country, and PAC Chairperson Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Chowdhury said that executive accountability to the Legislature is one of the cornerstones on which the edifice of a parliamentary democracy is erected and expressed hope that the PAC will now work with more intent and sincerity in the coming years in delivering democracy and setting high benchmarks for legislatures. The centenary celebrations were inaugurated by President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday in the presence of Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu. The Speaker said that the PACs that scrutinise government spending to be flexible to match people's hopes as they expect it to make the Executive accountable for the development of the country and ensure transparency in the working of the government. "It is the responsibility of the PAC to evolve itself and to be flexible in their processes and procedures. As part of our endeavour to ensure that the Committee works for the benefit and welfare of the last person standing in the row, it should make the executive accountable for the development of the country and ensure transparency in the working of the government," he said. He suggested that a common digital platform of the Public Accounts Committees of the Parliament of India and State Legislatures should be created where such Committees can share their best practices and monitor execution of their recommendations. "Parliamentary committees should directly interact with people and take inputs from them. The more they will interact with people, the more effective and meaningful their recommendations will be," he said. Birla suggested that the PAC Chairpersons at the Centre and states should form a panel to have a comprehensive discussion on the working of the PACs and brainstorm on the manner in which the working of such committees can be more effective. He said their report or suggestions could be discussed among the Presiding Officers for implementation, which will make PACs more accountable, transparent and beneficial to the public. Emphasising the non-partisan functioning of PACs, he Birla said that it should be the collective endeavour to not only maintain this tradition but to further strengthen it. Interest of the nation should be supreme, he said. Harivansh suggested the extensive use of latest technology for disposal of audit paras in a time bound manner and highlighted the role of these committees in the process of review of redundant laws so that the legal architecture could conform to the changing needs of our times. "Delay in law making hampers the socioeconomic growth of the country which puts an additional responsibility on parliamentary committees, particularly PAC, to examine laws pertaining to their mandate on a continuous basis. Committees should attend to their duties impartially," he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pac-has-responsibility-to-evolve-be-flexible-om-birla-1057884.html
05-12-2021||National||Centre taking measures to simplify justice delivery system: Kiren Rijiju||Union Minister for Law and Justice Kiren Rijiju on Sunday said the Centre is taking various measures to simplify the justice delivery system in the country. Addressing a one-day legal-cum-medical literacy camp organised by the district legal services authority here, Rijiju said a large number of paralegal volunteers (PLV) has been appointed by his ministry to create necessary awareness among people so that they can take advantage of free legal camps to get speedy justice. The Modi government is also working to ease the process of law to release those who are in jails for long due to non-hearing of their cases, he said. Besides providing legal aid to rural people, the PLVs are also making them aware of free legal aid schemes of the government, he said. Rijiju advised the organisers to extend its duration and also lauded the district legal services authority chairperson Gyanendra Kumar Sharma for the initiative. "I have promised the local bar association to come again to meet them if it organises one such free legal camp," he said. The Union minister was accompanied by the chairperson of National Legal Services Authority Justice Udai Umesh Lalit and chairperson of Uttarakhand State Legal Authority Justice Raghavendra Chauhan. Rijiju also inspected every stall put up at the camp showcasing the union government’s schemes to provide justice to common people. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-taking-measures-to-simplify-justice-delivery-system-kiren-rijiju-1057892.html
05-12-2021||National||Why recruitment not taking place when govt has vacancies? asks Varun Gandhi||Criticising police action against protesting candidates of UP teachers' test in Lucknow, BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Sunday asked why recruitments are not taking place when there are vacancies in the government. Sharing a video of police action against candidates holding a candlelight march over alleged irregularities in the 2019 UP Teachers' Entrance Test (UPTET) 2021, he lamented that no one is ready to listen to their demand. On Saturday, UPTET candidates were holding a candle march demanding the recruitment of teachers on vacant posts in Uttar Pradesh. Gandhi, the BJP Lok Sabha member from Pilibhit, is regularly questioning his own party government on several issues from farmers' protests to the Lakhimpur incident and now over irregularities in UPTET. He also requested people think if the aspirants would be treated in the same way if they were their own children. Tweeting a video of police reportedly using batons, he said: "These children are also 'Son of Mother India', let alone accepting their demands, no one ready to listen to them. Above this, barbaric 'lathicharge' on them. Put your hand on your heart and think they would be treated the same if they were your own children. You have vacancies as well as qualified candidates, so why are recruitments not taking place." On November 28, UPTET 2021 had to be cancelled after the paper was leaked. On December 2, Gandhi questioned the BJP government on job and paper leaks. "First, there is no government job, if some opportunity comes, then the paper gets leaked, if you give the exam, there are no results for years, then it gets cancelled in some scam. 1.25 crore youths are waiting for Railway Group D exams for two years. The same is with the Army recruitment. How long should the youth of India have to be patient," Gandhi had tweeted. In October Varun Gandhi and his mother, Maneka Gandhi was dropped from BJP's national executive committee - the party's top decision-making body. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-recruitment-not-taking-place-when-govt-has-vacancies-asks-varun-gandhi-1057900.html
05-12-2021||National||Kerala govt not interested in protecting tribals, more concerned about SilverLine, alleges K C Venugopal||Criticising the Left regime in Kerala, AICC General Secretary and MP K C Venugopal on Sunday alleged that the state government was more concerned about protecting killers and its ambitious SilverLine project rather than safeguarding the interests of tribals or providing them proper housing. Venugopal's critique of the state government came while addressing the Adivasi Dalit Sangam on the second day of the Congress' nationwide Jana Jagratha campaign against inflation, a release said. The senior Congress leader said that the state government was ready to spend around Rs one lakh crore on the SilverLine project, but it was unable to provide proper housing to the tribal families. He alleged that while the Pinarayi Vijayan government appeared to be taking an anti-people stance like the Narendra Modi government at the Centre, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has no hesitation in embracing the tribal community, according to the release. He said people from the tribal community would be part of the District Congress Committee and various other committees of the party, even as the CPI(M) was allegedly not ready to include Dalits in the Politburo. Venugopal, while criticising the Left administration, conceded that even the Congress in Kerala has failed to bring the Adivasis, Dalits and Scheduled Castes into the mainstream. However, at the national level and in other states Congress was at the forefront in bringing such vulnerable communities into the mainstream, he said in his speech, according to the release. Forest law is not for the police to play with and it was brought in by the Congress-led government with the aim of empowering the Adivasis, he said. However, it was being weakened by the central government which along with the states was exploiting tribal communities, he alleged.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-govt-not-interested-in-protecting-tribals-more-concerned-about-silverline-alleges-k-c-venugopal-1057901.html
05-12-2021||National||Maharashtra govt opposes Param Bir Singh's plea in Supreme Court||The Maharashtra government has opposed a plea by suspended former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh for CBI probe into charges against him, saying he could not be considered as a whistleblower as cases against him were prior to his sensational letter accusing then Home Minister of Rs 100 crore monthly extortion. A bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, which had earlier granted him protection from arrest days after he went missing, is scheduled to take up his petition on Monday. In response to the top court's notice, Joint Secretary of Maharashtra Home Department, said that the petitioner's own letter of March 20, 2021, cited instances of alleged corruption that took place a few months prior, but he only sought to expose these allegations on March 20, that is three days after he was transferred to the post of DG Home Guards. "Thus it is denied that the petitioner's letter dated March 20 was issued in the public interest or for a bonafide purpose and therefore it is denied that the petitioner is a whistleblower,” it said. The petitioner cannot be as such treated as a whistleblower as contemplated under the Whistle Blowers Protection Act, 2014, it maintained. The state government cited instances of negligence in the performance of service by Singh, among others, which were required to be inquired into, including whether the petitioner failed to control and supervise his subordinate Sachin Waze, arrested by the NIA in view of his involvement in parking an explosive-laden car near the Antilia building, Mumbai, which was found on February 25, 2021. The affidavit said that the state government has accorded approval to initiate the disciplinary proceedings against him under the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969. The statement of articles of charges framed against him along with the statement of imputations of misconduct or misbehaviour and a list of documents have been issued, it said. The affidavit stated that the Bombay High Court had rightly dismissed Singh's plea and he should approach the Central Administrative Tribunal to challenge the departmental enquiry. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-govt-opposes-param-bir-singhs-plea-in-supreme-court-1057923.html
05-12-2021||National||National advisory group to consider administering 'additional' Covid-19 vaccine dose||The issue of administering an additional dose of the Covid-19 vaccines to immunocompromised individuals will be deliberated upon in the meeting of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation scheduled to be held on December 6, official sources said. According to officials, an additional dose of vaccine is different from a booster dose. A booster dose is given to an individual after a predefined period when the immune response due to primary vaccination is presumed to have declined, while an additional dose is given to immunocompromised and immunosuppressed individuals when the primary schedule of vaccination does not provide adequate protection from the infection and disease, they said. Recently, the Serum Institute of India (SII) sought from the drug regulator approval for Covishield as a booster dose against the coronavirus infection. In an application to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), Prakash Kumar Singh, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at SII, said UK-MHRA has already approved the booster dose for AstraZeneca ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine, while citing there is no shortage of Covishield in India and that there is a demand for booster dose from those who have already taken two doses in view of the ongoing pandemic and emergence of new strains. In its bulletin dated November 29, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) recommended a booster dose of Covid-19 vaccines for those above 40 years with a preference to high-risk and high-exposure populations. However, on Saturday, it said its recommendation was not for the national immunisation programme as many more scientific experiments are required to assess its impact. Regarding the administration of booster doses, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had recently informed the Lok Sabha that the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) were deliberating and considering scientific evidence related to this aspect. "For now, the issue of booster dose is not on the agenda as studies are being conducted to ascertain its need and value. The issue of administering additional dose of Covid-19 vaccine to immunocompromised and immunosuppressed individuals will be deliberated upon in the meeting of NTAGI that will be held on December 6," an official source said. Basically, cancer patients on therapy, transplants patients and AIDS patients, among others, fall under such categories and need additional dose (third dose) of vaccine to improve their protection. Even amid the emergence of new variants like Omircron, vaccination remains one of the strongest pillars of protection against disease and infection, experts said. While there is no evidence to suggest that existing vaccines do not work against the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, some of the mutations reported may decrease the efficacy of the jabs, the Union health ministry said while underscoring that definitive evidence for the new variant's increased remission and immune evasion, is awaited. "While there is no evidence to suggest that existing vaccines do not work on Omicron, some of the mutations reported on spike gene may decrease the efficacy of existing vaccines. However, vaccine protection is also by antibodies as well as by cellular immunity, which is expected to be relatively better preserved. Hence, vaccines are expected to still offer protection against severe disease and, vaccination with the available vaccines is crucial. If eligible, but not vaccinated, one should get vaccinated," the ministry said in a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs). The Omicron has been declared a "variant of concern" based on the observed mutations, their predicted features of increased transmission and immune evasion, and preliminary evidence of detrimental change in Covid-19 epidemiology, such as increased reinfections. The definitive evidence for increased remission and immune evasion is awaited, according to the World Health Organization. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-advisory-group-to-consider-administering-additional-covid-19-vaccine-dose-1057925.html
05-12-2021||National||Junk second reservation chart: Parliamentary panel tells Railways||A parliamentary panel on railways has suggested to the national transporter to review its policy on issuing a second reservation chart prepared at least 30 minutes before the scheduled departure of a train. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Ministry of Railways in its report said, “There was no logic in booking of tickets between the time of 30-5 minutes before the departure of the train when there are thousands of Reservation Against Cancellation (RAC) or waitlisted tickets already booked and waiting for confirmation. In their opinion, there is no scope of getting these tickets confirmed.” In the report titled 'Passenger Reservation System of Indian Railways', the panel said, “Since Tatkal facilities are available for passengers wishing to travel at a short notice, all seats of the train found vacant after preparation of the first reservation chart which are prepared 4-5 hours before the departure time should automatically be allotted to RAC/waitlisted passengers to facilitate them to travel as per their plan." The panel headed by BJP MP Radha Mohan Singh said that “the need for preparation of second reservation charts should be reviewed with a view to facilitating needy passengers and also to refrain the touts from being involved in the probable malpractice during the last-minute rush.” The committee also recommended that the railways review the flexi/dynamic fare mechanism introduced to Rajdhani, Shatabdi and Duronto trains and suggested a prudent decision of pricing of fares that are balanced and based on equal footing. Since the fare of the premium trains is already high compared to mail and express trains, if further fares are increased in the name of flexi fare, passengers with modest income or the financially disadvantaged rail users may not opt for these trains, the panel said. The panel also suggested regularly strengthening and upgrading the capacity of the IRCTC website/servers so as to make it more robust to handle greater traffic with minimal turnaround time. The committee also suggested the railways put in place a mechanism in the coaches so that RAC passengers could know the current status of seat/berth confirmation without running behind Train Ticket Examinees. Passengers would also like to update information on a real-time basis for greater transparency in the allocation of vacant seats/berths onboard trains, the panel said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/junk-second-reservation-chart-parliamentary-panel-tells-railways-1057926.html
05-12-2021||National||Congress will sit in opposition for next 25 years, says BSY||Senior BJP leader B S Yediyurappa on Sunday said that there is a wave of public support in favour of his party in the country and the Congress will continue to sit in the opposition for the next 25 years. "There is a wave in favour of BJP across the country. The Congress is going to remain in opposition for the next 25 years in Lok Sabha," Yediyurappa told reporters in Chamarajanagar. The former chief minister was replying to a query on veteran Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge's alleged remarks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's failure on the development front. "Ghulam Nabi Azad has said the BJP and not the Congress will come to power next time. In this situation, if Mallikarjun Kharge makes such comments who will value his words. He should at least look at the ground realities," Yediyurappa said. On the MLC elections scheduled for December 10, Yediyurappa said he was confident of winning at least 16 out of 20 seats where the BJP is contesting. Yediyurappa further said he is seeing a wave in favour of the BJP and people have decided to vote for the saffron party candidates this time.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-will-sit-in-opposition-for-next-25-years-says-bsy-1057927.html
05-12-2021||National||Jacqueline Fernandez stopped from flying abroad over extortion case||The Enforcement Directorate on Sunday stopped actor Jacqueline Fernandez from flying abroad as she may be required to join an ongoing money-laundering investigation against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekar, officials said. The 36-year-old actor was stopped by the immigration authorities at the Mumbai airport on the basis of a Look Out Circular issued by the federal probe agency, they said. Agency sleuths later reached the Mumbai airport and disallowed her travel asking her to remain in the country as she may be required to join the probe. The actor of Sri Lankan origin had been questioned by the ED in multiple sessions in connection with the over Rs 200 crore money laundering case being probed against alleged Chandrashekar and his actor wife Leena Maria Paul. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jacqueline-fernandez-stopped-from-flying-abroad-over-extortion-case-1057948.html
05-12-2021||National||BJP was unaware about demolition of Babri Masjid: Former Union Minister Ram Naik||Former Union Minister and Uttar Pradesh Governor Ram Naik has claimed that the BJP was completely unaware about demolition of Babri Masjid and got information only after the disputed structure was razed. Naik was the one, who while sitting in BJP headquarters in New Delhi, informed veteran leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee about the developments in Ayodhya. In an interview with IANS, Naik spoke about what was going on in BJP's Delhi office on December 6, 1992 and shared vital information. Here are a few excerpts. What was happening in BJP headquarters on December 6, 1992? I was the party's chief whip at that time... On that day, I, along with senior party leader Sundar Singh Bhandari, was keeping a tab on every development in Ayodhya. But at that time, modes of communication were less, mobiles were not there. We did not have so many television channels. We were gathering information through landline phones (telephones). What was your and Sundar Singh Bhandari's source of information and you were passing it on to whom? See, that time, of the two veteran leaders, Lal Krishna Advani was in Ayodhya while Atal Bihari Vajpayee was in Delhi. The BJP was our source of information and inputs were being passed on to Vajpayee ji. On the basis of all the information, Vajpayee ji held a live press confrence the next day. On December 6, 1992, what sort of information you were getting and what was the situation in Delhi? We were getting information that party workers and kar sevaks are reaching Ayodhya... How many of them were stopped and where they were stopped, what Advaniji and other senior party leaders said in their address to public. We were completely cluless that anything of that sort was about to happen. We got the information, only after Babri Masjid was demolished. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-was-unaware-about-demolition-of-babri-masjid-former-union-minister-ram-naik-1057950.html
05-12-2021||National||Karnataka ahead of other southern states in Covid vaccination, more than 66% of adults fully jabbed||Karnataka is well ahead of its neighbouring states in fully vaccinating its adult population against Covid-19 with the IT state administering two doses of Covid-19 vaccine to more than 66% of its 4.72 crore adults. In comparison, Kerala jabbed 63% of its adults and Telangana 60%. But in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, less than 50% is fully vaccinated eleven months after the Covid-19 vaccination campaign. Goa on the west coast, however, gave two shots to 66% of its adult population. Amidst the Omicron scare, 25 states and Union Territories have managed to vaccinate more than 50% of their adult population, whereas 11 states and UTs have covered 75% of their adults with two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. "We have to be mindful that currently available vaccines are disease-modifying and not preventive. What this means is that everyone irrespective of vaccination status needs to follow proven public health interventions such as the use of face masks and avoiding mass gatherings (that can turn into super spreader events)," Oommen John, a senior public health researcher at the George Institute for Global Health, Delhi told DH. India on Sunday reached the milestone of fully vaccinating half of its adult population, whereas 85% of the population is covered with a single dose. “It is a moment of great pride as over 50% of the eligible population are now fully vaccinated. We will win the battle against Covid-19 together,” tweeted Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. “Public health messaging is very critical. If there is an over-emphasis on the extent of vaccination coverage, there is a risk of communicating a false sense of security and could lead to citizens not exercising caution,” John cautioned. Considering that the year-end is just about three weeks away, it seems almost impossible for India to vaccinate its 94.47 crore, adults, by 2021 even though it is possible to cover the entire adult population with a single dose as nearly 85% has already received one. But to achieve a cent per cent coverage with a single dose, the government has to step up the pace of vaccination, which was not the case in the last two months. According to the Union Health Ministry data, India’s daily vaccination rate reached a peak of 78.69 lakhs per day in September, but fell to 55.77 lakhs in October and 59.32 lakhs in November. After a long gap of more than a month, India administered more than one crore vaccination on Saturday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-ahead-of-other-southern-states-in-covid-vaccination-more-than-66-of-adults-fully-jabbed-1057953.html
05-12-2021||National||Netaji built toilets for women but didn't click pics, unlike BJP govt leaders: Aparna Yadav||Taking a dig at the BJP, Aparna Yadav on Sunday claimed her father-in-law, Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, built toilets for women but never got his photos clicked, unlike leaders of the current government. She was addressing a meeting here. "Netaji got toilets built for women and he was also the first to give gas cylinders to them, but never got his photographs clicked. However, the current government gets its pictures clicked. The SP has worked (for the people), hence, you should help in the formation of an SP government," said Aparna Yadav, who is the wife of Mulayam Singh's younger son Prateek Yadav. She said the prices of petrol and diesel are rising, and "if they are not brought down, the public will undertake a cycle yatra. I will also take out a cycle yatra". Hitting out at Amethi MP and Union minister Smriti Irani, without taking her name, she said, "Big things are being spoken about when it comes to Amethi but development is not visible here. The road, which I took, was full of potholes. Once the SP government is formed, the roads of Amethi will shine." Aparna Yadav said that Samajwad was synonymous with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and added that he was also the reason for the withdrawal of farm laws. She said that during the Covid-19 pandemic, the party reached out to the people and provided them ration, cylinders and other items of need. In the 2017 UP Assembly elections, she lost to BJP's Rita Bahuguna Joshi from Lucknow Cantonment.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/netaji-built-toilets-for-women-but-didnt-click-pics-unlike-bjp-govt-leaders-aparna-yadav-1057963.html
05-12-2021||National||India to ink defence logistics sharing agreement with Russia||India is set to ink a defence logistics sharing agreement with Russia, almost five years after signing a similar pact with the United States. The bilateral Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement is one of nearly 10 pacts India and Russia will sign during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday. The agreement will create a framework for India and Russia to open up their military bases for each other’s army, navy and air force, sources in New Delhi said. It will allow India access to the military bases of Russia, including the naval port facilities in resource-rich Arctic Ocean, which is the new strategic frontier of China and its People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN). It will also give the Russian Navy access to the Indian Navy bases in the Indian Ocean region, where India’s growing strategic convergence with the United States and its other partners in the Quad (Japan and Australia) to contain China has caused wrinkles in Delhi's ties with Moscow. India signed a military logistics sharing agreement with the United States in 2016, followed by similar pacts with Australia and Japan as well as with France, Singapore and South Korea. It is also negotiating similar agreements with Vietnam and the United Kingdom. The Modi-Putin summit will be preceded by a “2+2 dialogue” that Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will hold with their counterparts in the Russian government, Sergey Shoygu and Sergey Lavrov, in New Delhi. The two sides are likely to formally give their nod to manufacturing over 500,000 AK-203 riles at Amethi in Uttar Pradesh by the Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited (IRRPL), a special purpose joint venture by the erstwhile Ordnance Factory Board (now Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited) of India and Rosoboronexport (RoE) and JSC Kalashnikov Concern of Russia. The 7.62 X 39 mm calibre AK-203 rifles will replace the Indian Army’s standard-issue INSAS rifles. Uncertainty, however, looms large over the project to manufacture the KA-226T helicopters by the Indo-Russian Helicopters Limited (IRGL), a joint venture among the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited of India and the JSC Russian Helicopters and the JSC Rosoboronexport of Russia. The 2015 intergovernmental deal had provisions of India importing 60 helicopters from Russia and manufacturing 200 more at the HAL’s plant at Tumkur in Karnataka. The two sides, however, could not yet narrow differences on cost and extent of indigenous content. Sources said that the 2+2 dialogue and the summit between Modi and Putin on Monday might result in progress in India buying some KA-226T choppers from Russia off-the-shelf to meet the immediate requirement of the light utility helicopters for its armed forces. The summit between Modi and Putin is likely to result in agreements for giving a fillip to bilateral trade and expanding cooperation in science and technology-related fields, particularly in the space sector. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-ink-defence-logistics-sharing-agreement-with-russia-1057964.html
05-12-2021||National||Rajya Sabha lost 52.30% of scheduled sitting time during first week of Winter Session: Secretariat||The Rajya Sabha lost 52.30 per cent of the scheduled sitting time during the first week of the ongoing Winter Session on account of disruptions and forced adjournments, the RS secretariat said. The productivity of the House during the last week has been 47.70 per cent of the scheduled time, officials said, adding that with the House sitting for 33 minutes beyond the scheduled time last Thursday, the overall productivity for the first week against the scheduled time improved to 49.70 per cent. The best productivity of 100 per cent was reported on Friday and 95 per cent on the previous day last week, showing signs of return of the House to normal functioning, the secretariat said in a statement. Rajya Sabha had taken up the Private Members' Business for the full scheduled time of two-and-a-half hours Friday last, doing so after one year, nine months and 24 days, and after 66 sittings. The last time it happened was on February 7, 2020 during the budget session, the 251st session of the House, the officials said. The Private Members' Business was not scheduled during the 252nd session, the first full session held under Covid protocol. It was dispensed with during the 252nd session to take up other business. No business could be transacted during the 254th session on Fridays, meant for Private Members' Business due to disruptions, they added. On Friday last week, 22 Private Members' Bills were introduced in Rajya Sabha and one was discussed. Introduction of one such Bill seeking to amend the Preamble of the Constitution was put on hold. During the first week of the current Winter Session, two bills -- the Farm Laws Repeal Bill and the Dam Safety Bills -- were passed by the House. A total of 27 Zero Hour and 15 Special Mentions were made in the House, the data compiled by the secretariat said. Twenty-three of the listed 67 starred questions were orally answered and eight listed questions had to be deleted further to suspension members who raised those questions. On Friday last week, Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu discussed with some opposition leaders and ministers their views on suspension of 12 members of the House in the wake of the demand of the opposition for the revocation of the decision. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-lost-5230-of-scheduled-sitting-time-during-first-week-of-winter-session-secretariat-1057965.html
05-12-2021||National||India reports 17 Omicron variant cases in a day as Delhi, Rajasthan report first cases||Most of those who tested positive either recently arrived from African countries or were in contact with such people. With this, four states and the national capital have now reported cases of the potentially more contagious variant which has sparked a fresh alert across the world. The nine people who tested positive in Jaipur include four members of a family who returned from South Africa recently. "Genome sequencing has confirmed that nine persons are infected with the omicron variant," Rajasthan health secretary Vaibhav Galriya said. The new cases in Maharashtra include a woman who along with her two daughters came from Nigeria, her brother and a man who returned from Finland in the last week of November, officials said. The total number of confirmed Omicron cases in Maharashtra has gone up to eight now. In a statement, the state health department said, "The 44-year-old, woman, who is a Nigerian citizen of Indian origin, her daughters aged 18 and 12, arrived on November 24 from Lagos in Nigeria to meet her brother in Pimpri Chinchwad area. "The woman, her two daughters, her 45-year-old brother and his two daughters aged 7 and one-and-a-half years, have tested positive for the Omicron variant as per the report given by the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV)." Their thirteen contacts had been traced and tested, it said. The country reported the first two cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 on Thursday in Karnataka -- a 66-year-old South African flyer and a 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor with no travel history. Both men are fully vaccinated.                    On Saturday, a 72-year-old NRI from Gujarat and a 33-year-old man from Maharashtra's Thane tested positive for the new strain. The marine engineer, who had arrived in Delhi from South Africa on November 23 and had then taken a flight to Mumbai, is currently undergoing treatment at a Covid-19 care centre in Kalyan town, located about 50 km from Maharashtra capital. "He is stable and responding well to treatment," deputy director of health services, Mumbai circle, Dr Gauri Rathod told PTI. The first patient to test positive for Omicron in Delhi is a resident of Ranchi and had travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2. He stayed in Johannesburg, South Africa, for a week, officials told PTI. The person is “fully vaccinated” and is currently admitted to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital with “mild symptoms”, an official said. “He had to take a connecting flight to Ranchi, where he lives with his family. Since he gave his sample at the IGI Airport which came out positive, we admitted him to LNJP hospital,” the official said. Authorities are trying to locate and isolate 10 people who occupied the seats close to this passenger on the flight. Delhi's Health Minister Satyendar Jain said 17 Covid-19 patients and six of their contacts have been admitted to the Lok Nayak Hospital so far. “The Omicron variant has been found in one of the 12 samples sent for genome sequencing so far, according to a preliminary report," he said "The patient complained of sore throat, fever and body ache. He is stable now," Medical Director Suresh Kumar said. The Delhi health minister said banning international flights is the most effective way to contain the spread of the Omicron variant even as he appealed to people to wear masks and take Covid-19 vaccine. He said there is a 99 per cent chance that the mask can save people from all Covid-19 variants, be it Alpha, Beta, Delta or Omicron. Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come. According to the Centre, the countries designated as "at-risk" are European countries, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. Also, two per cent of the passengers arriving on flights from other countries will be subjected to the test randomly. India saw a single-day rise of 2,796 fatalities with Bihar and Kerala carrying out a reconciliation exercise of Covid-19 data, pushing the country's death toll to 4,73,326, while 8,895 new infections were reported, according to Union health ministry data updated on Sunday. As many 2,426 deaths in Bihar and 263 deaths in Kerala were added. India's total tally of Covid-19 cases has increased to 3,46,33,255, the data updated at 8 AM showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has remained below 50,000 for 161 consecutive days now. The active cases stand at 99,155, comprising 0.29 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. The national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.35 per cent, the health ministry said. Even amid the emergence of new variants like Omircron, vaccination remains one of the strongest pillars of protection against disease and infection, according to experts. The issue of administering an 'additional' dose of Covid-19 vaccine to immunocompromised individuals will be deliberated upon in the meeting of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation scheduled to be held on December 6, official sources said. According to officials, an additional dose of vaccine is different from a booster dose. A booster dose is given to an individual after a predefined period when the immune response due to primary vaccination is presumed to have declined, while an additional dose is given to immunocompromised and immunosuppressed individuals when a primary schedule of vaccination does not provide adequate protection from the infection and disease, they explained. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-17-omicron-variant-cases-in-a-day-as-delhi-rajasthan-report-first-cases-1057966.html
05-12-2021||National||Not 1962 anymore, can give befitting reply to all enemies, says MoS (Defence) Ajay Bhatt||Union Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt on Sunday said India has moved much ahead of 1962 when the country fought a war with China, and is capable of giving a befitting reply to its enemies in every field in the present day. All corners of the country are safeguarded effectively in land, sea and air, he said. "We are capable of giving a befitting reply to our enemies in every field. There was once '62 and now we are in the present day," he said, without naming any country. The Indian Army, which suffered setbacks in the 1962 Sino-India war, has engaged in face-offs with the People's Liberation Army (PLA) of China on several occasions in recent years. Bhatt was Speaking at the launch of an indigenously designed hydrographic survey vessel manufactured by Defence PSU Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers (GRSE) Ltd in Kolkata. These survey ships are capable of full-scale coastal and deep-water hydrographic survey of ports and harbour approaches, and determination of navigational channels and routes. In addition, these ships can undertake the survey of maritime limits and collection of oceanographic and geographical data for defence applications, GRSE sources said. Whether it is the Army, Air Force or the Navy, they are all alert round-the-clock and the country's borders are safe in their hands, Bhatt said, adding that the government and the people of the country are always with them. He said as part of achieving Prime Minister Narendra Modi's goal of self-reliance, the government has envisioned a dedicated defence production corridor for generating higher employment for the youth of the country and greater localisation of products. "In various shipyards across the country, 39 warships and submarines for the Indian Navy are in different stages of construction," the minister said at the programme. The hydrographic survey vessel is the first of four ships being built by GRSE under the survey vessel (large) project for the Indian Navy, the minister said. "Named 'Sandhayak' after the Navy's oldest hydrographic survey vessel, which was decommissioned in June this year after serving the nation for 40 years, the new ship is much larger and equipped with modern gadgets," he said, following the launch by his wife Pushpa Bhatt as per maritime traditions. He said that the first Sandhayak was also built by GRSE. The state-of-the-art new ship will be 60 per cent larger than the earlier one, which had been commissioned in 1981. "In its secondary role, the ship can be converted into a hospital ship for requirements during wars or other emergency situations, and can also provide limited defence," Bhatt said. Rear Admiral (retd) VK Saxena, chairman and managing director of GRSE, said the new Sandhayak is a 3,400-tonne ship, compared to the 1,900-tonne previous version, and was launched with 40 per cent outfitting. This will ensure that delivery of the ship can be done much faster, as normally, 20 to 25 per cent outfitting of a ship is done before it touches the water for the first time. "The present survey ships are equipped with new generation hydrographic equipment and are testimony to the maturity of our indigenous construction capability towards the realisation of Atmanirbharta (self-reliance)," he said. For the first time, the launch of the ship was also witnessed by more than 100 students from various schools, NCC cadets and other citizens of Kolkata, including monks from Ramakrishna Mission Seva Pratishthan. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-1962-anymore-can-give-befitting-reply-to-all-enemies-says-mos-defence-ajay-bhatt-1057968.html
05-12-2021||National||NEET-PG counselling: Resident doctors of 3 Delhi hospitals to boycott emergency services||The resident doctors of the Centre-run RML, Safdarjung and Lady Hardinge hospitals will boycott all routine and emergency services from Monday in support of a nationwide protest called by the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) against the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling. In a letter to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, the FORDA has said healthcare institutions across the country are running short of an adequate workforce of resident doctors, with no admission in the current academic year yet. "With the possibility of future COVID-19 pandemic wave looming large, the situation will be disastrous for the healthcare sector with its bearing on the country's population," it has said. "There seems to be no initiative or measure taken yet for expediting the (NEET-PG) counselling. Therefore, following discussions with various RDA representatives of Delhi, we have decided to escalate our agitation further and withdraw all services (routine and emergency) in healthcare institutions from Monday," the letter read. In an intimation to the hospital administration, the RDA of the Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital said resident doctors across the country are on a peaceful protest for almost a week now in view of the delay in the NEET-PG counselling and the admission of first-year junior residents to various hospitals. The RDA had suspended the OPD services from November 27 and the routine services from December 3. "However, we are pained to bring to your notice that we have not received any positive response or concrete action from the Union Ministry of Health and the authorities concerned," it said. Similar letters have also been written by the RDAs of the Safdarjung and Lady Hardinge hospitals. In its letter to the medical superintendent, the Safdarjung hospital RDA said it continued a symbolic protest in a silent manner after a meeting with the Union health minister on November 27, "respecting the verbal assurance given by him". "However, as per the notification released on November 30, the Ministry of Social Justice has asked for a period of three weeks to submit its report in the Supreme Court, which is not consistent with the verbal assurance given to us regarding expediting this process," it said. "Due to non-responsiveness and indifference of the government and the authorities concerned, unfortunately, we are left with no other option than boycotting the emergency services from Monday. The onus of any unfortunate incident arising due to the circumstances affecting the healthcare will be on the authorities concerned," the RDA said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-pg-counselling-resident-doctors-of-3-delhi-hospitals-to-boycott-emergency-services-1057996.html
05-12-2021||National||India ranked fourth most powerful country in Asia||India is the fourth most powerful country in Asia, as per the Lowy Institute Asia Power Index 2021. The annual Asia Power Index -- launched by the Lowy Institute in 2018 -- measures resources and influence to rank the relative power of states in Asia. The project maps out the existing distribution of power as it stands today, and tracks shifts in the balance of power over time. India is ranked as a middle power in Asia. As the fourth most powerful country in Asia, India again falls short of the major power threshold in 2021. Its overall score declined by two points compared to 2020. India is one of eighteen countries in the region to trend downward in its overall score is 2021, the report said. The country performs best in the future resources measure, where it finishes behind only the US and China. However, the lost growth potential for Asia's third-largest economy due largely to the impact of the coronavirus pandemic has led to a diminished economic forecast for 2030, Lowy Institute said. India finishes in 4th place in four other measures: economic capability, military capability, resilience and cultural influence. India is trending in opposite directions for its two weakest measures of power. On the one hand, it remains in 7th place in its defence networks, reflecting progress in its regional defence diplomacy -- notably with the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, which includes Australia, Japan and the US. On the other hand, India has slipped into 8th position for economic relationships, as it falls further behind in regional trade integration efforts, Lowy Institute said. India exerts less influence in the region than expected given its available resources, as indicated by the country's negative power gap score. Its negative power gap score has deteriorated further in 2021 relative to previous years. As per the report, many developing economies, including India, have been hardest hit in comparison to their pre-Covid growth paths. This has the potential to reinforce bipolarity in the Indo-Pacific, driven by the growing power differential of the two superpowers, the US and China, in relation to nearly every other emerging power in the region. The top 10 countries for overall power in the Asia-Pacific region are the US, China, Japan, India, Russia, Australia, South Korea, Singapore, Indonesia and Thailand, Lowy Institute said. The US beat the downward trend in 2021 and has overtaken China in two critical rankings. But its gains are dogged by a rapid loss of economic influence. China's comprehensive power has fallen for the first time, with no clear path to undisputed primacy in the Indo-Pacific. Uneven economic impacts and recoveries from the pandemic will likely continue to alter the regional balance of power well into the decade. Only Taiwan, the United States and Singapore are now predicted to have larger economies in 2030 than originally forecast prior to the pandemic. Yet richer countries, such as Japan, have seen their economic prospects improve not just relative to 2020, but also to economies with lower vaccination rates. China, which avoided a recession last year, is not far behind. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ranked-fourth-most-powerful-country-in-asia-1058005.html
05-12-2021||National||India could see mild Covid-19 third wave by early next year: Experts||India could see a mild third wave which will peak in the early part of next year, according to experts who have been modelling the pandemic. The determination was made by the government-backed model, SUTRA model (short for Susceptible, Undetected, Tested (positive), and Removed Approach). Helmed by Professor Manindra Agrawal of IIT Kanpur, the model shows that the outbreak may peak around the first week of February before case numbers start to decline. Professor Agrawal stated that the peak of the mild third wave could see between one to one lakh to 1.5 lakh infections per day in India. In contrast, the country was registering about four lakh cases per day at the peak of the second wave. “There are two reasons why the third wave could be mild - notably natural immunity brought about by the fact that nearly 80 per cent of the Indian population was infected in the second wave, plus rising vaccination coverage,” said Professor Agrawal, speaking to DH. Although a recent study in South Africa indicates that the Omicron is capable of bypassing natural immunity at three times the rate of the Delta variant, Professor Agrawal said that even this increased rate of the bypass is too limited to play a role in driving up infections. “If one in 100 cases infected with Delta were reinfections, the South African study shows that three in 100 cases could be reinfections prompted by Omicron. This is still a small rate,” he said. “The South African study also shows that about 11 per cent of the population was reinfected over a period of 14 months. This shows that the rate of loss of immunity is miniscule, and even an increase by a factor of 1.5 would hardly move the needle and we conclude that Omicron is not bypassing natural immunity in any significant way,” he clarified. Mild lockdown He added that the potential new wave could also be cut down to size by a mild lockdown, comprising night curfew and restrictions on crowding. “These measures will reduce the peak value of the wave,” he said. Meanwhile, eminent epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil, who is the Chairman of the Scientific Advisory Committee of the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology (ICMR-NIE), also concurred independently that he has seen no information that suggests that the Omicron variant was a virus of consequence.  “At the moment, there is no spurt of cases and it has been quiet even though it appears that this variant seems to have been around for a while,” Dr Muliyil told DH.  Dr Agrawal, however, pointed out that SUTRA simulation also suggests the presence of a new mutant that was active by August in South Africa. “However, even in the case of Delta, it took some time to blow up as it did and trigger the second wave. Delta was first found in October (2020) but only became a threat in March (this year). This is why we are seeing only a slow increase to Omicron at present,” he said. Meanwhile, clinical experts noted that, so far, the variant has only produced mild symptoms in affected individuals, despite concerns about a “Frankenstein” mix of new mutations. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-could-see-mild-covid-19-third-wave-by-early-next-year-experts-1058027.html
05-12-2021||National Politics||Tharoor wants erring policemen, DMs in jail for turning eyes away from lynching incidents||It is not just the mob but the police officer who turns his eyes away from tense situations without "reasonable causes" and district magistrates acting in "mala fide manner" leading to incidents of lynching should face a jail term, senior Congress MP Shashi Tharoor believes. One who lynches people should be jailed for life while a police officer who fails to prevent an incident of lynching and act in a dubious way during the investigation should end up in prison for a year. A district magistrate who fails to take proper action should face jail for six months, he said. Those creating hostile environment through intimidation and coercive actions like boycott of trade, making it difficult to earn a living, externing a person or his family, public humiliation through exclusion from public services and forcing one to leave his house should be jailed for six months. All these should also include fines ranging between Rs 25,000 and Rs five lakh. For this, the Thiruvananthapuram MP has tabled The Protection from Lynching Bill, 2019 in Lok Sabha last Friday to provide for "effective protection" of the Constitutional rights of vulnerable persons, "punish" acts of lynching, set up designated courts and rehabilitation of victims and their families.  To be sure, this is a private members bill, which an MP is entitled to table and discuss in due course, and not a government bill. Tharoor's initiative attracts attention to a series of incidents (the lynching of Mohd Aklaque in Uttar Pradesh's Dadri on suspicion of storing beef in his house that invited national interest) that the country witnessed in the recent past after Narendra Modi assumed power in 2014. "The rising spate of vigilantism and mob lynching on the basis of one's individual identity and choices threatens the notion of an all-embracing India and is a direct threat to the Constitutional ethos of our country. This, therefore, necessitates the need for a special law to aid vulnerable individuals and communities," the Bill says. "The act of willful omissions and commissions by the custodians of the State, which facilitates mob lynching, must be recognized as a criminal act under the eyes of the law," Tharoor further argues in the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Bill. State must act as the "bulwark of the freedoms" enshrined in the Constitution and special procedures are required to ensure an effective and independent prosecution of crimes and to deter the growing number of vigilante groups which act with "impunity, in contempt of the secular fabric" of India. The Bill envisages the Director General of Police appointing a State Coordinator in the rank of an Inspector General while every district will have a district coordinator, who is in the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police to prevent incidents of mob violence and lynching. While the State Coordinator monitors at the state level, the district coordinators are tasked to identify the existence of the tendencies of vigilantism, mob violence or lynching in the district and take steps to prohibit instances of dissemination of offensive material for inciting such tendencies. The district coordinators will also have to monitor investigations into lynching cases. Tharoor's Bill wants every police officer to take "all reasonable steps" to prevent any lynching, including its incitement, commission and possible spread, identify patterns of violence and obtaining intelligence. It also wants a designated judge to look after lynching cases and wants the trial to be held on a day-to-day basis and recording of statements of victim and witnesses within 180 days from the date of the incident. The courts should also ensure that no witness is required to attend court on more than two dates of hearing. A victim will be heard at any proceeding on bail, discharge, release, parole, conviction or sentence of an accused or any connected proceedings or arguments and file written submissions on conviction, acquittal or sentencing, the Bill says. Tharoor's Bill also talks about compensation and medical aid while dealing with the incidents of lynching.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tharoor-wants-erring-policemen-dms-in-jail-for-turning-eyes-away-from-lynching-incidents-1057791.html
05-12-2021||National Politics||Mamata should clarify if she wants to fight BJP or fellow Oppn: Chhattisgarh CM Baghel||Days after Mamata Banerjee's "no UPA" jibe, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday attacked the TMC chief, saying she must clarify whether she wants to make TMC the main Opposition party by fighting those in power or by taking on fellow Opposition parties. He also said no Opposition alliance is possible at the national level without the Congress which has to be the main pillar of the bloc taking on the BJP. In an interview with PTI, Baghel said a decision on who would be the face of the Opposition that would take on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the 2024 general election would be taken collectively by the constituents of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) that is headed by Sonia Gandhi. His remarks come days after West Bengal Chief Minister Banerjee took swipes at the Congress leadership and said there is "no UPA", after meeting NCP supremo Sharad Pawar in Mumbai. On Banerjee's remarks, Baghel said, "I would like to say to Mamata Banerjee that you want to become the main opposition party, it is a very good thing. If you want to move forward with a plan, harbouring a dream, it will be welcomed, but the question is whether you want to become the main Opposition party by fighting those in power or by taking on fellow Opposition parties." Asked if he believes that there is collusion between the Trinamool Congress and the BJP, Baghel said Banerjee should clarify as after meeting Pawar, she said "there is no UPA" but following her meeting with Prime Minister Modi, nothing came out as to what transpired and she later attacked the Congress. "Why has it not come out in the open as to what she discussed with the PM," he asked. On the TMC entering the poll fray suddenly in some poll-bound states such as Goa, Baghel said it seems that they want to help the BJP in those states. "They don't have anything in Goa but want to fight. So they want to divide the opposition vote," he alleged. Baghel also hit out at poll strategist Prashant Kishor for his remarks that the space represented by the Congress was vital but its leadership is not the "divine right of an individual", an apparent swipe at Rahul Gandhi. "Prashant Kishor works for money, be it for the BJP, Congress, TMC or JD(U), for poll campaigns. He is a professional person, so he should say who he is working for now," Baghel said. The Chhattisgarh CM said Kishor is not associated with any political party that he will make comments like the ones he did, so he should clarify whether he is working for the BJP or for Mamata Banerjee. "(Narendra) Modi ji, (Amit) Shah ji, talked about Congress-mukt Bharat, they could not do it. Now, has that job been taken over by Prashant Kishor," he asked. On whether any alliance sans Congress is possible at the national level to take on the BJP, Baghel said as of today it does not seem possible. On whether the Congress would be the main pillar of the Opposition alliance at the national level, the Chhattisgarh CM said, "Congress will be (the main pillar), it is a straightforward thing." "It is the Congress that has a presence from Kashmir to Kerala. Other Opposition parties don't have that kind of presence," he said. Asked if Rahul Gandhi should be the face of the Opposition bloc to take on PM Modi in 2024, Baghel said he is "too small a person" to decide on such matters and is not authorised by the party to comment on all such issues.  However, he said, "Several parties comprise the UPA whose chairperson is Sonia Gandhi, and all parties will decide on the issue together." Baghel added that in the whole country, there is only one leader that is taking on the central government and BJP, and that is Rahul Gandhi. He said the BJP is "rattled'' by Rahul Gandhi so it is possible that they "may be targeting him through these people (TMC, Kishor and other critics)". The TMC and the Congress have been growing distant of late, with the Mamata Banerjee-led party poaching the latter's leaders in several states in the recent past. The two parties have further distanced themselves with the TMC not attending the opposition meetings convened by the Congress over opposition unity in Parliament. Baghel, who is the Congress' senior observer for Uttar Pradesh polls, also said UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is on his way out as "everyone is angry with him and he has no achievements". On whether the Congress will be the main challenger to the BSP in Uttar Pradesh, Baghel slammed both the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party to claim that the Congress would do well. "BSP is nowhere. Mayawati ji has not come out. Akhilesh ji has come out now near the polls and was nowhere to be seen in the last four-and-a-half years. Congress is gaining. We are aiming to perform well and get a good result," he asserted. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-should-clarify-if-she-wants-to-fight-bjp-or-fellow-oppn-chhattisgarh-cm-baghel-1057829.html
05-12-2021||National Politics||From 'lungi' to 'Ghazni', 'Muslim' terms make entry in BJP's UP election campaign||As the campaign builds up for the forthcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, new terms, mainly concerning the Muslims, have been making entry into the speeches of BJP leaders in what the political analysts say is an attempt to 'polarise' the elections along religious lines and project itself as the messiah of the Hindus. BJP leaders have also been raking up the issues of conversion, cow slaughter, and migration of Hindu families in their rallies and seeking to remind the Hindus about their alleged 'humiliation' and attack on their culture during the regimes of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and others. Senior BJP leader and UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who stoked a huge controversy by appearing to give a call to the party supporters to prepare for the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura, said that 'lungichap' goondas carrying arms used to terrorise the people and traders and grab their lands during the previous SP regime. "People wearing lungis and skull caps grabbed your (people) land and threatened you during the previous regime...you should remember all these things," Maurya said while addressing a public meeting in Prayagraj on Saturday. Maurya also said that he would henceforth address the SP president as 'Akhilesh Ali Jinnah'. Going a step further, UP BJP president Swatantra Deo Singh on Sunday likened the SP president Akhilesh Yadav's regime to the rules of Mahmud of Ghazni, who had plundered India in 10th century, and Muhammad Ghori, who laid the foundation of the Muslim rule in India in the 12th century. "Like Ghazni and Ghori, these people (Akhilesh) have also looted the state and attacked our religious identity....the Hindus had to plead with the officials to allow them to make a pandal for Durga Puja," Singh said. The BJP leader called Akhilesh a "seasonal Hindu". "The situation has changed since 2017. Today flowers are showered on the kanwad yatras, Ram Temple is under construction in Ayodhya and Kashi Vishwanath Corridor is ready," he remarked. Singh asked the SP president to seek forgiveness from Lord Rama and Shiva for 'atrocities' on the karsevaks in Ayodhya and 'attacking' the cultural symbols of Hinduism. Senior SP leader Anurag Bhadauria said that Singh's remarks proved that the BJP had 'conceded' defeat in the forthcoming polls. "It seems the BJP has already conceded defeat in the next polls....they have perhaps realised that the people of the state are going to oust them from power and therefore they are trying to polarise the elections," he added. Political analysts say that the campaigning in UP may witness more references to Muslim invaders by the BJP leaders as the elections draw closer as the saffron party will try to project itself as the only party which can protect the interests of the Hindus. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/from-lungi-to-ghazni-muslim-terms-make-entry-in-bjps-up-election-campaign-1057850.html
05-12-2021||National Politics||Vaccines, economy: Modi’s top priorities with two years to go until election day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s repeal of controversial farm laws this week shows that hard-to-sell economic reforms will likely take a back seat as he enters the second half of his five-year term and prepares for the next election in 2024.  With a string of state polls next year, the government appears set to implement populist policies as Modi looks to secure a third term, which would make him India’s’s longest-serving head of government after Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi.  “The rollback of the farm reform shows that there are limits as to how far the Modi government can push ahead with reforms despite its strong majority in parliament,” said Shumita Deveshwar, senior director of India research at TS Lombard. “It clearly wants to preserve its political capital.” Here’s what the Modi government will contend with before 2024: Ease of Doing Business While corporate taxes in India are among the lowest in Asia thanks to Modi, he still needs to contend with investors staying away due to creaky infrastructure and red tape. Of the 1,680 major infrastructure projects that range from highways and railroads and power plants, about a third are delayed with cost overruns of about 20 per cent, according to government data up to October this year. About 75 per cent of companies operating in the country said they lost business opportunities because they missed out on at least one element of India’s complex compliance regulations, according to a survey published in March this year. Giants like General Motors Co. have taken a $1.1 billion hit in losses and are struggling to fully exit due to political and legal woes.  Economic Targets  Modi will need to focus on narrowing the budget gap at 6.8 per cent of gross domestic product after an expansionary fiscal policy to boost growth in the pandemic-battered economy. Inflation is also a concern as higher costs eat into company margins and pinch consumers.  While India is rebounding at the quickest pace among major economies this year, Modi will need to focus on improving the tax-to-GDP ratio and job creation to keep growth sustainable. This means expanding manufacturing bases in India where 10 million people enter the market each year. Geopolitics  With Pakistan relations in a deep freeze and Afghanistan in the hands of the Taliban, India’s ability to influence the region appears to be limited. China has emerged as India’s biggest threat, putting pressure on Modi to ensure the long-simmering border dispute is resolved in a manner that doesn’t hurt his or India’s image. It might help ease some tensions if Modi met with China’s President Xi Jinping, given the two leaders last had a face-to-face meeting in 2019. Since then, India has drawn closer to the Quad grouping that also includes the US. Japan and Australia, with New Delhi emerging as a major counterpoint to Beijing’s ambitions in the Indo-Pacific. Vaccines, Climate Change Modi’s administration has restarted vaccine exports in the last two months and will continue to use this as a key plank of foreign policy during the spread of omicron. India wants to burnish its credentials as a pharmacy to the world after a second wave of infections overwhelmed hospitals and forced the country to halt vaccine shipments. Covid Vaccine Production and Logistical Facilities at Serum Institute, the World's Largest Vaccine Maker The prime minister, who has embraced a 2070 net zero target, will also need to push India’s coal-dependent economy to make the switch to eco-friendly power sources via legislation and budget allocations. To do that, he’ll need to convince India’s allies in the West to share technologies for this transition.  Trade Ties After years of criticizing free trade agreements to keep its vote bank of small traders and farmers happy, Modi’s government is going out all out for quick-hit bilateral pacts with countries including the US and Australia rather than wide-ranging trade pacts with several countries. Aside from shoring up a pandemic-battered economy, these pacts could help build its influence and help lure investors to shift supply chains away from China. At the same time, Modi has called for self-reliance after the pandemic wreaked havoc on India’s limited manufacturing. Protectionist tendencies may emerge in the e-commerce sector, where Amazon Inc. and Walmart-owned Flipkart contend with hurdles such a proposed ban on flash sales or ensuring that user data emanating from India is for local entities first. Domestic Agenda Modi is still keen to win over farmers, even though he’ll be hard-pressed to meet demands to guarantee crop prices due to inflation risks and a ballooning budget deficit. Their support is crucial given the agricultural heartlands of Uttar Pradesh and Punjab are due for elections next year. Investor-friendly labor reforms such as imposing restrictions on trade unions and making it easier to hire and fire workers may take a backseat. Those reforms have already been delayed and Modi’s government is likely to push initiatives that help meet goals to double farmers incomes while ensuring affordable housing and drinking water for all.  Hindu Nationalism and Minorities  The Hindu nationalist agenda of Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party is expected to feature strongly ahead of polls. Modi will focus on the ongoing construction of a grand Hindu temple in Ayodhaya.  Citizenship and population control laws that critics say will discriminate against Muslims could come into play in the remainder of Modi’s term, although there are still scant details on enforcement. He may also push for a uniform civil code for all religions, which some opponents say will erode the independence of religious minorities, particularly the Muslims, on matters pertaining to marriage, divorce and inheritance. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vaccines-economy-modi-s-top-priorities-with-two-years-to-go-until-election-day-1057881.html
05-12-2021||National Politics||Samajwadi Party to conduct caste census if voted to power in Uttar Pradesh polls: SBSP chief||SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar on Sunday said the Samajwadi Party will conduct a caste census and give representation to all sections of the society as per their numbers, if voted to power in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. Rajbhar, whose party entered into an alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) for the polls, told reporters in Rasra that Akhilesh Yadav will be the chief minister if the alliance comes to power. Asked to comment on his idea of five chief ministers and 20 deputy chief ministers on a rotational basis, he clarified that his statement was applicable in case the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha had formed the government. "Our aim is to remove the BJP, and make Akhilesh Yadav the chief minister," Rajbhar said. On Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's recent remarks regarding Lord Krishna temple in Mathura, the SBSP leader called Maurya “BJP ka tota” (parrot of BJP). Maurya had on Wednesday stirred a controversy by apparently supporting the construction of the Krishna temple in Mathura, where a temple and a mosque are located close to each other. "The construction of grand temples is on in Ayodhya and Kashi, and preparations are on for one in Mathura (Ayodhya Kashi bhavya mandir nirmaan jaari hai, Mathura ki tayaari hai),” he had tweeted. Mathura is considered to be the birthplace of Lord Krishna and some Hindu outfits have claimed that the "actual birthplace" is located inside an Aurangzeb-era mosque built next to a prominent temple in the holy city. Meanwhile, talking about an alliance with AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi for, the SBSP chief said Owaisi should first make up his mind for "an alliance with the SP”. “If Owaisi demands 100 seats, how can there be an alliance with him?" he asked. The AIMIM had announced that it would contest on 100 seats in the upcoming state polls by tying up with SBSP and its Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha. The morcha is a front of like-minded political parties led by Rajbhar, a former BJP ally. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/samajwadi-party-to-conduct-caste-census-if-voted-to-power-in-uttar-pradesh-polls-sbsp-chief-1057893.html
05-12-2021||National Politics||Uttar Pradesh polls: Mamata Banerjee likely to visit Varanasi, support Akhilesh Yadav||Trinamool Congress president Mamata Banerjee is expected to visit Varanasi next month amid indication that her party will support Akhilesh Yadav's Samajwadi Party in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. "Didi has already said in Delhi that if Akhilesh Yadav needs our help, we are ready to extend help. The gesture of senior SP leader Jaya Bachchan seeking votes for the TMC during the West Bengal Assembly elections will be reciprocated in Uttar Pradesh," said Laliteshpati Tripathi, who recently joined the TMC. "The target is the same and we have to leave no stone unturned to ensure that these forces (led by the BJP) are defeated. We are also with SP chief Akhilesh ji in his fight," Tripathi told PTI on Sunday. He said Banerjee would visit Varanasi probably around the second week of January. "The TMC is holding meetings and deliberating how to strengthen itself in Uttar Pradesh. As far as party chief Mamata Banerjee's visit to Varanasi is concerned, we have not finalised the dates. We were planning to organise her visit in December, but owing to her previous engagements, we could not get the dates," Tripathi said. Uttar Pradesh is not the immediate focus of the TMC, he said. For the TMC, Goa and Tripura are the states of immediate focus, Tripathi said, adding his party is not in the fray in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election due early next year. Asked whether Banerjee is visiting Varanasi since it is represented by PM Narendra Modi in the Lok Sabha, and possibly because she wants to send across a message, Tripathi said, "No. According to the initial roadmap of the TMC, the party's Purvanchal unit office was to be based in Varanasi, and Mamata ji wanted to have a darshan (of temples)." Tripathi also reasoned that she chose Varanasi as the first phase of the joining of new members in the TMC was to be held in the holy city. Laliteshpati Tripathi, ex-vice president of the state Congress and great-grandson of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kamlapati Tripathi, and his father Rajeshpathi joined the TMC in the presence of Banerjee in Siliguri on October 25. Asked what made him and his father join the TMC, the 43-year-old-leader said Banerjee has the capacity to fight Prime Minister Modi. Meanwhile, SP's national vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda told PTI Sunday, "We have supported her (Mamata Banerjee) in the West Bengal Assembly elections. I myself have campaigned for her in the elections. "We welcome the gesture (of offering support) by Didi. We want to defeat the BJP, and Didi also wants to defeat the BJP. If Didi supports us, we are happy, and we welcome it." When asked as to how he views Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is trying to mobilise the party cadre (ahead of the polls), Laliteshpati Tripathi said, "Politics is not a game, which is started two-three months before the elections. If I take the example of Mamata Banerjee, she fought the Communists in the state continuously for three-four years by being there. The Congress, too, needs the same thing". "The Congress seems to be fighting now, and for the candidates it is good that the star campaigners are active. Whosoever can take advantage of it, will do so. But, as far as the revival of the party is concerned, it should have been started in 2019," he said. Commenting on the announcement made by Priyanka Gandhi that the Congress will give 40 per cent of tickets in Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls to women, and whether it could be possibly a game changer, Tripathi said, "If this was to be made a game changer, this should have been introduced in states like Uttarakhand, Goa and Punjab, where they could have guaranteed the win of their candidates, and it could have been a strong initiative towards women empowerment. "This is a welcome move, but based on it alone, you cannot win the polls as there are a host of other factors," he said. "Didi has shown that she can take on Narendra Modi and defeat him as well," Tripathi said and added that the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election has become Akhilesh Yadav versus Yogi Adityanath. "If Akhilesh is seen on a strong footing, then the prime minister would have to come here and lead the (BJP's poll) campaign," Tripathi said. Tripathi claimed that BJP's tally of seats in the 2022 Assembly elections will decrease from its 2017 total of 312, as there is "anger in the society, farmers are worried in absence of proper purchase of paddy and due to non-availability of fertilisers". He also claimed that the BJP will lose seats in the rural areas of Varanasi in the Assembly polls. Tripathi said that he and his father have not taken any designation in the TMC and are working to strengthen it in the state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttar-pradesh-polls-mamata-banerjee-likely-to-visit-varanasi-support-akhilesh-yadav-1057906.html
05-12-2021||National Politics||Won't topple Rajasthan government, will win with two-third majority: Amit Shah||In his first visit to Rajasthan after BJP's 2018 election defeat in the state, Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday ruled out any intent from the BJP to topple the Congress government in the state and sought to put up a united face of the faction-ridden state unit of the party before 2023 Assembly polls. Addressing a state executive meeting of the Rajasthan BJP "Jan Pratinidhi Sankalp Mahasammelan" in Jaipur, Shah blew the poll bugle and sought to invigorate the party rank and file, launching a scathing attack on Ashok Gehlot government and Congress over its "Garibi Hatao" slogan and gave enough indications on how the party could bank on showcasing the achievements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government at Centre to appeal to voters in the desert state. Shah's remarks came as a semblance of order has come in the sharply divided Congress unit of the party between supporters of CM Gehlot and Sachin Pilot after the ruling party in the state carried out an elaborate cabinet reshuffle last month and accommodated Pilot's loyalists. Last year, there was a lot of speculation about the BJP trying to topple the Gehlot government after Pilot with his band of supporters had revolted against the Chief Minister. Even a couple of months ago, Gehlot had alleged that the BJP was trying to topple his government. With less than two years left for the Congress government in the state, any such attempt could create a sympathy wave for Congress in the state and Shah is mindful of this. His poll pitch in the state is being seen as an attempt to make the state unit fit despite the internal rumblings and to put the house in order in time. Showcasing Modi's face could be an option when the party unit is divided on the leadership issue despite former CM Vasundhara Raje being the strongest state face of the BJP. "It is BJP's responsibility to protect the respect and dignity of Rajasthan for which all of us have to together work hard with full devotion and dedication to bring a government of BJP with full majority in 2023," he said addressing the state executive meeting of the party. While the central leadership of the BJP had been trying for sometime to create a new leadership in the state, former CM Raje is asserting and there is a war of attrition between her and the state party chief Satish Poonia. "Indira ji haad given the slogan of Garibi Hatao in the seventies. When Modi ji came to power in 2014, even then the poor had no house, no electricity and crores of mothers and sisters had no gas connection. The poor did not have a toilet facility. Leaders of Congress should listen if you had carried out the job of 'Gareeb Hatao' instead of 'Garibi Hatao'. It is the Modi government which has done the job of Garibi Hatao since it came to power in 2014," Shah said while he attacked the Gehlot government in the state as "most corrupt" government. "The entire definition of law and order has changed in Rajasthan. The Law and Order in Gehlot government means Lo aur order karo (Take and order). Gehlot government of Rajasthan is entire corrupt government," he said claiming that the state has seen a rise of 40% in cases of loot, 25% in cases of abduction, 21% in cases of rape, 42% in case of child rape, besides the killing "a number of priests and thefts in temples". Attempting to paint the Congress government in the state as anti-people and take the sting out of Congress campaign around petroleum prices hike, Shah said, "Modi ji reduced VAT on diesel and petrol. All BJP governments have also reduced VAT but Rajasthan is the only government, which has not reduced VAT." Reeling out development works done by the Centre, he said in the seven years since Modi government came in power, he can say that the Modi government has been able to reach electricity in every house in every village. The Modi government gave gas connections in more than 13 crore households, carried out construction of toilets in more than 11 crore houses and got houses constructed for more than two crore people. In its economic resolution BJP working committee resolution says there is an economic Emergency like situation in Congress-ruled Rajasthan. "I have come here to make an appeal to the people of Rajasthan to root out the non-functioning and corrupt Ashok Gehlot government and bring a BJP government of BJP with lotus symbol. Seeing your enthusiasm and excitement, I am confident that it is the BJP which will form a government with two third majority in the state in 2023," he said. In his earlier speeches in the day, Shah showcased the national security pitch of the party saying Modi government ensured immediate response to incursions on the border and promised supply of anti drone technology to security forces. "The land of Rajasthan is such that whoever is born here knows how to live as well as die for the honour, strength and glory of the country," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/wont-topple-rajasthan-government-will-win-with-two-third-majority-amit-shah-1057924.html
05-12-2021||National Politics||JD(U) leader KC Tyagi's son joins BJP||Janata Dal (United) national general secretary KC Tyagi's son Amrish Tyagi joined the BJP here on Sunday in the presence of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma and other senior party leaders. Apart from Tyagi, several workers from different political parties, including the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), and other social outfits also became members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The new joinees expressed their faith in the nationalistic policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, and also in the BJP's mantra of "sabka sath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas". Asked what prompted him to join the saffron party, Tyagi, who is the president of the Delhi Powerlifting Association, told PTI, "I was in election management for a number of years and was planning to enter politics. My father's party is a part of the NDA (National Democratic Alliance). Had I joined the JD(U), people would have accused me of indulging in dynastic politics and said a father was promoting his son, so I decided to join the BJP. I feel that the BJP will perform very well in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls." He said that the decision to join the BJP was "absolutely" his own. "I asked my father and he told me that he is a very democratic person -- both inside the house and outside -- and that I am free to make my own decision," Tyagi said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jdu-leader-kc-tyagis-son-joins-bjp-1057928.html
05-12-2021||National Politics||'BSP not being visible on banners doesn't mean it won't be on ballots in UP'||There may not be much pomp and show surrounding the BSP's campaign for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls yet, but its leader Mayawati and cadre are working hard on the ground and will surprise everyone with the results as it did in 2007, party general secretary Satish Chandra Misra said on Sunday. "BSP not being visible on banners doesn't mean it will not be on ballot papers. The party is in the hearts of people," Misra said, scoffing at the charge by the party's rivals that it is not in action ahead of the polls early next year. "Those discounting BSP can do so at their own peril. The party is working hard and will repeat its feat of 2007 and surprise everyone again," he told PTI in an interview. In the 2007 assembly elections, the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) bagged majority on its own for the first time and formed the government in Uttar Pradesh, the country's most populous and politically crucial state. Misra said Mayawati is holding organisational meetings regularly and totally geared up for the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and other states. "She is very much active. She is regularly holding organisational meetings and guiding all of us," he said. There may not be much "pomp and show" surrounding the BSP's campaign in Uttar Pradesh and other states, but that doesn't mean the party is not on the ground, he said, adding that the party supremo and cadre are working hard at the grassroots. To a question on whether the election in Uttar Pradesh is becoming a bipolar contest between the ruling BJP and the Samajwadi Party (SP), Misra said such an assumption is "far from reality" and a "misreading" of the state's political atmosphere. "It will be totally wrong to assume that the UP election is going to be bipolar (contest) between BJP and SP. Just wait and watch. As soon Behenji starts electioneering, the election will revolve around her," he said. Mayawati is called Behenji by her party functionaries and followers. Misra reiterated that the BSP would not enter into an alliance with any party in the state and would fight the election on its own. He also emphasised that anyone from neither Mayawati's family nor his would contest the election.   "BSP originated from a movement.... We are working on the philosophy of 'Sarvjan Hitaye, Sarvjan Sukhaye' (For the welfare of everyone, for the happiness of everyone). Ours is not a family-based party," he said. The BSP's performance in the 2017 assembly elections was not up to the mark and it came a distant third by winning only 19 seats out of 403. While the BJP registered a landslide victory by winning more than 300 seats in 2017, the SP managed to get just 47. For the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, arch-rivals BSP and SP came together to take on the BJP, but they were unable to make any dent and could win only 10 and five seats respectively out of a total of 80. The SP and the BSP are contesting the coming assembly elections separately.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bsp-not-being-visible-on-banners-doesnt-mean-it-wont-be-on-ballots-in-up-1057943.html
05-12-2021||National Politics||We corrected a 500-year-old crime, says Bharti on Babri Masjid demolition||Former Union Minister Uma Bharti, once again raking up controversy with her comments on the demolition of the Babri Masjid, said that she "salutes those who brought down Babri Masjid." Bharti, who played a key role in the Ram Janmabhoomi Movement, during an interaction with IANS, said, "When I remember this day, I recall it as one of the proudest moments of my life." She said: "I don't know who are those people who demolished that structure but I salute those people. It was a wonderful and unique moment for me. Firstly, the structure collapsed. Secondly, due to its collapse, the road ahead of the Ram temple was prepared. It was only after the demolition of the structure, Prime Minister Narendra Modi could lay the foundation stone of Ram temple.... so those who demolished this structure deserve salute." Bharti said she had entered the "movement" with the thought that Ram temple should be constructed even if was at the cost of her life. "Had the karsevaks not demolished the structure, the archaeological department would not have been able to excavate, and even the court could have never gotten to learn about the evidence of the existence of the temple. I do not consider it (mosque razing) to be a criminal activity. No Prime Minister can lay the foundation stone upon criminal activity. The act of crime happened 500 years ago... we corrected that," she said. Referring to the trial that went on against her for many years, the former Union Minister said: "We have lived that moment in joy and pride... and I will enjoy it for the rest of my life, so I never felt like facing the trial but took as pride." "Ram is an ideal for the new generation and Ram temple is a symbol of Hindu identity and national identity. Ram is the divine man of the nation... the life force of our country is Hindutva, and the life force of Hindutva is Ram, Ganga and cow. That is why India is secular. Because India is 'Hindu', and Hindus believe in Ram. Hence, Muslims as well as people of other religions are safe in this country. In fact, this is the glory of Ram," she said. Stating that inequality is still prevalent in society, the senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said, "Just like Lord Ram took 14 years to kill Ravan, in the same way, PM Modi should be given 15 years to bring 'Ram Rajya' in the country. "The condition of weaker sections, government schools and hospitals will have to be improved. People will have to come out of illiteracy, poverty and unemployment. That would be the Ram Rajya in a true sense," she said. On the probable impact of Ram temple issue on the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uma Bharti said, "We never wished for any impact. Ram temple agenda has always been on the forefront. Following the demolition of Babri Masjid, we (BJP) lost power in four states, and also lost elections. Despite everything, Ram Mandir has always been on our agenda, and now, we are constructing the temple." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/we-corrected-a-500-year-old-crime-says-bharti-on-babri-masjid-demolition-1057967.html
05-12-2021||National Politics||BJP leader calls protesting farmers, Rakesh Tikait 'terrorists'||In a controversial statement, a BJP leader on Sunday called BKU leader Rakesh Tikait a "terrorist" and said the withdrawal of the central farm laws will lead to losses for farmers and profit for "Khalistani gundas". In a purported video that surfaced on social media, the former Ghosi Lok Sabha MP, Harinarayan Rajbhar, also alleged that Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar worked as "a shooter of mafia Mukhtar Ansari". The BJP leader held Tikait responsible for the death of "700 farmers" during the course of the agitation against the laws and demanded that a case be registered against him and his property seized to compensate the kin of dead farmers. Farm union leaders have claimed that over 700 farmers died during the course of the agitation. In the video message, Rajbhar said that the protesting farmer leaders, including Tikait, are "ugravaadi" (terrorists). "Rakesh Tikait is responsible for the death of 700 farmers, who were protesting against the three farm laws. A case should be registered against Tikait and his property be seized so that compensation be given to kin of the dead farmers,” he said. The withdrawal of the three farm laws has resulted in a big loss for farmers and profit for a handful of "Khalistani gundas", he alleged. "Farmer leaders took undue advantage of the flexible stand of the government. The protesters are not farmers," he said. Harinarayan Rajbhar also attacked SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar, saying before joining politics, the opposition party leader was "a shooter of mafia Mukhtar Ansari". "Om Prakash Rajbhar in order to hide his criminal past donned the attire of a politician," he alleged. Reacting to the BJP leader’s statement, SBSP general secretary Arun Rajbhar said, "This is only a reflection of a possible defeat, which the BJP will face in the upcoming elections. The leader who has made the statement should show a document to prove his claims." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leader-calls-protesting-farmers-rakesh-tikait-terrorists-1057970.html
05-12-2021||National Politics||Demolition of Babri Masjid cleared the way for Ram temple construction: Kataria||Senior BJP leader and former Rajasthan Home Minister Gulab Chand Kataria has claimed that the demolition of Babri Masjid on December 6, 1992 cleared the way for the construction of a grand Ram temple at Ayodhya. The leader, who was present near Babri Masjid on that day, in an exclusive interview with IANS, spoke about what was the situation in Ayodhya at that time, why people suddenly started demolishing the Babri Masjid when the programme was only for symbolic kar seva. Here are some excerpts. Q. In what role and responsibility you were present in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992? A. I was present near Babri Masjid on that day... Prior to that I had served as a Rajasthan Lok Sabha MP and many times as state MLA, but faced defeat in the 1991 Lok Sabha polls, so on December 6, 1992, I was neither MP or MLA, but as a dedicated party worker was in Ayodhya for performing symbolic kar seva. Q. At that time, your senior party leaders were claiming that the plan was only for symbolic kar seva, then why did people suddenly climb atop Babri Masjid and start demolishing it? A. People had supressed anger as they were feeling that they are time and again being called for kar seva but nothing on Mandir(temple) front is being done. They were also unable to forget the time when bullets were fired on Lord Ram devotees during Mulayam Singh Yadav's tenure... The kar sevaks remembered the sacrifice of people which enraged and incited them and they expressed their anger. Q. What was the situation in Ayodhya on that day and what people have on their mind? A. I have told you that people have suppressed anger for years. We had thought that symbolic kar seva would be performed, but frenzied people climbed atop the Masjid and started hitting it with a hammer. There was an apprehension that bullets will be fired at the kar sevaks and people will be injured but it was the "bravery" of the then state Chief Minister Kalyan Singh that he did not give shooting orders, due to which precious lives were saved. People who were atop the Babri Masjid demolished it. Q. You said that people climbed the Babri Masjid in anger and started demolishing it, they were afraid of police firing too...Still? A. See... that day entire Ayodhya had the same situation. Kar sevaks did not like Babri Masjid and they wanted to demolish it even if they had to sacrifice their life... They knew that police firing can be ordered and they can lose their life but were not bothered about that and did what they had decided to. Chaos prevailed after 4-5 hours of the incident. Many people were injured and rushed to hospitals. Many people went missing who was found after a long time. Q. How do you remember the December 6, 1992 incident? A: I only remember that day as if Babri Masjid was not demolished, a way for construction of the Ram Temple would not have been cleared. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/demolition-of-babri-masjid-cleared-the-way-for-ram-temple-construction-kataria-1057993.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Security tightened in Mathura ahead of Babri masjid demolition anniversary||Security has been tightened in Mathura to avoid any untoward incident ahead of December 6, the date on which the Babri mosque was demolished in Ayodhya in 1992, officials said on Saturday. Four right-wing groups, the Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha, Srikrishna Janmabhumi Nirman Nyas, Narayani Sena and the Srikrishna Mukti Dal, had earlier sought permission to hold non-traditional programmes on the day. The Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha had sought permission to install a Krishna idol at the deity's "actual birthplace", which it claimed is in a mosque close to a prominent temple here. District Magistrate Navneet Singh Chahal had turned them down, saying the question of granting permission to any event that may potentially disrupt peace does not arise. One of the groups had said that it would install the idol in the Shahi Idgah after a "maha jalabhishek" to "purify" the place. In view of these, Mathura was divided into three zones for security purposes, the officials said, adding that the area in which the Katra Keshav Dev temple and the Shahi Idgah falls has been demarcated as the red zone, where the deployment of security personnel is the highest. "Adequate force has also been deployed at every entry point of Mathura," Senior Superintendent of Police Gaurav Grover said. He said checking at these entry points has been intensified. Prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC are already in place in Mathura. The section prohibits the assembly of four or more people in an area. The threat to perform the ritual inside the Shahi Idgah comes at a time when the local courts are hearing a series of petitions seeking the "removal" of the 17th century mosque. President of Shahi Idgah committee professor Z Hasan, however, said that he has been living in Mathura for over 50 years and has always found the environment cordial and affectionate. The suits seeking the shifting of the mosque is pending in courts, and their judgement will be honoured, committee members of the mosque said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-tightened-in-mathura-ahead-of-babri-masjid-demolition-anniversary-1057746.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Is government's face-off with the Opposition a well thought out strategy?||The face-off over the suspension of 12 MPs who allegedly created a ruckus during the monsoon session of Parliament could be a well thought out strategy of the government to engage the opposition on an issue which could have been a non issue. Otherwise, the government could have had to face tough question on inflation, Chinese intrusion, compensation to farmers and Covid deaths. The government has been demanding an apology from the suspended MPs but the opposition is firm on not tendering an apology. Meanwhile the suspended MPs have been sitting on protest in Parliament; MPs of the ruling BJP too protested against them on Friday. Leader of the House Piyush Goyal said, "The opposition leaders are making provocative statements and have refused to apologise on the serious issue even though I have offered an apology on small issues." "When they are not willing to apologise, how can the matter be resolved?" The statement itself is a manifestation that the government is not interested in resolving the matter despite the Chair suggesting that both sides sit and discuss the issue. The government has been able to push the Dam safety bill in the week just ended with the opposition participating in the discussion. In these circumstances the opposition has of late got the sense that the government's strategy is of confrontation and not resolution and then they started pushing for issues like inflation and farmers' compensation. The MPs are moving the suspension of business notice under rule 267 on a daily basis which is being rejected by the Chair. On Friday also the Chairman rejected various notices of the opposition leaders under rule 267. One of the notices was given by Congress MP Deepender Hooda in which he demanded compensation for the families of those farmers who lost their lives during the agitation going on since last year. On Thursday the opposition parties resorted to sloganeering after the Rajya Sabha assembled for Question Hour and later walked out of the House after they were denied permission for a discussion on inflation. Congress MP KC Venugopal had given a suspension of business notice under rule 267 to discuss the rising prices of essential commodities, which the chair did not permit. Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge urged the Chair, "its an important issue." The whole week has passed but the opposition in the Upper House could not raise the issues it wanted as the entire focus was on the suspension of the MPs. The suspended MPs are from the Congress, Trinamool Congress, CPI, CPI-M and Shiv Sena. They are Syed Naseer Hussain, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora and Rajmani Patel of the Congress, Priyanka Chaturvedi, Anil Desai of the Shiv Sena, Elamaram Kareem of the CPI-M, Binoy Viswam of the CPI and Dola Sen and Shanta Chhetri of the Trinamool. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/is-governments-face-off-with-the-opposition-a-well-thought-out-strategy-1057772.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan Governor defies 'rubber stamp' positioning with many firsts||The position of a Governor is often termed as a "rubber stamp" by experts in the political spectrum. However, Kalraj Mishra has been defying this positioning by making a mark with many firsts as Governor of Rajasthan. For the first time in the history of the country, Governor Kalraj Mishra started a new tradition by reading the Preamble of the Constitution and Fundamental Duties in the 'Governor's Budget Address' in the Legislative Assembly. Recently, the bill passed by the state government to amend the Rajasthan Compulsory Marriage Registration Act, 2009 was not approved by the Governor for it did not seem beneficial for society. Later, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights Chairman also objected to the Amendment Bill. Eventually, a 'silent dialogue' was initiated between the Governor and the state government which then decided to recall the recently passed 'Rajasthan Compulsory Marriage Registration (Amendment) Bill 2021' and get it re-examined. Governor Kalraj Mishra had already put the bill on hold for further legal examination which had a provision for mandatory registration of all marriages. Later, speaking at a function, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said, "The Bill has been brought in the spirit of an order of the Supreme Court regarding compulsory registration of marriages. But misconception has been created regarding child marriage, then we will request the Governor to return the bill to the government." The Governor also took the initiative for construction of Constitution Parks in all the universities of the state to make the younger generation aware of the Constitution, thereby proving himself as the most active and 'Justified Governor' on constitutional issues. In yet another instance, the Governor returned the proposal sent three times by the Rajasthan government to convene the assembly session from July 31, 2020, as it was not in accordance with the rules. When the proposal was received following the set norms, the Governor finally gave the approval for the session from August 14 last year. In this context, the Governor had put a condition to give 21 days notice before convening the session. He had also called for a response from the government to take action on 3 points when the active corona cases increased over three times in a month. Next, the Advocate Welfare Fund Amendment Bill which was passed in the Assembly on March 7, 2020 and was sent to the Governor on March 24 for approval was returned by him to amend the Bill citing opposition from the Bar Council and various lawyers' associations. The information about the withdrawal of the bill from Raj Bhavan was furnished in the assembly. In this bill, the money collected from lawyers for the Welfare Fund was increased which the advocates opposed. Besides these initiatives, the Governor also worked for the formation of a task force to improve the quality of higher education during the difficult times of Covid and strengthen universities in the context of global challenges. Thereafter, he worked for the establishment of a Vedic Research Chair at Guru Govind Tribal University, Banswara to preserve the ancient tradition where scholars recite hymns of the Shankhayani part of Rig Veda. Instructions were issued to the universities to prepare courses related to technical and science subjects in English, Hindi and regional languages. Mishra has also been working for the tribal areas development and has taken the initiative to expand coaching facilities for students of tribal areas for competitive examinations. In another first, he initiated the Tribal Art Fair so that the disappearing art and artists in the tribal areas could be brought forward. Showing a humanitarian aspect, the Governor also takes a tour at night to find needy people shivering in the cold and distributes blankets among them. In April, he adopted a stray dog and named it Chintamani. He appealed to the people to help stray dogs and come forward to look after them. So who says this Constitutional post is a rubber stamp kind of position? Mishra shows the way to make a difference. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-governor-defies-rubber-stamp-positioning-with-many-firsts-1057781.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi detects first Omicron case; India's tally of cases from variant now 5||A 37-year-old man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania has tested positive for Omicron, making it the first case of the new Covid-19 variant in the national capital and the fifth in the country. The patient is currently admitted to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital and has mild symptoms, hospital officials said. "So far, 17 Covid-19 patients and six of their contacts have been admitted to the Lok Nayak Hospital. The Omicron variant has been found in one of the 12 samples sent for genome sequencing so far, according to a preliminary report," Health Minister Satyendar Jain said. "The patient is an Indian and had returned from Tanzania a few days ago. He has mild symptoms," an official told PTI. "The patient's travel history is being collated and his contacts are being traced," he said. The country reported the first two cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 on Thursday in Karnataka -- a 66-year-old South African flyer and a 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor with no travel history. Both men are fully vaccinated. On Saturday, a 72-year-old NRI man from Gujarat and a 33-year-old man from Maharashtra tested positive for the new strain. All Covid-positive international travellers are being admitted to the LNJP Hospital, where a dedicated ward has been set up for isolating and treating them. According to the Centre, the countries designated as "at-risk" are European countries, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come. Also, two per cent of the passengers arriving on flights from other countries will be subjected to the test randomly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-detects-first-omicron-case-indias-tally-of-cases-from-variant-now-5-1057785.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi's air quality in very poor category||The air quality index in the national capital on Sunday stood in the very poor category, according to the real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board. Delhi recorded an AQI of 305, Faridabad 296, Ghaziabad 288, Gurgaon 174 and Noida 273. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius, two notches above the season's normal on Sunday, according to the India Meteorological Department. The relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am was 95 per cent while the maximum temperature is likely to be around 25 degrees Celsius, they said. The weather office has predicted partly cloudy sky and very light rain towards Sunday evening or night. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-in-very-poor-category-1057792.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||India developing indigenous anti-drone technology, security forces will get it soon: Shah||India is developing indigenous anti-drone technology to thwart the growing threat from these devices on the country's borders and it will soon be made available to the security forces, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday. Speaking on the occasion of the 57th Raising Day of the Border Security Force (BSF) here, Shah said for the Modi government, border security is national security and it is committed to providing the best border guarding technologies in the world to the force. He noted that it is the first time since 1965, when the BSF was raised, that its Raising Day function is being celebrated at the border. "A country can prosper and move ahead in the world when it is safe. You ensure the safety of the country... Always remember that by guarding the borders you are ensuring the safety of the country and providing a platform to it globally," Shah told the BSF personnel. He said the government will ensure that the world's best technologies are made available to the BSF. "It is the commitment of the government. There was a mention of a growing threat from drones. BSF, DRDO and NSG are trying to develop an anti-drone technology. I have complete faith in our scientists that we will be able to develop an indigenous anti-drone technology soon," he said. Shah said since 2014, the Modi government has given special emphasis to border security. "Wherever there were attempts of incursion on the borders, attack on security forces and CAPFs, we have ensured immediate retaliation. India has ensured that no one can take our borders or soldiers lightly. The central government under (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi ensured a strong retaliation in the form of surgical and air strikes after Uri and Pulwama attacks, respectively. The entire world appreciated this action," he said. In order to fill vacancies in the BSF, the government has recruited 50,000 jawans and their training has started, he said. "The road construction budget for border areas was Rs 23,000 crore during 2008-14. Between 2014 and 2020, the Modi government increased the budget from Rs 23,700 crore to Rs 44,600 crore. This shows the commitment of the Modi government to improve the border area infrastructure," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-developing-indigenous-anti-drone-technology-security-forces-will-get-it-soon-shah-1057803.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Like farmers, people of J&K may have to make 'sacrifices' to restore Article 370: Farooq Abdullah||Regional National Conference president and former chief minister, Farooq Abdullah Sunday said that people of Jammu and Kashmir have to be ready to make “sacrifices” like farmers protesting the farm laws did, for restoring special status of the erstwhile state. “The Centre repealed (three) farm laws after the sacrifices by over 700 farmers. We may also have to offer similar sacrifices to get back the rights that have been snatched from us by the Centre,” Abdullah said while addressing party workers at Naseembagh mausoleum of his father and the NC founder Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah on his 11th birth anniversary. "Remember this, we have promised to get back (Articles) 370, 35A and statehood and we are ready to make any sacrifice,” he asserted. However, Octogenarian Abdullah said that he does not support violence and asked the party cadre to remain steadfast and in touch with the people on ground in every locality of the Union Territory (UT). The protests against three farm laws, passed by the Center last year, first began as sporadic demonstrations in Punjab in October 2020 but snowballed into a full-blown political uprising against the Modi government, spreading to several states in the course of a year, including Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. Over 700 protesting farmers reportedly lost their lives during the year-long struggle in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Finally succumbing to the pressure of farmers’ agitation, the Prime Minister announced the repeal of three controversial farm laws on November 19. Abdullah also questioned Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s recent statement that post abrogation of Article 370, J&K was witnessing peace and tourism. “If tourism is picking up in Kashmir, what does that mean? Is tourism everything? What about the 50,000 jobs you promised? Where are those jobs? In fact, you are terminating those in service,” he asked. Abdullah, who represents Srinagar Parliament constituency in the Lok Sabha, also raked up the recent controversial Hyderpora encounter in which three civilians were killed in an alleged fake encounter, during his speech. “It was after massive resistance by the families of three slain persons of Hyderpora encounter that the police and the administration had to exhume bodies of two and hand them over to their families. The body of the third innocent is yet to be handed over to his family,” he said and asked party men to start public outreach programs. The former Chief Minister also spoke about the pressure on media outlets, stating that if anyone writes anything “they don’t like, they are called to police stations.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/like-farmers-people-of-jk-may-have-to-make-sacrifices-to-restore-article-370-farooq-abdullah-1057814.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi girl issued license plate comprising letters 'SEX', DCW sends notice to Transport Department||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) has issued a notice to the Transport Department seeking that the registration number for a girl's two-wheeler comprising the letters 'SEX' be changed as she has been facing "severe harassment" due to it. The DCW has also asked the department to mention in its reply the total number of vehicles that have been registered under the new series. A senior official of the Transport Department on Saturday said the entire series was stopped after the issue came to light. "It's very unfortunate that people can be so petty and abusive that the girl is having to face so much harassment. I have given four days time to the Transport Department to resolve this issue so that the girl doesn't suffer anymore," a statement quoted DCW chief Swati Maliwal as saying. "I have asked the Transport Department to submit the total number of vehicles which have been registered in this allotment series containing the term 'SEX'," she said. In the notice, Maliwal also sought details from the department of all such complaints it has received. In Delhi, two-wheelers are denoted by the letter 'S'. And currently, the two letters in circulation for the registration of two-wheelers are 'E' and 'X'. So, the number plates for two-wheelers in Delhi these days have the letter 'S' followed by 'EX'. The senior official of the Transport Department told PTI that anyone who has got a registration number in this series can get it changed. "The registration number was system generated and the entire series was stopped after the matter came to the department's notice. For others, who have also got registration numbers in this series, we can change them on a case to case basis, if requested," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-girl-issued-license-plate-comprising-letters-sex-dcw-sends-notice-to-transport-department-1057818.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi BJP demands VAT reduction on diesel||The Delhi unit of the BJP has demanded the reduction of Value Added Tax (VAT) on diesel as well, days after the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in the national capital slashed petrol prices by Rs eight per litre. On Saturday, the Delhi BJP staged protests across 18 places in the city. Apart from demanding reduction on diesel prices, the saffron party has asked the Kejriwal government to reduce the VAT price on petrol by Rs eight more. "We should see another Rs eight reduction thus totalling Rs 16 in all, and VAT on diesel should now also be reduced significantly so that Delhiites get the much needed relief," Delhi BJP media Chief, Naveen Jindal told IANS. He said various BJP groups since the last three days have been protesting for a cut on VAT prices of petrol and diesel but Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal seems to be only strengthening his image of 'ghoshna mantri' (announcement Minister). Notably, the Delhi government on December 1 cut down VAT on the fuel to 19.40 per cent from 30 per cent earlier, thus reducing the price on petrol by Rs eight. At present, the price of petrol stood at Rs 95.41. Before this decision, the petrol in the national capital was sold at Rs 103.97 per litre. In India, fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the local taxation (VAT) and freight charges. Besides, the Central government charges an excise duty on auto fuels. After adding excise duty, dealer commission and VAT, the retail selling price of the petrol gets nearly doubled. The Centre had in November reduced petrol and diesel rates by Rs five and Rs 10 per litre, respectively. Post the Centre's move, the opposition parties in Delhi have been urging the AAP-led state government to cut VAT on petrol by at least Rs 10 per litre. BJP MP Manoj Tiwari, too, had earlier slammed the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government for delaying its decision by nearly a month to reduce the VAT. "Kejriwal looted the people of Delhi for 27 days! The late decision (on reducing VAT on petrol) has once again proved that he does not care about the people! Had the decision been taken 27 days ago, the people of Delhi would not have lost crores of rupees," Tiwari had said on December 1.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-demands-vat-reduction-on-diesel-1057826.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Opposition attacks Yogi as UP Police cane aspirants protesting irregularities in teachers' recruitment||The police lathi charge on aspirants in Lucknow, who were protesting against alleged irregularities in the recruitment of teachers in Uttar Pradesh, which left several people injured, triggered sharp reactions from the opposition parties as well as BJP Lok Sabha member Varun Gandhi, who slammed the UP government for using force on those seeking jobs. The police, on Saturday evening, used force to disperse the protesters while they were undertaking a candle march and tried to move toward the residence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. They demanded that the state government increase the number of jobs to fill the quota for the SC, ST aspirants and investigate the irregularities in the recruitment of 69 thousand teachers in the state. In several videos shared by the opposition leaders, including former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Akhilesh Yadav and Varun, police were seen chasing the peaceful protesters and also hitting them with lathis and boots. ''Those demanding jobs get lathis instead under the BJP government....remember this when BJP leaders seek votes from you,'' tweeted Rahul Gandhi even as he also shared a video showing the police action. ''The future teachers are being lathi-charged under the BP regime, which says it wants to make India Vishwa Guru....the youths of today are saying that they don't want BJP,'' SP president Akhilesh Yadav said in a post on his Twitter handle on Sunday. Besides the opposition leaders, BJP Lok Sabha member Varun Gandhi also attacked the state government for caning the protesters. ''They are also sons of India....forget about conceding their demands no one is ready to listen to them...and then such brutal treatment....just think would you have behaved in the same way if they were your own children,'' Varun tweeted while sharing a video. The incident put the BJP on the back foot and party leaders here evaded comments when asked about the same. ''We have no information about the incident,'' remarked a senior state BJP leader when asked for his reaction on the lathi charge.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-attacks-yogi-as-up-police-cane-aspirants-protesting-irregularities-in-teachers-recruitment-1057831.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Make your presence visible on ground, BJP tells its Chhattisgarh unit||The BJP has asked its Chhattisgarh unit to make its presence felt on the ground. The central leadership realized that BJP workers are not visible on the ground and absence of cadres among people will not serve any purpose in the next assembly polls. The Chhattisgarh BJP was also asked to raise unfulfilled promises of the Congress government. The BJP, which ruled the state from 2003 to 2018 for three terms, has already started preparations for the next assembly polls which will be held at the end of 2023. In last month's state executive meet, the Chhattisgarh BJP held a detailed discussion about preparations. BJP national general secretary and Chhattisgarh in-charge, D Purandeshwari was present in the meeting. Sources said that she told the state leaders that they are not visible on the ground and staying indoors will not help. "Purandeshwari said that our workers and leaders are not visible among people. She said while in opposition, you have to be with people all the time and any disconnect will adversely affect the party prospects," sources said. It is learnt that Purandeshwari's comment came in the backdrop of feedback collected by the central leadership in which it came to notice that BJP cadre is missing from ground and are more busy with photo-ops events and meetings. "Purandeshwari said that everyone, leaders and workers, must go out among people to strengthen the organisation as only holding meetings will not help the party in elections," a party insider said. It is further learnt that she asked the leaders to raise the issues concerning common man and establish connect with the people. The Chhattisgarh BJP has been directed to start a campaign to highlight the mis-governance of the Bhupesh Bhagel government. "We are asked to start an agitation to highlight Congress government failure to fulfill promises it made to people before assembly polls. Other issues like conversion must be also raised actively," a party leader said. Starting August 31, the Chhattisgarh BJP had held three days Chintan Shivir at Bastar to discuss and finalize strategy to start preparations for the next assembly polls. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/make-your-presence-visible-on-ground-bjp-tells-its-chhattisgarh-unit-1057839.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Election Commission lodges case with Special Cell regarding fake messages||The Election Commission of India wants Special Cell of the Delhi Police to arrest persons behind circulating fake messages. One fake message that was circulated was -- EC will deduct around Rs 350 for not casting vote. The Special Cell of the Delhi Police lodged a case in this regard and have formed a team of elite police officials to look into the matter. "The Special Cell of the Delhi Police has lodged a case under section 171-G (false statement in connection with an election) of the IPC against unknown persons," a source said. The Election Commission has said that the matter is very serious as such kind of messages can spread panic among common public. Such fake messages are making rounds on Social Media i.e WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter and Telegram. The Special Cell will now write to the concerned officials of these social media to give them information about the person behind circulating this fake message. The Election Commission has also requested the Special Cell that once the arrest is made, they should be duly informed. The matter is being looked after by elite Cyber Unit IFSO which is being headed by DCP KPS Malhotra. A source said that the EC wanted that the matter should be treated as an urgent matter and hence a team was formed to look into it. "We have lodged a case under section 171G of Indian Penal Code (IPC) which deals with false statement in connection with an election. Our team is looking into the matter," a source said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/election-commission-lodges-case-with-special-cell-regarding-fake-messages-1057844.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Resident doctors at Delhi's RML hospital to boycott emergency services from Monday||The resident doctors of Delhi's top Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital have announced to boycott the emergency services in the hospital from Monday to intensify the protest against the repeated delay in the NEET PG 2021. The resident doctors' association in the top five hospitals -- RML Hospital, Lady Hardinge Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital, LNJP Hospital and GTB hospital -- have been protesting against the delay in the NEET PG 2021 and have boycotted the OPD services from November 27. The OPD services in these hospitals have largely been affected. As the withdrawal of OPD services didn't bring any concrete response from the authorities, the RDAs of the RML hospital started boycotting all the routine services like Special Clinics, IPDs, Elective OTS from December 3. "Resident doctors of the RML are forced to boycott emergency services too from 6th December along with OPD/IPD Services because no assurance is being given to the protesting Doctors by Health ministry in delay in NEET PG Counselling 2021", said Dr Manish Jangra, Spokesperson RML RDA. The agitating doctors complained that they're short staffed because there aren't any new doctors joining due to delay in counselling. The NEET postgraduate entrance exam for 2021 was delayed twice, from January to April, and then to September, when it was eventually held. But now again, admissions have been delayed due to the dispute over revising the income criteria for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) quota from the current upper limit of Rs 8 lakh a year. The case is before the Supreme Court, which held hearings earlier this year. The next date is only in January 2022. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/resident-doctors-at-delhis-rml-hospital-to-boycott-emergency-services-from-monday-1057856.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Jammu & Kashmir: Fresh snowfall in higher reaches, rain in plains||Many areas in the higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir received fresh snowfall on Sunday, while rains lashed the plains, ending the dry spell, officials said. The minimum temperature improved and stayed above the freezing point at most places in the valley on Saturday night, they said. Fresh snowfall was recorded at many places in the higher altitude areas of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, the MeT officials said. They said the famous tourist destinations of Gulmarg, Sonamarg, and Kupwara and Gurez recorded light to moderate snowfall. Light snow was recorded in Drass-Kargil areas on the Srinagar-Leh highway. The plain areas of the valley and the Jammu region were lashed by rains, while some areas such as Poonch and Udhampur received hailstorm, the officials said. The MeT office has forecast widespread light rain in plains and snowfall over the hilly areas in Kashmir and light rain with thunder at scattered places of Jammu region. The weather is expected to improve from Sunday night, it said. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature rose across Kashmir and settled above the freezing point at most places of the valley on Saturday night. Srinagar recorded a low of 0.6 degrees Celsius on Saturday night – up from minus 0.7 degrees Celsius the previous night, the officials said. They said Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for the annual Amarnath Yatra, recorded a low of 2.7 degrees Celsius, up from minus 2 degrees Celsius 24 hours earlier. Gulmarg in north Kashmir's Baramulla district recorded a minimum temperature of minus 1.4 degrees Celsius and was the only place in the valley where the mercury stayed below the freezing point. The mercury in Kupwara in north Kashmir settled at a low of 1.6 degrees Celsius. Qazigund, the gateway town to the valley, recorded 3.4 degrees Celsius, while Kokernag recorded a low of 2.3 degrees Celsius. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-fresh-snowfall-in-higher-reaches-rain-in-plains-1057860.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Tourism in Kashmir booms again: 1.27 lakh arrivals in November||Despite a spate of civilian killings in October, tourist arrivals in Kashmir saw a record jump in November with 1.27 lakh arrivals recorded during the month. According to official figures 5.13 lakh tourists, including 1,317 foreigners, visited Kashmir from January 1 to November 30. In 2020, when Kashmir was under Covid-19 lockdown only 41,267 tourist arrivals were recorded. There has been a jump of over 1200 per cent in tourist arrivals in Kashmir this year compared to 2020. The figures of November 2021 are particularly good news for tourism players of the Valley, who have been battling lockdown after lockdown since August 2019. Tourist arrivals in November this year surpassed the figures for the same month of last seven years. In November 2020, 6,327 arrivals were recorded while 12,086 tourists arrived in the same month in 2019. A total of 33,720 tourist arrivals were recorded in 2018, 1.12 lakh in 2017, 23,569 in 2016 and 64,778 in November. The huge number of tourist arrivals in November this year, has rekindled the hope of bumper tourist season this winter. The events like snow carnivals, Christmas, New Year and skiing are a big hope for the tourism players this season. The tourism department has already taken several measures to ensure that the fear of the Covid-19 contagion doesn’t scare away the visitors. According to government data, over 80% of the tourism service providers have been vaccinated and are safe to welcome travellers from far and wide. Chairman, Jammu and Kashmir Hoteliers Club, Mushtaq Ahmad Chaya said that they were optimistic that in the coming months the tourist arrivals will further pick up. “Kashmir is the safest destination to visit and its beautiful locales never fail to impress visitors. Tourism players here have ensured vaccination of their staff and adherence of Covid appropriate behaviour which has instilled confidence among tourists to visit Kashmir,” Chaya added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tourism-in-kashmir-booms-again-127-lakh-arrivals-in-november-1057867.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Owaisi is trying to become another Jinnah: BJP leader||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi is trying to become another (Muhammad Ali) Jinnah and has only one agenda — another partition of the country, said Subrat Pathak, Lok Sabha member and general secretary of Uttar Pradesh BJP. In an exclusive interview to IANS, Pathak, Lok Sabha member Kannauj, claimed people on the ground formed an alliance with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. "Aayega toh Yogi hi (only yogi will come)," he said. Pathak said that earlier leaders, who used to visit Madrasa wearing skull caps, have now become Hindus and have started doing temple-hopping after putting 'tilak' on their foreheads. Pathak asked, "If BJP does not raise the issue of Hindutva, then who will do"." He claimed that the Samajwadi Party (SP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) are fighting for the second position in Uttar Pradesh in upcoming Assembly polls. Excerpts of the interview: Q: What are the issues on which the BJP is going to seek votes in next years' Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh? A: Our agenda and issues are in the public domain and known to everyone. The BJP doesn't keep its agenda hidden. We are seeking votes on the issues of development. In the last five years the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh has transformed the state on all the parameters of development which were missing in the previous governments of the SP and BSP. BJP will seek re-election on two key agendas, one development and second restoring cultural identity of Uttar Pradesh. The BJP government is constructing a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya, restoring the glory of Kashi through Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. When Mahatma Gandhi visited Kashi for the inauguration of Banaras Hindu University (BHU), he questioned the poor sanitation and condition of the city. Even after Independence, conditions have not improved. The BJP government decided to restore the cultural identity of the city by making 'bhavya and divya' (magnificent and divine) Kashi. In the future we also restore the cultural identity of Mathura. Our government made an international airport in Kushinagar, where Gautam Buddha attained 'Mahaparinirvana'. While restoring the cultural identity of the state we are remembering both Ram and Buddha. People have seen our work and we will seek votes for development. Q: Earlier, deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya also said that preparation is on for construction of a grand temple in Mathura and now you are also saying this. So will Mathura be a poll issue in the assembly election? A: Mathura is not a political issue for the BJP, it is our agenda. Tell me who will stop us from restoring symbols of the Hindu faith. It has nothing to do with elections, construction of temples in Mathura is about faith and belief and we will do it. Q: Don't you think such comments from senior leaders will divert the election from development to religion and polarise it? A: What does polarisation mean? Talking about Hindutva is wrong. In 70 years after post Independence, the Muslim population has increased from three crore to 30 crores in the country. Almost 27 Hindu population of Pakistan is missing during the same period. Imagine the situation in the future in India and the growth of the Muslim population. Why isn't Hindutva an issue? It is our culture and the oldest one in the world. When all the cultures across the world from Iran to Greece to Egypt have fallen, only ancient Indian culture based on Hindutva has survived the time. 'Agar chunav me nahi baat karenge tab kab karenge' (if it is not talked about during the election then when do we?), earlier battles or wars were fought to save culture and religion. Today, 'election' is a 'battle' and if we do not take Hindutva then who will talk about it. Earlier leaders who used to visit Madrasa wearing skull caps have now become Hindu and started doing temple hopping by putting tilak on their forehead. We have witnessed 'roza-iftars' hosted by the Prime Minister and Chief Minister. Today, we have a Prime Minister who visits Ayodhya and the ancient temple of pashupatinath, does Rudrabhishek at Kashi Vishwanath Mandir, participates in Ganga Aarti, redevelop Kedarnath. Q: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi is also making political debut in Uttar Pradesh and he has demanded that NRC, CAA should be repealed. What would you say? A: In democracy every party has the right to contest elections and he (Owaisi) is trying to make his party national. He is welcomed to contest in Uttar Pradesh. He is spreading 'bigotry' and trying to spread it in Uttar Pradesh. Owaisi is trying to become another Jinnah and has only one agenda, another partition of the country to fulfil his agenda. Our agenda is also clear that we will crush such a divisive agenda and we are doing it. Q: Do you think repeal of three farm laws will benefit BJP in coming assembly polls" Pathak: Please understand, it was not a farmer's protest. It is a protest by 'Modi- Virodhi' (anit Modi) and they will oppose everything from CAA, triple talaq, Ram Temple to the Kashi Vishwanath corridor. They have only one agenda: opposing Modi and while opposing Modi they have become an 'Anti nation'. They used a farmer's shoulder to show their anti-Modi stand. It was felt that in border state Punjab terror activities is going increase and anti-national elements are started joining farmers protest. The Prime Minister said that it seems some of the farmers are still not convinced by our sincere efforts. We will continue to work in the best interest of farmers and may bring it with improvement. Q: Does the SP-RLD alliance dampen BJP's chances in Western Uttar Pradesh? A: Earlier BSP was also with them and they fought together. They will not decide. Janta (people) will decide. They are making an alliance on the table while people on the ground have already formed the alliance. All the caste, groups and religions have formed alliances with Prime Minister Modi and Chief Minister Yogi. 'Aayega toh Yogi hi (only yogi will come)'. Bua-bhatija will have no impact in Uttar Pradesh. Q: Who will be BJP's main opposition in Uttar Pradesh? A: We are not fighting with anyone. The SP and BSP are fighting for the number two position in Uttar Pradesh. We are heading for a big win and an unholy alliance of opposition cannot stop us. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/owaisi-is-trying-to-become-another-jinnah-bjp-leader-1057871.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Mathura on alert ahead of Babri demolition anniversary||Security was tightened in and around the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi and the Shahi Idgah Mosque at Mathura a day ahead of the 29th anniversary of the demolition of the Babri Masjid at Ayodhya. According to police sources, security personnel in strength had been deployed at all the entry points of Mathura and the adjoining Vrindavan towns and no one was being allowed without checking. The railbus being operated between Mathura and Vrindavan was also stopped as it passed very close to the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi and Idgah Mosque, sources said. ''We are keeping a close watch on the situation....we will not allow any organisation to hold any new event....we will take stern action against anyone flouting the directives,'' a senior police official said in Mathura on Sunday. Several saffron outfits, including the Narayani Sena, Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi Mukti Dal, had threatened to offer 'jalabhishek' at the Idgah Mosque claiming that it was part of the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi.  The threat from the saffron outfits came soon after UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya appeared to call his party supporters to prepare for the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura. A petition claiming ownership of the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi and seeking removal of the adjoining Shahi Idgah Masjid had already been admitted by a district court in Mathura. The petition has sought the removal of the Shahi Idgah mosque, which was adjacent to the existing Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi, from the complex and has challenged the agreement signed between the Shrikrishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan and Shahi Idgah Mosque Management Committee in 1968. It claimed ownership over the entire 13.37 acres of land on which they were situated.  Although the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), which had spearheaded the Ram Temple movement, had made it clear that Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi was not on its agenda, the All India Akhara Parishad (AIAP), an apex body of the seers in the country, had extended its support to the petition. The AIAP had also called for removal of the Gyanvapi Mosque, which was adjacent to the famous Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi. A court in Varanasi was currently hearing a petition in this regard. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mathura-on-alert-ahead-of-babri-demolition-anniversary-1057873.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi cops arrest gangster planning courtroom shoot-out||The special cell of the Delhi Police arrested Deepak Dhankar, a history-sheeter associated with the Kapil Sangwan Gang, an official said on Sunday, adding that they have averted another courtroom shoot-out similar to the Rohini court shoot-out in September. Gangster Jitender Singh Mann, alias Gogi, was killed by two assailants in a courtroom in September. The police said they ascertained that Dhankar was planning a shoot-out while questioning him and that he had procured the arms and ammunition for murdering Manjeet Mahal and his brother Sanjay Mahal over personal rivalry. Furnishing details of Dhankar's arrest, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Jasmeet Singh, said that they were tipped off about Dhankar's arrival at Kakrola village of Delhi on December 3, following which they laid a trap. "About 2 pm, Deepak Dhankar, sitting in a Celerio car, was spotted coming from the Najafgarh side. He was signalled to stop the car but when he sensed police presence, he whipped out his pistol and aimed it at the police team. Members of the police team rushed towards the car, overpowered the accused and disarmed him," the official said. The cops recovered one .32 semi-automatic pistol and five live cartridges from his possession. Further sharing details about the criminal activities and rivalry between both the gangs, the official informed that Dhankar was involved in at least six criminal cases of murder, attempt to murder, robbery/dacoity, car-jacking, trespass, criminal intimidation, assault on police, conspiracy, extortion and possession of arms in Delhi and Haryana.  According to the police, gangster Manjeet Mahal has a fierce rivalry with Kapil Sangwan, another gangster, in South-West Delhi. In retaliation for the murder of one Sunil, Sangwan's brother-in-law in December 2015 by Manjeet Mahal, Nafe alias Mantri, Dharmender and their other associates, the gang members of the rival gang led by Sangwan shot dead Nafe's father and severely injured his wife and mother on the same day in their house in Najafgarh. Thereafter, Sangwan and his associates gunned down the father and brother of Dharmender, an associate of Manjeet Mahal who was earlier arrested in Sunil's murder case. After the arrest of Kapil Sangwan, Deepak Dhankar, Krishan, Ankush and Bhalu had taken command of the gang. With the help of their other associates, they gunned down Manjeet Mahal's father in Mitraon village of Delhi in January 2017. The police said that more than eight people have been murdered so far due to the gang rivalry over the past six years. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cops-arrest-gangster-planning-courtroom-shoot-out-1057878.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||AAP MP Bhagwant Mann claims senior BJP leader offered him money, cabinet berth to join party||Punjab Aam Aadmi Party president Bhagwant Mann on Sunday claimed a senior BJP leader offered him money and a place in the Union Cabinet to join the saffron party ahead of the state assembly polls next year. Addressing the media here, the Sangrur MP asserted that he could not be bought with money or anything else. Without naming anyone, Mann claimed the senior BJP leader contacted him four days ago and asked him, "Mann Sahab, what would you take to join the BJP?" He alleged that he was also asked if "you need money". The AAP leader further claimed that he was told that if he joined the BJP, he would be made a Union cabinet minister. "I told him (BJP leader) that I am on a mission not on commission," said Mann, the AAP's lone MP from Punjab. He said he told the BJP leader that there might be others "whom you could buy". Mann said he could not be bought with money or anything else. When asked to name the BJP leader, he said he would disclose it when the time comes. The AAP leader claimed the BJP has no base in Punjab. BJP leaders were not allowed to enter villages and faced anger from farmers over the farm laws that were repealed by the government last week. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-mp-bhagwant-mann-claims-senior-bjp-leader-offered-him-money-cabinet-berth-to-join-party-1057880.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||ED records Param Bir Singh's statement in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate has recorded the statement of suspended Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in connection with its money laundering probe into alleged irregularities in the Maharashtra police establishment, official sources said Sunday. The statement was recorded on December 3 at the agency's office in south Mumbai under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). They said that the 59-year-old was quizzed for about five hours on different aspects of the case, including the allegations against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Sources said that Singh was summoned at least three times in the past by the ED but he had failed to turn up. The 1988-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer was suspended by the Maharashtra government a few days ago following registration of FIRs against him and other police personnel on charges of extortion. Sources said his statement was "vital" to take the investigation in the case forward. Former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and his aides have been arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in this case. In March, Singh had levelled allegations of corruption and misuse of official position against Deshmukh after he was shunted from the post of the police commissioner in the aftermath of the Antilia bomb scare incident. He had accused Deshmukh of asking police officers to collect Rs 100 crore a month from restaurants and bars in Mumbai, a charge which the NCP leader denied. Singh, who was declared absconding by courts in Mumbai and Thane, surfaced in public late last month. After he moved the Supreme Court, he was granted temporary protection from arrest. Watch the latest DH Videos here: The IPS officer is facing at least five extortion cases in Maharashtra and has similarly deposed various state police investigation units over the last few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-records-param-bir-singhs-statement-in-money-laundering-case-1057883.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi University may change admission criteria||Citing that the current cut-off based admission system puts students from the boards where the marking is "strict" at a disadvantage, Delhi University Vice-Chancellor Yogesh Singh has constituted a committee to look into the admission data. The recommendations of the panel will be deliberated upon in an academic council meeting on December 10. "We have many options for admission, (which are) to continue with the existing system, the second could be normalisation of marks of various boards, third could be an entrance test and the fourth can be giving 50 per cent weightage to entrance test and 50 per cent to (board) marks. Let the academic council and executive council take a call," he told PTI in an interview. Talking about his personal view on the continuation of the cut-off (merit-based) system, Singh said he is "not for it". Explaining the reasons, he said the students from the boards that have a "lenient" marking system have an advantage over others in the current system, "while those from strict boards are suffering". "For instance, UP Board students are not getting admissions to Delhi University. Some boards are not lenient. Even students from Haryana Board and neighbouring states are not getting admission here, but we are getting a large number of students from Kerala, but not from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh," Singh said. "It is a good thing we are popular in Kerala, but we need to resolve this (the other board students not getting admission to DU)," he said. Stressing that it is time to relook at various processes that are in place, he said things will change in a year's time. Asked about the various admission criterion under consideration, he laid down the pros and cons of each possible system that could be implemented. "If the student has a cent per cent marks, what will normalisation do? Even if we take out some average, it will be high. The entrance test is also not a foolproof system. People say it encourages coaching and causes unnecessary stress for students. Then Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET, which the union government has decided to conduct it) is also an option," he said.  Once a cut-off percentage is announced by a college, all applicants who fulfil the condition have to be given admission even if the number of seats for the courses is fewer. Until the fifth cut-off this year, 74,667 students had secured admissions against 70,000 undergraduate seats, with some colleges like the Hindu College seeing over-admissions. Last year, till the fifth cut-off, 67,781 students had secured admissions against 70,000 seats. Across student groups, there has been a demand for the reopening of campus and the varsity authorities are considering it. However, Singh said their confidence to do so took a hit by the emergence of the Covid-19 Omicron variant of coronavirus, and the university will wait for a month before making a decision. "The university is open but only Ph D students are coming to campus. The practicals for final-year students are happening. How can I reopen campus till the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allows 100 per cent seating capacity," he said. Singh said that a classroom has a capacity of 60 students, against around 120 students in some cases. "The DDMA mandates that the seating capacity has to be 50 per cent of the classroom capacity, which means I can call 30 students. I will have to leave out 70-80 students. How is it possible? Then there is the issue of hostels where already there are space constraints," he said. "We have students from various states and coronavirus is still there in other states. We had planned to reopen but the latest situation has dampened our confidence. We will wait," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-may-change-admission-criteria-1057894.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Congress always in fear that Rajasthan government will collapse, says Amit Shah||Hitting out at Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot for accusing the BJP of trying to bring down his government last year, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the party will never topple the government and will come to power in the state with a strong mandate in 2023. He exuded confidence that the BJP will win the 2023 assembly elections in Rajasthan with two-thirds of the majority. "They are always in fear that their government will collapse. Who is going to topple the government? BJP will never topple your government. The party will go among the people and will come to power with a strong mandate in 2023," Shah said, addressing a meeting of BJP MPs and MLAs. Targeting the Congress, he said that former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had given the slogan of "Garibi Hatao", but the work to remove poverty was started after the Narendra Modi government was formed in 2014. The Congress worked only to remove the poor instead of poverty, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-always-in-fear-that-rajasthan-government-will-collapse-says-amit-shah-1057897.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Senior CPI(M) leader Sham Prasad Kesar dead||Senior CPI(M) leader Sham Prasad Kesar died at a hospital here on Sunday, his family said. He was 75. “My father suffered high blood pressure on Tuesday and was shifted to (Shri Mata Vaishno Devi) Narayana (super-specialty) hospital, where he breathed his last today (Sunday),” Kesar's elder son Sangarash told PTI. Kesar, who served as the CPI(M) state committee member and regional secretary Jammu, is survived by his wife and two sons. CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami expressed grief over the demise of the party leader. He said the deceased leader remained a staunch fighter for the rights of the working class and was widely respected for his strong commitment for communal harmony and brotherhood in the Jammu region. “He never succumbed to the pressure of divisive forces,” Tarigami said. The CPI(M) also expressed solidarity with the bereaved family and paid homage to the departed “valiant comrade”.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/senior-cpim-leader-sham-prasad-kesar-dead-1057913.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||MP woman govt engineer seeks cops' help to track 'invisible' thief stealing her food and 'eroding' ornaments||The police in Betul district of Madhya Pradesh was left baffled when a woman government engineer sought their help claiming that some "invisible force" has been stealing her clothes, money and food besides reducing the weight of her jewellery, an official said on Sunday. The complainant is a sub-engineer posted under the Prime Minister Rural Road Mission, he said. "She filed a written complaint at the Kotwali police station on Friday claiming that an unidentified force was eating away her food and also reducing the weight of her ornaments," Kotwali police station in-charge Ratnakar Hingve said. The complainant repeated her claims while talking to reporters on Saturday. She has sought the help of the police to resolve the "theft" of her food, clothes etc which she claimed has been taking place for the past 4-5 days. However, the police ruled out any mischief or the role of any "invisible force" as claimed by the complainant, but said she is hallucinating and will be referred to a psychiatrist for counselling. "It is a known fact that the weight of ornaments automatically reduces by some milligrams over time due to their use," Hingve added Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-woman-govt-engineer-seeks-cops-help-to-track-invisible-thief-stealing-her-food-and-eroding-ornaments-1057915.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Real estate forum asks Supreme Court to revisit construction ban order in Delhi||"The said blanket ban has directly affected the livelihoods of large number of construction workers, supervisory personnel and other managerial staff, employed sites on a daily or monthly basis. At a time when the entire country is coming out of the pandemic, any such ban affecting the livelihoods of large number of citizens would have devastating affects on the society," it said. The forum, consisting of more than 60 builders with "good reputation and business in NCT of Delhi, claimed the builders, part of the forum, used the latest construction technology so as to reduce dust pollution under the prescribed laid down norms. To justify the Central Vista construction, the Union government stated that it is complying with the CPCB norms of 2017 and as a result there is no pollution. The same norms can also be followed by all the builders. The flying squads, already appointed, can easily ensure that any building activity contrary to the norms is stopped. Therefore, there would be no useful purpose of continuing with a total ban on construction, it said. It said the direction, imposing a blanket ban ought to be re-visited by the court in view of the relevant data and statistics, as the order was passed without taking the views of all stakeholders and without differentiating between construction activities of various nature. "Even within the construction activities, admittedly the major contributors to pollution are the big commercial projects like multi-storey buildings, Central Vista project, Metro construction, construction of fly-overs and underpasses, etc. The share of residential construction is a miniscule percentage," it said. Citing a report by the Centre for Science and Environment, the forum said the non-commercial construction, carried out by them, overall contributed only 6.7-7.9% to the air pollution of NCR. "If big commercial and development projects which cause large scale pollution in the area are allowed to continue as projects of national importance, then there is no justification to ban the projects of the members of the applicant and such similar builders engaged in non-commercial construction and which are not causing any pollution," their plea said. The forum also pointed out the Covid-19 pandemic has badly hit the real estate business. In the last two years  builders have nearly had no cash-flow in view of repeated lockdowns and negative market sentiment. However, since opening up of the economy after the second wave, the members- builders have restarted their businesses with a positive view to finish projects and houses on time. It further said during the pandemic, a large number of builders have faced insolvency proceedings due to delay in payments or handing over possession. Such a ban would worsen the situation and make builders more prone to such actions, it pleaded. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/real-estate-forum-asks-supreme-court-to-revisit-construction-ban-order-in-delhi-1057940.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||4 members of family, 5 others test positive for Omicron variant of Covid in Jaipur||Four members of a family and five others have tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus, an official said here on Sunday. Health Secretary Vaibhav Galriya said the genome sequencing of their swab samples confirmed it. He said the family members had recently returned from South Africa. Their samples were sent for genome sequencing to Jaipur’s state-run Sawai Man Singh Hospital. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-members-of-family-5-others-test-positive-for-omicron-variant-of-covid-in-jaipur-1057949.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||Channi dismisses AAP's claims of illegal sand mining in his constituency||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday trashed Raghav Chadha's claims of illegal mining in his Assembly constituency and gave a strict warning to AAP leaders from Delhi that no "outsider" would be allowed to raise an "unfounded alarm" in the state. Channi, on his arrival on Sunday, took a round of mining sites and said that there no illegal work was under way. He said that sand is being sold at the rate of Rs 5.5 per cubic foot, as stipulated by the state government. His remarks came a day after the Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) Punjab affairs co in-charge Chadha alleged that illegal sand mining is being carried out in Channi's constituency, Chamkaur Sahib. The chief minister said no "outsider" would be allowed to create unfounded hue and cry in the state for "vested political interests". "The government will not hesitate in the future to initiate action against such acts of political ambition," he said. Channi urged the AAP leaders and workers based in Punjab as well as the public to bring any illegal activity to the state government's notice so that necessary steps could be ensured. "We have made activities at the mining sites open. Any Punjabi, Punjab-based AAP leader and worker can make a video but we will not allow any dramatic act by an outsider," he said. Channi, along with civil and police officials, visited the Badi Haveli mining site where desilting work is going on and interacted with the drivers who were getting sand loaded in trucks about the price being paid by them. Expressing satisfaction over legal mining at the site, Channi lashed out at AAP leaders, including Chadha, for trying to "befool" people on sand prices. The current sand mining contract is valid up to March 31, 2022, and people would get sand and gravel at cheaper rates in the future, the chief minister was quoted as saying in an official release. "I have found out that there is not even an iota of truth in the ranting of the AAP leader and that sand is being mined at the rates determined by the state government," he said. The AAP leadership should channelise its energies on improving the lives of the people of Delhi rather than "meddling in the internal matters" of Punjab, the chief minister said. He also lashed out at Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia for his tours of schools in Punjab. Describing it as another example of the AAP leaders' "nefarious designs to find political space" in the state, he advised them to set their own house in order first. Sisodia visited two schools located in Channi's constituency a few days ago. Referring to a query regarding the transfer of a forest range officer, Channi said anyone could ask the officer whether he got himself transferred or was shifted by the government. Chadha had alleged that the forest officer wrote to the station house officer (SHO) and the tehsildar in Jindapur village recently, informing them about illegal sand mining. The officer was transferred a day after writing the letter, the AAP leader had alleged.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/channi-dismisses-aaps-claims-of-illegal-sand-mining-in-his-constituency-1057971.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||At 5%, Jammu and Kashmir has the highest allocation for healthcare in country, says L-G Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir has the highest share, at five per cent, of budget allocation in the health sector across the country, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said on Sunday, asserting that the Union Territory administration is committed to continuously strengthening the health system and making healthcare more affordable and accessible. "We are spending Rs 7,177 crore to strengthen the infrastructure of the health sector. In the past year, 94 health projects have been completed by spending Rs 881 crore, substantially augmenting resources for the citizens," he said. Sinha was speaking at the 39th Annual Day celebrations of the Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS). He also e-inaugurated and laid the e-foundation stones of several projects on the occasion. Addressing the gathering virtually, he said the SKIMS has played an indispensable role in the healthcare system of the Union Territory. The LG congratulated the administration, faculty and students of the institute, and all those who were awarded for their exemplary work in the challenging times of Covid-19. "I express gratitude to all the doctors, nurses, ward boys, ambulance drivers and all other supporting staff who have worked selflessly during the two waves of Covid," he said. Sinha said due to the collective efforts of everyone and the hard work of the medical personnel, Jammu and Kashmir has emerged as a role model in the country for Covid-19 management and vaccination. Sinha also recalled the efforts of the Covid warriors and the steps taken by the administration to ramp up the capacities of health infrastructure during the two waves of the Covid-19 pandemic. "Our oxygen generation capacity has increased manifold to 1 lakh LPM from just 14,000 LPM last year and to deal with any emergency, Covid care centres have also been kept functional in 4,290 panchayats," he said. The efforts of the Union Territory administration to augment the necessary arrangements and make the facilities accessible to the patients and the common people, up to to the panchayat level, have been acknowledged by the NITI Aayog, the LG observed. He expressed gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for transforming the health sector of Jammu and Kashmir. The LG concluded his address by stating that the threat of the coronavirus is not over yet. "A new variant of Covid, Omicron, has emerged and I urge everyone to follow Covid protocol to prevent a third wave," he said. Earlier, Sinha dedicated to the patients a new neurosciences ICU, a pulmonary ICU at the infectious diseases block, obstetrics and gynaecology ICU, geriatric medicine ward and the State Cancer Institute OPD Complex. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-5-jammu-and-kashmir-has-the-highest-allocation-for-healthcare-in-country-says-l-g-sinha-1057995.html
05-12-2021||North and Central||MP: Teenage girl raped after giving aphrodisiac drug, dies of bleeding||A 17-year-old girl died due to excessive bleeding after she was allegedly raped by a man who gave her aphrodisiac capsules in Madhya Pradesh's Anuppur district, a senior officer said on Sunday. The incident occurred at a village under the Rajendragram police station, about 28 km away from the Anuppur district headquarter, on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, he said. An aphrodisiac is a substance that increases sexual desire. Substances range from a variety of plants, foods, and certain chemicals. Additional Director General (ADG) of Police, Shahdol zone, DC Sagar said this is a sad incident. "Police are making all efforts to nab the accused and a bounty of Rs 30,000 was announced on his head,” Sagar told reporters. The accused, identified as Yashwant Maravi, is on the run. Rajendragram police station Narendra Pal on Sunday said the police had received information about the death of a 17-year-old girl on Saturday following which a case was registered. The investigation and a short postmortem report revealed that the girl was raped and died due to excessive bleeding from her private part, he said. "The girl was given some aphrodisiac capsules by the accused, aged around 20-22 years, before committing the crime," Pal said. He said the victim was in severe pain when she returned (to her home) on Saturday morning and narrated her ordeal to a woman member of family before her death. The accused was booked under sections 376 (Punishment for rape), 363, 366 (abduction) and 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code along with the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Meanwhile, villagers on Sunday staged a protest at the Rajendragram police station alleging laxity by the police in nabbing the accused.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-teenage-girl-raped-after-giving-aphrodisiac-drug-dies-of-bleeding-1058009.html
05-12-2021||Opinion||Doubling farmers' income: A long haul||The legislative processes of repealing the farm laws of 2020 were completed with the President’s assent on November 30. The farm laws were envisioned to increase the farmers’ net income by providing extended market facilities in addition to traditional APMCs with an idea of “higher real remunerative returns on the farmers’ produce”. The farmers are still protesting, demanding a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) and providing jobs to family members of those who lost their lives during the protest. On the other hand, the government has stated that there is no data on the number of farmers who died during the protests. According to informal estimates, more than 700 farmers died during the protests. The government should initiate a dialogue with the farmer associations/unions to identify the dead. The three farm laws that were enacted in 2020 and subsequently stayed by the Supreme Court in January, need to be seen from the perspective of agricultural marketing reforms and the government’s goal of doubling farmers’ income (hereafter DFI) by 2022-23. The repeal of farm laws has implications on the goal of DFI. Set in this context, it is essential to explore and analyse the nuances of DFI and a way forward to achieving the intended objectives. The latest National Sample Survey of “Situational Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India, 2019 (SAS, 2019)” findings are significant for the reasons of (i) ongoing farmer’s protests (ii) goal of DFI. The survey findings are useful for a comparative picture of the agrarian variables with that of the situation in 2013 (SAS, 2013). The comparison is critical for assessing the functioning of policies in agriculture with the government’s aim of DFI by 2022-23. Some of the major findings are worth considering in the context of DFI. In 2012-13, the average monthly income of an agricultural household was Rs 6,426. Out of this, only 59.82% of income comes from the cultivation and farming of animals. To be precise, Rs 3,081 (47.95%) is the net income from cultivation. From this, it is clear that farm income is less than non-farm income, including wages/salary and business. The average monthly consumption expenditure in 2012-13 was Rs 6,223. In this context, Prime Minister Narendra Modi set up the target of DFI for 2022-23 in 2016. The DFI committee calculated the average annual income for the year 2015-16 as Rs 96,703 using the extrapolation method. The committee stated that in order to achieve the target, farmers’ income should grow at 10.4% at constant base prices. Given this backdrop, SAS 2019 reveals certain critical insights about the changes in farmers’ income during 2018-19. In SAS 2019, farmers’ income was computed using two approaches, namely (i) paid-out expenses (ii) paid-out + imputed expenditure. The total income using the paid-out expenditure approach stands at Rs 10,218 against the Rs 8,337 in the latter approach. By taking the paid-out expense approach, the farmers’ income was Rs 10,218 in 2018-19 against Rs 6,426 in 2012-13. Does this mean the farmers income has grown by Rs 3,792 in the span of six years? To answer this question, we need to break down the data into separate heads as done in SAS 2013 and 2019. Out of Rs 10, 218, the net receipt from crop production is Rs 3,798, constituting only 37.2%. Major income has come from wages and salary with Rs 4,063 (40.8%). On the whole, farm income has declined from 47.95% to 37.2% and non-farm income has increased to 62.8% from 59.82%. The net income from farming is Rs 3,071 and Rs 3,798 during 2012-13 and 2018-19 respectively. This would mean that the net farmer’s income has increased by Rs 727 in the span of six years with an average of Rs 122 per year. The rising cost of agriculture and production and the withdrawal of the state in addressing the structural impediments are one of the main determining factors of agricultural development in the country. The marginal increment in the net farmer’s income exclusively from crop production corroborates this point in a substantial manner. The SAS, 2019 has shown the plight of farmers with the help of variables such as fragmentation of land, average monthly net income, land leasing, indebtedness, institutional credit and the viability of farming. Among these, except institutional credit, all other indicators show discouraging pattern as seen from the agrarian policy perspective. Neo-liberal policies The agrarian crisis has deepened since the adoption of neo-liberal governance policies and development model. The changing role of the state in the neoliberal era from regulator to facilitator of governance has widened the unequal access of land and the appropriation of land. Even the modest socialist agenda of land reforms has taken a back seat perpetuating the existing socio-economic inequalities among the farming community enforcing large migration from rural to nearby towns and urban areas, especially the marginal, small and medium farmers. The Union and state governments need to work together in addressing the problems of agriculture that are rooted in policies, institutions, market structures rather than only pursuing the vote bank politics through populist schemes. In the context of the political economy of agrarian crisis and rural distress, it is pertinent to ask whether the political parties draw right inferences from the farmer’s protests to re-channelise their focus on to agriculture. The government’s objective of DFI can become a reality only if it sincerely makes attempts to address some of the above-mentioned structural and institutional issues. The vision of DFI can be achieved only by pushing land reforms, instituting credit policies by the state governments and altering the price mechanisms by linking them with general price index as promised by the BJP in 1998 election manifesto. (The writer is PhD Fellow, Centre for Political Institutions, Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/doubling-farmers-income-a-long-haul-1057969.html
05-12-2021||Panorama||Global hunger: Focused effort to climb the ladder a must||Come mid-October, the release of the Global Hunger Index (GHI) causes consternation across India’s media, government and society. The winter sessions of Parliament are filled with questions on India’s performance of that year, with pointed questions asked about actions by the government. That questions are still asked and responded — albeit in a somewhat standard and formulaic way — is a reassuring sign that issues captured in the GHI are salient in politics, society and media.  Indices such as the GHI — or indeed others like the Global Gender Gap Index, the Ease of Doing Business Index - are based on specific indicators that go into composite indices. Unlike indices that are based on country reported actions or commitments, the GHI is based on outcome data, most of which is gathered or reported as part of national statistics. For instance, India’s poor score on the GHI is primarily because of the child undernutrition indicators — stunting and wasting. Data on those indicators come from India’s own national surveys. This year, much has been made of the data on the undernourished population (a calorie-based indicator calculated by the Food and Agriculture Organisation for all countries). Criticisms are valid, but changes in prevalence of undernourishment indicator will still not affect India’s GHI score very much or its ranking in South Asia.    One could quibble with the index itself, but after all these years — all the way from 2006 — perhaps it is time to just accept that it will be released every year, and accept that it simply reflects the state of the component indicators that go into it. Those indicators are markers of societal challenges that really need all our attention. India can only improve its GHI ranking every year by increasing its GHI score. Doing so will require several focused efforts.   1) First, a focus on those indicators that affect the score the most. These are child stunting and wasting — any improvement in these is what will reduce India’s GHI score the most. Both these are indicators are focus areas for Poshan Abhiyaan, India’s flagship effort to tackle malnutrition.  2) Actions need to be amplified in the geographies where the risk of being stunted or wasted – growing poorly - is the highest (and here, focus on absolute numbers). One would have to go beyond the aspirational districts, since the goal must be to act in ways that shift national trends. India’s largest states, all of which have high levels of stunting and wasting, and which also have the largest number of children born every year, need much more action.  3) Build on success. States that have outperformed others are being studied rigorously by researchers, including us. Findings from these outliers highlight the value of improving the conditions of girls and women as a primary driver of change in child undernutrition. Other lessons lie around improving household living conditions by reducing poverty and of course, by improving health and nutrition programmes. But one thing is especially clear from the successes — it will take more than a nutrition programme to improve child growth outcomes — it will take acceptance that social determinants are important to tackle, and then it will take efforts from across sectors to focus on those determinants. 4) Focus on prevention. Whether the goal is to tackle stunting or wasting, evidence has been accumulating that we need to start early and we need to focus on the biggest known determinants. Rehabilitating wasted children at an individual level has not been proven to shift community-wide prevalence of stunting; research done by the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) in the mid-2000s in Haiti demonstrates that the same preventive actions help reduce both stunting and wasting at a community-wide level. These preventive actions include measures to reduce food insecurity for families, deliver health and nutrition care, provide special foods for pregnant and lactating women and their infants, bundling this together with nutrition education. Programmes to deliver these actions exist in India’s vast fabric of policy instruments. The challenges in the worst-off states are of leadership, governance, and financing — these have to come together to ensure focussed delivery of all these efforts to the same family, the same mother and the same child. 5) Finally, invest in data. Most global indices are dependent on data collected by countries and released to public domain so they can be included in global databases maintained by the WHO, UNICEF, World Bank, FAO and other global agencies. India’s efforts on ensuring data at the right frequency (every three years, ideally) have been slow even since the first GHI in 2006. For a decade between NFHS-3 and NFHS-4 there was no nationwide data on child growth, for instance. And now, for more than a decade, there has been no data on household consumption, to allow appropriate updates to indicators such as the prevalence of undernourishment. This is an area where commitments, financing and transparency are critical.  The GHI will come and go every year, but the challenges captured in it are what deserve our full attention. Every data point in a survey comes from a human being, a woman, a child. These numbers are, therefore, markers of the real lives of women, infants, children across India. There is no time to lose in asking whether we are doing all we can to improve those lives. Real action taken today will have impacts all the way to the sustainable development goals (SDGs) in 2030.  (The writer is with the International Food Policy Research Institute) Note on India from the GHI website: Since 2000, India has made substantial progress, but there are still areas of concern, particularly regarding child nutrition. India’s GHI score has decreased from a 2000 GHI score of 38.8 points—considered alarming—to a 2021 GHI score of 27.5—considered serious. The proportion of undernourished in the population and the under-five child mortality rate is now at a relatively low level. While child stunting has seen a significant decrease—from 54.2 per cent in 1998–1999 to 34.7% in 2016–2018—it is still considered very high. At 17.3% —according to the latest data—India has the highest child wasting rate of all countries covered in the GHI. It is important to note that any developments in 2021 are not yet reflected in the latest prevalence of undernourishment data, which covers 2018-2020. The full effects of the Covid-19 pandemic will likely only be reflected in the GHI data in the coming years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/global-hunger-focused-effort-to-climb-the-ladder-a-must-1057983.html
05-12-2021||Right in the Middle|| On twisties and ceiling fans ||“I have got twisties!” I declared, spouting my new found knowledge of Olympic jargon, to a very irritated wife. And I was hoping that she would not know what I am saying and get concerned that I have got some mysterious ailment. She had been asking, requesting, pleading and demanding that I clean the ceiling fans. I must tell you about the ceiling fan in our bedroom. It is white and closer to the sky than to the floor. Every time you lie on the bed and look up in the distant space, the fan stares at you with distinct patches of black dirt on the sides of each blade. How dirt manages to reach there is one of those mysteries I have no clue about. I had said, “look, the home construction company does not want us to clean the fan which is why they have put the fan so high up.” That did not convince her. Hence the new tactical excuse. Not too sure if she understood what I was saying, I repeated, “I have got twisties.” Simon, she said (since when did Simon Biles become my wife’s friend? Simon indeed, on first name basis!) got "the twisties" after having won 30 Olympic and World championship medals. “How many have you won?” Well, I had to admit that I had won no medals. That was because, I thought to myself, I had not participated in the Olympics — otherwise you never know. But, never one to accept defeat, I pointed out that one did not need to win medals to get the twisties. “Will you please do it?” she asked. “And if you don’t want to do it, don’t. I will get it done through the gardener when he comes next.” A man’s ego certainly gets hurt when he realises that he is not indispensable. So I went across to my neighbour and borrowed a ladder which goes up to the sky and gingerly got up, step by fearful step. I did not dare look down as I cleaned the fan. And I learnt to appreciate the supreme strength, training and courage it takes for the gymnasts to do the things which they do. The fan, for now, is sparkling clean. I shall try and convince my wife that we should get black-coloured ceiling fans. They would contrast beautifully with the white ceiling. And they would not need cleaning. Or so I believe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/on-twisties-and-ceiling-fans-1058023.html
05-12-2021||Second Edit||Give prisoner scope to reform||The Bombay High Court’s order commuting the death sentence awarded by a trial court to the three convicts in the Shakti Mills rape case is welcome, but some of the comments and observations made by the court in the judgement would be contested. The convicts were awarded capital punishment for the gangrape of two women in the Shakti Mills compound near the Mahalaxmi Race Course in Mumbai in 2013. The convictions were under Section 376 E of the IPC, which was brought in after the 2012 Nirbhaya case of Delhi. The court rightly observed that the Section did not mandatorily provide for the death sentence and the court could not be swayed by the public outcry for awarding the maximum punishment to the convicts. It meant that the death sentence was disproportionate.  The court commuted the death sentence to "a sentence of rigorous imprisonment for the remainder of their natural life without any remission, parole or furlough which would meet the ends of justice." But it was guided by a wrong idea of justice when "beyond reformation" and "do not deserve to assimilate with the society." This is retributive justice, even though the judge commuted the death sentence. The penal system in the country as such is retributive, and provides for extremely harsh punishments. The right system of justice is reformatory, and jurisprudence should be based on the idea that every individual has the right and potential for reform. The idea of imprisonment itself is misunderstood. It is not meant to cut a person off from society but to make him realise the importance of living in a society. While the death sentence extinguishes the right itself of a person to reform, long sentences make the individual’s reform irrelevant for society.  Prolonged prison sentences defeat the idea of true justice. The ideal sentence should combine punishment with the need for reform so that a guilty person is held to account but is given the chance to mend. A prison term of seven years is not too short for punishment and not too long for an individual to be lost for society. This existed before the Nirbhaya case and could still be considered as the right duration of jail term in a just and compassionate society. Extremely stringent and lifelong punishment is not the norm of enlightened justice. Anders Breivik, the Norwegian who killed 77 people in 2011, is serving a prison term of 21 years which is the maximum in that country. The death sentence and long prison terms do not deter crimes, as evidenced by America. Both are wrong and unjust, and go against the idea that justice should be humane.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/give-prisoner-scope-to-reform-1058019.html
05-12-2021||South||TN defends Tamil mandatory norm for govt services||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday defended its decision to introduce a compulsory paper on Tamil language in competitive exams and qualifying in it to become eligible for entry to state government services. The Tamil proficiency contemplated by the government is only up to the level of Class 10 standard, Minister for Finance and Human Resources Management, Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said. The new norm does not expect a level of knowledge expected from a person who held a doctorate in the Tamil language, he added. A score of mere 40% is sufficient to clear the Tamil exam, he underscored. Explaining the rationale behind the decision, the minister said a job in the state government and allied services brought employees in direct touch with the local people every day for discharge of their duties. Hence, if an aspirant does not have Tamil knowledge conforming to Class 10 standard and in case he or she could not even secure 40 marks and clear the Tamil paper, such a person would not be suitable for services under the Tamil Nadu government, he said. In the past, there have been some instances when people without Tamil knowledge were recruited to a state-run entity, he said. The government announced on Friday that all state government held competitive exams would from now on have a compulsory paper in the Tamil language and a pass in the subject is the basic qualifying norm for entry to Tamil Nadu government services and state-run public sector enterprises. Speaking to reporters here, Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said Chief Minister M K Stalin extended a slew of welfare schemes and assistance for the benefit of several lakh migrant workers hailing from outside of Tamil Nadu, including during the pandemic times. “We understand the dignity of labour, the value of labour.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-defends-tamil-mandatory-norm-for-govt-services-1057752.html
05-12-2021||South||Puducherry makes Covid-19 vaccination compulsory across Union Territory||Amid the looming threat from the Omicron variant in India, the government of Puducherry on Sunday made Covid-19 vaccination compulsory across the Union Territory with immediate effect. Those violating the directive will be liable for penal action, the order said. Currently India has identified 4 persons in the country who have been infected with the Omicron variant of coronavirus — 2 in Karnataka, 1 in Mumbai and 1 in Gujarat. More to follow... Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-makes-covid-19-vaccination-compulsory-across-union-territory-1057775.html
05-12-2021||South||Sri Lankan Navy 'hurled stones, bottles' to shoo us away: Fishermen||Sri Lankan Navy personnel threw stones and bottles to drive them away while they were fishing near Katchatheevu, leading to some damage to more than 10 boats, fishermen who returned here following the incident alleged on Sunday. About 4,000 fishermen from here set out for fishing on December 4 in over 500 boats and while they were fishing off Katchatheevu island, Sri Lankan Naval personnel arrived in four boats and hurled stones and bottles at them, Rameswaram Fishermen Association president Devadoss said. Over 10 boats suffered damage to some extent after being hit with stones, the association leader said, adding that the fishermen returned to shore following the incident. A complaint in this regard was lodged with Tamil Nadu fisheries authorities, he added. The fishermen had gone for fishing near Katchatheevu after a long time and the continuing attacks have created a sense of deep fear among them, the leader said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sri-lankan-navy-hurled-stones-bottles-to-shoo-us-away-fishermen-1057816.html
05-12-2021||South||AIADMK pays tributes to Jayalalithaa on 5th death anniversary||AIADMK leaders led by former Chief Ministers, O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami, paid floral tributes to former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, late J. Jayalalithaa at her memorial in Marina on her fifth death anniversary. Senior party leaders, including former ministers, MPs and MLAs, were present on the occasion on Sunday. AIADMK leaders and cadres took a pledge to protect the party from "enemies" and said the latter will not be allowed to win again. The AIADMK leaders made a scathing attack against the DMK and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and said the ruling DMK government failed to implement poll promises, including abolishing the NEET, waiving of educational loans and not disbursing Rs 1,000 promised to the bank accounts of women. The AIADMK cadres in the pledge said that while they were in power, rains and floods were properly managed and there were no woes to the people of the state during the rains. They said, adding that the AIADMK government while in power stood with the people of the state during cyclones and did not allow water to stagnate. "The DMK government is not able to manage the rains and floods and water is in every street and there is no end to the water gushing into houses during rains. Tears from the eyes of Tamil people are not ending and the AIADMK is pledged to oust this 'anti-people government at any cost," the AIADMK cadres added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-pays-tributes-to-jayalalithaa-on-5th-death-anniversary-1057835.html
05-12-2021||South||Court directs Rapido to take down commercial defaming TSRTC||A Hyderabad court has restrained app-based bike taxi aggregator Rapido from telecasting a commercial featuring Tollywood actor Allu Arjun, defaming the state-owned Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC). The 10th Junior Civil Judge of the City Civil Court restrained Rapido from telecasting, broadcasting, streaming, reproducing, distributing, making available to the public, and/or communicating to the public the original and modified versions of the ad films, on their websites or through the internet in any manner. The commercial was defamatory to the bus services run by the state-owned TSRTC. It also directed Google's online video sharing platform YouTube to block access to the original and modified version of the commercial video. For the past month, Rapido has been widely airing ads in which Allu Arjun was seen suggesting that it is "uncomfortable and dangerous" to travel in TSRTC buses by showing a TSRTC bus which was hired by Rapido for the commercial. After the TSRTC served a notice, Rapido slightly modified the ad films but continued to display the TSRTC bus. Since they refused to stop airing the ads on various channels and YouTube, the TSRTC had approached the court for relief. Senior counsel K. Vivek Reddy, who appeared for the TSRTC, argued that while Rapido was surely entitled to promote its services, it cannot do so by making defamatory statements about the TSRTC and public transport. He contended that the TSRTC is a responsible state-run corporation which takes several precautions for the safety of its passengers and it is against the law to make such false and demeaning statements about it. TSRTC Vice Chairman and Managing Director V. C. Sajjanar appealed to the general public to strengthen the TSRTC which is a state-run. decades-old corporation serving the transportation needs of lakhs of people each day. "It is our social asset and everyone should own it up as their own and help maintain its smooth functioning and not defame it in any manner whatsoever," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/court-directs-rapido-to-take-down-commercial-defaming-tsrtc-1057877.html
05-12-2021||South||'Omicron' threat: Telangana ups surveillance mechanism||Amid rising concerns over 'Omicron', the new variant of Covid-19, surveillance mechanism has been intensified at the international airport here, a senior health official said on Sunday. Though, no cases of Omicron variant have been reported in Telangana so far, the official said, "It would not be surprising if the new variant gets reported in Hyderabad or Telangana." The Telangana government has also geared up for the possible third wave and has also intensified the vaccination programme, he said. "Towards this new Omicron variant, we intensified our surveillance mechanism at the international airport here. Since December 1, as many as 979 international travellers from "at-risk" countries arrived at Hyderabad international airport and on Saturday 70 international travellers came," Director of Public Health (DPH) Dr G Srinivasa Rao told reporters. RT-PCR tests were conducted on them and so far 13 of them were found positive for Covid-19 and their samples were sent for genome sequencing in view of Omicron variant threat, he said. The genome sequencing reports of the 13 passengers are expected to come today evening or tomorrow after which it will be known whether they have Omicron or Delta variant, he said adding the 13 have been shifted to the designated health facilities. He further said the Telangana government has fully geared up to meet any eventuality and has also intensified the vaccination programme and plans are afoot to further increase vaccination coverage in the coming days. So far 92 per cent of the population has been covered under the first dose and 48 per cent in the second dose, he said. An action plan has been chalked out to improve the coverage with two doses by December 31, he said. The official said people need not panic and reiterated that it is high time to be more careful and adhere to all the Covid appropriate behaviour by wearing masks, frequent hand sanitisation, physical distancing, not participating in large gatherings and taking the vaccination. Reacting to a query, on the possible surge of Covid-19 infections from next month onwards, the official said: "This variant has characteristics of spreading fast. We have to wait and watch how this new variant is going to behave in the coming days. We are expecting a little bit surge in mid of January (2022) or February in our state or country." The state government is completely geared up and made necessary preparations to tackle a probable third wave of Covid-19, he said. The government has created increased infrastructure in hospitals and as part of it, 27,000 oxygen beds were created in the public health system and overall (public and private) there are 66,000 beds in the state, Rao said pointing out that more than 6,000 beds exclusively for children have been established in government hospitals. Similarly, medical oxygen generation capacity in the state has been increased to 327MT from 135 MT and efforts are on to further increase it to 500 MTs, Rao said. PSA oxygen generation plants have been established in all government hospitals along with private hospitals and stored our life-saving drugs everything in place, the official said. If there is any surge (of Covid-19 cases), the government and the department is completely ready to take up the challenge, he said as he ruled out the possibility of a lockdown.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/omicron-threat-telangana-ups-surveillance-mechanism-1057909.html
05-12-2021||South||Forum for genetic disorder patients crowdfunds Rs 45L for exclusive village||A forum of persons suffering from Muscular Dystrophy and Spinal Muscular Atrophy in Kerala has initiated a novel project of setting up a rehabilitation village for those suffering from genetic disorders. The forum, Mobility in Dystrophy Trust (MinD), has raised over Rs 45 lakh through a crowd funding campaign started in August titled 'Venam Oridam' (literally meaning 'a space is required' in Malayalam) as there was no government support. The forum was formed in 2017 and conceptualised the exclusive village with healthcare, education, vocational training and recreation facilities for the patients as well as research facilities on MD and SMA. Around 500 patients suffering from these disorders are part of the forum and have participated in various support programs organised by it. A group of volunteers, mainly college students, are supporting the MD and SMA patients. MinD treasurer Prajith P told DH that the requirement of an exclusive space for the MD and SMA patients was essential as 95 per cent of the 3,000-odd MD and SMA patients in the state were not getting the proper physiotherapy required. Many MD and SMA patients had high skills and talents. A woman suffering from SMA had even made it to the MBBS course but had to struggle a lot to attain it. Hence, adequate support would ensure that the talents of MD and SMA patients could be tapped, he said. The campaign coordinator Shameera P said that the village project was conceptualised as a self-sustainable model of generating revenue by using the skills and talents of the MD and SMA patients. Even as many MD and SMA patients were now involved in many vocations like craft making, they have limitations in making revenue out of it. Such issues could be addressed with the project. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/forum-for-genetic-disorder-patients-crowdfunds-rs-45l-for-exclusive-village-1057921.html
05-12-2021||South||More tourist spots identified in Nilgiris district: TN Minister||The Forest and Tourism departments in Tamil Nadu have jointly conducted a survey to identify more tourist spots in the Nilgiris district in the state, Tourism Minister Mathiventhan said on Sunday. Speaking at a function got up as part of prize distribution of Ooty Film Festival here, Mathiventhan said that the district had a lot of beautiful locations, where many films have been shot in the past. Considering the situation and also to provide more attraction, more spots including in the forest areas, the departments will create more places so that the government and the people can earn more revenue due to increased tourist activities, the Minister said. Stating that the department had already surveyed various sports, he said the report will be soon submitted to Chief Minister M K Stalin for further action. The district has a large number of tourist attractions like Pykara waterfalls, Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, Botanical gardens, National park, Doddabetta, tea gardens and Sims Park. A total of 200 short films from 32 countries were screened in the festival and a Baduga language film won the first prize. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/more-tourist-spots-identified-in-nilgiris-district-tn-minister-1057932.html
05-12-2021||South||Indian women's team returns from Brazil, sets up camp in Kerala||Having returned from Brazil after participating in a four-nation tournament, the Indian women's team has now set up camp in Kochi, where it is training for the upcoming AFC Asian Cup. The Asian Cup is set to take place in India -- Mumbai and Pune -- from January 20 to February 6. India faced the likes of Brazil, Chile and Venezuela in Manaus, which is something that has helped the girls earn valuable experience, said head coach Thomas Dennerby after the team started its pre-tournament camp in Kochi on Sunday. "We have learned a lot during the three matches in Brazil. The biggest learning was that the players know the level we are trying to reach, both technically and tactically. Another key aspect that we have concentrated on is decision making," said Dennerby. "For those of us who are in the technical staff, it was all about getting good telemetry on how the players handle different kinds of pressure. "It was a very important tournament for us to see where we stand against quality technical opposition, and we would all like to thank the AIFF for giving us this opportunity." India lost all their three matches in Brazil but played well in patches. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indian-womens-team-returns-from-brazil-sets-up-camp-in-kerala-1057933.html
05-12-2021||South||Rave party in Kerala busted, drugs seized||Around 20 persons who participated in a rave party at a resort at Poovar in Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram were held and narcotic substances were seized from the premises. The state excise department conducted the raids at the island resort situated around 25 kilometres from the city. The party was found to be organised by issuing entry tickets and began on Saturday evening. Around 50, including women, from within Kerala and other places like Bengaluru were learnt to have participated and many of them left the place by Sunday morning.  The seized narcotic substances included hashish oil and MDMA apart from ganja and prescription tablets. Excise department officials said that a racket involved in conducting rave parties in Kerala and other places including Bengaluru was involved in organising the rave party. They were under the surveillance of the excise department for quite some time. Three members of the racket were among those held. Other participants would be verified and if found to have used narcotic substances, they would be also booked. Meanwhile, the police raided flats in Kochi where gambling's and rave parties were suspected to be organised. The raids were conducted based on information from a person held recently in connection with the death of two models in Kochi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rave-party-in-kerala-busted-drugs-seized-1057935.html
05-12-2021||South||CPM, BJP spar over 'political murder' in Kerala||A spat between the CPI(M) and the BJP-RSS in Kerala over the recent murder of a CPM worker aggravated further on Sunday as BJP leader and Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan raised suspicion that the CPM to divert attention from the embarrassment in Kasargod. CPM local leaders of Kasargod, including a former MLA, were arraigned by CBI in the murder of two Youth Congress workers. The CPM has been maintaining that the murder of party local leader P B Sandeep Kumar of Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta last week was a political murder carried out by BJP-RSS. Even as the police initially maintained that personal rivalry was the reason, a report filed later at court stated that it was due to political rivalry. BJP state president K Surendran alleged that one of the accused in the Thiruvalla murder was from CPM's stronghold Kannur district and was a henchman of the CPM. The BJP was countering that the prime accused was a former BJP Yuva Morcha activist expelled from the party earlier for anti-social activities and no one else had any BJP connection. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpm-bjp-spar-over-political-murder-in-kerala-1057937.html
05-12-2021||State||Gayana Samaja’s music festival takes off||The 51st Music Conference of The Bangalore Gayana Samaja was inaugurated on Sunday morning at the auditorium on KR Road. This year’s conference is dedicated to musician S Krishna Murthy in memory of his birth centenary. A series of performances on eminent musicians as well as upcoming artistes has been lined up for eight days, starting Sunday. Academic sessions and panel discussions along with this year’s theme ‘Multi facets of music’ will also be held. Popular music and dance artiste, art critic M Surya Prasad was declared as this year’s conference president during the inauguration. Swami Veereshananda Saraswati, Pa Ra Krishnamurthy, Dr MRV Prasad and others were present during the inauguration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gayana-samaja-s-music-festival-takes-off-1057981.html
05-12-2021||State||Deve Gowda reveals why his 'respect' for PM Modi 'increased manifold'||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Sunday said that his respect for Prime Minister Narendra Modi increased manifold when he turned down his wish to resign from the Lok Sabha. Recalling the incident, Gowda said he had challenged Modi in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections that if the BJP came to power on its own by winning 276 seats then he would resign from Lok Sabha. "I had told him that if you win 276 seats then I will resign. You can rule by forging an alliance with others but if you win 276 seats on your own then I will resign (from Lok Sabha)," Gowda said in a press conference. He also said that the BJP came to power on its own following which he felt the urge to fulfil the promise he had made. The JD(S) patriarch recalled that after the victory, Modi had personally invited him to attend the swearing-in ceremony. After all the celebrations were over, he sought an appointment with Modi, for which he agreed. When his car reached the portico of the Parliament, Prime Minister Modi himself came there to receive him. "I have had knee pain since then, which is still continuing. Whatever kind of person he is, that day when my car came to the portico, Modi himself came, held me by my hand and took me inside. This was for a person who had opposed him (Modi) so much," Gowda said. Gowda said that he expressed his wish to resign from the Lok Sabha. "I told him that I stand by my words. Please accept my resignation. He told me why I was taking things spoken during the election so seriously. He also said that he would require to discuss matters with me whenever the situation arises," Gowda recalled. After the incident, Gowda met Modi six to seven times as his respect for him increased. The former Prime Minister said he had opposed Modi after the Godhra incident and his speeches made in Parliament during the period stand testimony to his claim. However, his meeting with Modi after the latter became prime minister changed his perception. "I realised to see the change in his personality -- from what he was as a Gujarat Chief Minister to what he is after becoming the Prime Minister," Gowda said. The JD(S) supremo also said Modi immediately agreed to meet him whenever he wished to see him.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/deve-gowda-reveals-why-his-respect-for-pm-modi-increased-manifold-1057994.html
05-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government's decision to provide eggs to school children sparks debate||The Karnataka government has begun distribution of eggs to school children in seven districts of the state where the malnourishment indicator is alarming from December 1. The decision has angered a section of society who are demanding that eggs shouldnt be distributed inside schools as it encourages discrimination among school going children. Another section supporting egg supplements to school children claims that this project should not stop as protein supplement is badly needed by the students. They say children who have easier access to better nutrition have better education outcomes. The BJP-JD (S) coalition government in 2007, then headed by HD Kumaraswamy, had rolled back its project of distributing eggs to school children, succumbing to pressure from religious groups. However, it is to be seen how the BJP government responds to the issue now. Education Minister BC Nagesh told IANS that the scheme has been implemented with people opposing and favouring it. "There is no substitution for egg as such. There is soyabean, but children won't eat it. The project has been implemented with an intention to address malnutrition among children," he stated. From December 1, the Karnataka government has started providing boiled eggs and bananas to children studying in government aided schools, aged between six and 15 years and suffering from malnutrition, anaemia and deficiency of proteins. As many as 14,44,322 students studying in the first standard to the eighth standard in Bidar, Raichur, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Koppal, Ballary and Vijayapura districts would be the beneficiaries. The programme will end in March 2022. Yadgir district has 74 per cent of students suffering from malnutrition and anaemia. Kalaburagi (72.4 per cent), Ballary (72.3 per cent), Koppal (70.7 per cent), Raichur (70.6 per cent), Bidar (69.1 per cent) and 68 per cent of students in Vijayapura were found to be malnourished. However, the move by the government is facing stiff opposition. Channa Basavananda Swamiji, National President of Lingayat Dharma Mahasabha, has demanded a rollback of the decision. "There is uniformity among school-going children in terms of dress code, syllabus. There shouldn't be discrimination in terms of food. The government should provide food which is acceptable to all," he said. "We are discussing a future course of action considering the prevailing Covid situation in the state, and a decision will be taken. Fifteen seers are gathered to discuss the issue," he stated. Niranjan Aradhya, a development educationist and a former faculty of National Law School of India University, described the opposition to providing eggs to students as a ploy to divide the country based on food. "The government shouldn't succumb to religious threats. The scheme has to be extended to the whole of Karnataka. Eggs have to be given to small children going to anganwadis and students from class one to 10 have to get eggs," he said. "I don't know why religious seers are getting into it. According to the National Family Health Survey 5th round (2019), in Karnataka, most children are not reaching their ideal height and weight, with stunting (less height for age) of 35.4 per cent, underweight (less weight for age) of 32.9 per cent even before starting their school life at 6 years, and this is more so in children from vulnerable communities," he explained. When asked how important it is to provide eggs to students in the region, Yadgir District Commissioner Dr Ragapriya R said, "We have seen over the course of three to four months of continuous monitoring, that the children who are being given the nutritional supplement and eggs tend to improve their height, weight and circumference of upper hand, all these parameters do improve." "In my district (Yadgir) I have not received a single objection so far. No one has come to our office with such a demand." Providing eggs to students will help. Indian children have the least height in the whole world. One of the biggest reasons is high malnourishment rates. If you give protein automatically the height and weight of the children is going to increase. Even if the children who are getting good nutrition at home are given a supplement of one egg per day definitely their nutritional status improves. Usually better nutritional levels are associated with better learning outcomes, she said. Basavaraj Dhanur, National President of Basava Dal, stated that they are not opposing eggs for students. "We are only requesting not to distribute them in schools. Let them deliver it to the homes of students or make other arrangements," he said. Mahaling Swamy Chatnalli of Rastreeya Basava Dal said that Jain, Brahmin and Lingayat community leaders had staged a protest before then Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy's residence opposing distribution of eggs at school in 2007. The decision was reversed. "It hurts religious sentiments. It has to be revoked," he added." Neighbouring Tamil Nadu introduced eggs with midday meals 50 years ago during the tenure of then Chief Minister MG Ramachandran. The Women and Child Welfare department has been providing eggs to malnourished children for many years. The supply of protein in the form of eggs and pulses is seen as crucial during the Covid pandemic as the virus affects those with less immunity. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-governments-decision-to-provide-eggs-to-school-children-sparks-debate-1057779.html
05-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Complaint against Karnataka Home Minister for his remarks on police||The Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Senehave lodged a complaint against state Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on his derogatory remarks against the police in the Koppa police station of Chikkamagalur district. The video of Home Minister scolding police with derogatory remarks has gone viral. Araga Jnanedra allegedly had compared police to dogs who would do anything for money while scolding them over the phone in front of party workers. He asked them how he should be discharging his duties holding his head high if there is no action against cattle thefts. The video has gone viral and drew sharp criticism among the public. He further stated in the video that the police took bribes from people who indulge in cattle theft and smuggling. "You (police) take bribes from cattle smugglers and sleep. They are operating without any fear, police are sleeping like dogs after taking money," Minister is heard saying in the video. Araga Jnanedra stated that the Karnataka Police earned a good name in the country, but some are not taking action against people who are indulging in cattle theft. He maintained that his focus was to ensure total ban on cow slaughtering. He, however, clarified on Saturday that he spoke in the backdrop of an incident that happened in his home district where two 'Gau rakshaks' (cow vigilantes) of Bajarang Dal were attacked while following a truck which transported cows illegally. "The truck driver tried to run his vehicle over them and their condition is serious," he said, and added that he was deeply hurt after seeing their condition The Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene stated in the complaint that the statements by the Home Minister against the police were demeaning and they would bring down the honour of the police department. The action was sought against him as they felt that the statements created insecurity among the public. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/complaint-against-karnataka-home-minister-for-his-remarks-on-police-1057796.html
05-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tally of Covid-19 positive students in Chikkamagaluru now 69||The total number of Covid-19 infections in Jawahar Navodaya School at Seegodu in Chikkamagaluru district has risen to 69 including 59 students on Sunday. After four staff and three students contracted the infection, the samples of 418 students and staff were collected at the school for testing. On Saturday, a total of 32 tested positive for the virus. With most of them being asymptomatic, their health parameters are being monitored by doctors and nurses who have been deployed to school and the school has been sealed. All infected have been quarantined in different blocks in the campus itself, said DHO Dr S N Umesh. The reports of a few more samples are awaited, he added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tally-of-covid-19-positive-students-in-chikkamagaluru-now-69-1057810.html
05-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||High alert in 4 Karnataka districts after Centre's warning on Covid situation||The Karnataka health department has increased vigilance on prevailing Covid situation in four districts of the state as the Union government in a letter has warned of rising cases in these districts and urged the state government to initiate action. Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Secretary, Rajesh Bhushan in his letter to the state, said that Tumakuru district has seen 152 per cent spike in Covid cases which have witnessed a jump from 46 on November 19 to 116 on December 2. Dharwad saw a rise of 21 per cent, Bengaluru Urban 19 per cent and Mysuru 16.5 per cent. The letter says steps have to be taken to contain the infection and reduce the fatality. It also emphasised to adopt test, track, treat and vaccinate method and follow Covid appropriate behaviour. The letter has also directed the state health department to send all positive samples for genomic sequencing quickly. It also talks about enhanced surveillance of international arrivals, monitoring of emerging hotspots, prompt contact tracing and monitoring for 15 days. The state health department is worried as Covid cases exploded in colleges and educational institutions of these districts. However, swift actions by district authorities have prevented Covid infections from spreading further. Sources say, though in small proportion, increasing cases of Covid-19 in the state has become a cause of worry for the health authorities. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/high-alert-in-4-karnataka-districts-after-centres-warning-on-covid-situation-1057853.html
05-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Realty agreements prescribed by Centre under RERA adopted, Karnataka tells Supreme Court||The Karnataka government has told the Supreme Court that it has already adopted the model model-builder and agent-buyer agreements prescribed by the Central government to all states. It said the Karnataka Real Estate (Regulation and Development) (Agreement for Sale) Rules, 2020 were notified on June 12, 2020.  Responding to the top court's notice, the state government claimed the contention that none of the states had framed model agent-buyer agreement was incorrect and contrary to facts. It asked the top court to dismiss a PIL filed by Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay in this regard for not being maintainable, either in law or facts.  The petitioner had sought a direction for framing the "model-builder agreement" and agent-buyer agreement in the real estate sector to infuse transparency and fairness, restraining builders and agents from indulging in unfair and restrictive trade practices. The government said it issued circulars on October 30, 2021, and November 12, 2021, issuing directions to all deputy commissioners to comply with the orders passed by the Karnataka Real Estate Regulatory Authority within the prescribed period. Earlier, the Centre said a robust regulatory mechanism and draft 'agreement for sale' already existed under provisions of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, to balance the rights and interest of homebuyers and promoters in an accountable and transparent manner. The Centre further said it had shared the draft 'agreement for sale' in 2016, after the enactment of the RERA, with all states and Union Territories. "Currently, all States and UTs have notified rules under RERA except Nagaland with which the answering respondent is in discussion,” it said. The Centre said it has discharged the duty by formulation of the act and delegating the rulemaking upon the states for better implementation of the provisions of RERA.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/realty-agreements-prescribed-by-centre-under-rera-adopted-karnataka-tells-supreme-court-1057946.html
05-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, Escoms to be penalised for power interruptions||Consumers of Bescom and other electricity supply companies (escoms) can soon get a compensation of Rs 1,000 per day if the companies fail to ensure power supply as per the rules. In a major step that seeks to give power to the consumers, the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) has notified draft rules for consumers’ rights and invited the suggestions of the public in the next 30 days. The KERC (Electricity Consumers’ Rights, Duty to Supply Electricity by the Licensees’ Standards of Performance) Regulations, 2021, seeks to focus on consumer satisfaction in the digital era by bringing transparency and accountability in the workings of the Escoms. The rules include a proposal to levy automatic payment of compensation by the Escoms for their failure to meet the “guaranteed standards”. For this, the draft rules seek to introduce duties for the Escoms, starting from acknowledging request for a new connection or enhancement/modification of load or voltage level to the deadline to fulfil such request. In places where electricity supply doesn’t require building new substation or extension of distribution mains, Escoms have to provide power within 7 days from receipt of application in metro cities and 15 days in municipal and 30 days in rural areas. Where new infrastructure is required, officials will have 45 to 180 days, depending on the load. Failure to comply will attract a penalty of up to Rs 1,000 for each day of default. The rules also focus on reliability of supply with Escoms told to provide power 24X7 with the commission set to fix ‘lower hours’ of supply to some categories of consumers like agriculture. KERC has sought to introduce a mechanism to calculate power interruption duration and frequency of interruption and has suggested 3 to 10 minutes as the minimum outage time to calculate the mechanism. However, consumers noted that the duration suggested by KERC may fail to consider the aspects where interruptions take place for less than a minute at higher frequency. “Multiple power cuts within short duration damage fuses and stabilisers. Consumers can understand when Escoms cut power for a fixed time on rare occasions. However, the unscheduled cuts are a major problem that cause major problems,” said Girish Nayak, a consumer from Peenya. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-escoms-to-be-penalised-for-power-interruptions-1057984.html
05-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to go ahead with Constitutional Club on Balabrooie premises||Amid stiff opposition from conservationists, the Karnataka government has decided to go ahead with setting up a Constitutional Club for legislators on the premises of the iconic Balabrooie guesthouse. Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar, in a file noting, has said that the Constitutional Club may be constructed without making any changes to the existing guesthouse and without chopping any trees on the premises.  Kumar also noted that it would be good to take the Cabinet’s approval for the project as there is public opposition and a PIL filed. The idea is to set up a club similar to the one in New Delhi for parliament members. The government’s move to use the guesthouse for a Constitutional Club for legislators dates back to 2009 when the then chief minister B S Yediyurappa had ordered that the property should be handed over to the Legislature Secretariat. Due to various reasons, this did not go through.  Recently, BJP MLC N Ravikumar approached Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, urging him to consider Balabrooie Guest House for the Constitutional Club, as there were no suitable alternatives. Bommai forwarded the petition to the chief secretary asking him to look into it.  Meanwhile, the DPAR has suggested to the CM to maintain status quo given the rich history associated with the Balabrooie guesthouse. Its visitors include Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore. The guesthouse, at present, houses the Justice Kempanna Claims Commission (on the DJ Halli-KG Halli riots). Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-go-ahead-with-constitutional-club-on-balabrooie-premises-1057991.html
05-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka’s active Covid caseload on rise again||Karnataka on Sunday registered its highest number of Covid-19 cases in 39 days as the state recorded 456 cases.  Coupled with 330 discharges on Sunday, the state’s active caseload also stood at 7,132 cases as of Sunday afternoon, which is higher than the 7,012 active cases of the day before. This increase represents the reversal of a 22-day decline in the active caseload. With 2,499 cases having been recorded this past week, the state has also recorded 24.8% more cases this week compared to the 2,001 cases the week before. During this same period, Bengaluru Urban noted a 25% increase in cases, recording 1,362 cases this week, as opposed to 1,082 cases two weeks before. The issue has prompted the Centre to notify several “districts of concern” where increases have been noted. In a letter sent to the state government on Saturday by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Rajesh Bhushan, IAS, Secretary, MoHFW, noted: “Karnataka has reported 8,073 new cases in the month ending December 3 (30 days). It is also important to note that Karnataka has reported a slight increase in weekly new cases to 20,272 cases (week ending December 3) from 1,664 cases (week ending November 26), along with an increase in weekly new deaths from 22 to 29 over the same period.” The letter went on to note that Tumakuru district had seen a 152.17% increase in the number of new cases between November 19 and December 2, followed by Dharwad which had seen a 20.92% increase, followed by Bengaluru Urban (19.16%) and Mysuru (16.49%). The letter advised the state Department of Health to control the spread of the infection and use the "ongoing strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate-Covid Appropriate Behaviour to keep the situation under control." On Sunday, the Health Minister announced that testing in Karnataka would be ramped up to over one lakh a day. The data shows that already the state conducted 7.05 lakh tests in the last seven days - which is 42% higher than 4.96 lakh tests conducted two weeks ago.  On Sunday, apart from 256 new cases recorded in Bengaluru Urban, the next highest numbers were 66 cases in Chikkamagaluru district and 20 in Dharwad district. Sunday’s Covd-19 bulletin also carried information on six new deaths, four of whom had perished in the last few days.  Child cases Despite the rise in Covid-19 cases, the number of pre-teens infected with the virus was the smallest in at least four weeks - only 51 cases were recorded this week, compared to 106 a fortnight ago. However, the number of infected teens (10-19) rose this week with 391 cases recorded. In comparison, only 276 cases were recorded the week before. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-s-active-covid-caseload-on-rise-again-1058026.html
05-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Omicron effect: Covid vax coverage among HIV patients goes up||Ever since the news of the Omicron variant being detected first in South Africa in an AIDS patient, with prolonged Covid, emerged, Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society (KSAPS) is seeing more people living with HIV (PLHIV), due for their second Covid vaccine dose, coming forward for the jab. Out of 3.55 lakh HIV patients registered in the state’s ART centres, 1.69 lakh are receiving regular ART. Among the remaining 1.86 lakh people, only 12,000 to 13,000 people are officially considered to be ‘lost to follow-up’. The rest are presumed dead, assumed to be taking treatment in the private sector or to have migrated to other states. As on October 13, the first dose coverage among HIV positive people in the state was 48.89% and second dose coverage 22.36%. Thyagaraju D T, Assistant Director (Care, Support and Treatment), KSAPS, said this has reached 60% to 65% over the past month, especially in the last few days amidst Omicron scare. Along the lines of such awareness being raised by the AP AIDS Control Society, counsellors at the state’s antiretroviral therapy (ART) centres, integrated counseling and testing centres (ICTC) and community-based organisations are educating patients on the Omicron variant, the consequences of not taking regular ART and of not being fully vaccinated. “In the last few days, we’ve been educating people on the importance of vaccination in the backdrop of Omicron as the first patient in South Africa is said to be an AIDS patient who had not been on regular ART. He is also said to have had TB. We’re having 15-minute sessions for them right in the corridors of ART centres every two hours. At Bowring Hospital on Tuesday (Nov 30), six PLHIV were taken for the second dose as they had completed 45 days after the first dose,” Thyagarajusaid. “Previously, a few HIV positive people thought the Covid pandemic was over and that a second dose was not required. They didn’t want to experience the fever and body pain they had after receiving the first dose. Now after Omicron, they have started showing up. A PLHIV need not even stand in the queue at vaccination centres. The ART centre personnel accompanying them will directly take them in,” he said. “All community-based organisations and NGOs working with PLHIV for targeted interventions, are insisting on Covid vaccination after the poor vaccination coverage came to light in October,” he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/omicron-effect-covid-vax-coverage-among-hiv-patients-goes-up-1058028.html
05-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Omicron-infected doctor to be discharged on December 6, if tests negative||The Omicron-infected doctor will be discharged on Monday if his RT-PCR test result returns negative. The doctor, who tested positive for Covid-19 on November 22, spent three days in home isolation and three days in a private hospital before getting discharged on November 27. However, he was taken to Bowring Hospital on December 2, after the genome sequencing results showed that he was infected with the Omicronvariant. “An RT-PCR test will be done tomorrow (Monday). If he tests negative, he will be discharged,” said a senior official in Bowring, the designated hospital for the Omicron patients. Meanwhile, the doctor who is waiting to undergo the test said the virus might have mutated in the state itself and advocated for more testing. “Henceforth, if we regularly test, definitely we can be more aware of this variant,” he told reporters at Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital on Saturday. Clueless about source The doctor, an anaesthetist at a government hospital, said he had no travel history as all his commute was between home and the hospital where he worked. “That’s all. I used to avoid going outside as much as possible,” he said. He said he was clueless on how he got infected with the Omicron variant. “My friends and colleagues were surprised that I got infected despite taking so much precaution. I want to say this again: I don’t know from where I contracted Omicron,” he said. Medical conference He also spoke about the much-hyped medical conference that he had attended on November 20, a day before he developed symptoms. “On November 20, I went for a medical conference in a hotel but I was late. I reached the venue at 9.30 pm and by 10.30 pm, I left. That’s just one hour. I don’t know how the incubation period can be just 24 hours: from Saturday to Sunday. Any virus takes three to four days to incubate after entering the body. But this is a new variant and I don’t have much information,” heexplained.  His treating physician Dr Madhumathi R, Professor of Medicine at Bowring, said, “He had already taken monoclonal antibody therapy before coming to Bowring. If it is taken within five days of exposure, it is definitely beneficial. Usually, we use the therapy for risk factors but professionals like doctors take it because they’re at more risk. As a result, the progression of the disease in him is not severe. He came to our hospital only on the eighth day and the disease severity hasn’t progressed.” Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/omicron-infected-doctor-to-be-discharged-on-december-6-if-tests-negative-1058030.html
05-12-2021||West||Maharashtra Omicron patient stable, responding well to treatment: Official||The 33-year-old man from Maharashtra's Thane district, who had tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus, is in a "stable" condition and is responding well to medical treatment, a senior health official said on Sunday. The marine engineer is currently undergoing treatment at a Covid-19 care centre in Kalyan town, located about 50 km from the state capital Mumbai. Samples of six other people, who tested positive for the coronavirus after arriving in Kalyan-Dombivli area of Thane district from different countries, have been sent for genome sequencing and the results are awaited, another official said. The marine engineer, a resident of Dombivli town, arrived in Delhi from South Africa on November 23 and had given his samples for Covid-19 testing at the Delhi airport. He had then taken a flight to Mumbai, sources earlier said. "He is stable and responding well to treatment," deputy director of health services, Mumbai circle, Dr Gauri Rathod told PTI. The patient will continue to be treated at the Covid-19 care centre in Kalyan and will not be shifted elsewhere, she said. He will undergo the treatment protocol, as prescribed for the Omicron variant, for 14 days, the official said. Besides this patient, six other people who had travelled from different countries to the Kalyan-Dombivli area, have tested positive for the coronavirus and are kept in isolation, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation's epidemic cell chief Dr Pratibha Panpatil said. They include four from Nigeria, and one each from Russia and Nepal. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing and the results will be known in the coming days, Dr Panpatil said. "The condition of all the six is stable. They are asymptomatic and none of them had come from high-risk countries," she added. Cases of the Omicron variant have also been detected in Karnataka, Gujarat and Delhi. According to the Centre, the countries designated as "at-risk" are European countries, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come. Also, two per cent of the passengers arriving by flights from other countries will be subjected to the test randomly. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-omicron-patient-stable-responding-well-to-treatment-official-1057815.html
05-12-2021||West||Maharashtra reports seven more cases of Omicron Covid variant; tally in state rises to eight||One day after Maharashtra reported its first Omicron case, seven more people have tested positive for the Coronavirus variant on Sunday taking the total to eight in the state. While the first patient is from the Kalyan-Dombivli area of Thane district adjoining Mumbai, the seven new cases are from Pune district - one from Pune city and the rest six from the sister city of Pimpri-Chinchwad.  The samples were tested at the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV). However, state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday that there is nothing to fear and urged people to get vaccinated and use masks. Those infected included a 44-year-old woman who had come from Lagos in Nigeria on November 24 to meet her brother in Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal area. “The woman, her two daughters accompanying her, the brother and his two daughters – a total of 6 people have tested positive,” officials said.  Besides, a 47-year-old man from Pune has also tested positive for the Omicron variant. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-seven-more-cases-of-omicron-covid-variant-tally-in-state-rises-to-eight-1057920.html
05-12-2021||West||Ink thrown at Maharashtra journalist Girish Kuber at Marathi literary meet venue||Suspected activists of an organisation on Sunday hurled ink at senior journalist and writer Girish Kuber at the Marathi literary meet in Maharashtra in protest against some allegedly controversial references about Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj in his book. The incident was condemned by NCP chief Sharad Pawar and senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis. Prima facie, activists of Sambhaji Brigade were behind this incident as they were irked by some references Kuber has made about Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj, son of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, in his book, sources said. Kuber, the editor of Marathi daily Loksatta, reached the Kusumagraj Nagri here on the concluding day of the 94th Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan earlier in the day. He was scheduled to attend a symposium. When he was standing behind the stage of the main pandal, two-three unidentified men walked up to him and threw ink which fell on his face, hair and shirt. Some ink fell on police personnel present at the spot. Police security has been stepped up in the area after this incident. The incident has been condemned by leaders cutting across party lines including Sharad Pawar and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Pawar, who had visited the venue of the literary meet in Nashik earlier in the day, said the attack on a writer in protest against his work is akin to the attack on the principle of the freedom of expression. "I condemn this incident which doesn't suit the image of Maharashtra," he said. The NCP chief said he had read Kuber's book. "Though there is a controversy over some portions of this book, at the same time, Kuber has the right to express himself. Those who disagree with his views also have the right to oppose him but such attack is not acceptable," he added. Fadnavis, the Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly, said anything written against Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj should be condemned but restoring to an ink attack during a literary meet is not right. "If something is factually wrong, it should be countered with facts and evidence," he said. Kuber's book "Renaissance State: The Unwritten Story of the Making of Maharashtra" has been criticised by the Sambhaji Brigade for alleged objectionable references to Chhatrapati Sambhaji. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ink-thrown-at-maharashtra-journalist-girish-kuber-at-marathi-literary-meet-venue-1057951.html
05-12-2021||West||Fadnavis charged by court for not stating criminal cases in 2014 poll affidavit||A court has framed charges against former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis in connection with a complaint of alleged non-disclosure of criminal cases registered against him in his election affidavit in 2014. Judicial Magistrate (First Class) VM Deshmukh framed the charges against Fadnavis on Saturday, but the BJP leader pleaded not guilty. The court was hearing an application filed by advocate Satish Uke, seeking criminal proceedings against Fadnavis for the "non-disclosure" of criminal cases in the poll affidavit. The court had heard both sides on November 24. The court had said that prima facie, an offence is made out against the accused (Fadnavis). It also heard whether the presence of the accused is needed for the hearing. Fadnavis had filed an application under section 205 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and sought exemption from personal appearance in the court and gave an undertaking that his lawyer advocate Uday Dable will remain present and answer the allegations on his behalf. The court had allowed his application. When the court asked Fadnavis whether he wants to plead guilty, his lawyer said he is pleading not guilty. The court also directed Fadnavis to file an undertaking that he has properly understood the accusation and there is no prejudice caused in recording the plea and particulars in his absence, and he will not dispute the same in future. The court also asked the complainant in the case to submit a fresh list of witnesses. Uke has contended that the BJP leader filed a false affidavit in 2014 by not disclosing two pending criminal cases against him. The cases of cheating and forgery were filed against Fadnavis in 1996 and 1998. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fadnavis-charged-by-court-for-not-stating-criminal-cases-in-2014-poll-affidavit-1057988.html
